Um so good morning. Uh whether you are in person or online, it is uh my privilege to be with you this morning. My name is Rob Gicking. I'm the director of Youth and Family Ministry. here at CPC. And I'm very excited because this is the first week of Advent, as you can plainly see from this great candle. We're excited because Advent is a time where we look forward, we wait with anticipation. Prior to the Messiah, we waited for the Messiah to come, and now for those of us who are in Christ, we wait for his triumphant and final return. But it's a time of waiting. And we tend to look at that almost like we wait for dinner, which if you live here in the Columbia area, you've had two or like me, four meals by that point. And you're just waiting for that next meal. And there's a waiting aspect to that. You know, you wait for dinner, but it's a little more than that. This is a desperate anticipation, a need. I need this. of the Messiah coming. And so I want you to keep that in mind as we go through this series of the next four weeks, all this took place. That this is a desperate longing of our heart for the Messiah. That we get to celebrate not only that he has come, but that he will come again, and yet also hold that intention of the fact that I need Jesus just as much today and every day. And so we'll be looking for the next few weeks in Matthew chapter 1. And Matthew is a great bridge between the Old Testament and the New Testament. Matthew has the most Old Testament references of any of the Gospels, and that's what makes it so nice to kind of go from All the Old Testament to the New Testament you have Matthew first even though it wasn't written first because it draws that bridge so nicely. Um it it has this thing called formula quotations, which is a fancy churchy term that he he just quotes the Old Testament an awful lot. And he's writing to Jews. And so these Jews, they would know what he's referencing, okay? And so as we look at this passage, we're actually going to kind of lead up to his first formula quotation. And so we we really need to understand the context of who Matthew is writing to and why he's including certain details. And so with with that sort of introduction now, let's read in Matthew chapter 1. Verses 18 to 2025. Okay. So now the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, Behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, and he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfil what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. When Joseph woke from his sleep, he did as the angel of the Lord commanded him. He took his wife, but knew her not until she had given birth to a son. And he called his name Jesus. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for this day. Thank you for this season where we Do we get to spend extra time with loved ones? Or do we get to reflect on the things that we have, the things that you've given us? Lord, I do pray now as we open up this word from the Gospel of Matthew, Lord, that you would bring it to life for us. Us, that we would see new and transformational ways that you love us, that you provide for us, that you are faithful, Lord, and that we would be um soft in heart, Lord. Just excited to see what you have for us today. In your name we pray. Amen. So as I was preparing for this sermon, I thought to myself, man, this is really hard. Uh because it's a passage we've heard so many times, right? It's it's uh if you're anything like me, this time of year you watch a lot of rerun movies uh on uh you know, just kind of on in the background because you're with family. kind of get those awkward lulls and there's just something soothing about noise. Maybe that's me and dogs that I'm thinking of, but maybe people are like that as well. But the reality is we we read this passage over and over and over again and it's easy to just kind of quick Fly through. Yeah, yeah, okay, Joseph, Mary, baby. Okay. But the reality is it we we need to be careful because familiarity with a passage can cause us to check out. And as I was studying, I was catching myself doing this, and I had to remember that we don't want to miss God's blessing by assuming that we've gained everything there is to gain from a passage. With God, there's always more. And so it's with that that I was reflecting, and I was thinking about Christmas. obviously. And Christmas is an exciting time. And I have this mentor, he was on the phone with me the other day, Bob Perkins, and he says to me, Rob, life is like a roller coaster. There's two ways to ride. And I'm like, okay, where's he going with this? And he says, there's two ways to ride this roller coaster. The first is to sit in the chair and squeeze the you know seat belt as tight as you can and grab that safety bar until your knuckles are white and just like s like be afraid and just wait for this thing to be over. And he says the other is to throw your hands in the air and scream at the top of your lungs and say, Let's do that again. And I heard him, I r I really did, I promise. I listened to him and I thought, man, roller coas roller coasters, I remember my favorite Christmas ever. This is me with my ADHD. And so I'm thinking about my favorite Christmas ever as he's telling me this story. And I thought, I was ten years old, all was good in the world, and I had unwrapped what was soon to be the greatest Christmas gift I would ever receive. Barring Jesus Christ. Let me just put that out there. Earthly Christmas gift I would ever receive. And it was Roller Coaster Tycoon. Is anyone familiar with this game? Yes. So don't spoil it for the rest of the rest of the family here, okay? This this is a kind of uh it's it's an amazing game. It's a business game. It shouldn't be fun. There's literally marketing strategies. You have to spend money on advertising. You leverage debt. And so 10-year-old me is leveraging debt to construct new roller coasters for my theme park to attract new guests and increase profit margin. But that wasn't what attracted me to this game at all. I was ten years old. I wanted one thing. I wanted to build and design custom roller coasters. And so I'm I'm sitting here on the computer, it's Christmas Day, I'm like smiling ear to ear, and I build my first custom roller coaster, and you know, it's got the ramp that goes up and then it goes down and turns. Ah, duh. Okay, and so I'm like, it's beautiful. I wanted to build the roller coaster. I wanted to name it. So I was like, roller coaster one. That's the name of this beautiful roller coaster I've designed. And the guests, they come up to it and they and they they walk up to the entrance and they go That looks too intense for me. And literally a thought bubble kind of pops up above their head and they go, Roller Coaster 1 looks too intense for me, and then they walk away. And it's I was like, what on earth? Like that is hurtful. Who designed this game? So I went back and I, you know, I'm I'm kind of like frustrated and I delete most of my roller coaster and now I make it like really, really boring. It goes up. and down and literally loops around back to the station. I said, I have you now, right? And so the guests say I reopen and I I drop the price down and the guests walk up and they go, roller coaster 2 looks boring. And then they walk away. And I'm like, what is happening? This game is terrible. Who does this to a 10-year-old? You know? And so I'm like, okay, I see how this is gonna go. So I finally I was like, I'm I'm I'm kinda angry now, you know. This is supposed to be fun. I'll show you how fun it can be. And so for those of you with Roller Coaster Tycoon, you probably know what the third iteration is about to be. I open and invite you all to Death Trap 3. And I built this roller coaster and it's a perfect balance of my first roller coaster, which was too intense, and my second roller coaster, which is too boring, it's that sweet spot, chef's kiss. Okay? And they get there. Oh, it looks great. And they get in line and they get on and 28 guests are now on Death Trap 3. And they go up the hill and they go down the first drop and then I delete half the track. Ha ha Who's laughing now? Guest number fourteen, you know? And they go flying off and And I get this little notice at the bottom screen as it goes bop bup up. And anytime you get a notice, that's what pop up. 24 guests have died on Death Trap 3. Your park rating is plummeting. And all of that happened while Bob Perkins was telling me this story. It's like flashbacks. Ooh, life. And I thought he's totally right, isn't he? Except we we almost have to ask her question, like depending on, you know, am I gonna grip this white knuckle or am I gonna put my hands up? Really depends on my answer to the question. Who built the roller coaster? If it is ten-year-old Rob, just don't get on it. Who built this? Is it safe? Whose plans am I using? This week is week one of Advent, and we're looking at Joseph. Right? We're really taking time to look at the same passage for the next four weeks, but this week one is we're looking at Joseph. What is his involvement in this story? And before we get too far into it, we've got to acknowledge there's not a lot we learn about Joseph. He's kind of like a secondary or maybe even third level character, which is crazy because he's the you know the earthly dad of the Messiah. So he's very, very important. We just don't have a lot of historical data on him. But here's what we do know from our text. Alright, it says the birth of Jesus Christ, now that Jesus Christ, literally Messiah, the birth of the Savior, took place in this way when his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph. Now, most of you probably already know this, but betrothal in biblical terms was not the same thing as engagement. They actually had a three-step process. You were engaged, you were betrothed, and then you were married. Okay? And so Joseph and Mary are in the betrothal stage of the marital process. And so betrothing uh betrothal is literally it's it's the circumstance that we find Joseph and Mary in. And what it is is is they have already been engaged. Usually that was done by parents, you know. I have a son named Brad. Um we have uh our friends Mark and Meredith have a beautiful girl named Charlie and we joke all the time that this is done already. You know, we're just we'll save ourselves a bunch of time. We'll just get them married. But it you know, the parents would find a suitable partner for their child and they would become engaged. And so then the betrothal, there actually is a ceremony. There's a public um aspect to this. There's witnesses present and before God and and family and friends they take their vows. And at that point they are husband and wife, but they do not have access the right of the marital bed. Okay? And so this is extremely serious. And a betrothal really is is only able to be ended by death, at which point you would be a widow or a widower, okay, or or by divorce. Okay? And there were very few reasons for divorce in the Jewish custom, in the Jewish tradition. So we know that Joseph is betrothed. And before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. Now Matthew is so kind to us to include that last piece, but based on this passage, we we kind of get the feeling that Joseph has no clue. Whose baby this is, right? All he knows is what? His wife, who he has not been with, is pregnant This is a very upsetting discovery. And that's literally the word used here in Greek. Discovered, when she was discovered to be with child. Then it says that Joseph is just. He's just. Now, in our modern sentiment, we may believe that Joseph is just because he seeks to divorce her quietly. But as I as I researched this and read the commentaries, it's not quite that simple. You see, in the circumstances that Joseph is in. To him, it's very obvious what's happened. And that's that there's been some infidelity here When Scripture says that someone is just, it often uses the word righteous as well. And what we're supposed to tease out here is not that Joseph is just because he You know, he wants to do the right thing and divorce her quietly. It's he wants to do the right thing. And the right thing to do is what? It's to follow the law. He's seeking to follow the law. His righteousness is out of a faith in God who gives the law to the people and says, you will be my people. Now follow this law. And so Joseph, right, he's just, not because he wants to divorce her quietly, he's just because he realizes in this circumstance, in the hand he's been dealt, there's only one option. And that's to divorce this woman, his wife, on the grounds of marital infidelity. And as Petey and I were talking, we kind of just we were playing around with this idea that he's just because he's going to divorce her, he's kind because he's going to do it quietly. Then it says it says this and you know I may be taking some liberties here, but I I don't think we're far off But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream. All of Joseph's best-laid plans up to this point are crashing down around him. It's falling to pieces right before his eyes If Joseph is anything like me, he probably wanted what I wanted. I probably want what a lot of you want. It's just a typical story, right? I just want a good marriage. I just want a nice house. You know, maybe in his context he wanted a white picket parapet on his roof? A three-mule garage? He wanted the things that they all wanted. And he he had worked towards this, right? And all of a sudden he discovers that his best-laid plans are completely And utterly and irreversibly destroyed in front of his very eyes. Everything is falling apart. Maybe you felt that way. Maybe you've had a sleepless night or two. Maybe you worked really hard for something, only to watch it slip away And I was thinking about that, and that's when in my own personal study this passage really came to life. Because I was no longer just reading the Christmas story. I was reading Joseph's story. What must it have been like to be Joseph? But it's also in Joseph's lowest moment that we see God come right alongside and provide him exactly what he needed. The angel of the Lord appeared to him, sorry, unangel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife. For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. Do not fear, Joseph. Hmm. I don't know about you, but that's exactly what I want to do in that situation. Isn't it? Because my best-lay plans that I've been working towards, that I've been working for, that I've been I've been scheming about and and trying to achieve and obtain have just been ripped away from me. And what is the feeling that I have? It's fear, it's anxiety, maybe it's stress Maybe it's frustration and God sends an angel and says, do not fear. But he tells them why. Don't fear because this is your new normal, right? Says do not fear because the the child is from the Holy Spirit And Mary will bear a son, and you will name him Jesus, the one who takes away sin from his people. And so the worst scenario imaginable to Joseph just becomes the greatest. That's the God we serve. That's the anticipation we have this Advent season. It's not just, oh good, Christmas, the time of year where we hold our loved ones close. That's all important. That's well and good, but the reality is that's not what gets me out of bed in the morning. Especially when I'm in a moment where I feel like my world is crashing down around me. It's this hope, it's this one, that Jesus is coming to take away the sins of his people. The Messiah is here, and Joseph gets to play a part in it. He gets to play the role of earthly father. Now We'll take this from different perspectives as I've mentioned previously. But the reality is it's important for us to take a pause here. Again, Matthew. Right? The formula quotation, Matthew, the Old Testament scholar Matthew is writing to the Jews, the Old Testament scholar people. And so the naming is important here. Matthew is careful. He's just gone through the genealogy of Jesus leading up to the end with Joseph, who is betrothed to Mary, the husband of Mary. And the baby is from the Holy Spirit. And so we're supposed to see here a distinction being made that this child is born of Mary, named by Joseph. This is not Joseph's child. But the naming is really valuable. It's an important piece in putting this together. Because by naming Jesus, Joseph. Takes the role of legal father, which means that Jesus fulfills the law and prophets as a direct descendant of King David Lots of crazy important details in here. And the reality is they're beautiful details because Matthew is Is going through painstaking measures to make sure that we don't miss it, that that the Jews he's writing to don't miss it, that Jesus isn't just another baby, he's the baby, he's the Messiah, He's the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. All this took place. It's an exciting time for us as we celebrate and cherish that all of this took place. To fulfill the scriptures. Which leads us into our kind of closing. Why? Why does all this take place? Why is it important that Jesus comes and he fulfills the law and the prophets and that the scriptures are fulfilled and satisfied? Why? Well, let's ask a different question. Why did God choose Joseph? God didn't choose Joseph because of Joseph's faithfulness. God chose Joseph because of God's faithfulness. Joseph was just, but he was not perfect. He was just as in need of a savior as Mary and everyone else who ever has walked or ever will walk this earth. Just as in need of a savior as you and me. Look at the family tree. The first 17 verses of this, Matthew, is laying out a genealogy, a family tree for Jesus. And if you look It's very quick. And that's great and that's important. But we also know Abraham wasn't that great. He had some pretty dark moments. He had some pretty large and public failings. Fast forward, we get to David, King David, oh, the greatest king ever. Yeah, he was. But it also says: hey, uh, the next king in line is Solomon, the wife of Uriah. Man, if we just take a moment, we see God is using broken people and flawed circumstances to bring about the greatest gift ever. Broken people, flawed circumstances, greatest gift ever. I don't know where you guys are today. I know this time of year we're we're all busy, we're running around like crazy. We've got things to do and people to see. And and some of us maybe are are so hectic we're we're just you know barely getting here this morning. But but Here's what I would challenge us with or encourage you with. If you don't know Jesus yet, hear these words. Please don't wait until you and your circumstances are figured out to come to Jesus. This is an imperfect family tree for a reason. It's an imperfect Joseph for a reason. It's an imperfect circumstance that looks really terrible from the outside looking in. And that is the exact time and the people and the circumstance that God uses to present. The Savior, the Messiah. Don't wait. Jesus came and lived the life of perfection to fulfill the law and prophets, and he died the death that we deserve, so that you don't have to do that anymore. You can just come. And he stands with open arms and a smile on his face and says, welcome. If you're a believer, maybe this passage is difficult like it was for me. So maybe you're struggling with best-slate plans. Maybe um things just aren't working out the way that you had hoped. Maybe it was as small as you had this big Thanksgiving dinner planned and you thought family would be you know, just so happy to see each other, and it turns out that they weren't as happy to see each other as you thought. Maybe It it was a job promotion that you've been working really, really hard for. And you've you've you've just tirelessly put in the hours and you've you've had the meetings you were supposed to have and you got passed over. Maybe you're heading into the holiday season wondering how you can even afford gifts for your children because you're struggling to make ends meet as it is. Maybe it's it's any number of things. We all have best-laid plans, and eventually they all come crashing down. But I want you to find comfort in what God has to say. His plans for you are far greater than your plans for yourself. God's plans for Joseph are far greater than Joseph's plans for himself. And it was in Joseph's darkest moment of trying to wrestle through what do I do with what is happening around me that God says, I'll tell you. You're going to take part in the greatest event of history. I don't know what God has in store for you. I don't know what God has in store for me. That's part of the beauty of it. So I would encourage you and I challenge you, ask God for strength to submit, and faith to find joy in the midst of the disappointment, of the pain, of the trial. Ask him for the strength to submit and the faith to find joy in the midst of the trial. And consider talking to one of your brothers and sisters about it. When we share our burdens with one another, it encourages both of us. And that's by design. Because we're not meant to do this alone. We have community for a reason. Looping all the way back. I told you that Bob is 100% right. There's two ways to ride a roller coaster, and life is like that roller coaster. But at the end of the day, we have to ask ourselves who built it? Joseph goes from white-knuckled, what am I gonna do, contemplating how I'm gonna get through this, to I mean, how could you You not have your hands up. And he does. He names in Jesus. He obeys. He's obedient. He fulfills it. But for you and me, we know the final destination, don't we? We know where we belong. We know that our identity is secure, and there is nothing that can take that away. And so in the midst of the trials, in the midst of my failed best-laid plans, I have the ability to put my hands up. And say, okay, Lord, I don't know what you have for me, but I'm excited about it. And where I'm not excited about it, would you comfort my heart and give me the faith I need to be joyful in the midst of the suffering? Let's pray. Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for your word. Thank you for the fact that your plans are greater than ours Lord, that when our best plans fail, it doesn't deter you one bit. Lord, you are on the move and you are active today, just as you were. In the life of Joseph. And so, Lord, I just ask for your people, Lord, that you would fill us with a spirit of boldness, Lord, with a spirit of peace that surpasses understanding, that we would know. That even when things uh we when we can't see it, Lord, you do. And Lord, that that would be enough for our souls. And Father, I ask for those who are out there listening or or sitting here today, Lord, that don't know that peace, that don't know what it's like. To be bolstered in the midst of the storm. Lord, I ask that you would open their eyes and their hearts to know that you are the Savior who takes away the sins of the people. Lord, that our efforts Are no longer necessary or enough. And that's exactly why you came to save sinners like me. Lord, that we could have a relationship with you. Or in that we could, in the midst of the trials, throw our hands up and scream at the top of our lungs. Say, thank you, Lord. Amen.