I said last week that Amos chapter 5 seems to be oriented around the meaning of the three shrines that you see mentioned in verse 5: Bethel, Gilgal, and Beersheba. These were three places of worship for Israel in those days that had become sacred because of the promises of God that had been given at those places to the patriarch Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And because of those premises. Particular promises, Israel frequented those places, but the problem was that they distorted the meaning of the promises. They presumed on the promises, and they changed it so that in fact what had been meant as blessing. Should have been to them a warning of cursing. The interesting thing to us is that there are exact counterparts, I believe, of the misconceptions and distortions of these three shrines in the American Evangelical Church. Church in 1984. Each shrine had a particular meaning based on a particular promise of Scripture that had been distorted by the people. And I believe there are exact counterparts of the distortions of those same. We're going to consider each of these in three weeks. We begin then today by considering the promise of Bethel and how that was distorted and misunderstood. Let's then back up to verse one of chapter five, in which we see the introduction and the call to seek God, and then look at the meaning of Bethel, which is in verses seven to thirteen. Hear the word of the Lord. And remember, verse 1 reminds us, this is the word of the Lord. Let's give it our close and best attention. Hear this word, O house of Israel, this lament I take up concerning you. Fallen is virgin Israel, never to rise again, deserted in her own land, with no one to lift her up. This is what the Sovereign Lord says. The city that marches out a thousand strong for Israel will have only a hundred. Left. The town that marches out a hundred strong will have only ten left. This is what the Lord says to the house of Israel: Seek me and live. Do not seek Bethel, do not go to Gilgal. Do not journey to Beersheba? For Gildal will surely go into exile. And Bethel will be reduced to nothing. Seek the Lord and live. For he will sweep through the house of Joseph like a fire. He will devour. Bethel will have no one to quench it. You who turn justice into bitterness, and cast righteousness. To the ground. He who made the Pleiades and Orion, who turns blackness into dawn and darkness day, darkens day into night, and calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out over the face of the land. The Lord is his name. He flashes to destruction on the stronghold and brings the fortified city to ruin. You hate the one who reproves in court and despise him who tells the truth. You trample on the poor and force him to give you grain. Therefore, though you have built stone mansions, you will not live in them. Though you have planted lush vineyards, you will not drink their wine. For I know how many are your offenses And how grave your sins. You oppress the righteous and take bribes, and you deprive the poor of justice in the courts. Therefore the prudent man keeps quiet in such times for the time. are evil. Let's ask for the Lord to teach us from this passage. Let's pray. Lord, we don't have to look at this as a curious piece of history. We look at This is your word to transform us. And so we ask for you to speak to our hearts now. Lord, I can only utter words. And whether those words be true or they be false. But they cannot penetrate into our hearts unless your spirit helps us to see the truth and to submit to it and to seek you to change us by it. And so we ask you to do that, because you're the one who we must ask. And we ask you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amos's argument, I believe, in these verses, seems to be somewhat implicit. That is, it's not all stated right up front. There's some things that are implied in it. But I think if we were to be able to outline his argument in three basic points that he intends to make, the three points are the ones That you have in your bulletin outline. I think Amos's first point that he's seeking to make here to the people of Israel at this time, to the Church of Jesus Christ in our time, is simply, first, that the Lord is a God of truth. Transformations. The Lord is a God of transformations. That is the covenant God, our God, the God of the Bible, is a God of transformations. You see that in verses eight and nine. Notice how he's described. He there tells us about four. Things that God sovereignly changes in our experience. Notice what they are. First of all, he's described as the one who made Pleiades and Orion. Now, what does that mean? That I believe is referring to the change of seasons. Apparently, in In the ancient world, Pleiades and Orion, the constellations of the in the sky, were associated with changes of seasons because they changed their position in the sky. We're never more aware, I believe, of changes of seasons. seasons than May in Maryland. You go out and it's just exhilarating to see trees that just a few weeks ago were absolutely bare, are now green. You see all of the changes, the transformations that God has brought about. You think of the words of the Song of Solomon. See, the winter is past, the rains are over and gone. Not quite today, but uh they soon will be. For the flowers appear on the earth. The season of singing has come, the cooing of doves as herd in our land. The fig tree forms its early fruit. The blossoming vines spread their fragrance. Arise. Come, my darling, my beautiful one, come with me. And there's something beautiful and romantic and refreshing. about the greenness of May in Maryland. And you think of the transformation that you see all around you and you realize that all of a sudden those daffodils that you waited so long to see come into bloom have already come in gone. And now these areas And the dogwoods and the lilacs are in full room. And in just a couple of weeks, if someone were to listen to this tape because they're in the nursery or they had something else they had to do and they wanted to get it, they'll say, That's already outborn. Now the dogwoods are past their peak. The lilacs have lost their blossoms, and all the azareas are dropping their petals. Transformation. God is a God of transforming the seasons, of altering the face of the earth constantly. He also alters everything. Every day. That's the second thing. He's a God who changes and transforms day and night. Turns blackness into dawn, darkens day into night. Every day we see how the Lord, in revolving the earth, is changing dark to light. And back and forth. Thirdly, he transforms the landscape. You see that also in verse eight. He calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out over the face of the land. The Lord is his name. Remember just a month ago that uh powerful storm that swept up the coast and altered so much of the landscape. This is speaking specifically of how the Lord takes the waters of the sea and in a great flood or a great storm will pour them upon the land and alter the whole face of the landscape. He transforms forms it. And you perhaps saw the picture in Time magazine of the Atlantic City boardwalk just in splinters from that powerful storm. I remember back in nineteen seventy seven, our family went to Cape Cod and uh We were down on Coast Guard Beach, uh swimming there and I decided to take the five mile hike back to see uh Henry Beston's the outermost house, to go back there and spend some time and photograph it along that long spit there uh which is Beside the Great Salt Marsh, that was a place that the Indians used to build their huts and fish around that whole large salt marsh at Lawson. And then came the Great Storm, the winner at Lake. 1978. And the next time we went back, there wasn't any outermost house. The entire thing had been washed out to sea. That whole mighty twelve-foot-high sand spit that had gone for maybe fifty yards was called. Had gone. Everything had been inundated. The entire landscape had been altered. There was no Coast Guard beach anymore. The entire parking lot had been washed out to sea. God is a God of transformations, and when He decides to change a landscape, Nothing is going to stop it. God is a God of transformation. Not only does he transform landscapes, but he transforms political landscapes too, as we see in verse nine. He flashes destruction on the stronghold and Brings the fortified city to ruin. This speaks of a city that's powerful and has a particular structure, and all its politics are in force. And then comes some destruction, something unforeseen. And it brings the fortified city to ruin, and next thing you look around it, you're somebody else that's in power. And the whole political landscape has been transformed by God using one nation to overthrow another nation. God is a God of transformation. And that's our hope this morning, isn't it? That God changes things. That God can change you, and that He can change me. That we're not left where we are. God is a God of transformations. And Bethel, more than any other place. In Scripture, is the symbol of God as a God of transformation. Because in the place of Betha we see spiritual transformation symbolized. And so Amos's second point I've I believe if he had given an outline on this, might have been something like this, that Bethel symbolizes spiritual transformation. God not only transforms nature in history, he transforms lives. Bethel, you remember? got its name from that greedy, scheming character Jacob, who had cheated his brother, Esau, out of his inheritance. And when Esau realized what Jacob had done, he remembered he was out for his life. And so Jacob had How to run away from home to escape the wrath of his brother. And where did he stop that first night? He stopped at a place where he laid down his head, and God gave him a vision of angels ascending and descending on a stairway to heaven. And he had a sense of being in the Very immediate presence of God. And so he called the place Bethel, which means the house of God. And that place in Genesis 28 received its name from Jacob. And for 20 years he spent his life with his uncle Laban. Each of them scheming to connive and to cheat the other, to try and do the other in, uh to uh be a little wiser, a little shrewder in trying to get the up on the other fellow. And uh after twenty years and God having prospered Jacob, he's on his own. Way back home. He can't stand it anymore. He's just got to get back home. And as he goes back with all his wives and his livestock and all of his riches, he hears that his brother Esau is coming to meet him with 400 men. And Jacob's heart turns to water. And he camps at a brook. And it just so happens that the place he camps is the very same place twenty years before that he had passed, coming from Esau to escape to Laban. And there at Bethel. Genesis 32 tells us that an angel of the Lord wrestled with Jacob all night. And the result of that wrestling, the Bible tells us, is that Jacob was transformed. He's given a new name. You remember. The angel says, Your name is Jacob, the heel grabber, the conniver. No longer is your name going to be Jacob, but it's going to be Israel, he who strives or wrestles with God. Jacob's given a new Walk, because the Bible tells us in Genesis 32 that from that day forward Jacob walked differently. He walked with a limp, the symbol of his being humble before the God with whom he's wrestled. And God has changed his walk and transformed. And then we see that Jacob is given a new nature. And that's the most amazing thing of all. And it's why I believe that Amos has seized on this. Because the new nature is the most startling thing about Jacob, if you know it. If he had gotten to know Jacob, there was one thing he knew about him, and it was that Jacob was greedy. Jacob wanted everything that he could get for himself. And yet, as a result of having met with God, what happens the next day? Genesis 33 tells us that he goes and he meets with with Esau, and Esau is not after his life. God's transformed Esau's heart in that. And so Esau's glad to see Jacob. But after they have this cheerful embracing and all of this welcome back and forth, then Esau says to Jacob, Genesis thirty three eight, Esau says, Well what do you mean by all these drones that I met? Remember Jacob had sent forth all these animals to say these are from your servant Jacob, you know, he's trying to pacify him. And Esau says, Well, what are all these animals that you're giving? And Jacob says, Oh, what's a Find favor in your eyes, my lord, he said. But Esau said, Oh, come on, I've already got plenty, my brother. Keep what you have for yourself. What do you think Jacob's gonna do with that? I mean, oh man, you mean you're gonna be my friend and it doesn't even cost me anything? Terrific. Jacob is a transformed man, and there's no greater evidence than his next words. No, please, says greedy Jacob, if I have found favor in your eyes, please accept this gift from me. For to see your face is like seeing the face of God. Now that you've received me favorably, please accept the gift. Accept the present that was brought to you, for God has been gracious to me and I have all I need. I have all I need. He's never said those words before in his life. Please take it. I don't need it. Do me a favor. Take all these gifts. And so then Esau says, Okay, let's be on our way. And because Jacob insisted Verse 11 says, Esau accepted. Now, in the New Testament, Jesus met a greedy man. Do you remember Zacchaeus? A fellow with the same kind of heart problem that Jacob had. The fellow who perverted justice and trampled it to the ground in order to use people, in order to get everything that he could of their taxes for his own benefit. And Jesus met Zacchaeus. And when Zacchaeus met Jesus and saw who he was and how Jesus was one who could transform a life. Zacchaeus found salvation through Jesus Christ. Zacchaeus confessed that he was not able to save himself and that he needed Jesus Christ. To take him and to accept him and to change. And so when when uh Luke uh re records in Luke 19 that when uh Jesus went to Zacchaeus's house, do you remember what Zacchaeus said to him, Lord, I'm just so glad you're here. he says uh as a result of this look lord he says here and out I'm going to give half my possessions to the poor and if I've cheated anybody out of anything I'm going to pay him back a hundred and twenty percent. That's what the law said. God says you cheat somebody, you've got to give them all of it back, plus another fifth. Zacchaeus says, I'm going to give them back 400%. Four times what I've cheated them. Because I realize how wrong that is. And my heart's been transferred. Born by Jesus Christ. And so Greedy Zacchaeus is a transformed man. And he wants to give rather than to simply give. And Jesus says that is the evidence that salvation has Come to this house. Salvation is here because here's a transformed man. His greedy heart has been transformed to a generous heart. And I believe that's the kind of thing that Amos had in mind when he would make His third point of this he says, Okay, Bethel is a symbol of transformation. In particular, not only is God a God who transforms the seasons, the days and the nights, the landscape and politics, but God Transforms lives, and you know that. That's the meaning of Bethel as you come here and you remember your forefather Jacob. Amos's third point then would be: yet you claim to worship this God of Bethel without any transformation. transformation of your greedy hearts. And he shows that by five things that are suppressed by them in verses seven and then ten to thirteen. Notice what they are. First of all, Ja Amos says, you suppress justice. Justice is suppressed. Verse 7. You turn justice into bitterness and cast righteousness to the ground. You see the play on the words. Bethel is a place of transformation. He's just talked about Bethel there in the verse just. before it. Bethel's not going to have anyone to quench it. Then, having that same idea, he then turns it on him and says, Now here's what you're transforming. God transforms all these things. What do you transform? So you take justice and you transform the sweetness. Of justice of a society into something bitter and caustic and poisonous. Chapter 6, verse 12, he says that you've turned justice into poison and the fruit of righteousness. Into bitterness. And so here's a people who transform justice into something bitter. And you can see the sarcasm of Amy Nemus' voice as he speaks of their transformation. You transform justice because of your own greed. Secondly, because of your greed, conscience is suppressed. Verse ten, he points that up. He says, You hate the one who reproves in court, and you despise him who tells the truth. And no doubt that you uh You'll call him a legalist. No doubt you'll quote Bible verses to him to tell him how he's being too strict and how he is perverting what the Bible says and he's destroying grace. But he said the bottom line is, you don't want somebody to tell you what you're like. You don't want somebody to expose your greed. You have greedy hearts, and when somebody shows you the hypocrisy of your worship, Amos says, Then you hate that. You turn from it and you react to it. And you hate the person who doesn't. How often isn't it that God comes and He will reprove us and He'll put something up in our lives? And our immediate response is not, Thank you, Lord, thanks for using that person to show me my sin and to point up the greed in my heart so that I can deal with that. I know it's not pleasing to you. And I know more than anything else I want a heart that's pleasing to you. And now what happens? We turn on the person. Who do you think you are? And we call them names and we react defensively. And this is exactly what Amy. says that these people were doing something that you and I can identify with. Thirdly, he says the cries of the needy are suppressed. In verse 11, you notice he says that you trample on the poor and you force him to give you grain. Now that's referring to the tax system. The grain that the people received was what they got in taxes. And so he's saying you're taxing them for all of their word. It's legal. Nothing's illegal. You think it's pretty shrewd. And I think that verse quilts up the problem that there is in pitting capitalism against socialism or any other particular economic theory. Now I cannot get too involved in this, and we're really going to have a hot time. But I think that with all of the benefits of free enterprise and capitalism, it is basically our moral. And so if there is no absolute by which you judge free enterprise, then the person who is in power can still manipulate those without the power, as these people were doing, in legal matters. Legal but not moral. And so he says you use your power in order to be, because of your greed, totally insensitive to how you're able to manipulate the people who you have forced into a position where they must pay you. And so then he speaks of fourthly, not only is this something Something that you do, and notice how he says you're not going to gain from it, by the way, no second part of verse eleven, even though you think that you've gained from this, you thought it's pretty shrewd, you built these stone mansions, you're not going to live in them. You know you've planted rush vineyards, you're not going to drink of their wine. says, I'm the one who judges every economic system. And if you will not let the system stand under my judgment, then I will judge the people who seek to profit from it. You won't ultimately profit from it. And then he goes on in verse twelve to say, even the recourse to justice has been suppressed in this society. But he says at the end of verse 12, you oppress the righteous and you take bribes. And you deprive the poor of justice in the courts. They come and they say, now this guy's across the He's not even being legal anymore. And you meet the cry for justice by taking or giving a bribe. And in doing that, you pervert the justice to defend and to perpetrate your own system. Even the protests against this, he says, are suppressed. In verse 13. Therefore, he says, the prudent man, pick up the total voice that James must have said, therefore, the prudent man teaches the words. keeps quiet in such times, for the times are evil. See, I think that we as a congregation, as we read this, we may say, well, you know, uh, I got through A there and I I got through B, I just don't think I realized and I'm defensive sometimes, but I don't hate somebody who gives me the truth. And I I'm not aware of having suppressed the cries of the needy lately and well, you know, I try to be just and I try to live in a just and honest way. But then when we get down to this last one, Ada says, the problem is that everybody's afraid to protest what others are doing because it's going to cost. Just this week I found out that on May 16th there's going to be a hearing in Baltimore for a gay rights bill. It was a bill that was attempted to be put through a couple of years ago and it was defeated because of public reaction. Now quietly again this bill is being put through and there's a hearing. Now this is something that you and I may say, well, you know, I have not indulged in homosexual activities. But what about the protest that's raised against the society? society that will tolerate and will defend such activities so that a person will be it will be against the law for a person to rent their house or a room in their house to someone who's a practicing homosexual. not hire for any purpose somebody who is a practicing homosexual because of discrimination. What about all the kinds of unjust laws that we see around us that we're not practicing, but we're not protesting either? And this is what convicts me, frankly. It's the matter of protest. It's the matter that Ama says, you know that if you want to get ahead and you want to be able to move ahead in your career, keep quiet. When you see unethical practices in your business, don't make a stink about it. Just turn it the other way and say, Well I'll just pretend I didn't see that. So if I say anything, it's gonna hit the fan around here. And I know that that's not gonna help me in any way. And Who knows? Probably couldn't do anything anyway. Well, in fact, the gay rights bill was stopped by people who protested it a couple of years ago. And they're testing it again. Will anybody protest this time on May 16th? Well what will happen in our society? What will happen if we don't protest? And so that leads us to our own situation. What about us today? The first thing that I see That this passage speaks to is our view of the gospel today. And here's where I think there is the most basic misconception of our understanding of the gospel that Bethel points out. It's so common For me to hear, and I'm sure it's common for you to hear too, is you talk to somebody and you seek to find out where they are spiritually, to hear something like this that, Oh yeah, yeah, I've accepted Jesus as my Savior and Lord. Sure, I believe the Bible. Oh, I believe John three sixty. I believe that I'm going to heaven. Sure, oh yeah, man. Praise God, we sure need what Jesus has done. Oh yes, we need the Bible. Sure, I've trusted Jesus. And yet, you're sort of surprised to hear that. Because you would have never heard of it. guessed it by looking at the person's life. In fact, as you look at the person's life, you see them pursuing the same materialistic goals that all their neighbors are pursuing and everyone else that you see in Columbia and Howard County. In fact, you see other people who make no message Of Jesus Christ whatsoever, who seemed to be more generous and less greedy than this person who sang, I followed Jesus. What did Jesus say to Zacchaeus? He said, I've seen the transformation of this man's heart from greed to greed generosity. And now I know that salvation has come. When Jacob met the God of Bethel, Jacob was transformed from a greedy, miserly man to one who is generous in his worship. And it is given by. And so today, what do we do with people who say, I know Jesus, and yet we don't see any transformation of their greedy hearts? One way to define greed is to look at greed as a lack of contentment with what I can obtain without sacrificing principles or priorities. Greed is the lack of contentment with what I can obtain without sacrificing principles and priorities. Now when you take that as a measuring rod, what does it mean? As we hold it up to our own lives, and we hold up to the lives of those who have claimed the name of Christ. Is there a contentment with all that God is giving me without sacrificing principles and priorities? Or do I I have to bend my principles in shrewd business practices, in various things that I do in my own private dealings, in my priorities of where the body of Christ fits in. How I look at the body of Christ and my commitment to that when I get a better job offer in an area that I have no reason to believe will offer good fellowship. Or where there's anything that I know, I just know nothing about what's going on there spiritually. But the job, the job, determines solely when I move, where I move, and what I do with my family. Greed is the lack of contentment with what I can obtain without sacrificing my principles. For my priorities, my career, my family, and even my willingness to stand. When there's injustice, late sin going on in an organization that I'm involved in, will I be willing to stand up and to blow the whistle and say, enough is enough. You guys may go along with this, but I've got it protesting. But Amos says the prudent man, keep silence. In such times, because he knows that you'll never get ahead if you protest. I heard recently of a physician working in a large hospital who was offered a chance for a very significant. significant appointment to a very prestigious position. But there was a and a board interviewed him for this. And one of the questions that the board asked him, prefaced by a statement, was this. They said, if you get this position, then one of the things you're going to need to stop doing is talking about your religion so much. And the immediate answer of that position was, I have no intention. Of ceasing to talk to people about their need for Jesus Christ. Can you imagine standing before a board and knowing your career is on the line? And that answer may cost you that appointment, but without hesitation, Saying, I have no intention of ceasing to talk to people about their need for Jesus Christ. He lost the position. God is a God who transforms us. He transforms our hearts of greed into hearts that are willing to serve Him, to give, to give generously, to even sacrifice because of our love for Jesus Christ. To be content with whatever God provides us without sacrificing principles or priorities. What does this mean for you? Is there something that God has been speaking? to you about. And you look at sexual sin and that's absolutely clear. God speaks against this, and I'm not guilty. But you look at greed and we say, but the church doesn't speak about that so much. And so we can so easily rationalize the greed for which Amos was so concerned in chapter five. And God wants to speak to us about that. Because He wants to transform us precisely at that area. And perhaps you want some of us here to speak to people who are glibly naming the name of Jesus Christ without any evidence of transformation in their principles or their priorities, and to warn you of that. presumption. This morning, as you came to worship, did you come seeking Jesus Christ in a way that you expected him to transform you as he met you? May God give us that expectation. That to meet the God of Jesus Christ is to meet the God who transforms lives. Because when Jesus Christ died on the cross, he died not only to save his political. the penalty of our sins. The Bible tells us he died to save us from our sins. And one of those sins is the sin of greed. Because he's the God of Bethel. And you can't meet him without being transformed. Let's pray. Hello, Lord Argon. We realize that in some ways we have played with you. I realize that, Lord. I realize that I set up my own categories. And I speak in very limited terms of the kind of transformation that I'll accept. When meanwhile your spirit is running to deal with a basic problem of greed, a basic grasping nature in me. A nature that may at times even pervert justice. A greed that will make me insensitive to the cries of people who are in need. A greed that will silence my mouth. When I should protest and speak up for principles. Ah Lord, we pray that you will meet us. Meet us and show us the Lord Jesus' Zacchaeus on. Get all his gentlemen. Gentleness, in all that transforming power of his life, that like the landscape along the shore, our lives will be swept clean, and the flood of your spirit will come in. To take control of us and all of us as a people who are controlled by you. Lord, help us to put away our greed. Help us, Lord, to put on Christ and the generosity. Of our Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray that you will show us what this means. Each one of us in our own situation. For Jesus' sake. Amen.