This part is God who said a person will take upon themselves when they have success their faith in Jesus Christ. And this is one of the hardest and most understood doctrines of our church. And I want to consider this morning this matter of the biblical basis of infant baptism. Now I hope that uh this morning, uh considering this, we'll accomplish three things for you. One, I hope that it will enable you to see why we of the church believe it's so important. So that's interesting. Secondly, I hope that you will see what God would have you to do as a parent with either children if you have or children to What is your responsibility to tell him? This difficult question of baptism. And then thirdly, I hope that you will see what is our relationship as a church. to those children who have been baptized? What does it mean to you and to me that those children have been baptized? What does God place your relationship to us as you So now as I do in Slayden Topics, I must give you three qualifications and please see everything that I say in the light of these three qualifications Number one, belief in infant baptism is not necessary to be a member of this church. I had an example of that just this morning. Can be a line of class to join by church is chosen not to have their children baptized. It is not a requirement for being a member of the church. Okay, so that that is something that we're trying to establish here so that we can make that distinction. Secondly, this issue, you see these qualifications later on the bulletin outline from the file right now. But if you see secondly, that this issue is not generally settled in one presentation. If you're from a doctor's background or doctor's doctor's beliefs or information, I do not expect you to walk out of here in none of the a convinced uh Plato doctrine that's a I do not expect that that will be the case. You need to consider this picture You need to wave the argument, you need to consider and wrestle with the questions that have already been raised to you But it may take you weeks or months of dealing with it, not because the doctrine is instant baptism is somehow seen uh by many people seem certainly straightforward as a great road for the Rocky Mountains. A lot of people think it's so difficult to come to a federal understanding of this doctrine because test Ethereum will build on seven assumptions, uh 14 deductions, and take you all around through Hibby and Yon and come around with that come back way that you've never even seen before. And then say, well see it's obvious And you say uh maybe obviously that uh you feel committed master and you feel seems to doctor. That's not the reason I would suggest why it would take so many of us a long time to come to a subtle conviction of it. Why is because our whole understanding, our minds, find it difficult He let an end to the biblical world of the God's human peace. He was so safe naturally God's work. But you should consider a the whole question of our lation, uh the ultimate total depravity of our mission. That's something that we don't just arrive at easily in purpose. We're concerned about a God's side Electric and his purposes and history and our life. That's something again clearly thought in history, but not something that we even work through And there are many other places of this in the scriptures. We don't repent naturally in biblical concepts. And so we have to re-educate and reform our thinking into a whole understanding of what is the covenant of grace of God's Father. And it takes the time to work with you and to understand that and to work through the mental things. Not saying that this guy you have not come to an instant out of I do concert that is this infant baptism is what the scripture says, really, 3D P. But it is a difficult for us to be able to work through from the background that many of us have, some of it's cultural, some of it is just the natural way we think to be able to come to this decision. So I recognize Ukraine takes a lot of healing in my for many of you to work this through in your own emotions and in your mind. I understood these things, please be willing to consider the scriptures. We were going to raise and look at this morning. We're going to examine the question first. We're going to see what God says. He's also even had him say that this in no way purports to be an exhaustive presentation of the digital basis of incombuster Don't let that title miss leading the biblical basic. All I'm going to try to do is make one single point And that point is the ground or the basic of infant baptism with the stripes of infant God's promises concerning the believers as a children of believers. And they're traveling. And I think that that promise, those promises different away as part of the mystery. That's why I want to deal with it. But it's not going to deal with all the other questions that I know surrounding And it may raise or be raised in the amount. If you want to deal with those a little more, next week's Sunday school class, results class on both approximately 10 o'clock in days there's we'll be dealing with that question. to fulfill fill out some of the questions that I can't deal with here this morning. If you're interested in coming to our easy if you haven't been with the class before, you're welcome to come next week. But I do not pretend to deal with the whole question this morning. Now you notice I've given a very full outline. And that full outline is enable to enable me to move very rapidly in just a very brief period of time. Like I usually have to make a mistake this morning so that you can take this home in study. And so I'm going to just very rapidly move through this outline business And then let you take it home so that you can look up the passages and can consider the things that have stated with uh with your own leisure. And I think it's important to follow the line of struggle very quickly. That's why I'd be that out rather fully. The first point then is to simply bring the issue into focus. Bringing the issue into focus, the ground for baptizing Well first of all, notice two things that I am not saying about this First of all, I am not denying that baptism means inclusion in the church as a believer. And very often people uh try to wiggle out of this and they'll say, Well, you know, um baptized I'm not saying this is significant of that people is anything different than that I would agree with you, wholeheartedly, that the significance of baptism is are being united in Jesus' death and exurrection Communion in communion with God. And adult significance is true for infants as well as for adults. The significance is no different. Okay? But having said that, number two, I also say that it is not presumptive regeneration. Now what's presumptive regeneration? Presumptive generations is uh the statement that uh a an infant is a believer because he's been baptized Or, sometimes it is stated that uh baptism is a question of the saving of the infant. This baptism washes away its sins, or that uh we believe that we sure of this infant because it's a baptized Interestingly enough, I know of no Protestant church, the Reformation, to have had to that doctrine and is so widely attributed to those who hold the individual. I don't know why the one. Uh it's just uh uh mistaken of what in fact is the importance Uh even David Children in his excellent book, The Children of Abraham, who teaches the comes to this in a very mature and a very helpful and study consideration of it from a Baptist point of view, errors of this exact thing. Because it's ultimately the biblical basis of that. It's presumptive regeneration. That's not true. But then how do I get out of that if I've already said the significance of what I've stated in RA Well how do I get out of that and what then is the basis? Before we go to point two, because the basic two I would suggest to you from it, simply the basic two, the promises of God in the context of the covenant. Of race. That's the basis of Lincoln Baptist. The promises of God for the children of believers in the context of the covenant of race Now the covenant of grace, I would remind you, is our covenant that God has established with his people through all the ages to accomplish their salvation. By grace alone. Grace alone that is extended through the sitting forth of Jesus Christ, through his death and resurrection. His death for our sins and his resurrection for us. justification, plus nothing that we do. That's our covenant of Christian. And the sign of this covenant in the Old Testament is perfect, and the sign of this covenant in the New Testament is God. Colossians 2, 11, and 12, make those two together. I do not have time this morning to seek to establish that connections. Colossians 2, 11, and 12. Makes that connection. The sign of this covenant of faith in the Old Testament is circumcision in the New Testament is baptism But what I do want to deal with this morning is the promises of God to the parents who are in this covenant regarding the salvation of their covenant children. I want to tell you that in fact God has promised the salvation of the children of believers, and that therefore they should receive the sign of this covenant. Mainly baptism. At their birth, different circumcisions was administered in the altar. Now, having taken on the truth, for many of you probably need to be an impossible task, let us proceed to point two. Point two is the promises to parents and regarding the salvation of covenant children. We're not even going to go to a lot of these references to their planets. I'm just going to refer you to uh a few of them, but the others I've listed so that you can take them home and take a look at them yourself. First of all then the one that I want to use as I scripture this morning and use this a little more fully is in Genesis 17. So let's turn to Genesis chapter 17 Where we see the covenant of grace established for the first time in the Bible. Genesis 17 is what I read to you from the first ten verses When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to him and said, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless. I will confirm my covenant between me and you, and will greatly increase your number. Move themselves things down and God said to them, I for me this is my covenant with you. You will be the Father of many nations. No longer will you be called Abraham. Your name will be Abraham. Prior means you're a father of many reasons. I will make you very fruitful. I will make notions of you and things will come from you. I will establish my covenant. of an everlasting covenant between you and you and your descendants ask you for the generations to come to be your God and the God of your descendants ask you. The whole land of Canaan, where you are now an alien, I will give as an everlasting possession to you, as a descendant after you, and I will be your God Then God said to Abraham, As for you, you must keep my covenant, you and your descendants ask me for the generations to come. This is my covenant with you and your descendants of you. The covenant if you are to keep every man among you shall be circumcised. Now you notice in those verses. Versus seven to ten, the four times God repeats this phrase, You and your descendants rest you. His covenant that he established with Abram They were then then called Abraham is a covenant that is with his descendants to follow him, as well as with Abraham himself. And what is the very heart of this subject? To take a look at the verse seven, is to be able to you and to be descendants after you These are very thought as a covenant of grace with nothing external, with nothing that ultimately relates to the land or any external pictures of these years inheritance. But it could be a God to me. For you to be my people and for me to be your God for me. We repeat this many times throughout the Old Testament. That's the very part of the covenant The heart of the covenant is salvation. And so Abraham, in response to the promise that God makes him, is he circumcised his children? Those who are the descendants are to him. And you notice that he makes such a that connection between the covenant and the sign of the covenant so close that he calls it the covenant, first sign. This is the covenant. Be through the peace, circumcised with the more power among you. So in order to please Here how God uh intends this to be understood, we have to pass on to chapter eighteen, first mention In chapter 18, verse 19, we see a very simple text in the understanding of this whole subject. Where God says, For I have chosen him over him. I chosen him eagerly, so that he will direct his children and his household after them to keep the way of the Lord by doing what is right and just. So that the Lord will bring about for Abraham what he has promised. And what did he promise us? To be able to him and to be taken on to him. Promise of salvation. But you notice that in this book we have two things stated. Promise and responsibility God told you that my promise to him, to be a God to him, is children after him. That promise of salvation also is given because I know Abraham That he himself will keep that covenant which I have given to him. That Abraham on his part will direct his children and his household after him to keep the way of the Lord by doing what is right and just So that you see this in verse 19. So that the Lord will bring about the Abraham what he'll tell us Whenever we talk about the basis of income baptism, we're talking about two things. We're talking about God's promise of salvation to be allowed not only to the faith, but also to the children after that. And they're also teaching about the responsibility of those children to teach the children and to raise them up in the way of the Lord It's a way that they have to keep that promise, to claim that promise. This will become a little clearer as we go on. Now I want to skip the next few verses, the next few references, and look at Psalm 112. Psalm a hundred and twelve. Psalm one hundred and twelve. So far what I said you might just find and say, well Uh that's the God promised mighty speech to Abraham, every one of Abraham's children. Uh who we we know that uh things is Ishmael uh did not become a part of the covenant. We know that Jacob uh and Esau were both given a sign of the uh covenant and yet Esau was not a member of the covenant. Maybe what God really means there is that there is going to come through you a spiritual feed that will believe on you But you see if you go into the scripture further on, the light of God's revelation becomes true. So when we look to Psalm 112, we find out we find out just a general reference Who's the children of Abraham? But it's talking about individual family. Notice what it says. Blessed is the man, Psalm 115, verse 1. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord and who finds great delight in his command. His children, who, the Lord is here, the Lord and Christ, the mightyness and his children will be mighty in the land. Each generation of the upright will be flesh. Now this is a good example of Hebrew poetry. Hebrew poetry matches parallel thought. And the statement in the first line is linked to the statement in the second line. The blessing of the children is connected with their being mighty in the land Uh if you take a look uh don't do it now, but if you look you see under uh point C there, that I am saying that the land is a picture of the kingdom In Acts chapter seven, Stephen speaks, and in the roster of the heroes of the things and in Hebrews 11, particularly verses 13 to 16, you see this That the land is a picture of the kingdom, heaven, salvation. The thing you see what God is saying here is the man receives to know, if I grew the Lord in his command, his children will be blessed in the kingdom. Speaking about salvation. And each generation will be blessed. Blessed is opposed to Christian. Salvation is opposed to being cast off out of the covenant of faith. We take a look at uh Proverbs chapter eleven, verse twenty-one to read in clear things. In Proverbs eleven, twenty-one we Now the NIV reads this way, the fear of this wicked will not go unpunished. Those who are righteous will go through The New American Standard is a more literal rendering, which is actually more helpful at this point because the wicked don't go unpunished, but the seed or the children of the races will be saved. Well that's uh the thing depends on the trade. It's the word we card open the right, it's a problem that's hard open It's a contrast between the wicked on the one hand won't go unpunished. But not only the righteous, but the children of the righteous, the feed, literally, the Hebrew word feed. The seed of the righteous will go free. He delivers, he saved. Take a look at Proverbs twenty, verse seven In Proverbs 20, verse 7 indeed, but the righteous man leaves a blameless life. Blessed are his children after him. Again, if you have the New America expanded, the translation is more literal and more helpful. It says that uh it talks about the man in verse seven days who walks in his integrity. This righteous man who not only is righteous, but he walks in the ruling of his household, in his integrity. Blessed will be his children after him So that word blessed in it that you always have salvation significance. You can't say about the experience That if you walk in your presence and these children never come to Jesus Christ and they're first from God and never come into his presence, we say, Well, there is much of anyone Every time it's because that's our heartbreaking situation. Because I promise you that they will be blessed And that's a promise of scriptures. The bottom prophet spoke to us too. I think the clearest of all, in fact, so clear is this message up from Proverbs 22, verse 6. But I have decided we're taking the board and messages with me and I decide the next time if somebody brings their child for baptism, we baptize them into another whole message to get you with this one verse, beautiful voice. It's a very clear version, it's a very specific science that we can hear. Howver twenty two six, if he puts the whole thing in perspective, and he says, Bring the cloud and away to go, and when it's old, he will not turn them. But that word saying, you're here, a word that should be translated, most literal and accurate and give a taste. A word that refers to the palace, refers to tasting something. And if the words of Jesus are saying here for a parent that promises, if you give your child a taste of the way he should go, God promises that when he's old, he will not turn from that land. That's the very promise of God. This is why we see when we get into the New Testament in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 1, when Paul addresses the children in the church of Ephesus. He says children are going to church in the Lord. I'm speaking to the children and doing in the Lord. He doesn't make any distinction, doesn't matter. Now you speak to the professor Christ, but then your parents. He doesn't say another statement who speak to the elect and put me a non-elect and Don't say that. He's dealing with them from the point of view of the covenant you see. It's covenant language. You serving in the Lord and then your parents. It's the whole place. And the children of T is included in that. That's why you see when you come to Titus 16. I can't understand how you can make sense of this church out of any other country. And we come to say the place that one of the requirements of an elder in the church is that his children be believers. Tell in the name of common faith that we cannot claim the salvation of our children, can God lay that down as one of the requirements for a person who needs to pray? You cannot you see have a situation where you say, well, here's a situation in which I just um you know this child just project whatever you like God has promised. You see what the preciousness of God promised in his covenant so that I will set myself and I will pledge myself Walk in your integrity. Give your children a taste of the way you should go. Genesis 18, 19. For I know you to obey your children in the away that they should go, the way of the Lord, to the convincing to the taste. The conditions it is a condition of the follower of Jesus Christ. Because if you do that, I promise that your children would be less. If you sovereign will be in fact inflation Now does this mean therefore that all children of believers are Christians? Well of course, we know that it's We all know a seen for example of where there are children of believers who are not Christians who have gone on and have denied the faith and who can in no way try to rationalize and dungeon circular So why do you have a number what they do? How bad people say they changed they closed and uh to just ignore what we think. Well go to point three because here I'm trying to establish the difference between promise and presumption. There is a difference. A promise is not a presumption God has made many promises to you and I that you and I never came. The fair example of this kind of thing is in James chapter 1. In James chapter 1, we have a promise of God for wisdom. Read in James 1, verse 5 If any of you lack good things, you can ask for God. He will give generously all without finding God and gave us the promise you will be given to us. What are else you must ask and let's be Because you doubt it's like the word received loan taught by the word. Because if you don't receive anything from the Lord, he's trouble-minded, man, I'm feeling all of that. There's a promise there, for wisdom Did you all watch that prices? Have you ever found that you can say, well that's that's a promise about And ever since I've become a Christian, I have never done a holy thing. If I promise it too, he's always asking wisely. Every situation I look at in my Christian life. I say, praise God, that was the wisest thing I could have done. Well, if you do then uh I'd like to talk to you a little more about that. I think I couldn't say that. I look out at the many, many foolish things I've done in my life. Stupid things, simple things. When I look at that verse and I say, now how do I reconcile that with my experience? My promises you listen when I live it. Many times I have not claimed I promise. Well, notice the point is First of all, promises have conditions that are not automatic. Every single promise you look at in a script has a condition. It is not an automatic kind of thing. Take every promise and you'll see it. Secondly, our not claiming the promise does not nullify it. God has given many promises to see that I do not experience such as written in many cases. That does not say that God doesn't need the promises, does it? But it says that you and I have not cleaned that promise. You know that we've got a change for a number of reasons. Maybe we were ignorant. Maybe lift the basic conditions. And maybe for some reason we already have a world into that state. That he was like promised remains firm. And he did this to himself and incident to claim the promise. But if we don't, that doesn't multiply it or make God to be a liar. Like an account in the bank. You and I have ten thousand dollars in the bank and we're still moving like copy Why we say we'll be okay. Because we don't want to ever write a text on that account. We may be still living in a very We have these kind of situations. That doesn't say the money's not in the bank. All it says is we haven't learned to appropriate what's in the bank. This way it is not promises. Like one huge infinite account. Spiritual blessings and promises in God's heavenly body. And He calls us to claim them to write And the check to our service, by which we claim those promises. And God gives us to do that. We must be used to that. We must honor him. By taking those promises and treating him as a king and drawing upon them richly. And when we draw upon it in a public way, that doesn't say that we're humble. It says that we're unbelievable. And that we're not really taking it out of his way Because God remains true Himself, even though we may not draw upon the offense. My favorite notice, returning the promise involved a working faith, obeying its condition to question the God who gave it. Not to begin to after This is how many questions they want. It's not to say, oh well God, God, you promise this so I guess I just win around and see what happens. No, if I promise you something, then to claim that promise is to actively work on it. Someone put in the video with left three, all ready to go through, and they just said, Now hello, I see a bad guy. Like to me, do you have an answer? Don't walk in and go now open up the tree. And have a begin to move in things to see that answer in Christ. And of clearance, to claim the promise of God concerning the salvation of my children is not the same. God's promise of children, I've seen it. Well you run lots of good come one, two, three, the type of size, four two things. One two things, you know. I will inspect you. I will say to you, I will, I will act on that promise. And I will take that promise and I will make it my own in the wheel of my children under Jesus Christ. Not in preemption. But rather in Genesis 18, 19 and Proverbs 22 says 12, giving them the paint that the layers against the death, with the confidence that God will hold himself faithful to his promise And in fact, bring it to himself. Therefore, it's quite due to the conclusion you see. You should therefore tell us how those children baptized in faith Claim in God's promises for the salvation of we should. God has set forth the promise for the salvation for us to claim in the covenant of this He has also commanded circumcision as God's sign to be given a birth, and in church he is now giving us the sign of baptism And it was given that as a sign to show that by uh as we include as we give them that time that we are including that thing in the curve And when you do that, they will then be members of the church unless until that time and that child comes to reject Jesus Christ and live in contradiction To a profession of faith. We treat that child as a church member. We do not presume that child as a Christian any more than any other church member. Nor any less. I don't know any of your hearts. I don't know the hearts of the poor people who have Jesus Christ with me. I don't baptize these people, Dan, Stanley, Laura, and Solomon. I don't baptize them on the basis of their we get it. I don't know them. God alone knows that. How do I baptize them? I baptize them on the basis of their profession, faith in Jesus Christ. I baptize them on the basis that I'm including them in the church by what they're saying. Reassurance, take that place, take that promise of God that our children will in fact attest Jesus Christ. So notice, number one, darling. Children who are profess. Someone else is killed. And people say, I can't have a chief black eyes before they profess you I know back here, but I've never seen a four-year-old reprobate. I have never yet seen a four-year-old if you instruct them in the ways of Jesus, keep them to pray and to trust them Jesus as they're saviors if that four-year-old I'm going to do a lot. Children if you raise them up in the ships and boost them to say, no, what that's easy. Why should we can't be ripped out? You say, Well, you haven't really learned yet We want to find God's promises. We don't know that they're generic. Paul is to treat them on the basis of what we know their hearts to be. Paul we should treat them on the basis of the covenant that we promised us. So we feed our children and raising them up. But as we do that, as we think in them, as the fashion of these things, we can work with that success. To teach them what that really means when they're saying to pay my feet. As we teach them that, we also secondly uh give them a taste of the way that they should go and show them what that means And recently we've had some discussions of increasing and frequency and intensity, whatever, but what does it mean to be a Christian in fucking drones? What's your point for that? What's that mean in barely walking in a piece Well we don't go round our hung around until we really come to some place it's confusing and then we'll tell you what I could. All can be blindly reviewed because if you can give her a taste to that manner and instruct about what that means. Then she and she sees all of what that means. He only knows her part of this But unless you are contradicting them, why should you rob her and kill us? A God promise that he will be a God to us and what shouldn't have And third and let it very carefully just means to be played both back to impact makes our promise real. You don't presume, you don't say that. Never going to see heaven and doing if it's existence and never even raised the question Not at all. Just as plain and any other promises God, we humbly go before them day by day and pray. God, we pray that you will find heaven and do it to be the same. Give them that new heart. Tell them Father what it means because you trust in Jesus alone. And it's actually God worships in them. They're not trusting the baptism. They're not trusting the church. It's trusting God alone who's working in life. That's what we discussed, questions and promise, that's when I had a good question tonight. It's not simply saying, well, you know, I think you like any other people down this group, the only different group to get a few more chances to hear the gospel No, we're saying God has presidentship, his promise, but he worsome firmness. Therefore we claim those promises. And when we pray for our children, we're praying claiming a promise. Not simply saying God has crazy to a clear heavy and duly and a few other things that I bless. But God has given us a promise that strength was in that place. And reclaim that promise for us Explain it claimed, trusting that God will work, humbly, coming low before Him, knowing that unless God does that work, then the baptism becomes for them a sign of a curse rather than of a blessing. Finally then forced into purpose is the forces. Because it's not simply done in the context of the baptism. Baptism is the context of the purpose Because the church and support the fact that these children, Shirley, Joyce, and Melinda now, have become part of our covenant community That's why I asked you that question. Will you receive them? And will you accept fully in her reason of them by your own counsel, prayers, and godly example? They become part of a household of faith. And we all have a responsibility for one another's children. To see that those children, in fact, were successful Jesus Christ. And living in a in a walk that in fact shows that they are really trusting Jesus. And if you see that that's trusting, we can't declare We talk to them. We friend with them. We don't simply try to straighten things out, but we play with them and set an example before those children. But the children doing the whole place, a taste of the way that they should go The distinctions of the blessing to the Christian life and God's goodness to the people. That's a very hard thing to reflect because we don't see that word. And God has promised to use that Why then do we baptize infants? We baptize infants because God has given the promise to his parents, to the parents who are in the covenant of him, if we still be in his back, we'll be blessed That his children will in fact come to faith in Jesus Christ. We have commanded that as he has given us that promise, that we claim that promise, and in claiming that promise, we set the sign and the seal of the covenant upon our children in faith. God is in fact them to fulfill that price. We lift the members of the church. We bring them into our covenant community. And we rejoice to have them with us. It's a very clever comment. Let's not despise it. I need those applications for you to look at, we'll be discussing them to using. And uh I leave that for you to go over and uh status here and it's your precious critic. So that's my surprise in the case. Follow me.