Back to our scripture and our series we've been thinking about. Let me um let me introduce this by giving to you a portrait of a couple that I'll call Charles and Susan. Charles and Susan have a rather unhappy marriage. There's little affection in their marriage, lots of tension. They've talked of divorce on and off, but because they're Christians, they've decided they'll hang in there and stay together. Whenever they fight, there always needs to be a winner and a loser. The loser is genuinely, generally punished. Because they have lost the argument. They're on the downside. Instead of facing their problems Repenting of them, working on solutions together, they continue to blame one another. In fact, whenever anything goes wrong, they always have to blame one another to find out whose fault it was. One time Susan cut her hand with a knife in the kitchen. And she immediately blamed Charles that he kept the knives too sharp Charles immediately retorted that sharp knives are safer, and it was her fault because she was so clumsy. Whatever happens in their home, someone has to get blinked. There always has to be a person whose fault it was that things went wrong, right down to the weather. In every case, and so the first question that's ever asked when there's a frustration is Who can we blame? Happens with the kids too. The kids are blamed for being irresponsible for not having a proper value of work and money. The kids are frustrated because they've never been trained for a proper value of work and money. They're simply blamed for the fact that they don't have a proper value And so there's no training, there's just blame, and there's lots of anger. Why is it? Well, it's because Charles and Susan are convinced That all failure requires condemnation and penance in order to overcome the consequences of the failure. Someone's got to pay for the offense. The root of it, of course, is that Charles and Susan are basically unhappy people. And they're unhappy because they blame themselves. As a teenager, Charles was caught stealing. And from that time, his father has never let him forget that he's basically a thief and no good Susan became pregnant by Charles while they were dating. Her mother called her a tramp and said she wanted nothing more to do with her. She retracted that, but nevertheless left deep scars on Susan's life, blaming her for the failure in her own marriage. Susan, of course, blamed Charles for getting her pregnant. And she's never forgiven him, even after many years of marriage. And so a marriage that got off to a shaky, kind of a rotten start has continued in a pattern of blame and mutual criticism. This then brings us to the third matter that we're dealing with in this question of self-image. The problem of blame. Maybe your circumstances don't fit that, maybe you're not married. But when you hear that, aren't there certain elements that you hear and you say, yeah? I understand that need to blame. That need to find someone else at fault. Because there's so many things that I blame myself for. And I want to cover that by casting the blame on someone else. Blame shifting. Well, this third area of blame Follows the first two that you see up there on your chart in case you've just tuned in here. First two have to do with our efforts. We look, first of all, at the matter of perfectionism, the problem of perfectionism. The effort, if only I could achieve my standards, then I would feel good about myself. But I never can And I need to see that in fact my standards that are so important to me, clean house, good report in the job, whatever else it is, those standards are really the wrong priorities. Nothing wrong with them. But if that determines how I feel about myself, I have a wrong standard because the standard that God gives us is how we treat him and other people. And when I look at that standard, I realize it's absolutely hopeless for me to be perfect. And then I cast myself away, my eyes away from myself, and that's what the first message is. was about the need to go directing from ourselves to look to Jesus. And see that Jesus has solved this By his accomplishing a perfect record in God's sight. And that God, by the means of what we call justification, has transferred his record to my life. And my record of gross imperfection has come upon Jesus, and he has paid for all that imperfection. And so I stand daily in his perfection. and righteousness as an objective gift given to me, and out of that I'm free to simply do the best I can in the jobs God gives me. The second thing we looked at is the associated need for approval, an addiction to the approval of other people. Again, based on my efforts, if only I can gain somehow other people's approval. Then I will be content. I'll feel good about myself. But of course that addiction leads to simply an up and down kind of Seesaw emotional state based on the last person I interacted with and whether they seemed to approve of me or whether they were critical and rejected me. And so this addiction is a neurotic thing that will never produce a stability in my life until I look at Colossians 1 as we did and see that God said that you and I have understood have gotten our priorities all wrong, not in terms just simply of our standards, but in who we care about, in terms of our approval. What we really ought to be caring about is that we're alienated from God And that he has disapproved of us. But that again, Colossians 1 tells us that Jesus has come and by his life and death, by the body of Christ, Colossians 1:21 and 22 told us. We have been reconciled to God at his own initiative. And so God has reconciled us to himself to the extent That we see there that there is no accusation that he brings against us. We're welcome into his presence. And you and I, when we feel the disapproval of other people, can always put that in the light of the fact that my Heavenly Father approves of me because of Jesus. So again, I turn my attention away from myself to look to my identity in Christ. To find my contentment and work from that foundation. And so we come to this third area now of blame. And as you see in your outline, blame is simply the belief that angry condemnation is the inevitable result of failure. That's what we're saying. What are the consequences of this? The consequences are an A and a B. Avoiding God and blaming others. What I mean by avoiding an angry God is the matter of your and my worrying about what God is going to do when you and I sin. Do you ever worry about that? Worry about when you sin, what's God going to do to get back at you? What's God going to do in order to show you To rub your nose in your sin and make you aware that you've been deficient, that you have failed? How is he going to express his blame in condemnation? Well then there's the matter that when something in fact does go wrong, our immediate response is to look and to ask the question: what did I do that deserved that? What did I do that God's blaming me for, and that that's a consequence in my life for what I did? I find in my own life that the insidious thing about that, if you ever notice this, the insidious thing is that when you begin to think about that, generally it's just a vague Feeling of guilt. It's not simply that, okay, well, there's this matter, I haven't repented of that. The Spirit of God's trying to get my attention. Lord, I confess that, I bring it to Jesus, and I receive your forgiveness. I'm assured of it again, but rather it's kind of a vague free-floating guilt. I'm just not doing enough Or I'm not doing it right, or it's because I've let this down, or I didn't do enough here, or I failed there, or my motives were impure in that area, and on and on and on it goes. You can't deal with it. Of course I'm deficient. Of course there's lots of things I can blame myself for. And so there's this general vague connection between the things that go wrong in my life and the sense of failure that I have about my life. And so I avoid God. I don't go to Him because I believe that somehow He's the one who's engineering these connections between this vague guilt that he never really makes clear to me and this vague sense of things going wrong. And somehow I'm just not sure how to come to him. He seems like one who's my adversary rather than my friend. And then that leads to the second thing, the blaming of other people. I get tired of blaming myself, and so I blame Shift I'll accept just so much responsibility. And then after that, that's enough. It's your turn. And so we cast blame. We direct, redirect the feelings that we have of guilt and the sense that we have of failure in a situation to say, you did it. It's your fault too. It's not just what I've done. Always needing someone to blame when something goes wrong. Fearful that maybe out there someone's getting away with sin and they're not suffering its consequences. And so when you see people in difficult situations, you find that your immediate response is to ask, I wonder what they did wrong, that God's getting them for that. What'd they do wrong that they're suffering their just punishment for their own misdeeds? We begin to focus on other people's failures and their faults. We become critical in our attempt to blame shift when someone has particularly hurt us, then we cast the blame on them. And we're able to pin it to them. And we try to feel better by trying to do that And as I said, when their own when they're in a difficult situation, we assume it's their own fault, in spite of what God has given to us in the words of Jesus in John 9, about the blind man saying it wasn't his fault, wasn't even his parents' fault. Or even the story of Job. But our innate intendency isn't to blame when something goes wrong, whether in our own lives or someone else's. Now, how does Jesus heal this? How do we get out of this cycle of self-blame and criticalness toward other people? Well, I believe that God has done this and focuses the solution to this in what the Bible calls propitiation. Now I don't know about you, but I don't recall recently reading an article in Self or Glamour or GQ or Any other magazine talking about the problem of blame and criticalness, saying that what you really need to solve this is a good dose of propitiation. Somehow it doesn't come up very much in the self-help articles and books that we read today. There's not an awful lot about propitiation today. In fact, most Bibles don't even use the term, even though it comes, it's a theological term that's come from translations in the Bible In 1 John chapter 4, in verse 10, that word appears. But it doesn't appear in the NIV. If you have a New American standard, you have the word propitiation. And so let's take a look at what God says about that, understanding that the word propitiation means an offering to turn away wrath. Okay, that's that first blank you have there under three. Propitiation is an offering to turn away wrath, anger. That's what the word simply means. Alright? Now let's take a look at God's Word and look at John, the Apostle, who was an infinitely wise counselor because he was writing with God's own wisdom when he penned this letter. And understand what he has to say to us about blame and God's solution. Picking it up at verse 7, John says, 1 John chapter 4, beginning at verse 7. Dear friends, let us love one another. For love comes from God, and everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God. Because God is love. Now, this is how God showed his love among us. He sent his one and only Son into the world. That we might live through Him. This is love. Not that we loved God But that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice. There it is, the word propitiation, sent his son as a propitiation for our sins. A sacrifice to turn away wrath for our sins. Dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us. John says, you want to understand love? If you want to understand love, then don't look at how you feel toward God. Don't look at what you do for God. Because herein is love, not that we loved God. We've done a pretty shabby job of loving God, haven't we? And we deserve the blame for that We are in fact guilty of the fact that with all that God has given to us, we have not loved him in return. And so when we look at that, we realize that if we were to get what we deserve for our love for God and its utter lack, then we would get nothing but wrath. White, hot wrath. Wrath and anger, which would be a hurricane of fury to pour itself on our heads If you look accurately at what you deserve for the lack of your response for what God has given to you in life and breath and care. And you walk outside and you see what he's given in all the world to enjoy, and he feeds you and sustains you, and you say, Now how have I loved him in return? I live to myself. That I put me first in my concerns. Would you realize that in the face of a God who hates self-centeredness In the face of a God who is offended in his holiness by our sin, who in fact hates sin more than anything in your life that you hate. For whom sin is more loathsome than vomit is to you and to me. That God hates sin And that sin can get nothing but his consummate wrath. And you and I should begin to fear. To fear the fact that God, in his great power and justice, is angry at us, as Jonathan Edwards well depicted. He's mocked in today's secular world, but his own generation had a better, more eternal perspective and understood that God's wrath was something to fear. Did you and I stand in that same state, daring to hope, is there any way to turn away that wrath? Or will I in fact get what I deserve? And be consumed as a moth and a flame. And as we stand and look at this verse, we understand something that is so titanic that you and I ought never. To be able to read a verse like this without our pulse quickening just a little bit. This is love. Not that we loved God. But that he loved us. How can he love us as sinners who deserve his wrath? He expressed that love by sending his son, his only son, verse 9 says, his one and only son. As an atoning sacrifice, a propitiation, a sacrifice to turn away his own wrath for our sake. We can't understand that, can we? We can only begin to think about it on a human level. What does propitiation mean? Let's say guys that you're 45 minutes late for your wife. And you forgot that you were going to take her to dinner. You had reservations 15 minutes ago. And two hours from now, there's a play that you're supposed to see after that dinner that was supposed to be relaxed. And you forgot to call her. You're in deep, deep trouble. Well, let me give an example in my own life. One time I came back from a trip and I saw Kathy. Um Tuesday afternoon And uh so after coming home from the office, I hadn't seen her for a while, for a couple of days, came home. It had been a horrendous day. I mean just one of those heartbreaking kind of days, you know, where just Just one thing piles after another. And she began to share some of that with me, and I listened and we went through dinner and then I said, um, I'd really like to hear some more, and it really sounds like it was a terrible time. I got a session meeting coming up. The world goes on, you know. And so I missed it. I went out after dinner and went to the session meeting. Now I realize that none of you guys here have ever done anything so low, so insensitive. And I'm ashamed that I did that. But I went to the session meeting, and when I come home, my wife wasn't exactly standing there with open arms. But the next day, as I was working, I realized what I had done. I realized how utterly insensitive, how utterly into my own world, and not thinking about what that had meant to her, and how I shouldn't have gone to that meeting that night. I should have put her before that. I was so convicted by that that I stopped what I was doing. I ran out and do what I do not very often do. So don't wives use this as an example and say I do this all the time. the time, why doesn't your slob of a husband ever do it? I very rarely do it. I went out and I bought her a bouquet of flowers. She probably can number the times I've done this and has them recorded in some precious book. But I went out and I brought a bouquet of flowers. And I went home for lunch for no other reason than to simply say, No, I really want to hear what has happened and what you're feeling. And what I want you to understand is that that bouquet in that time was a propitiation. That was a sacrifice to turn away her wrath, her just wrath against me. And it satisfied her wrath. But as I look at that and you and I see that, we understand that as terrible as that is, and as shameful as it is for me to admit that I could be so insensitive to my wife, you and I infinitely more so. Have offended our God. And there's no way that we can bring a bouquet of flowers, or a bull, or a ram, or a lamb, or a thousand sacrifices. That would satisfy that wrath. For that wrath is infinite. So great that there was only one thing that could satisfy that wrath. It was the blood of the God man Jesus Christ, God's own Son And he agreed with the father, I love Alan and this one and that one of my people so much, I will come and offer my blood, my life After having fulfilled the requirements of a perfect life. And I will go and I will satisfy your wrath, Father, by pouring out your full curse upon me. And when Jesus did that, the wrath was fully satisfied I was explaining to someone just this week as we were trying to grasp this, I said, it's like take a half a gallon bottle, you know, or a gallon jug of milk. And think of that as wrath, as all of God's wrath, as if he could contain it somehow. And then think, there I am, deserving that wrath, and here is Jesus. And God's about to pour out that whole container of wrath upon me, and Jesus says, No, and he shields me, and he comes in my place, and God pours out that whole contents of the cup of his wrath upon Jesus. And he's drained it. And you look into that container, and there is nothing left. There is no wrath left to pour out on you. And so the God who has met you as a judge in his Son Jesus and poured out the full volume of his wrath comes to you now and he says, My whole relationship with you is different. The Son has come. Verse 10. He said his son as an atoning sacrifice, a propitiation for our sins. He has satisfied his wrath, and now the judge has become your father. Because he no longer judges your sin. He has poured out the wrath on Jesus. So every time you think God's angry at me about this What you're saying is there was more in that container than Jesus bore. Do you see how that must hurt your father? Who says, I've already poured out the full container upon my son. And how that must hurt the son to think, I've already borne all the wrath there is to bear from the Father. And so now, as a father, he disciplines you for your good. But he never punishes you to get back at you. There is no more blame left. He does not blame you for your sin. He blamed Jesus. And you say that's not fair. You may not understand it, but are you going to refuse the offer? He's blamed Jesus in your place. And so if you have come to Jesus, there's repentance for the sin. There's the hating of the sin. There's the desire to come before God and have his spirit clean out the sin. But you are not stuck with the blame. Jesus has borne it all. Now, how then do you and I lay hold of this? Very briefly, in really one sense, just to capitulate what I'm saying on the back side there, number four. I'm simply saying that you and I need to think more about the wrath of God. We need to think about that because John 3. 36 says it's a very real matter. John three thirty-six says that He who believes on the Son has eternal life. But he who does not believe on the Son, or who rejects the Son, shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on it. Our secular world and culture has so secularized our thinking that we think of the wrath of God as some prehistoric superstition that we've outgrown. That we think that we're more sophisticated than to worry about the wrath of God. And the Bible says that that is a hellish delusion. That the wrath of God is a very real thing, but that what you and I tend to do is that we tend to blame ourselves And think that somehow that is sufficient for how bad we ought to feel about our sin. The Bible says just blaming yourself is worthless You gotta look at what sin deserves. Sin deserves my wrath. If the Bible's true, that is a fact. And so when you and I look at that, we need to understand that the wrath of God is a very real threat. And that we need to fear not the simple self-recriminations or the blame of someone else. For the things that we've done wrong. We need to turn away and look to God and understand His wrath is what we need to fear. And then the second thing that we need to do is to believe the gospel. See, in terms of Charles and Susan, their problem was that Charles never really dealt with the fact that he had sinned against God in his feeling. He had disappointed his dad, and that was the whole focus of his attention. And so he was hung up on whether his dad forgave him or not If he could shift from his dad to see what God thinks of that theft and bring that before God and have his forgiveness, his orientation would be different. And Susan's concerned about the consequences of that pregnancy and how it affected her and her image and her marriage and all the disappointments and the pain that came from that. Not what it did to God. And so she has continued to blame herself and feel rotten about that in her own person, rather than to understand there is an objective wrath for that sin. If they could only then current turn to verse 10 of 1 John 4 and see, this is love. Not that we loved God. But that he loved us. He loved me a thief. He loved me a fornicator. He loved me in my lust and my gossip and my greed and my selfishness and my thoughtlessness. He loved me and sent his son to be the propitiation, the sacrifice to satisfy that wrath forever. So that all the contents of it have been poured out on Jesus. And there's no blame left for me. How can I continue to blame myself? Isn't that arrogance? I need to focus upon Jesus and the sacrifice he's made. And so then my response to him is to simply say, Lord, how do I say thank you? And that leads us to the third one. The final thing, then, is to simply act that way toward others. Very interesting, you see, what God says here. Verse 11, he says, Dear friends, since God so loved us, what do we do? Well, he says, we also ought to love one another. You see, the way you and I say thank you to God is to worship him, to love him, to serve him, and he said that. And then we say, but Lord, how do I specifically do that? I can't see you You know, you and I can't sit down. You don't want sacrifices of bulls and you know things like how do I do that? He says, love your brothers. Love your sisters, love that person that you're blaming. And see my forgiveness of you in the light of your sin. Once you see that, you say, hey, how can I blame this other person? Look at what I've received after what I've done. And so he says, dear friends, since God has so loved us. We also ought to love one another. Now no one's ever seen God, but if we love one another, then God lives us and we demonstrate this. You see, we complete, we fulfill that love. It it fulfills its cycle in us. That's what he means by made complete. He's initiated that love toward us, sent his son, and that love then comes through us to reflect back to God through loving other people. It's made complete in its cycle to please and glorify God. And so when you and I are free from the blame of God, we have hearts full of mercy. And if you determine this week to say to that person that you blame, that person that you're critical of, that person that you want to make sure doesn't get away, With their sin, particularly in their relationship to you. And you say, God has forgiven me. I'm not going to blame them. I'm going to let God take care of that. I'm going to love them. You know what's going to happen? The propitiation of Jesus will be more real in your life. You will be made complete in your awareness. You will be more aware. Of the mercy of God toward you as you express it by faith toward that other person. And God's love is made complete in your own understanding of who you are. What freedom that brings. You feel a need to talk to the Lord for a moment now? Let's take the time. Let's pray. Lord, we want to see ourselves in the light of your wrath. We want to understand that sacrifice of Jesus that satisfied that wrath. Forever. We want to learn how to express it to others. Hear us now, Lord, as we come to you.