Thank you. And before I turn to the passage, I also need to say thank you to you guys. I really enjoyed last night. My family enjoyed last night. And I want to thank you for 22 years. Let's turn to 1 Peter chapter 1. As I open in prayer. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Almighty God. You who created the universe from nothing, by the power of your word. You who sustain the universe, we can't comprehend. You, God of Christ, bid us come We come and ask, Father, that you would meet us, that you would transform us. We long to know you more. We long to experience more fully the love that you have portrayed in redemption. And we pray that in response to your love, we would love you well. So Lord, please work in us through your word, through your spirit, through this fellowship. We pray in your most precious and holy name. Amen. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith. One of the things that I think we, but I know I struggle with is familiar. Familiarity. When we read scripture, we will frequently come across phrases and thoughts that are repeated over and over again and sometimes by their very repetition become familiar And we tend to gloss over them. Peter uses this phrase, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. But Peter is not the only one. If we look in Ephesians, We see that Paul begins, Ephesians chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ. with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. Chapter one, verse fifteen. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and of your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, May give you a spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. Second Corinthians chapter 1, verse 3 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and God of all comfort. Romans 15. May the God of endurance and encouragement grant you to live in such harmony with one another, in accord with Christ Jesus, that together. you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus himself uses this Phrase, this thought, and we're going to look at that in a little bit. But this is not a phrase to read in preparation for the rest of the passage. This is a this is a phrase that Peter writes in worship. He speaks of God, he speaks of Father, and he begins with the concept of praise be, blessed be. This is the one I'm called to worship. And so I want us to think for a moment, as I was reflecting on this passage, one of the things that struck me is he's not merely the God and Father to us. He's the God of Jesus. I dun I don't know how you think about Jesus, but there are times that I think of Jesus as Emmanuel, God with us, the one who was close, the one who was intimate, the one who came to reveal God to us. The one who loves us and longs for an intimate fellowship with us. And that's true. But when we see Jesus God and man in one person. When we see that Jesus who's revealed in glory at the transfiguration, the one whose face shines like the sun. The one whose clothing turned radiantly white. When we see Jesus feed five thousand When we see Jesus heal the man born blind, when we see Jesus expel demons with his words We know that Jesus is different. Jesus is not like us. Jesus is transcendent. And yet, Peter and Paul both start several of their epistles with the thought that the Father is the God of Christ. There's a balance that we have to maintain. What I believe these apostles are presenting to us is that God is transcendent. He is other. He is radically unlike us. He is the sovereign, holy creator of the universe. He is righteous in all things. And we cannot approach him trivially. True, he is also Father. He is the one who has called us He has redeemed us. He has entered us into his family by adoption. And he set his heart upon us. He's intimate. He's close. He's connected. But we can never experience that intimacy without understanding his transcendence and still know the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. There are times that we see stories in Scripture where that transcendence is made blazingly clear. One of the stories that we frequently wrestle with emotionally is in 2 Samuel chapter 6. David has been building Jerusalem and at this point he wants to bring the ark Of the covenant, the mercy seat of God, the dwelling place of God most high in the tabernacle into the city So in chapter 6 we read, David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, 30,000. And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Bael Judah. To bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits enthroned on the cherubim. Do you feel the magnitude of that? And they carried the ark of God on a new cart and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill. And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were driving the new cart with the ark of God. And Ahio went before the ark. David and all the house of Israel were making merry before the Lord with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines and castanets and cymbals. And when they came to the threshing floor of Nakon, Ezah put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah and God struck him down because of his error, and he died there beside the ark of God. And David was angry. God is sovereign. God is holy. God is all-powerful. God is other. God is distant. God is righteous. He is pure. He cannot be defiled by sin. He cannot be disobeyed trivially. They did not obey God's command for how to move the ark They did not respect God and obey his command that the ark is never to be touched, other than by the poles by which the Levites are carried. This is the very mercy seat of God. It is the place in the tabernacle where the glory of God descended and dwelt above the cherubim. Brothers and sisters, God is transcendent. God is sovereign. God is not to be disrespected. God is not to be treated as a buddy. Blessed be the God and Father. Our Lord Jesus Christ. For this sovereign, transcendent, separate, distant God has come and said, I am your daddy. We see in the transfiguration That Jesus is glorified, that God the Father comes down with Moses and Elijah, and he speaks to the disciples and said, This is my beloved Son. He's the Father of Jesus. But he's also our Father, for in Romans 8 we read that we have received not a spirit of slavery, not a spirit of fear. But a spirit of sonship For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry. Abba, Daddy, Father. Peter begins his his letter to the church In in Asia Minor, a church that's facing incredible suffering, a church that's undergoing persecution, a church who's confused And hurting with this. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be. Peter begins with worship. God is someone not to be treated lightly, but God is someone to be reverenced. God is someone to be worshipped. God is someone to be To draw close to. But draw close to him rightly. According to his great mercy. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to his great mercy, have given us new birth to a living hope, to the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. We treat our position in Christ with familiarity. We belong to Jesus. He has redeemed us. He has brought us to justification. We're declared by God the Father as righteous men and women. And that's true. Praise God. But over time, that incredible gift That's given only according to the mercy of God by the sacrifice of Christ to live an obedient life, to die an unnecessary death for himself, a completely necessary death for us, and to rise again from the dead. That incredible gift becomes familiar, becomes common It fades into the background. And we began to lose sight of the fact that God righteously should condemn us. That God has every right to send down his pillar of fire, not in blessing, not in presence, not in intimacy and eminence, but in judgment. He should, by all rights, condemn us to hell But according to his great mercy, he gives us new birth. New birth to a living hope and to an inheritance. To get a small glimmer of this, I want I want to tell you a story. When I was a seminary student in California Long time ago. There was a small employer who had a company of about fifteen employees I think he was an H V A C kind of a company. But but the employer, out of the generosity he had, would annually give his employees a turkey for Thanksgiving. And so for five or six years, every year he'd give his employees a turkey and and one year business was really not doing well. And as part of his cutting back to try and keep the company going well he didn't give his employees turkeys. And and you might think, being the employer, that that you your employees would come to you and say, Well, we realize that times are tough. We really do want to help you to keep this company afloat. And and we're really grateful for the turkeys that you've given to us in the past. It's okay. One of the employees was so upset by the fact that he had counted on this turkey that he did not get, that he took his employer to court. And in small claims court He argued that there was an implicit contract that had been established over a pattern of years where there was a right for him to expect that his employer would give him a turkey at Thanksgiving as a regular benefit of his employment. And the judge agreed. And so this employer was ordered to give his employees a turkey that year and for the years following. Brothers and sisters, that's me. And frankly, I believe that's you What begins as a generous, appreciated gift becomes familiar, becomes expected, becomes something we presume upon. Are we grateful? Do we look at this gift of new life and praise God? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Or do we presume? Do we expect? Do we require? Do we demand? When you read the beginning of 1 Peter, the beginning of Ephesians, the beginning of 2 Corinthians. Do you stop? And does it take your breath away that the God and Father of Jesus Has become for you the God of all comfort. Has become for you the one who gives you new birth to a living hope. The transcendent, sovereign creator of the universe is your Father who loves you. Who does everything necessary to redeem you because of his great mercy? In John chapter twenty, Jesus has risen from the dead. That great demonstration of the power of God has taken place in Mary's meeting with Jesus. And she wants to cling to him. She's overcome by his resurrection. Jesus says, Do not cling to me, for I have not yet ascended to the Father, the Father. But go to my brothers and say to them, I am ascending to my father and your father, to my God and your God Brothers and sisters, he's our Father because of what Jesus did. He's our God because of who he is. He's always sovereign and transcendent, but he has set his heart on you. Titus tells us that it's not because of anything that we do. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us, not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy. By the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. You did nothing to compel God to save you You do nothing to compel God to sustain that relationship with you. Galatians 3 says, Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law, by your effort, by your obedience, or by hearing with faith? You come to God by His sovereign mercy. He continues in verse 3. Having begun by the Spirit, are you being made perfect by human effort? Are you keeping yourself in good graces with God? And the answer is absolutely not. God not only saves you, he keeps you according to his great mercy. And in his mercy, he not only gives us a living hope, but our new life is also to an inheritance. An inheritance that's described as secure, kept in heaven for you. And so I want to look at the power of God that demonstrates that sovereign and imminent relationship God has with us. He has caused us, through his great mercy, to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you This inheritance is secure. It's not only secure because of the nature of the inheritance, it's it's secure because God is keeping it for us. And and the language there is the idea of almost a garrison. A soldier surrounding and protecting that inheritance. It's kept. It's kept by his power God demonstrates his power not only in the resurrection of Jesus, but in giving us a new birth In John 3, Jesus is meeting with Nicodemus, and Jesus says to Nicodemus, No one can enter heaven unless he's born again. And Nicodemus recognizing the difficulty of new birth. Cries out, can a man in his age enter his mother's womb again and be born a second time? And Jesus is saying, it's even more difficult than that. I'm not talking about human birth. I'm talking about being born again from above. You can't do that Your God and Father has done that for you. He has given you new birth. And that new birth is to a living hope. Brothers and sisters, I I can't speak for what all the circumstances are in your lives. I don't know what trials and difficulties you go through I don't know what the deep issues in your heart and in your hope may be, but we're born again to a living hope. We're born again to a hope that is beyond our ability to comprehend. Because of the incredible work that God the Father and God the Son together have cooperated to do in bringing about the atonement Jesus has met the demands of the law for you. Jesus not only met the demands of the law on the cross, he rose from the tomb. God demonstrates his power. God gives us confidence. God gives us hope Peter is so consumed with this thought of the hope we receive that he says in verse 13 of chapter 1, therefore, preparing your minds for action, being sober-minded, both of which are not commands. But here's the command. Set your hope fully on the grace That is re brought to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ Set your hope fully in the grace that is brought to you, being brought to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. New birth to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. We have hope. We don't have hope because of our circumstances. We don't have hope because life is going well, and we don't lose hope because our circumstances are difficult. We're born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. We are to set our hope fully on the grace that is being brought to us in the revelation of Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, our hope is in a person. Our hope is in his promises that we have an inheritance And that we not only have an inheritance that is safe and guarded by him, but listen, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed at the last time. God not only guards your inheritance, God guards you You're safe. Your future is sir. And your present is safe I've been listening to a message by Tim Keller this week on the fruit of the Spirit of Peace. And in that message, he's preaching from Philippians 4, and he talks about this. He says, if we could know what God knows, we would choose what God chose Think about that for a moment. If we could know what God knows, we would choose what God chose. In other words Our problem isn't that God fails us. Our problem isn't that God forgets us. Our problem isn't that God is distant from us. Our problem is we don't believe Him. We don't know what he knows, and we come to conclusions that distance us from him. God, if you loved me, you would. Do you hear the arrogance of speaking to the sovereign, transcendent God of the universe in an attempt to educate him Do you hear the failure to believe his love for you? He who sent Christ, He who raised Christ from the dead, he who gives you new birth to a living hope. He who gives you an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, who keeps that inheritance as he keeps you for it. Brothers and sisters, if you knew what God knows. You would choose what God chose. Every step, every phase of life. Because he is not acting with disregard. He's acting out of his sovereign gracious love. And he's accomplishing his glorious purposes. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Blessed be our God and Father. Lord, we long to know you more, to see you more clearly, to recognize your glory To experience your love, to bring you honor and pleasure. Lord, we long for your spirit to flood us. So that we delight in you, so that we worship you, so that we serve you and bring you pleasure, If you do not teach us, we will not learn. If you do not reveal yourself in your word and by your spirit, we will not grow. Give us a hunger for you. Feed us through Scripture, through prayer, through fellowship, through the sacraments. And we pray, Lord Jesus, that the outcome would be that you would delight in our worship. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.