Last year I received in the mail this booklet that you see here unsolicited. See it up here so you get a better idea and turn the lights down a little bit It's a book, booklet that says, America, return to God. And then there's this verse up here in the corner, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. You go through the booklet and it talks about America's slide to secularism, about the evils of the American Civil Liberties Union, increasing hostility of America to biblical Christianity. as well as the way back to America's roots as a Christian nation. Well, I particularly was attracted by that verse Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. I'd never heard anybody preach on that concerning national repentance or anything. And so, you know, I began to think about that and as I thought about it I had an immediate reaction and then a secondary reaction and then a third reaction. that I want to share with you. At first glance I thought, well, you know, that's good. This is a call to America to return to God. That's the first blank for those of you that fill in those blanks. America to Return to God and I thought, you know, that'd be a great text for Sunday before Independence Day next year. And then on a second glance I thought, nah nah nah nah nah That's what it you know that that's the problem with a lot of people. They take these verses that were for Israel and they apply them to America. You know, because if you read the verse, it says in the beginning, Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, but then at the end of the verse, the people he chose for his inheritance. Obviously it's talking about Israel. So I thought, nah, I can't use that verse. And then I looked at a little more and read the psalm and I, on third glance, realized, you know, there are a number of universals in this psalm. that persuade me that it really is not just for Israel, even though it's specifically about Israel, but it's also for Israel and to America in 2007. So, while it is specifically about Israel, there are some general principles in this Psalm that apply because if you look at verse 4, it says For the word of the Lord is right and true. He is faithful in all he does. There are some basic things about the truth of God's word. that make the general principle, blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, to be a true statement. So let me go through quickly And give you some examples of the universal truths that you see in this psalm that apply to us as well as to Israel Now, first thing to notice about this psalm is it's a very upbeat psalm. It's a psalm full of praise and joy. Verse 1 is sing joyfully to the Lord, you're righteous. It's fitting for the upright to praise him. Verse 3, shout for joy. Very positive psalm. It's not wringing hands. It's not complaining. It is saying, This is who our God is. Let's praise him. Let's worship him. Verse 5, his blessing. Now notice first universal. The Lord loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of his unfailing love. Not just Israel, not just Canaan. The whole earth is full of God's unfailing unfailing love. Not only that, but his rule is a global rule. In fact, it's a it's a rule of the galaxies. It's a rule of all the universe. By the word of the Lord were the heavens meet. Their starry host, by the breath of his mouth, you think of all the galaxy and the billions of stars that there are, and by the breath of his mouth, they all came into being He gathers the waters of the sea. Think of the vastness of the sea. He gathers the waters of the sea into jars. You know, just kind of like, oh, pour the sea into a jar. That's how vast his being is. And then it says that he puts the deep into storehouses. So it's speaking of the vastness of a global God here. This is not just Israel. So, verse 8 as a result, let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the people of the world revere him, including America in 2007. Not just for Israel. Because he sovereignly rules not over only the galaxies and the universe. He rules over history. Look at verses 9 to 11. For he spoke, and it came to be. He commanded, and it stood firm. Notice this: the Lord foils the plans of the nations. He thwarts the purposes of the peoples. I, you know, that is good news the next time you read in the paper about the plans of Ahmadinejad. in his nuclear arsenal in Iran to wipe Israel off the face of the earth and to become a dominant superpower that everyone must recognize, or North Korea This says, the Lord foils the plans of the nations as he did Nazi Germany, so he can do it again. Foils the plans of the nations. He thwarts the purposes of the peoples. But the plans of the Lord stand firm forever. The purposes of his heart through all generations, not one verse of Scripture can be overturned. Not one phrase, not one word of his promises can fail. Because he rules through all of history. Isn't that good news? I mean, you know, think about that. When you read your newspaper, you watch TV, look at magazines This is the God that is the God spoken of in verse 12. So, you see, it's simply a consequence. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. That's the result because this is the global sovereign God. Now I want to submit to you that verse 12 has some staggering implications on one of America's most cherished values, namely pluralism. What is pluralism? Well again, pluralism is simply the Practice that all peaceable, nonviolent beliefs, convictions, religions are honored in the public square of discourse and protected by law. Pluralism says that America is not a Christian nation, but neither is it a Muslim nation, or a Jewish nation, or anything else. Pluralism says everybody has a right to what they believe and to practice, and that that is to be tolerated. That is to be given honor in the discourse of all the values that we have in the nation. However, I would also submit that pluralism is a very unstable practice. Pluralism is very unstable because history shows that it is inevitable that some belief, some conviction, some religion, some belief system, some set of values will always dominate a culture. It'll move to pla from the place where it is recognized, tolerated, to where it is assumed. And I would also submit that America is currently in a transition between Christendom and secularism. That pluralism is simply that temporary time of transition between those two dominant value systems. Now, what do I mean by Christian dumb? I didn't say Christianity, I said Christian dumb. Christian dumb is simply what has existed. Since the early fourth century, when Constantine came to power and the Roman Empire became the Holy Roman Empire. It was a culture that was established and founded on the belief that the Bible is the Word of God. It was not based on the gospel. It's not based on what a true church preaches about the gospel. It is just a general consensus of values and morals and truth that the Bible is a recognized authority for the culture. That's what I mean by Christendom. That is passing. That is moving out in our era. Let me give you an example Um most pr in fact uh well I'll give you one example here. Most presidents through our history have given a very high place to the Bible. Whatever they personally believed, um They honored George Washington. First president took his oath by putting his hand on the Bible, and then he kissed the Bible after he took his oath, and he said You cannot have morality, which is necessary for a stable nation, without religion, by which he clearly meant the Christian religion. In fact, our very declaration of independence. States, we hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, but among those These are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That's what we celebrate on Wednesday. When you think of that, if you see it, if you meditate on it, or whatever you do, there's a Wednesday about it. Think about how unique that is. That the country, our nation, said that its values of dignity And of its aspirations, its freedoms are based on the fact that there is a creator. A God transcended beyond us who gives that dignity and those rights. Now that's not true. Of Mid Eastern nations, of Asian nations. That is something that is uniquely distinctive about America and its founding. So, back to verse twelve. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. Now This next statement is in your bulletin outline, and it's an important one, so I want it there so you get it exactly. America is always moving toward, closer to, or further away from verse 12, and therefore from his blessing. There is no nation of which that's absolutely true. It wasn't absolutely true of Israel Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. The Lord is his covenant name, the Savior, the covenant-keeping God for his people. Americ is always moving either closer to that or further away from it, and therefore closer to or further from his blessing. It's evident that we are moving into an era not just of less respect for Christianity and the Bible, but of growing antipathy and hostility. Now when I decided to preach on this, a couple months ago I thought I would just start keeping a folder of some examples. The folder got about that thick. Tim reminded me we were having the Lord's Supper and I thought, okay, well, you know, I was only going to give you twenty-five illustrations. Now I got to get down to two. Let me give you just two illustrations of uh How that's true. Back in World War II, the Gideons decided to uh distribute thousands of Bibles to servicemen And Franklin D. Roosevelt had inscribed in the beginning of every Bible these words. As Commander-in-Chief, I take pleasure in commending the reading of the Bible to all who serve in armed forces of the United States. Throughout the centuries, men of many faiths and diverse origins have found in the sacred book words of wisdom, counsel, and inspiration. It is a fountain of strength, and now as always, an aid in attaining the highest aspirations of the human soul. Notice two things about that quote. Number one, it's not Christian. There's nothing there distinctively Christian about it. It's just simply saying, eh, this book's worth reading. But notice secondly, this book's worth reading. Almost every president has praised the Bible, quoted from the Bible, and said that the Bible is a book that we honor. A few months ago, two Gideons were arrested for distributing Gideon Bibles on a public sidewalk outside of a public school. They were booked into jail. And they were arrested for that activity. That's an example of where we've gone in just a little over 50 years. Give you another example. Uh you know all about all the firing of the eight attorneys and uh all the inquisition, all the inquiries that went on about that And uh I thought it was rather interesting that the um Baltimore Examiner, uh not at all a Christian paper Uh, reported on one of the uh interchanges between a Justice Department official, Monica Gooding In this uh in the investigations, uh, she was being questioned by Democratic Representative Steve Cohen from Tennessee. Now, Miss Gooding is a Christian graduate of Regent University Law School, which is a specifically Christian law school. And here's how it went. Cohen, the mission of the law school you attended, Regents, is to bring to bear upon legal education and the legal profession the will of Almighty God, our Creator. What is the will of Almighty God, our Creator, on the legal profession? Gooding. I'm not sure I could define that question for you. Cohen, did you ask people who applied for jobs anything about their religion? Gooding. No, I certainly did not. Cohen. Ever had religious discussions come up? Gooding. Not to the best of my recollection, Cohen. Are there a lot of uh an inordinate number of people from Regent University Law School that were hired by the Department of Justice while you were there? Gooding. I think we have a lot more people from Harvard and Yale. Cohen. Well that's refreshing. Is it a fact? Are you aware of the fact that your graduating class, 50 to 60 percent of the students failed the bar at the first time? At this point of the hearing, Cohen was hissed and booed by some in the audience and by several GOP members of the committee. Cohen should have been, but was not, ruled out of order. Instead of beating around the bush, Cohen could have saved everybody time by simply asserting his clear view that the Justice Department ought not to hire people like Goodling because region offers a subpar legal education based in part on Christian beliefs. Apparently, the Tennessee Democrat is unaware that Article VI of the Constitution bans religious tests for holding public office in America. For the record, as Republican, as Representative Randy Forbes, Republican from Virginia, pointed out in response to Cohen, Regents Law School is fully accredited by the American Bar Association. The school's students have won the American Bar Association's National Appellate Advocacy Tenant Competition 11 of the previous 14 years and most recently won the ABA's negotiation competition, beating students from 220 other schools, including Harvard. But then bigotry is always blind to excellence. It's the tone. It's the sense that if you're a Christian, you must keep your beliefs to yourself. They have no place in the public forum. What Representative Cohen misses is verse 4. The word of the Lord is right and true. He is faithful in all he does. The Lord loves righteousness and justice. Take away a God who loves righteousness and justice, whose word is true, and law itself becomes the arbitrary fiat of the state. There is no basis for justice, simply the will that can be imposed upon the people. And so we are in a time where there is growing conflict, growing hostility toward those who would impose religious convictions, beliefs, or even bring them to influence the way that they would involve themselves in public discourse. Now, let me be clear, my lament, our lament, is not in the passing of Constantinian Christendom. That is, it is not in the fact that there is not prayer in public schools or that we can't have Christmas manger scenes on public property. I don't give much of a rip about that. What is of concern is the marginalizing of influence and freedom for Christianity to bring its values and its truth into public discourse. But you know what? There's a potential blessing in that. And the blessing is simply this. The less America is seen as a Christian nation The more the church can be seen as a radical institution, the less it is assumed that people are Christians in America. And therefore, we can bring as Christians something that is good news and not assumed What we need to return to is not to a Christian America of the 50s, where African Americans were not able to drink at the same drinking fountains as whites in Baltimore Where everyone is assumed to be a Christian because they were Americans, rather we are in exciting but difficult days that will be ahead. particularly for you kids, you teenagers, you kids growing up as disciples of Jesus Christ, real disciples. Now, recently there was a an interview done with a Christian leader in China. Here is one of the things that he said. Stop praying for persecution in China to end. In fact, we are praying that the American Church might taste the same persecution. So revival might come there like we have seen in China. How do you feel when you hear a quote like that? Hey, don't pray for persecution to end here in China. Why do you think the church is growing exponentially more than it is in America? In fact, we're praying that things will get a little harder for you, our brothers and sisters in America. We're praying you'll know some of our persecution. I mean how many of us go, yeah, amen? You know? What does that mean? Well, he means it's going to be more difficult to get graduate degrees at some of our recognized institutions. Marvin Olaski, brilliant editor of World Magazine. almost did not get his doctorate because his advisor, who was an atheist, refused simply to support his work, his graduate school work, because it was Christian. And finally had a to find a marginally interested faculty person to support him and to be his advisor so he could get his degree And yet it's more important than ever that Christians get those kinds of degrees in law, in medicine, in education, in the media. I challenge you, young people. Not the only thing God can use. Some of the kids at the in Mexico now may be praying and God will lead them into missions. And God may lead you into all kinds of fields. But if we want to think strategically, those four fields law, medicine, education, media are key fields for us in days that are post-Constantinian, post-Christendom days for America. Because blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And we want to infiltrate as Christians who know the truth of our God. Now, the psalm then turns to some warnings and an invitation. Look what he says. Verse 13. From heaven the Lord looks down and he sees all mankind. From his dwelling place he watches all who live on earth, he who forms the hearts of all, who considers everything they do. You know what that means? Nobody's going to get away with anything. This God looks into the hearts of all people. Now for some of you that's a great comfort because you feel very alone in what it means to stand as a Christian in your job. And God saying to you, nobody's getting away with anything. I am your comfort. But for some of you, that's a very sober reminder that should make you tremble. God looks into the hearts of every person in this room. He knows your thoughts, your intentions, your motives, what you think, what you do. He considers it all and has a perfect record. And he is a just God. He loves justice. And so when you and I think about what it means to stand before such a God, we think of his warning. not only of the things that we think and do because we marginalize him, we set him at the edge of our life. But because we are a very self-sufficient people, look what he goes on to say. Verse 16 No king is saved by the size of his army. Hey, add to the surge. Build a bigger army. No warrior escapes by his great strength. A horse is a main hope for deliverance. Despite all its great strength, it cannot save. Just bring into contemporary terms the military references there God is saying if your hope is in the size of your own army, if it's in the strength of your armaments, it's a vain hope. What would happen if the vast portion of America simply prayed for peace and gospel freedom in the Middle East? What would happen? I don't know what would happen, but you know what I can tell you? Things would happen that are not going to happen without that. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. You see, he is the one who delivers those who hope in him. Verse 18. But the eyes of the Lord are on those who fear him. One those whose hope is in his unfailing love, that phrase unfailing love is the Hebrew word Hesed, it refers to his covenant love. The fact that he made a covenant with his people, a covenant that pointed them to a Messiah that he was going to save, that he was going to send, who would deal with the very root problem of your life and my life, sin. And he would take that sin upon himself upon the cross, and he would die for that sin, so that those who fear him, trust in his unfailing love, would find him as their hope, their help, and their refuge. And so in verse 19, he describes his deliverance again. Now notice there's two kinds of deliverance that he speaks of here. He says that he delivers verse 16 and 17 from other nations. That's talking about military deliverance. Then verse 19, to deliver them from death And to keep them alive in famine, that's talking about deliverance from natural disasters, earthquakes, floods, fire, famine. He is the one that we look to. Again, verse 18. It's him. He is the one. He is the refuge. And so he ends by a personal invitation and application in verses 20 to 22. Notice the personal references to us and to him. We wait and hope for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. In him our hearts rejoice, for we trust in his holy name. May your unfailing love rest upon us, O Lord, even as we put our hope in you. And so while this psalm is national, it's also very personal. And its focus is on him. Notice. Him, not in prayer in the schools or in prayer itself, not in a return to morality or even a return to the Bible You say, where's Harris going with this? Making me a little nervous now. Prayer can be superstitious The Bible can become idolatrous. The references of this psalm are to a person, Jesus Christ. He is the hope. He is your help. He is your shield. Amen? And that is so important for us as Americans to keep in mind, because it's a call to those who are grace-bought, blood-bought disciples of Jesus Christ. not simply good religious American people that are the ones who have the hope. Verse 12. Blessed is the nation whose God is distinctively the saving, keeping, covenant-keeping God, Jesus Christ. So you and I need to come before Him, seeing our emptiness, seeing, Lord, you are my only hope. I can't make it without you. Lord, we are lost without you. Whether we get through Iraq one way or another, Lord, you in the long range, you alone are our hope. God pitied a nation that wants to separate its justice from the truth of God. So, remember again, this psalm is a psalm of joy. It's not a dispirited psalm. It's a psalm full of hope and joy. It's a psalm of singing joyfully, of shouting to Him for joy, because He is our hope and He's a sure hope. Let me offer to you a specific challenge as we close this. You think about where America's hope is as we enter our 231st anniversary on Wednesday. You think about where your hope is. Look at the offer of Jesus Christ. If you don't have him in your life, you look with some hunger and thirst at the elements. As we hold them, those are who are God's people, may God give you a longing to be able to say, I want that Savior as my Savior. I want Him to be my hope. Maybe you've been hoping in vague general religion in some unspecified, non-exclusive way, and God is calling you this morning to see. The only hope, your only hope, is in the person of Jesus Christ. And specifically, I'd like to challenge you to do two things. You find one other person, a spouse counts. You find one other person, and this afternoon and Wednesday afternoon You do two things with it. Number one, you read through this psalm. Just read through at your own pace. Think about it, you know, stop. Just, you know, I've taken you on a bicycle tour through it. Just stop, read through it. And then pray for 15 minutes for yourself and for America. Do it today, do it Wednesday, and see where God takes you. See what he speaks to your heart about. Don't just talk. Listen. Receive from him as his word speaks to you. Because it is people who do that that become the beginning, the first fruits of a nation. that fears the Lord, that prays and trusts in Him and not in the activity of prayer or the fact of holding up the Bible But in the God who alone can save. Let's pray. So, Lord, we recognize Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord. And we know that through our history, America has moved closer and further away at various times. We know, Lord, that it's a sobering thing that it generally during wartime that America moves closer. In peace and prosperity, we tend to move away. We know that even though we are at a war, in a war, it is a war that is largely hidden. By and large, Lord, not only are we moving away from you But that there is even less tolerance for those who would bring gospel truths into public discussion. But Lord, rather than to complain, we want to take the path of this psalm, a path of hope, a path of looking to you as our help and our shield. And pray, Lord, that you would speak to us in taking 15 minutes today, 15 minutes, Wednesday. Just cry out to you. cry out to you for our own empty hearts, that Lord Jesus you would come and meet us in our deepest need. That you would come and assure us, Lord, as a nation. That you are the one who is our hope. And Lord, as we come to take these elements, to remember that you, Lord Jesus Or the one who was our hope when you took our sins upon the cross. When you died there, took your body and your blood, shed that blood so that we You who look at all that we do and think that we would be judged innocent with the very righteousness of Christ. Lord, as we hold these elements, remind us of your presence. Remind us of your favor available in Jesus. Lord, remind us that you are here with us now. Speak to us in personal and private ways. Lord, we pray that you will come and meet us through these elements to remember your death. And to rejoice in your presence. For we pray it in Jesus' name, who alone can feed us. Amen.