I, like many of you, am from a kind of a mongrel theological and church background. I was uh raised in a non-Christian home. I found Christ in a independent fundamental Baptist church when I was in high school And then when I went off to college, I struggled with my faith and needed help, so I decided I needed to get to seminary and the one that seemed it would be the most helpful was Westminster in Philadelphia, which was a Presbyterian and Reformed seminary. And so I had to rethink a lot there. Came to embrace what is called the Reformed faith. Roomed with a charismatic who desperately tried to get me to speak in tongues during that time, who was from India after college. I found that I could spot an Arminian or charismatic at fifty yards and nail him. In fact, I was called Harris the Heresy Hunter by the time I got out. About that time Kathy and I got married. And it was about a year or two after we had last had last contact with the uh youth sponsors of our church that we went to visit him. And I was returning the favor of his investment in my early Christian life by straightening out his theology and helping him to think a little better about biblical themes about 45 minutes into the discussion, he said, Harris, I don't know what's happened to you, but you are obnoxious And that cut me right to the heart because I really respected him. As a result of that I did a study on the tongue, its use and misuse in the book of Proverbs. God humbled me a great deal. Shortly after that I went into campus ministry with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, for which I served for ten years and worked with Christians of every different kind of Orientation, background, racial and ethnic diversity from around the world. I'm still passionately reformed and would be glad to talk to you about why. On the other hand, I also believe passionately in the unity of the body of true believers and believe that one of the greatest hindrances to revival and awakening coming in our day. is the lack of that unity. We saw last week that Paul begins his instructions for how to live the Christian life by talking about the church. He doesn't talk, first of all, about your relationship with Jesus personally in your quiet time, your Bible study, your memorization of Scripture, your prayer life. He talks about your place in the body. And he began last week with the attitude that we see in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 2, in our study of this book, where he said, Be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love. That all comes from recognizing the grace of God that has been extended to you that he has discussed in chapters 1 to 3. He then goes on to verse 3, which in the Greek is still the same sentence. In the Greek, Ephesians 4, 1 to 3 are all one sentence to make the connection absolutely clear. And so let us read that sentence, beginning with verse 1, to get his thought. Here's God's word to us. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. That is, I urge you to bring your life into equilibrium with the calling that you have received. Being completely humble and gentle, patiently bearing with one another in love, making every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit. Through the bond of peace, where perhaps the NIV captures the force of it a bit better as we think of it as a separate sentence a little more crisp. But don't miss the fact that in the Greek it's all continuous from verse 1. Make every effort. To keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. That certainly is a verse that's given much lip service today. People talk a lot about Christians be banding together and breaking down the walls that divide us and all that kind of thing, but I still believe that the Holy Spirit has much to teach us in practical ways about what this means in a biblical framework. I'd like to make three points then from this verse for us this morning. First of all, to see that biblical unity on every level, from one-to-one to denominations. Is a matter of three things. First of all, it is a matter of fact. It's a matter of fact. That is, you notice that verse 3 says, it is the unity of the Spirit. that we are to guard or that we are to preserve. It is not the unity of man. It is not something that you and I have created because we decided to come together based on a common belief. It is not something that you and I manufactured or put together. It is something God has achieved, and it is the finished work of the Spirit. It is what he has done through the work of Jesus Christ for us. That's exactly what Paul said in chapter 2. Do you remember how in chapter 2 in verse 14 he had talked about that tremendous division that there was between Jew and Gentile. That hostility, that wall, literal physical wall of hostility. that separated the Gentiles at the temple from even approaching into the courts where the women and then the men and then the priests could worship. That wall of hostility that was not a subtle thing in that society. It was open scorn and hatred. And Paul says that in verse 14, he, Jesus, is our peace, who has made the two, Jew and Gentile, one, and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility. by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commands and its regulations. His purpose was to create in himself One new man, one new humanity out of the two, thus making peace. Jesus has created a new humanity that was done at the cross And so he says in verse 19, he gives three images that you see there in your bulletin outline. First of all, in verse 19, we are no longer foreigners, aliens, but we are fellow citizens of one kingdom. We're new citizens in a new kingdom. We belong to that kingdom together, joint citizens. Secondly, at the end of verse 19, we're not only that, but we are members of God's household. We're brothers and sisters of a new family. And beyond that, he says in verses 20 to 22, you and I are living stones. He says that we're built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets with Christ Jesus Himself, the chief cornerstone, in him, the whole building. is joined together and rises to become a holy temple in the Lord. In him you two are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit. Stones placed together by the mortar of the Spirit to create a living temple for the praise of Jesus. These are the indicatives. These are the facts you see. Remember, we've talked about how chapters 1 to 3 is almost all facts indicatives. And how chapters 4 to 6, the imperatives, the commands, are based on the indicatives. Remember that? Christian life, nothing more or less than making true in my experience by faith that which is already true of me in Jesus. What's Paul saying here? He says, whether you like it or not, if you belong to Jesus and I belong to Jesus, we belong together. That is a simple fact. We are joint citizens of one kingdom. We are joint members, brothers and sisters of one family. We are living stones together in one temple that is God's. Now, based on that fact, Paul says the command is to make it true in your experience. 4-3, look at it again. Command, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit Those three ideas, or the four ideas, if you can include the new humanity, new humanity, new kingdom, new family, new temple. Those four ideas are summed up in that phrase, the unity of the Spirit. That's what that's referring to. Those four ideas in chapter 2. Paul says now those four ideas which have been accomplished. The command is that you preserve and guard and experience them together as the body. And so the second thing to notice here is that this is a matter of obedience. On the one hand, it's a matter of fact, you and I belong together if we belong to Jesus. And you may say, I wouldn't choose you for a brother, and I say, well, you know, you didn't have much choice about it. Praise God. The fact is, you and I have been called sovereignly by a merciful God to be joined together in one new family. But you have a choice in how much you decide to experience that. You can minimally experience that And you will shrivel in your Christian life, it will thwart your growth, and it will affect the body and its effectiveness in society. Or we can decide to obey that command, maximize our experience of what is already true, not creating it, simply living it out by faith. Saying when there is that conflict, when are all the obstacles to it, it is true. I am simply determined that I will obey the command to experience that which is already true of you and me in Jesus. And as I make the effort to experience that God is glorified, the church is strengthened, and you thrive spiritually. So the second point is that this is a matter of obedience. You are to keep this unity in the bond of peace. Look at it again. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Effort is required. It's perhaps worth pointing out the dynamics of unity and disunity for a moment at this point. I think it sort of goes like this. You've probably experienced this kind of thing. You come in to a church, a fellowship, a seminar, a weekend, whatever it is. You don't know the people that are there. And perhaps uh you know, if you're new here at CPC, you come in this morning and It's cold outside, but there's this warm glow Tom talked about. You begin to worship, praise. You sense that there's a unity between you and the other people in this room. And there's a sense of belonging, a sense of security. It's a great feeling, isn't it? Here you are with these other Christians, and you don't even know them, but you sense there's a unity that exists among you. And then you get into a small group. And you find that these people that you didn't even know a couple of weeks ago, you've got all these things in common with them. And as you begin to talk about things, you can almost finish one another's sentences, and you find that there is just this unity in the body of Christ, and somebody will say, you know, I feel more at one with you guys than I do with my own family back at home. Because they're not believers. And so there's this sense of unity, and it's an exhilarating feeling. Last fall, Steve and I were uh attended the Longreach Church of God Cell Conference. As part of that conference, we were assigned to be in one of their cells for one evening. And we joined this cell in which there were six African Americans, one Filipino, and Steve and me. And as we sat down together and began to, they begin by eating, which is always a good thing, you know. And then after we ate, we shared a few things, got into the word, talked about some things to pray for. And we were overwhelmed with a sense not only of welcome, but genuine affection that we received from those folks, those brothers and sisters in Christ. And as we experienced that, there was a bonding. And we just delighted in that. In fact, the next day when we saw them at the conference, you know, the leader of the group comes up and gives me a hug, and I give him a hug, you know, and it's this immediate kind of affection that had developed. Let me tell you something. If I had met with those brothers and sisters for the next six months, week after week, something would have happened. At some point, the honeymoon's over. At some point you begin to notice that there's a splinter in your brother or sister's eye you hadn't noticed before. Something they do rubs you the wrong way. And then there's something that they do that as you're talking and sharing together that's thoughtless. And you think, that's a thoughtless. kind of insensitive thing to do, but no big deal. Hey, we're really enjoying this fellowship together, you know. And then a couple weeks later They do something else that's careless and you think, uh come on, give me a break. I didn't need that, and why were you coming off that way? You said you were going to do this and you didn't come through. You failed me in some way. And things begin to rub, and so after a few months, you begin to think, well, you know, I thought that this was the group for me, but you know, maybe I found the wrong one. I gotta keep looking. Brother and sister, let me tell you straight out, it's exactly at that point that you need to read this verse. That's what this is addressed to. Paul says, make every effort. He does not say go by your feelings He says, determined to make every effort to keep, the word is to guard, to protect, the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. It's at that point that you realize that the experiencing of this thing is going to take work. It's the kind of work that is described by somebody who was alienated from someone else that they were close to and wrote Me these words about that experience this week, just received this this week. The person says, I wish we could just say our apologies, hug, and make up. But we can't. This will take so much work, the hardest kind, being vulnerable Listening without pride with our hearts realizing and accepting the terrible mistakes that we've made claiming shortcomings and massive flaws, swallowing the herd and horrible effects it has created and blackened on both ends. This to me is the truest test of love. See, that's what Paul's saying. It says in verse 2, be humble and gentle, patiently forbearing with one another in love. What does that mean? It means that you make every effort to protect and to guard the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. What is that bond of peace that Paul's talking about here? The bond of peace is amplified. We don't have to guess because we're told in Colossians chapter 3. Turn over to that for a moment. In Colossians chapter 3, in verse 12. Paul says, Therefore, as God's chosen people, holy and dearly loved, clothe yourselves with compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. Very similar, you see, to what verse 2 is talking about. Bear with one another. In the idea of verse 2, forbearing, bearing, connected. Bearing with one another and forgiving whatever grievances you may have against one another. Forgive us the Lord forgave you. And over all these virtues put on love which binds them all together in perfect unity. Let the peace of Christ rule your hearts, since as members of one body you were called to peace. Did you see it there in verse 14? What is it that binds us together in unity? What is it there? Somebody say it. It's love. See? Get a little interaction here so I know you're tracking with me. Love is what binds us together in unity. What kind of love? The forgiving love of Jesus. Not a sentimental love. Not a love because you're lovable. The context, the point of that phrase is that this is a love which is given and received by sinners who rub each other the wrong way, who seem impossible to get along with. That's the kind of love that binds them together. What does binding mean? What does it mean to bind something? It means to hold it together. by glue or by rope or string or something. It's to hold something together that otherwise would fall or fly apart. When you bind something, you're taking that which isn't going to naturally hold together, and you are holding it together. It is the forgiving love that has been established by Jesus Christ between you and me that binds us together. And Paul says that it is based on that bond of peace, the peace of Christ that rules your heart, that he says in verse 15. That is what you by faith appropriate as you are having the struggle with that other person How does that work out? It is simply by you and me recognizing what I have as the log in my own eye. It is that recognition of how I tend to be arrogant, how I have been thoughtless toward you, how I have been insensitive. We so tend, don't we, to maximize the offenses we've received and look at them as inexcusable. But then look at the things we've done to hurt other people minimally and very excusable if you only understood the pressure I was under. or how I simply didn't notice, and all kinds of reasons, until I come to the foot of the cross. And there all my excuses vanish. And I see the log in my eye for what it is. And I recognize at that point how I have offended my God. And I've offended him in the ways that I have offended you. My lack of love and care and selfishness and thoughtlessness. And then I look at the forgiveness of Jesus Christ toward me. And as I receive and I believe and I dwell in that forgiveness, I sit in it. God does a new work in my heart. And I can no longer fly apart. Go look for an easy out. And simply try to find folks that are easier to get along with. I make every effort. To maintain that unity of the Spirit through the bond of the peace of Jesus Christ given to me When I deserved his wrath and extended through me to you to reestablish the experiential peace that has been lost between us. Do you see that? And that's true, brothers and sisters, on every level of our fellowship. Just to mention a few. For those of you who are married, many of you are not married. For you, it's between friends, between folks you live with, the people that are in your study, the closest relationships. But in terms of a marriage between a husband and wife, did you ever apply this verse, Ephesians 4, 3, to your marriage? Make every effort to maintain, to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. That doesn't apply to marriage. That's talking about the church. Listen, if you're married to a Christian, why do you think there's an exemption? Why do you think that that doesn't apply even more so to recognizing that in that closest one-flesh relationship, you may sometimes not feel married? But you are married. You are one together. And therefore the command comes to maintain it, to guard. The unity of the Spirit in your life together through the bond of peace, forgiving because Jesus has forgiven you. The more I go on, the more I believe that forgiveness is the most basic dynamic. To keep a healthy marriage moving. Or between parents and children Do we think that this doesn't apply to the way we treat our kids? Or the way you kids relate to mom and dad? Or the way we as adult sons and daughters relate to our parents? If it's a Christian family, make every effort when I have recognized I have wronged my kids, been overly harsh, unreasonable, whatever it is, to come and humbly. Confess to my kids. I'm sorry. I was wrong in that. I overreacted. Please forgive me. Or for you kids to think, hey, kids just, you know, it's our job to kind of escape punishment, minimize damage control, you know, all this kind of stuff. But to ever think to go back to mom and dad and say, I'm really sorry. I was disobedient. I had a real bad attitude when you told me to do that. I'm sorry. Family dynamic, maintaining the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Or in your small group. Bill Beckham, author of the book Second Reformation, says that to experience community in a cell, everyone must die to his or her agenda. Very interesting observation. He says, not because it's a bad agenda that I have as I come into this small group But simply because it is my agenda which I have placed as a condition for community. If we're really going to be one, this group is going to do this because that's important to me. And he says, if anybody comes into a small group with conditions for community, my agenda I've short-circuited the unity of the Spirit because he says community exists on the relationship we have in Jesus Christ plus nothing. You don't set conditions for your small group or you're out of here. That short circuits it One of the hardest things for us to do is to come to the group and die to our agendas. And to say we're going to share together what it is we expect from this group so that we understand we're not disappointed we can minimize the friction. But not to place a condition once I have become part of that community. Once I have chosen, we can choose the group. But once I've chosen this group, we are now a community. We're in the congregation. Those issues which Satan could use to divide our schooling choices for our kids Whether the mom chooses to work outside of the home for whatever decisions, priorities, or pressures. The matter of what person we would choose for a youth pastor, which way we worship, whether toward the east or toward the south. Decisions about facility, budget. All kinds of things come up to us as a congregation. Where some little voice inside can say, if this doesn't go the way I think it ought to go, I'm out of here. Make every effort to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. How many of us have moved church to church? I'm not fed there anymore. When it's not a basic matter of doctrine, not a basic matter of where the church is going and how and what it exists for. There are biblical, justifiable reasons to leave a church. But for how many of us has it been because I wasn't willing to maintain the unity of the Spirit, making every effort? In the bond of peace. That's not an accusation. It's just simply raising the question in a consumer-oriented society about how we look at our participation. Within the body of Christ. Or move that to a larger level, the regional church. And I'm not talking here about Presbytery. I'm talking about the Church of Columbia in Howard County and the Howard County region Our relationships with the other churches, true churches in this area. I've long had a conviction that I have described as this. In order, well let me put it this way first, if my vision as pastor for our congregation Can be achieved by our congregation alone. It is not a biblical vision. It is not God's vision. It is not the Spirit's vision. A biblical-sized vision requires a biblical-sized church. And that means that if God is revealing to us something He wants to do for the reason He raised up Columbia Presbyterian Church, He did not raise us up alone. He raised us up as he was working in other brothers and sisters in other parts of this city, this county, this area. And if he is intending to do a work, he will not accomplish that work until we humble ourselves to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Amen? That takes work. That's effort. One of the first things I did when I came here, I've told a number of you, back in 1978, was to call up every evangelical pastor that I knew. and set a time to have lunch with him or just to go over into his office and visit him. And I went over to these different ones. First one I happened to meet with was Bob Davis, Long Reach Church of God. Went over to the Chinese restaurant over there, Imperial Garden, Long Reach Village Center. Sat down, had lunch together. Just began to share where we were coming from. Begin to get acquainted as brothers in Christ Then went to Randy Reinhardt. And from others that I knew, there weren't very many back then, so it was pretty easy to do Contrast that with a call that I received from Ron Steele, pastor of Chapelgate, a few months ago now. He said a fellow's come into town here and he says that God's called him to start a church. And uh he you know he wants to come in and and get going. And so he said, uh I thought I'd send him over to you. Thanks, Ron. He'd already talked to him. But I really appreciated that. He sent him over to me because he went to run 'cause he was PCA, Presbyterian Church in America, which is the denomination of Chapelgate. So this fellow came over and I said, Well let me just tell you before you come walk in in what God's been doing here. I said, are you willing to be part of that? Or are you coming here to establish your own show? And that really hit him. He had never thought about that. And he said, I need to pray about that. I need to think about that. I don't know what he decided, but I haven't seen or heard from him since. But we dis we have decided The pastors that get together, there are now over 40 of us that meet every month, third Thursday. Right now we meet 7 a. m. to allow bicultural, by uh by vocational pastors to be able to join us over at the Long Reach Church of God. Not 40 come at every one time, but last October, 19 of us did go away on an overnight to pray together and build our relationships. It's a powerful and beautiful thing to see, the lack of competition, pastors ministering to one another, as we were praying that first night together. To see David Anderson, African-American pastor of Bridgway, begin to wash us white pastors' feet. And when I thought when I saw his black hands on my white feet, I thought I was gonna pass out. I couldn't believe he was doing that There is a precious unity of the Spirit we are experiencing together. Next month There will be a Sunday I will not be here because I will be preaching over at the Longreach Church of God at their Sunday morning service. There will be a Sunday in April. Well, I will not be preaching, though I will be here, because Bob Davis from Long Reach Church of God is bringing God's message to us in this pulpit. On February 28th, we are gathering as the Christians of Howard County Region at the Spear Room of Rouse Building in downtown Columbia to claim, reclaim this area for Jesus Christ. We're going to join together hundreds, as many as we can pack into that room to celebrate the fact that we are one in Jesus Christ. We will not let Satan continue to divide us, and we want to see what God's going to do if he brings us together. Amen? This is true also on the denominational level. I'll touch more on that next week, but let me just tell you right now, the OPC stands for the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, not the only perfect church. And we have a keen desire as a denomination to join together with other biblical Christians in an organized witness. What can happen when the unity of the spirit is developed and taken seriously? It can change the course of history. If you were to visit the town of Timisora, Romania, go to the downtown, you would see there in the central park There's a shrine to the martyrs who died in December 1989. Romania was taken over after World War II by the communists. And they placed into dictatorial rule an opportunist by the name of Nikolai Czechescu. Czechescu lived in opulent luxury while the people of Romania stood in long lines for bread that was laced with sawdust. Lived in fifty degrees in government housing in the winter, short rationing of electricity and other bare kinds of necessities. One of the things that Chachescu did to keep his power was to keep the churches of Romania divided. And he did a good job of it because he knew that Romania had a strong Christian tradition. In 1987, one of those pastors, most of them were communist collaborators, was replaced by a fellow by the name of Laszlo Toats, who preached the gospel and believed it passionately. His church, the Hungarian Reformed Church, had dwindled in that congregation in Timissora to less than 50 people in two years of preaching the gospel. It grew to over 5,000 people, discipling people. The other thing that Tox did was he began to call other believers of other churches and denominations and have joint worship and prayer and joined together as the body of Christ. Of course the government didn't ignore this. They began to put the pressure on him. They took away his ration books so he couldn't buy food. They kept him from visiting his relatives. They cut off his phone. They came in, they attacked him. He escaped with a knife wound in the face. They decided it wouldn't make him a martyr, they'd simply exile, and they set it for December 15, 1989. On December the 10th, he stood in the pulpit for the last time and said to his people, Come and simply witness them taking me away in peace. By this point, the church had begun to understand his unity of the body. And so that Friday, when they came for him, they found hundreds of people as a shield around his apartment. That night, hundreds of candles were lit as a demonstration of the unity of the believers of Timisorah. They began to chant, We are one. We are one in Christ. God lives. God exists. Down with Czechescu, down with communism. They began to sing the forbidden song Awake Romania. Then they began to march down the street. In a couple of days things were getting out of hand. They came for tokes, they beat him up and carried him off, but at this point there was no turning back. The people had caught the flame of freedom. And the understanding that the body of Christ will not be simply put down. Baptists, Pentecostals, Orthodox, Catholics, Reformed were marching together The secret police and the guards finally opened fire and shot and killed hundreds of them. But within days, Czechescu was dead. By Christmas, Romania was free. A powerful demonstration of what can happen when the unity of the body is taken seriously. The last point in this is that it is a priority. The word make haste means to, I mean, the word that you see there, make every effort, means literally make haste, make it a priority. Not idealistic, but recognizing that this makes a difference in your life and in mine. Pick two areas And look at those areas and ask the Lord what He wants you to do in obedience this week.