A couple of weeks ago I mentioned that I've been reading about World War II, some of its history and observance of the fact that that war began fifty years ago this month. Something that has really impressed me as I have read that history is the way that Winston Churchill was able to mobilize an entire country. the whole nation to involve everyone in winning the war they became engaged in You may recall his immortal words as he came to power. It was May of 1940. Nazi Germany was overrunning Holland, Belgium, France. At the time when Winston Churchill came into power in England, replacing Neville Chamberlain. And these were the words with which he came to power. He said, I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears, and sweat. You ask, what is our policy? I will say, it is to wage war with all the strength that God can give us. That is our policy. And with those words, he mobilized all England to do an impossible task to overthrow Adolf Hitler. It was impossible, as it appeared in May of 1940, and yet it was done. Because everyone was involved. Now at this point, you may be thinking, oh no, what am I in for? I mean, here we are at Columbia Presbyterian. I have nothing to offer you but blood, toils, tear, and sweat. Now let's have a couple of body lifes on nursery ministry and Sunday school. No, that's not the idea. What I'm wanting to do in these two weeks, you see is to call us together as the body of Christ to an even greater vision, to overthrow the kingdom of Satan. And it's the nature of that vision that compels us. It's the mobilization and the sense that we belong together in something that we are committed to that enables each of us to find our place in that. And so what I want to do this morning is I want to focus on how God has placed us together as one body. And I want us to notice what he says about this fact that we are uh one people to be mobilized after the break, the coffee and tea break I hope that every one of you, except those that are involved in Sunday school ministry, nursery, those things, that every one of the rest of you will be back here so we can talk. about some of the specifics of our philosophy of ministry and some of the ideas, some of the things that God seems to be leading us into for this next year. But for this part of our time this morning in the first hour, I want for us to look at what the Scripture says about the fact that you and I are one body. The nature, the character, and the purpose of it. In a passage in the New Testament that speaks so definitively to that, Ephesians chapter 4. So if you haven't already turned to that, please turn to Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 to 16, where Paul speaks. About what it means that you and I are part of one body mobilized together in spiritual warfare. Let's hear now God Himself as He speaks to us through His Word from Ephesians chapter 4. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. There is one body and one spirit. Just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all But to each one of us grace has been given, as Christ apportioned it. This is why it says when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men. What does he ascended mean, except that he also descended to the lower earthly regions? He who descended is the very one who ascended, higher than all the heavens, in order to fill the whole universe. It was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people for works of service. So that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith. And in the knowledge of the Son of God, and become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all things grow up into him who is the head. That is Christ. From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. Now I want for us to look at a couple of points. I'm not going to, of course, be able to cover everything in those 16 verses, but to Notice three things in particular from this passage. First of all, the basis of body life. Secondly, the character of body life. The basis is in verse 1. The character of body life in verses 2 to 11. And then thirdly, the purpose of body life in verses 12 to 16. Those of you who are igger beavers are already filling in those little blanks so that you know where we're going. Okay. First of all, then let's look at the basis of our life together as a body. The basis is a matter of indicatives and imperatives. Basically, he's saying, be what you are. I call the book of Ephesians the book of gospel grammar, because the book of Ephesians is based on the relationship between indicatives and imperatives. Now, whether you've been in English class or not, if you've been in our newcomers class, you know what indicatives and imperatives are, so let me just review that for a few seconds. Remember Indicatives are statements of fact. Remember that? An indicative is simply a statement of what is. An imperative is a command. Do something, be something. An imperative is an order, a command. And gospel grammar simply means that in the New Testament The indicatives, excuse me, the imperatives are based upon indicatives. Now, you know, again, I I don't know how you feel, but when I think about that, I really get excited. The imperatives are based on indicatives. I mean, maybe it doesn't light your fire a whole lot, but you think about that for a minute. Everything that the New Testament says that you are to be or do is based on what you already are and have. There is nothing that you are told to be or do in the Christian life that isn't simply an outworking of what you already are or have in Jesus Christ. Every command is based on your identity or possession in Jesus. The imperatives are based on the indicatives. Now you see when you see that All of a sudden the Christian life becomes a lot more freeing to you. You understand that the book of Ephesians is structured around this whole thing. Because chapters 1 to 3 tell you who you are and what you have in Jesus Christ. Then Ephesians 4-6 tells you what to do with that, how to experience that, what to be, and what to do. Chapters 1 to 3, doctrine. Chapters 4-6, duty. Chapters 1 to 3, what God has done for you in Christ. Chapters 4 to 6, what you are to do in response to that in your life in Christ. And of course, those of you who have been around for a while, remember that we memorize a little statement about that. And this is the basis. Understand, you'll see this is the basis for our understanding of body life. Remember the statement we under we uh memorized in Newcomers, let's see. I'll give it to you once and then see if you can follow it along with me. Remember, the Christian life is nothing more or less Than making true in my experience that which is already true of me in Jesus Christ. Let's say it together. Come on. The Christian life is nothing more or less. than making true in my experience that which is already true of me in Christ. That's kind of a warm-up. Let's do it once again, like you believe that. Think about what that's saying. And rejoice in saying it. Memorize it as a something that'll help you to remember every time you feel burdened and under the law in the Christian life. that the grace of Christ is sufficient for everything that you are to be and to do. Once again, the Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in my experience that which is already true of me in Jesus Christ. Amen. Think of some of the examples that the Bible says, you are holy, therefore be holy. You are righteous, therefore be righteous. You have died to sin in Christ. Therefore, mortify, put to death the deeds of the body. You have been baptized in the Spirit, therefore, be filled with the Spirit. You are one body. Therefore, live as one body. You are one fellowship. Therefore, fellowship together. You see, that means that our fellowship is simply a working out of the unity that we already have in Christ. Look what he says in verse 1. Chapter 4, verse 1 is the link pin, the key verse of the book of Ephesians. After Paul has gone through three chapters, here's who you are, here's what you have in Jesus. Chapter 4, verse 1, he says, Now, as a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received. Now you look at that and the first thing you think is, live worthy of that. How can I live worthy of what I've received? And so our mind goes to things like, you know, people that have said, look at all that Jesus has done for you. He was flogged, he was beaten, he gave his life on the cross, he was cursed by his father. He did all this for you. Now get off your duff and start living worthy of Jesus. Live in a way that's worthy of all that you've received from him. Now, if that's not guilt motivation, I don't know what is. If that's not living under the law, I don't know what is. See, but that's what Paul says. Live worthy of what you've received. The problem is the word worthy there is a very unfortunate translation of that word in the Greek. I don't know any other translation that's used, but it's not a very good translation. And yet it's a possible translation of the way the word derived. But what the word actually means literally is to bring up the balance of a scale. To bring something into equilibrium. What that Greek word worthy there in chapter 4, verse 1, means is that if I have a scale up here, And you remember some of you from remember this from newcomers, if I put a five pound weight on this side of the scale, and then I pour five pounds of sugar on this side of the scale, the weights down here with nothing. The five pounds goes here, the scale comes up, right? That's the Greek word there, axios. It brings it e into equilibrium. The two things are now in balance. Paul saying here literally as a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to bring your life into equilibrium with the calling that you have received Bring your life experience into balance with who you are and what you have in Jesus Christ. Do remember in chapter 1, verse 18, part of our purpose as a church, Paul prays that our eyes would be open. to understand our calling. What it is that we have is an inheritance in Jesus. Paul says now I've been spending three chapters to try and open your eyes to see that Now he's saying, I want you to bring your life into balance, into equilibrium. That's by grace, you see. Nothing could be further from the law. What Paul's saying here is I want you now to begin to live out. What you already are and have in Jesus. Gain that from Him. Don't work it out of your own strength. Appropriate what He has given to you to experience that together. And so you come here this morning, and you may say, yeah, I could look at chapters 1 to 3, and I would feel like I have ten tons of riches in Jesus Christ on this side of the scale. And I have practically nothing of experience on that side. You ever feel like that? You ever feel like all that you know and have of the riches in Christ are somehow just theory? But what you have experienced of that seems so out of balance. Now listen carefully. Paul says, I want you to bring your experience into balance And the very first thing that he says to do that is what? He does not say have consistent quiet times. He does not say, make sure that you are involved in all kinds of ministries. He does not say to make sure that your discipleship skills are honed. All the personal piety and holiness. The very first thing that he says, not that any of those things are any less important, but to me it's interesting that the first thing Paul says in working out your experience of the riches you have in Christ is what? Be one body. Live out your body life. That's what Paul says. He spends 16 verses talking about how to live as a body. That's what Paul says is the place to begin in the experience of this. Now, there's certainly tremendous uh Good argument for talking about the priority of our own personal walk with God and Bible study and prayer and scripture memory and all the rest of those things. I'm not I'm not diminishing that one bit, but I think in our culture we need to remember that there is no such thing as a Christian who is growing alone. Somebody comes into our fellowship, you've heard people say, I'm a Christian, but I don't need to be involved in some local body. I watch enough Christian TV, you know. I see enough that I'm able to get to help me to grow in my walk with God, and the whole thing is very personal and self-satisfied. Paul says that's denying the very nature of what a Christian is. Because he says, a Christian is one who understands, as he has said in chapter 2, when he said what you are, chapter 2, verses 11 to 22, he says, you are one new man, you are a new humanity. You are now one people. You are in fact so united as one people, he said in chapter two, that you could be considered to be stones of a living temple, growing up as a building that is mutually dependent to become and inhabitation for the Spirit of God. Paul says, that's what you are corporately. You're only one stone sitting out there alone. But together you are the habitation of God. Now it's true the Spirit of God dwells each of us individually. But that's only part of New Testament truth. We've lost the other part that says that we need to be joined together to be the full habitation of the Spirit of God, to give a balanced expression of the supernatural life of Jesus Christ in the body. Many of us as Christians have because of cultural propensities, the independence that we have, and you know, we live in a generation where TV has All but shut down conversational skills and social skills. We find it much easier to, when we're tired, just go flop in front of the TV or do something alone. Our culture has taught us to be independent, non-accountable to other people. Nobody messes with my life. It's me and God. I'm I'm accountable for me. Which that's simply a reflection of our culture. That's not a reflection of biblical Christianity. We are accountable individually to God. But it's our culture that says, don't you mess with me and I won't mess with you. Each one does his own thing. It's our culture that teaches us, that presses us in with schedules so that we don't have time for people. And so there's tremendous cultural weight pressing against our living as one body. But I want you to see that stacked up against all that weight and infinitely far outweighing it is the scripture saying you are one body. You simply are. And so they see that's very freeing because what it means for you and for me is as we live our body life, we're not trying to live for koinanea or fellowship, we're simply living from it. We're working out what we already have, one common life in Jesus Christ. And that we're not living our identity when we don't live that common life in Christ. A friend of mine just said to me last week, you know, Allie said, I'm finding more and more in my life that the litmus test of my faith is my love for my brothers and sisters. I used to think he said that when I came to some great insight of Scripture and I understood something about the doctrines of grace and all of this, he said that I felt like I had grown and arrived. But he says, I realize that if that hasn't worked out and translated into greater love for my brothers and sisters in Christ than a compassion for those without Christ, Then it really isn't as insightful as I thought it was. The real test of that insight is whether it moves me to become more functioning as part of the body and functioning in ministry within that body. And so you and I realize that even though we may feel very inadequate, very helpless in that, the fact is the good news for you this morning in Jesus Christ is he's already given you all you need. You are part of this body. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are part of the body of Christ. The command now is simply to work that out in living as part of the body of Christ, in not separating yourself, trying to live independently But the freedom is that you are already part of us. And therefore all you need to do is work that out. You don't have to attain to something. You don't have to accomplish something. You don't have to compete with other Christians. to sort of gain recognition, to feel like you belong here. You feel like everybody else here is washed and clean and has their life all together. But me I'm still struggling. I don't belong. Paul said in First Corinthians twelve, no one has the right to say because I'm an ear and you're a foot that you don't belong. We need one another, Paul's saying, live that out. So let me suggest here, what are you doing to experience the common life that you share with other believers? Consider these examples and move up rather than down, considering one step to grow this year. Look at just above other. Perhaps you're not involved in anything. You're just new here. Next week we begin our laugh communities. And so I would challenge you, work out the fellowship that you have with believers, what you already have in Christ, in experiencing that. If you haven't thought about staying the second hour, stay. Uh maybe somebody will tackle you on the way out the door anyway, you know. You get kind of aggressive around here in the fall. And so if you find that you're trying to head out the door and somebody slams it shut, don't take that as an offense It's being friendly. They're trying to work out their fellowship with you in Christ as they grab your arm and say, come on with me to my laugh community. We're going to Have two communities, all-age adults, and then the young couples, and we're beginning a new intergenerational learning and fellowship group. It's going to be studying the person of Daniel, the character of Daniel in his book. There's going to be the foundations for Christian living that you'll hear more about. And so there's lots of options, lots of opportunities. But get to know somebody. Put yourself out. to learn about somebody else. You feel kind of awkward in social situations? Don't try to be sophisticated and carry the conversation. Find out about the other person Use what people say as clues to learn how to love them and care for them. Be at ease. You belong if you're in Jesus Christ. If you don't feel like that, if you feel on the outside, then I would encourage you to come because in order to belong to Jesus Christ, you need to find out about him. And his word and his people are the two best ways to do that. And so if you feel like this morning what I'm talking about and the fellowship that we have with other Christians, the sense of identity, the union that we feel, when we even meet another Christian for the first time, and you say, I don't understand that. I don't feel any union with other Christians. I always feel intimidated by them. Then perhaps that's because you've never really come into that personal relationship with Jesus Christ Himself. And so you need to come into the body. You need to confess your sin. You need to look to the finished work of Jesus. And see all that he has given that Paul describes in chapters 1 to 3. Read that for yourself. If you don't have that, come to Jesus. And he'll give you that for the asking as you give your life to him. But then maybe you belong to Jesus and maybe you're already part of a laugh community. Consider being part of a small group this year. If you're not belong part of one, I would urge and challenge you to get involved in a small group. For there you'll be able to. Live out your common life in Jesus in a much deeper kind of way. Be able to be part of a small group of different kinds, even if you don't belong to Jesus Christ yet. Examining what that means. We have groups for those kinds of people. If you're investigating this, if you're a brand new Christian, if you're looking for a high-powered discipleship group, there's 15 or more groups in this congregation. Find a group. Take a look at the small group brochure that we have out on the table, or ask one of those on staff or any of the elders. Grab somebody, there's people who will be able to direct you to the different kinds of small group ministries so that you can experience the oneness in Jesus Christ that we already had. To be mobilized as a body, to grow in Jesus. Or perhaps you're in a small route, but you've never experienced praying with someone and sharing with them in depth Let me challenge you this year to work out your common life in Jesus, to walk, bringing up the balance of your experience with what you already have in the life in the body by finding someone else to pray with at least once a week. If you're married, I would challenge you to pray with your spouse at least three times a week. Maybe three times is all that's realistic for you. But if you haven't done that or you've done it sometime in the past and you've let it slip, Let me challenge you to get involved in that again. Go home and take the plunge. Say, honey, I want to pray with you. You know, some people they find that's the hardest thing to do. All kinds of other discipleship skills. Sign me anything, but praying with my husband or my wife, man, whenever we get together to pray, all we do is fight. Well, pray about your fighting. I mean, you know, get together and pray. Pray for each other. Pray once a week. Begin to experience the fellowship that you have as one flesh and as one body. Pray that God would soften the heart of your partner so that you could pray briefly, succinctly together. Not a big long prayer meeting prostrate on the floor for an hour, just some simple time where you can together for ten minutes. Commit the day, commit the week, commit the kids, commit your problems to the Lord. If you're not married, find somebody of your own sex that you can pray with at least once a week Set a regular time, meet together, share deeply those things that God is doing in your life, the problems, the struggles, the joys, encourage one another. We need that as a body together. Or maybe there's other ways you can experience fellowship. Fellowshipping is part of a ministry task force. Those that are involved in some kind of ministry, the evangelism explosion teams are Teams of fellowship as well as of outreach. The choir becomes a team of fellowship as well as a team of ministry to the body, or various other kinds of ministry task forces within the body. But then the second thing that I have to say in that is as we do that, Paul also challenges us concerning the character of body life. I want to just touch very briefly on a couple of points about the character and the purpose. The character of body life in verses 2 to 11, now don't get nervous. The fact that I took 25 minutes to cover verse 1 doesn't mean you can multiply that by 16 for the rest of the message here. Just a couple of points on the rest of it. Concerning the character, you notice this is a matter of our appreciation of unity and diversity. Be united in your diversity. That's what Paul's saying here. See, Paul is emphasizing the unity in verses 4 to 6. He says there's one body, one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. And Paul sounds like in that you could no more divide the body of Christ than you could divide the Godhead. It simply is one. We are one Then it goes on in verse 7 and it says, but we're all different. But see, to each one grace has been given, as Christ a portion. And he talks about all the differences in the body. And that's why those differences when there are differences of sinners, differences of perspectives, priorities, personalities. Makes Paul say, I've got to entreat you, command you, beg you. Verses 2 and 3, see what he says. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient. Bearing with one another in love. And now notice, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Make every effort. Now that word in the Greek is a word which means to spare no effort. Constant, diligent priority is what is communicated through that word. Something that you are committed and determined to do with all of your might. Paul says, just the fact that Your oneness and your unity exists in Christ does not mean for a moment that you don't have to work at experiencing it by the grace of God And so he says, make every effort to experience that, to enjoy that, to fellowship in that oneness. Every once in a while I'll ask myself as a pastor, if I were Satan, how would I divide our body? What would I do to make our body fragment? Because if I could do that, I would nullify the effect of Columbia Presbyterian Church for Jesus Christ If I can just divide and fragment this body and get them fighting, I can just get their eyes off of Jesus and the war, the spiritual war that they're engaged in, and get to turn on each other, I've got it. Two things I think currently I would do if I were Satan. One is I would get mothers of young children who have careers outside the home pitted against the mothers who stay at home with their kids. Boy, I'm treading on dangerous territory here, I That's what I'd do. I'd get those people gossiping to each other, I'd get them talking about how their position's superior to the others and turn their Being intimidated and insecurities to attacking those with whom they've disagreed. And I would divide the women. Instead of being able to join together, mobilized against Satan and seeking to reach the community for Jesus Christ, but break them into groups that agree with them and begin to down those who disagree. You know what I'd do even more than that if I were going to divide this body? I believe in our day we're going through a worship reformation. And I would get people divided over worship styles. I would get those that like to sing the scripture songs to start criticizing those that are just involved in the old hymns. And those that really like to sing those hymns and appreciate the content and the riches of those to start criticizing the Scripture song people. And those that uh don't raise their hands get really irritated when somebody raises their hands in worship. And people that are non-clappers to really start criticizing the clappers, yeah. And you can have a field day with this, couldn't you? Because you can get all kinds of irritations going. And you can get all these differences. That are within scriptural bounds to become principles to people so that they no longer enjoy worshiping with the body of Christ. What's Paul say? Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Maybe you think your way is better anyway. We all tend to think that if the whole world was like me, place would be a little better place to live, don't we? And Paul's saying here, you need to learn to submit. And make every effort, beginning in your own heart and attitude, to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. That's why. We purposely have diversity of worship in this body. Some people have wondered that. Most churches I go to, they sort of pick one style and they go with it. You know what picking one style and going with it does? It narrows those parts of the body that you're going to reach. So only those that are comfortable with your kind of style of worship are going to come. And that means you've limited the body of Christ. We got enough limit as it is. We need to grow in our diversity far beyond where we are as a body of Christ. Amen? Amen. And one of the ways that we can do that is by showing that within Scripture there are different ways that we can worship Jesus Christ. And so, you know, you've got one guy like uh Dick Stum, he comes up last week, it's all guitars and scripture songs, you know. And George Walbert was actually scheduled for this week, couldn't do his out of town. You better believe we wouldn't have had all guitars and scripture songs you hear with George, you know? But different people say, I really appreciate that style. And when I come on the week, that's not the kind of style I like. I submit myself to my brothers and I say I am part of this body I will worship with these people. And I will learn to enjoy something of what I see helps them, and I will enter into that. And by doing that I learn, I don't get my way around here all the time But that's the way a family is, you know. That's the way the body is. Make every effort to keep the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. In England at war they didn't have the luxury of being able to say, well, you know, I'm from Wales and I don't really care. It's not my war down there. Everybody was involved because they saw a bigger vision of what they had to do. And that bound them together. And that brings me to the last point. And that is the purpose of body life. We need to see and be committed to the purpose of why we are together. And that purpose is a matter of ministry and maturity to become like Christ. Why do I have you fill in Christ? Isn't that obvious? Because it's to become like Christ, not like Alan Harris, not like some other elder around here, not like Steve Green or Elmer Dortspach. or any of the other ruling elders, it's not to become like people, it's to become like Jesus Christ. And to get that balance, you need to get all the inputs. of the body, so that you grow up into Him. Look what he says in verse twelve and thirteen. We are to prepare God's people for works of service so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach the unity in the faith. growing closer together in the knowledge of the Son of God, becoming mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. Verse 16 From him, the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part does its work. In England, it wasn't just the soldiers, it wasn't just the Air Force, it wasn't just those who were in the ships crossing the Channel that were involved in the war. One of the things that Churchill worked so hard at was it was the riveters, it was the moms, it was those who were involved in the food, it was those who were the air raid patrollers, it was every part of England that was mobilized to win that war. Paul talks about that war in chapter 6, the spiritual warfare you and I are involved in. Satan wants to keep us from experiencing and becoming like Jesus Christ more than anything. And so if you and I are to mobilize together to become like Jesus Christ and to be able to know him and to share him with our community, it's because you and I are going to appreciate one another and see our part in that body. To grow up together to him. And even beyond that, because Ephesians was a letter to a group of churches, not just to one single congregation. Beyond that, to also appreciate other parts of the body in Columbia and Howard County, the Howard County Coalition for Spiritual Renewal, to join together as we did Thursday night, 25 or more churches. To pray together for the Spirit of God to form us together as the body of Christ, mobilize to become like Jesus and make Him known to our county and to our community. And so whatever part you're in, set-up crew, nursery, Sunday school, the various ministries right here in the body on Sunday morning, greeting, hospitality, we need to grow in that one The ministries of the brigade, Christian Service Brigade, or Pioneer Girls, ministries of the small groups, the youth groups Ministries moving out into the community, ministries of evangelism explosion, investigative Bible studies, various target group ministries to knees within the community, all these things. Bring us together in a triff tremendous appreciation. I'm really blessed when I see you doing things that I could never do. I'd never even think of doing them And I realized I don't have to. I don't have to be everything. You don't have to be everything. We can find Christ called for us within the body, caring for one another, focusing on Him. We may grow up into Him who is our head. And then finding our place of ministry as part of that body, because we are one, therefore we're called to live out that unity together Let's focus on him together now in a word of prayer. Lord our God, how we thank you That you have already formed us as one in Jesus. That our seeking to get along with and appreciate and fellowship with other Christians is. Not some option that we work for, but it's simply working out part of who we are in Jesus. Thank you for that. Because, Lord, a lot of us tend to be loners of our own nature. You've had to overcome that in us, to give us a deeper appreciation of what it means to be part of a body. Realize that our lives are knit together in a holy union. Give us, Lord, we pray, a deeper appreciation of that. We pray that you would give each one here a sense of their part in that body. For any Lord who are not part of that body, because they don't belong to you, give to them, Lord, that holy unrest. Now that heart that seeks you by your spirit would be changed from unbelief to trust and rest in Jesus as their Savior and Lord. For those, Lord, who are in your body, give to us a sense of belonging, a longing for a deeper experience of that oneness on different levels. And help each of us to grow in some aspect of that, in our fellowship and in our ministry this year. Lord, we can't design that for each other. But we pray that your Spirit would speak to us now and in the days ahead. Then we might become more joined together as one body in Jesus Christ, mobilized to become like Him and to minister for Him. For we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.