Let's hear it for the book of Ephesians. Well, it's been so long, I think we need a quick review. Let me suggest to you that the book of Ephesians is like a peanut Alright? Whenever you see a peanut in a shell, think the book of Ephesians. Because like the book of Ephesians, you can break it, and you have on this side, this is the R peanut. This is the beginning, first three chapters. And so it tells you this is who you are and what you have in Christ. And it's linked, you see, the two very close together, with the B part of the peanut. This is what you are to be, because of what you are Chapters 4 to 6, this is what you are to be. The first peanut, chapters 1 to 3, two postures that you see there on the outline First of all, you are seated in Christ. And so it speaks of all that you have, being seated with Him, as we just read, in the heavenly places, by faith, understanding what Jesus has done for you. Then that leads to the kneeling posture, falling on your face before the Lord, saying, Lord, help me to experience this power of your presence in my life. That's this penis. Then this one, closely related, you see they're tied together. You move on then to the walking posture. As you walk in Christ, you are experiencing by faith, you are appropriating, saying, Lord, make this true in my life. And so I've said before, and I want you to begin to notice as we're now entering into chapters 4 to 6, every single command in chapters 4, 5, and 6. is related to something you are or have in Christ as the basis for it in chapters 1, 2, and 3. And so as you are walking, you are experiencing by faith the power of Christ worked out in your experience, as we've said many times. Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in my experience that which is already true of me in Christ. You see how it goes together? Now you kids, whenever you see a peanut in a shell, I want you to think of that. And just to make sure that you remember it, I have a bag of peanuts. So any of you kids come back after the service and you get a peanut, I just want you to think, I'm going to take that peanut. When I eat it, I'm going to think of the book of Ephesians, okay? And then maybe we see other peanuts you'll think of them too. Alright, now that's for the quick review of this thing. I didn't get to the uh last posture, and that's of course the posture of standing as you and I walk We find that we are attacked. We're uh the the evil one comes to uh come against us in temptations and trials. And that's part of that be peanut, you know, what I am to be. And then I have to, by faith, stand in Jesus Christ to protect me and to deliver me. I was talking to a friend of mine just a couple of weeks ago. Hadn't seen him for a while, and he had gone through a very, very difficult trial in his life and his ministry. He's a pastor. And I asked him, what did you learn from that very difficult experience you went through? And he thought for a moment and he said, Satan doesn't fight fair. He is maliciously out to get us in any way he can. That's the standing idea. Standing with the armor of God against a vicious and insidious foe. So now we're beginning the second part, the standing part. You see that in your outline, so you take that and that's just kind of a review for you to know where we're headed. But today we are going to begin in that with chapter 4, verse 2. Chapter 4, verse 1, as we said, is the link verse, ties the two parts of the peanut, the two parts of this book together. Before we look at chapter 4, verse 2, though, I want to ask you a question. Suppose that in your Bible you had Ephesians chapters 1 to 3. But where you now have chapters 4, 5, and 6, suppose it was all blank. Those pages, maybe three pages or whatever it is in your Bible, those pages are absolutely blank. And you are given the assignment based on chapters 1, 2, and 3 of who you are and what you have in Christ. I want you now to write the instructions for the church of all ages about how to live the Christian life. In practical, day-to-day terms, how to work it out. What are you going to write? What would be the things that you would cover? What would come to your mind? Well, don't have time for you to think about that. Go through the meditation this week, get a little more on that. But more particularly now, how would you start? What would be the first point that you would want to make to help the Church of Jesus Christ, to help Christian believers just like you, to know what is the foundation? Where do I begin? in knowing how to live the Christian life and to work out the life and the power of Christ. Where would you begin? Now, if you're like me, or for most of us as evangelicals who have been trained in various kinds of ministries, we would probably begin With our personal life with Jesus Christ, right? My individual life. That's the foundation. How to cultivate my walk with Jesus as an individual And how am I going to do that? Well, the answer is obvious. I need to start with a word, right? And so the first thing I'm going to talk about is how to get in the word. What we sometimes call the daily quiet time, how to study it, how to meditate on it, how to respond in prayer, the cultivation of my personal life with Jesus Christ. Isn't that the obvious place to begin? Now do you think so? I mean I don't know, you know, to look around. I mean really, I think that's the obvious place to begin. You think that's the obvious place to begin? You don't think that's the obvious thing? You don't think about it all. What are you thinking of? You gotta get you gotta get your mind on that thing Because if you do, then like me, when you read Ephesians chapter four, you're kind of surprised. That's exactly how Paul does not begin. He begins just the opposite. He takes the first sixteen verses of three precious chapters. Of the most basic manual, if you want, document, how-to, that you have in the entire New Testament. He takes the first 16 verses to talk about the church. To talk about your participation in the body of Christ as foundational for your walk with Jesus Christ. Now, even more surprising, as you look at that, and you see that's the first thing. He begins with the church, not the daily quiet time. That's the first blank there All that this has to do with your participation in the body and mind, how different that is from the way most of us think. Most of us think that my faith is a very private affair. This is something that's primarily between me and Jesus. And public participation in the church, the body of Christ, is purely an optional thing. It's good to do. Some of us feel stronger about that than others. But for many of us today, particularly with Christian radio and tapes and books and all the rest of that, participation in the body is Well, you know, it's good, but it's not necessary. I mean, you know, if I miss a few weeks here and there, or if I'm not part of church, if I don't belong to church, I'm not in a small group within the body, you know, that's okay. That's not foundational to my faith. And yet Paul lays that as the foundation in his how-to section of Christian living. The other thing to notice, the second thing to notice about how Paul begins in this point B there, is that He begins this discussion. I know I haven't read the verse yet. I'm still leading up to it. But you'll notice that as he begins, he doesn't begin by talking about How wonderful this fellowship is that you have with these other believers. They're new creatures, and you're a new creature, they're transformed, and you're transformed. So enjoy this wonderful rich fellowship you're going to have. And if it doesn't work out, obviously there's some problem there, then just move on to the next church because you haven't found the right fellowship. Once again, that is exactly not what he says. In fact, what surprises me is that after he has just ended chapter three Speaking, look at back what he says to him who is able, chapter 3 verse 20, to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine according to his power that is at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generation, forever and ever. As a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling. Bring your life into equilibrium. Be part of the peanut into the equilibrium with the R part of the peanut. Be what you are. Bring that life into equilibrium with the calling that you have received. He then does not go on to speak about the victory, but he goes on to speak immediately about conflict. He starts assuming conflict. That's the next blank. He assumes conflict. He is not surprised when it occurs. I can't stress enough to you how when I began to think about this and preparing for this, I thought how radically different Paul thinks from the way we think. He's thinking in whole different terms about the Christian life. Now, finally, gotta get to the point. What does he say? Chapter 4, then verse 2. Be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love. You know, these are a hard lot you're going to live with, he says. Be humble and gentle and forbearing with them in love. That's how he starts the Christian life. Really, think about that for a minute. What a letdown. He just had us up on the pinnacle of the peak of the power of Christ. Now he says, now hang in there with one another. That's how I'm starting. Think about that. Notice the second contrast in this. Is that Paul's solution is in utter conflict with what most of ours is. Contrast Paul's solution to conflict with ours. First of all, look at the negatives. That is, look at what we tend to do that Paul does not do First of all, A, he does not speak of superficial relationships that avoid conflict. Protecting my image so that people won't get to know me as I really am. Living with shame and secrets That I don't want to come out or be exposed, and so I bring a veneer of friendliness on Sunday mornings, but I have no real friends. One of the saddest things about the Church of Jesus Christ today. People are so friendly, and yet have so few friends. No one to expose the fact that I'm not very humble, that I'm not very gentle, that I'm not very forbearing. that I'm not very loving. If I keep my distance from you, see if I keep things superficial Then I can smile on Sunday and I can shake your hand and you say, How's it going? I say, Fine, how's it with you? Oh great, you know. And that's a mockery of biblical fellowship. Paul begins the very first verse of his discussion here talking about the kind of fellowship where you've got to forbear with one another in love. You catch that? So he's not talking about superficial relationships here. He's talking about relationships that rub and relationships that go beyond the honeymoon. He's talking about relationships where we get to know one another. Kind of relationships where we need to supernaturally bear with one another in love. Also, secondly, you notice that he's not talking about pretending that negative feelings do not exist. Me? Have a conflict with anybody in the body of Christ? Me, Pastor here, I have any conflicts with any of you? Ha Let me tell you, I have had very significant conflicts with some of you. Let me tell you something else. The people I have had the most conflicts with here, who are still around, are my closest friends It is the people that we have the most conflicts with that that relationship is going to alter. And by the power of Christ, those will generally be the closest relationships. You've worked something through that God has done a work in you. And I can honestly say it is my closest friends where I've had the conflicts. So Paul does not talk about superficial relationships or relationships where we can pretend that things are okay. And then simply decide at some point I need to move on because I'm not getting fed here or things aren't working out. I need to find another group of people to worship with and to associate with. What is he talking about? What is his solution to the friction between sinners? His solution, point B on the back, is the supernatural qualities that come From sitting in Christ. See, now we're starting to make the connections. Paul is now beginning to talk about working out what it means to sit in Christ, to be seated with Him. Verse 2 says, Be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love. These are not simply the opposite qualities of pride, harshness, impatience, and bearing grudges. They are not the opposite of those things. That would simply produce a kind of passive, non-confrontive stuff my feelings inside, time bomb waiting to go off kind of personality. See, we can be tempted when we read verse 2, be completely humble. Okay, well, you know, I gotta not put myself up over this person, gonna remember that they're you know they're important, try to think of them first. Be gentle. Okay, well you know you know yeah no just be gentle. Don't don't react Uh be patient. You know, I really want to be in pain, but no, no, I'll just learn. Help me be patient, you know, and just kind of calm it down, you know. Forbearing, boy, I'd love no, forbear, I'll just forbear. That's okay Step on me again, that's okay. That's all right. Give me another jab in the rib. That's fine, you know. I'll just put up with it. In love, you know, just no problem. Here I am. Hit me again. That's not what Paul's saying. You see, what Paul's talking about here is something that does not produce a passive aggressive kind of personality. See, that's what generally goes on with that. I'm not going to react, I'm going to, I'm going to appear like I I am the things that this talks about. But inside there's a passive aggressiveness. And so it's going to come out. It's going to come out one way or the other. unless something happens to it. Because you see, for many of us, we think of our relationships in terms of guilt and fear. How am I going to avoid feeling guilty about how I deal with this person? And how am I going to avoid the fears that I have about relating to this person? And so think about it. How many of your relationships are your responses determined by guilt and fear? You see, what Paul's talking about here is a whole new way of relating to people. Radically different. This is behavior that comes only from the realization of my new identity, that is my calling by grace in Jesus Christ. He says, Be completely humble and gentle. But you need to understand that in the Greek, there is a closer connection Between verse 1 and 2, then is in the English. In the Greek it goes something like this, in verse 1, as a prisoner for the Lord then. I urge you to bring your life into equilibrium with the calling that you have received, or literally with the calling wherewith you have been called, with all humility and gentleness. It's the same sentence. Not even a new sentence. He says, this is how you do it with humility and with gentleness You see, it's it's a it's not a sentimental kind of love that that says that uh you know I can I can love you because you're so lovable. But this is talking about a relationship that flows out of my understanding, my new identity. And what I have received in Jesus Christ that controls and determines how I respond to you. Now think in your own life. Who do you wish was gone from your life? I mean, if you didn't have to commit murder, but you could snap your fingers. And there was some prayer that was powerful enough to make this person disappear, you wouldn't think for a moment whether you'd pray that prayer. They'd be gone. Who is like that in your life? Who's broken your heart? Who has affected you to the point where you feel you simply can't love them anymore? How are you going to obey verse 2? How are you going to be completely humble and gentle, patient, bearing with them in love? He can't do it. That's why Paul's making the connection. Because the connection you see is that this is a supernatural activity that flows out of Chapters 1 to 3. This flows out in the first place. This is a love. That's the first point. This is a love, first line, that comes from realizing God's grace for me. This is the kind of situation where I look at that person, and when I see them and I think about relating to them, I think about having anything to do with them, I think about continuing marriage with them. continuing to work with them, continuing to visit them as part of my family, whatever it is, then I have to go back to chapter one. And I begin at the end of verse 4. And I remember that in love, he, the Father, predestined me To be adopted as his son through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace. Which he's freely given to me and to you in the one that he loves. In him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our sins, in accordance with the riches of His grace that He lavished on us. Lavished on you with all wisdom and understanding of exactly what you're like. What do you like? It tells you in chapter two. We read it earlier in the service. Did you pick that up? As for you? You were dead in your transgressions and your sins in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world, the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the Spirit who's now at work in those who are disobedient. You were quite at home in that. You were against everything God stood for. And you were for everything he was against. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature, following its desires and its thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath, his wrath. His anger was rightly upon us. We had offended him infinitely more than that person that you're thinking about has ever offended you. Verse four, but because of his great love for us God, who is rich in mercy, made you alive Out of death in Christ, even when you were dead in your transgressions and sins, it's by grace you've been saved. He raised you up with Christ, and he seated you with him in the heavenly realms, so that in the ages to come he might show to you the riches of his kindness. Displayed in Christ through all the ages to come. He sent his son. To pay the price of his own death by his blood. In order to forgive you, not to overlook your sin. Not to simply say, Well, that's okay, I'll just pretend it didn't happen. But to face it squarely, squarely, and then pay for it, the infinite cost to himself, so the sin was dealt with. He doesn't hold it against you anymore because all of his wrath was drained upon Jesus. And there's nothing left for you. Lita Park gave me an article back last fall that talked about a kid ten years old got off a school bus. There was a guy standing there. His father had fired that fellow a couple of weeks before. And uh for Whatever reason, this ten-year-old got into his car with him, and the fellow took him to his mobile home out in the woods. Stabbed him repeatedly with an ice pick. And dragged him off into the woods and shot him through the head. Then he burned him with cigarettes just to make sure that he was dead. The little kid wasn't dead. He was still alive, laid unconscious for six days, from December 20th to the 26th through Christmas. He was found by a farmer, was taken to a hospital, and he lived. One eye was blind, but he lived and he grew up. The fellow became a youth pastor. That was in 1974. In 1996, last fall. He found his attacker. They had never proven that he did it, and so he had gone free. But he found his attacker again, dying in a nursing home. And he went to this guy, 77 years old, blind, frail, had not a single friend, was utterly abandoned. No one cared a rip about him. And this fellow who was now 32 years old went to his attacker and he forgave him. He said, I don't hold against you what you did. And for three weeks he befriended him. He visited him. He did everything that he could to show him the grace of Christ. And the man died three weeks later. Now you and I marvel at that kind of ability to forgive. But it's nothing compared to what Jesus has forgiven you and what he's forgiven me. And so when Paul says here, be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love. He's drawing that out of the experience that you and I have of what we were like and what God has forgiven you of. And then says, now these people in your life is a way of experiencing that power Because that love, as it is expressed supernaturally through you toward that person that you find so hard to love, is a love that is expressed in humble gentleness. Why? Because God has been so gentle with you and so gentle with me. That person That you're finding it so hard to love is in fact doing you a tremendous service. Believe that? Say, give me a break. How Because they're revealing your pride. You see, Paul says, with all humility and gentleness, forbear with that person in love. And you and I say, hey, look. I can be humble, but there are times, and this is one of them, where there's an exception to just letting go of my rights. I'm not sure we fully capture in the English what Paul's saying here. Do you say what I hear what I said about in the Greek? He says, with all humility? Why does he say with all humility? What's all humility? Well, most commentators agree that that means in all situations humility. No exceptions, humility. The kind of humility that is able to say, God forgave me in gentleness, he sent his son to die for me. So I am able in this relationship to own my part in the disruption, to own what I have contributed to this. To be able to say to you, I have failed you in this way, and I'm sorry. Or to say those three little words that we so often choke on. Maybe you're right. With all humility and gentleness. That doesn't come from looking at the person. It comes from looking at Jesus and understanding what He's done for you. Thirdly, he says, with all forbearance. This is a patient forbearance. Point three is expressed in the humility expressed in a patient forbearance. Be completely humble and gentle, be patient, bearing with one another. It's hard to translate that, but it's it's a patient forbearance. I'm convinced after looking at this for a while that that that patient and the forbearing go together. It's two two things, it's humble gentleness and patient forbearance that are expressed. They're the qualities of the love that is expressed toward this person. The word there for patience is a word that literally, excuse me, the word there for forbearance, bearing, is a word that literally means long-tempered, the opposite of short-tempered. It's being patient because I remember how patient God has been toward me. Let's face it, Satan knows what buttons to push in your life, doesn't he? He knows the things that you take pride in. At least I'm thoughtful. At least I'm responsible. At least I'm this and that. And so when those things are pushed And when somebody doesn't like you, they know just what buttons to push. It's like they got an inside track on everything that bothers you, isn't it? And the closer you live together, the more they know what buttons to push. And so when they push those buttons, the flesh rears up. We're ready to attack. And Paul says, don't you understand? How God has been toward you. It is humble gentleness in his long-tempered forbearance with your sin. Chapter 2, verse 4, but God, rich in mercy, raised you up out of death to life and forgave your sin. You see why it's supernatural? Do you see why that person in your life that you would so love to have out of your life? Is the person who will most point you to Jesus Christ because you've got to cleave to Jesus in order to be humble and forbearing and to love him. And the more you draw close to Jesus, the more you experience a supernaturalness in being able to communicate love to that person. Who is it that you're avoiding? Who is it that you'd like to leave the church over? Who is it that you'd like to trade in your family over? Who is it that you're desperate to flee? Someone that pushes your buttons. Let me suggest to you, God's place that person in your life that you might know more of Christ. Know more of his cross. Just this past week I had somebody that came to me and ringed me out in a way that shocked me. I always gotta know when I preach messages like this. Ah gee. This stuff always happens, you know, and So I'm just, you know, this person comes and I was really surprised at their anger. I mean, I knew that I had failed them in certain ways But I was really surprised. And so after that time, I called him up the next day and I said, I'd like to get together again. Let's see if we can have lunch. So we were able to have lunch together yesterday. And looking at Jesus. Moving into that relationship, it was totally different. I just went in, I said, I'm not here to defend myself, to do anything else, except I want to understand why you're so angry at me. And there was a softness, a gentleness. And we were able to have a very reconciling and constructive conversation. That means all the problems are solved. But I'll tell you, it was a feeling of touching the supernaturalness of Christ. Who does God want to use in your life for that? You sure that you have gotten that grace? Or is verse two and your inability to practice is possibly a warning? Just one last practical thought. We'll be having a course here beginning March 23rd on conflict resolution, biblical principles of conflict resolution. Steve Green is going to teach that from some excellent materials. If God's speaking to you about this now, let me suggest you talk to Steve, say, I'd like to get the materials. I would like to begin to see God work in my life to do this. Let's pray. Father, I believe that near all of us have been able to think of at least one person That is in our lives that we have viewed as just a trial, as a burden, as someone that we don't deserve. And Lord, you're helping us to see that person in a new light As foundational to our Christian life, in understanding the cross and grace in a whole new way Father, make those connections. Show us Jesus in a new way as we cling to you. And Lord, may we begin to experience the power of Christ. As we are able, as I experienced some of that just yesterday. To see a person after having looked at the cross, to understand what you have forgiven us Oh Father, show us that power. I long for that more in my own life and for my brothers and sisters here. In Jesus' name. Amen.