God's word comes to you and to me from Ephesians chapter four. And let us remember, as we hear this, this is not simply Paul's words to the Ephesians. It is also God's word to Columbia Presbyterian, specifically to you and to me. From Ephesians chapter 4, beginning in verse 1. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I, Paul, urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received, to bring your life, your experience into equilibrium, into balance. With that calling, that status, that life that you have in Jesus Christ, being completely humble and gentle. Patient, bearing with one another in love, make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. We've seen how Paul does not begin his three chapters on how to bring your experience into balance with the life that you have in Christ. He does not begin his three chapters on how to do that the way that probably 95% of American evangelicals would do it. If we were doing this, our whole mindset would be to begin with the individual and his personal relationship to God, and then eventually to get to the corporate. Paul, however, in contrast to that, you remember, we've said, begins with the corporate First 16 verses of chapter 4 are on the church, the body of Christ. And only after 16 verses on us together does he then turn to you as an individual. in your relationship with Christ. Because we begin with the individual, our notion is that I have a private personal relationship with God as something that is considered apart from the rest of God's people And therefore I have, we have, as American evangelicals, a very distorted view of the church and of the gospel. Because he's told us in chapter 3, verses 1 to 13, that the church is at the heart of the mystery of the gospel. And so if you don't have a right view of your relationship to the church, you don't have a right relationship of the church to the gospel. And so for most of us, we would begin very much with the individual and the private. I at some point made a decision at a Billy Graham crusade or at a youth rally or perhaps sitting in front of my television set watching Oral Roberts or somebody else you know And I asked Jesus into my heart. And because of that, I know that I'm going to heaven, and it's none of your business about how that relationship develops, what I do with my relationship with God, that's entirely personal and private to me And if at some point I decide that it would be of an advantage to me to become a participant in a local body, in a fellowship, a church. with some understanding of how I can benefit from that and getting fed and discipled and the rest of that and maybe somewhere also have something to contribute. That's my decision. That's not for you to intrude on, you see. And so our whole orientation is the private consumer orientation in our culture to Christianity. And I can't stress too much how I want you to see Paul challenges that directly. He begins very foundationally in talking about your Christian life by talking about your relationship with your brother and sister in Christ He talks about how you are to expect that there will be tension and therefore you need to be humble and gentle and forbearing with one another, making every effort To maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. Now, why does he say that you are to do that? Well, there's two reasons. And the one of them, you reflect back on what he has said in chapters 1 to 3. You look back on the grace of God in your life, that calling that you've received. And you see, what Paul wants you and me to understand is we understand and we reflect that grace in community. It is when I am in conflict with you, and when I see how I have wronged you, how I feel that tension that drives me back. To look at my own sin and how Jesus has forgiven me. And so in chapter 2, in verse 3, he said, You, all of us Lived among the people of the world at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desires and its thoughts. Like the rest, you and I were objects of God's wrath. Because we lived to ourselves, we lived to satisfy ourselves, we did what we felt like doing. And we were sometimes living to avoid guilt or living to avoid fear or conflict or whatever it is, but everything revolved around satisfying. And Paul says, you are an object of God's wrath But, chapter 2, verse 4, because of his great love for you. God, who was rich in mercy, forgave your sin, he then raised you up out of death to life in Christ and seated you in the heavenlies with Christ. Now do you understand that what Paul's saying here is the more you and I are in conflict, the more The more I should come back to the cross and understand how I have offended you, get the log out of my own eye, see the grace of God extended to me in Christ. And as I repent of that, I then in that frame, in that mindset Am humbled to become gentle, patient, and forbearing with you And when I do that, I not only reflect the grace of Christ, I come more deeply to enter into my understanding of the grace of Christ. I vividly remember talking to a woman who had just discovered that her husband was unfaithful to her. He had not only committed adultery, but that adultery was a pattern of deception and betrayal. She was shattered. I remember talking to her on the phone. She was so furious the phone was getting warm in my ear. Felt absolutely betrayed. She said to me, How in the world can I ever look at him again? How am I ever supposed to go on with him? It's over, it's done. Let her settle down a little bit, listened as she poured out her hurt, her brokenness, her fury. And then when I felt like she was genuinely asking, how can I ever forgive him? I said, there's only going to be one possible way. You're going to have to have a much deeper view of what happened at the cross. They said, let me take you to the cross and see what happened to you in all of your unfaithfulness to Jesus and what he's forgiven. The result of that was within a week we were together, she and her husband, and she was able to say, I forgive you. And to move on I tell you, that's a supernatural work. But it's a work that comes out of the conflict in the body That drives us back to those first three chapters to see how big the grace of God is to you. To stop the minimizing of your sin. My sins have excuses. Those who sin against me have no excuse. To stop blame shifting? To stop all those things and say that I don't really need grace as much as this person does. Now that's what we've looked at the last couple of weeks, what God has been showing us on various levels, husband and wife, parent and child, on through this, your small group, your close friends. But there's a second thing that I say, the second reason why Paul says here that you and I are to be humble and to make every effort To maintain, to guard, to protect the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. And that second thing is the unity of the church in itself. And this is what he goes on to in chapter in verses 4 to 6. What Paul goes on to there is he's going back to the indicatives, back to the facts. Look at it again, verse 2 and 3. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love, making, in the original, making every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. Those are all commands, you see. Now back to a statement of fact. You could put a kind of a for there, because, you know, there is One body, one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. Seven times he uses the word one. Seven ones, and you notice if you look at those that those seven ones cluster around the three persons of the Godhead. There is one God in three persons. Verse four, one Spirit. Verse five, one Lord. Verse six, one Father. One of the clearer statements of the Trinity in the New Testament. Notice that the unity of the body is interwoven through those three ones of the Trinity. Notice how he speaks of the fact that there is one God, and therefore by its very nature, there can only be one church. In other words, you can no more have multiple churches, Christian churches, than you can have multiple Christian gods. And that's difficult for us Americans to grasp because we are so used to Baptists and Presbyterians and Pentecostals. and Roman Catholics and all of the rest of this to think that these are all different churches. They're not different churches. They are different human expressions, more or less pure, some totally apostate, but none of them totally pure. Expressions of the one true church. Look how he spells this out. He says, first of all, there's one spirit. That's the first blank, one spirit. And so there is one body called to one hope. Look at that in verse 4. There is one body and one spirit, just as you were called to one hope when you were called. Or to put verse 4 another way, we are one body, based what he talked about in verse in chapter 2, verses 19 to 21, joint citizens of one kingdom, joint brothers and sisters of one family. joint stones in one living temple. This is all what we are, one body formed by one spirit, who is the down payment of our common hope. That's how I believe those three ideas are to be joined together. You see, because there is one spirit who formed us into one body, that one spirit is the down payment of the common hope that we have, what he talked about in chapter one. You know, what Sandy reminded us of in his prayer, I believe, again this morning. We have our purpose is to know him, to know our hope, that one common hope, and to know his power. Because we are joint stones, we are joint participants in that temple of praise to him. Let me just make one more passing observation. I tell you, I debated whether to do this and I thought, do it, and I don't do it, and I won't, I won't, and I thought, well, I will, take a shot. I didn't observe this this morning, so don't think I was back there checking. But one of the things that does sometimes concern me is when we're worshiping here together on Sunday mornings, how many people I see not singing. And it seems to me that what we need to grasp together is that when we are in worship together to God We are not coming as spectators to kind of hear the band and you know it sounds good to hear the singing, kind of lifts me up a little bit. And if I decide I want to kind of join in, you know, it's kind of like sitting around a campfire or something, you know. If I want to join in or, you know, then I'll do that because that's nice to do. But rather we are one joint living temple here, the Bible says And as we join in with our praise, the unity of that praise expressed to God is what gives him pleasure. That we are joining together as brothers and sisters, giving to him the sacrifice of worship, not coming to see if somebody moves us enough that we feel like we're impelled to want to sing to him, but rather that We come here determined as part of that body to give praise to the living God. That's an expression of our joint life in Christ. You understand? So I'm not checking on you. I wasn't looking back there and not thinking of any particular person. Just offer that for what it's worth. Now, moving on. We are also joined together by one Lord, verse 5. Verse 5, he says, One Lord, one faith, and one baptism. You see, he's saying here there is one faith that was confessed when we were baptized into his body. Those are the blanks. One Lord Jesus Roman numeral two, so there is one faith confessed when we were baptized into his body. There is not one faith and baptism for baptists and another faith and baptism for Presbyterians. There is only one baptism that is more or less scripturally practiced. There is only one faith. That is more or less perfectly understood. Well, you can't have more or less perfectly. More or less better understood. Okay? And so there are those who practice it more or less perfectly, more or less accurately in their baptism, especially those guys. And then there are those of us who have our understanding of what Scripture teaches on this, you see. But that doesn't mean that it's kind of an opinion thing. They got theirs and we got ours and you know who cares, you see. That's not the point. There is one faith and there is one baptism. And we struggle together to have a better understanding of what Scripture teaches on that, why it's important to interact with other believers on these things. Because there is only one Lord Jesus, who we confess in that one faith, with that one single baptism that we receive from Him. And finally, he says there is one Father, verse 6. One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. He the Father binds us as children together in his care for us. So there is just one family. Next blank that you have. Just one family. Not only has he said in the end of chapter two that we are just one family, but remember again chapter three and verse fourteen, and particularly in this idea of the Father. You remember how he had said, For this reason I kneel before the Father from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. We saw back then that that what he's referring to in the Greek is he's he's uh the word that he uses um the family is a the Greek word which means of the father. There are all of us who are of the Father. We are all joined to Him. We all call Him Father. And so we're one family, because He is over us all, He is through us all, and He is operating in us all. But do we act like that? Chuck Colson in his book, The Body, gives a number of rather hair-raising illustrations of how we don't act like that. One case he talks about Chuck Colson himself as Baptist, and he says, uh that um doctrinal issues have been disputed in the church since the beginning. And such arguments can be healthy. When we do this unlovingly, however, we unleash our own base instincts. We become more strident to mask our insecurity. We use doctrinal disputes as an excuse to grab power. Over an 18-month period ending in early 1989, more than 2100 Southern Baptist pastors. were forced out of their churches. In 18 months, 2100 pastors forced out of their churches. For doctrinal reasons in the church debate? No. According to one survey that was taken, 58% cited personality differences. He says that's called a split Forty-six percent cited failure to live up to expectations. He says that means they didn't produce enough growth. Forty-two percent leadership style too autocratic. So that translates over power hungry. All that church strife in 18 months in just one denomination. And then he goes on to the Methodists, the Presbyterians. Francis Schaefer wrote a book on the Presbyterians called The Church Before the Watching World. People see that's not just about the church, it's mostly about Presbyterians. And the need to always hold intention, Schaefer said, both truth and love. To neither seek to guard the truth without the love. were to indulge in a sentimental love that wants to avoid all confrontation about truth. You see, that can only be done by the power of the Spirit. And so what I want to do is in applying this to bring to our attention that I think That we will see as a congregation as we seek to renew our efforts to reach unchurched people and not just grow by transfer growth, people moving into the area. But as we seek to mobilize, to take more seriously the Great Commission, both in this area and globally, this I believe is the area that Satan most uses. To destroy the effectiveness of a church. I've heard of situations just recently in this again. I am beginning to experience it in our own body. More conflict than I have seen in 19 years. Um more crises just this week. And um, brothers and sisters, if it wasn't for the sense that the scripture says, Greater is he that's in you than is he that's in the world. I'd be really scared. But I cling to that. I cling to that because I believe that it's an indication that God is wanting to do something through us And so conflicts are breaking out in some cases because sin is being dealt with, because God is beginning to move in hearts and lives in deeper ways. That's exciting, but it's painful, and it's difficult, and it takes a terrible toll on everyone who's involved in that But I believe God is wanting to do something on a deeper level through us and in us than he has ever done before. Pray for us. Pray for the church. Pray for Columbia Presbyterian. Be particularly sensitive in your own life in these next weeks and months. To any little wedges that you see Satan beginning to drive into you that makes you begin to think about our church, if you were part of Columbia Presbyterian in a we they You know, I used to think of it as we. Now I begin to think CPC is they. I used to begin I used to think of these brothers and sisters of mine as we. Now I'm beginning to think of them as they. beginning to think of them as the enemy rather than as my allies. I'm beginning to notice a a wedge that is being driven in my heart between me and other people. Be on guard for that. I beg you, brothers and sisters. Because Paul said there is one body, one spirit, one hope with which we were called, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father who is over all and through all and in all. Therefore, he says, make every effort to maintain, to guard the unity of the spirit in the bond of peace. Now moving on to more positively, what does this mean beyond our congregation? How do we apply this? You see on the back that I apply this in two ways. I apply it, first of all, in terms of our own identity as Presbyterians. What I call organizational connectionalism. That is people that we are joined with organizationally in one church. And then beyond that to people who are part of other churches. Let me help us to see in some of the uh the struggle of this uh what these verses in Ephesians 4, 4-6 mean for Presbyterianism. I believe that these are some of the most significant verses As a basis for why I am Presbyterian. I am not Presbyterian because I grew up Presbyterian I grew up Baptist. I came to Christ through an independent Baptist church. I told you that last week. I am Presbyterian by conviction. I'm Presbyterian because I think most of us don't realize that today the fastest growing churches in America are independent churches with pastors with business degrees. That's an interesting thought, isn't it? But most people don't realize that whereas if we were to go into a new community, let's suppose you move from Columbia, you go somewhere else. The first churches you will tend to try will be the independent churches, won't they? Because they tend to be the ones preaching the gospel. They're alive, they're going, moving on, you know, that kind of thing. Denominational churches tend to be avoided because they're probably dead, you know, they're stuck in the old tradition, they probably don't believe the Bible and all this. But what we don't realize is that independent churches are a novelty in the 2,000 years of church history. Independent churches only grew up mostly in the last hundred and fifty years, coming out of Plymouth Brethren, theology of the church. Before that, there was very little of any kind of independency because Christians understood that you need to be connected to other Christians. You see, it's American thinking that propagates independence. I mean that's us as Americans, right? The independence And so we're Presbyterian by conviction. We are joined with about 230 other congregations. In a national church called the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, not the only perfect church, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church sits Formed into twelve regional churches called Presbyteries. That's like the church at Ephesus, Church at Galatia. They're regional churches of several congregations. Each of those have particular congregations ruled by elders in what were called sessions. That is, you are accountable to the elders, but the elders are accountable to one another in presbyteries that are accountable ultimately to a general assembly. And that is biblical. There is one church. We are joined together. It is not only biblical, it is sometimes extremely practical and important to us. Let me give you an example. I was called just the last two weeks, in case you haven't picked up, have not been the easiest couple of weeks in my ministry. And I walked into the office on Tuesday after having just prayed for about three hours. And I heard there's a call from the moderator of our presbytery, would I please call him back? And so I called him back. And this is a fellow that simply helps us get through the business of our regional church that goes Maryland, Virginia, North and South Carolina. It's kind of a big regional church. We're trying to split the thing, a good split, not a bad split, so that we will be able to just simply be more local. Well the moderator called me up and he said, Al, he says, I'd like to ask you to serve on a committee about a problem in your mother church, Covenant Church in Burtonsville. And I was very aware of the problem. I'd already talked to the pastor There had been a fellow who they'd been trying to work with for a number of years in that congregation, been causing all kinds of problems, heartaches, headaches. Finally, they disciplined them for contentiousness His response was, of course, to contend the charge. Took it to Presbytery, took it to General Assembly. General Assembly and Presbytery upheld the session. They were accountable, you see. They couldn't just go around saying, well, well, you think you've got a contentious attitude and so discipline. You see, when you are connected to other Christians, you have to be able to defend that. And so Presbytery examined that. General Assembly examined that. They said we are we believe they are right, and you, sir, need to repent of your attitude. I'll tell you that's that puts spiritual heat on, you know, in a good positive way. What's his res the result of it? You got four or five friends to now bring charges to the Presbytery calling the pastor a liar and a slanderer. And so for many pastors, that'd be the end of his ministry. This has gone on for years I could see the pastor saying, that's it. I am out of it, man. I'm going back. I'm going to go into business. I'm going to do something else. But I have had it with this. The only thing is saving that guy, I believe, humanly speaking, is he's a Presbyterian. The reason I say that is because that means that there are now three other churches that have been assigned by our Presbytery to get involved in that case. To keep from there being any kind of church split, I don't think there'll be any such thing, the sessions united behind the pastor. There's just basically five or six people that are saying, we want to defend our friend and we're just going to take this as far as we can take it politically. And so it's a heartache to me. In fact, pray for my attitude as I go into this thing. But you see, it is that protection that we have. We as Columbia Presbyterian are not alone. If there is conflict, you have recourse, not only to the session, but to the Presbytery, to other churches that we are accountable to. And that's a practice of what Paul's talking about here. There is one church, there is one body. Therefore, make every effort within the context of that one body to preserve the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. But it also goes beyond that. It goes into a unity that extends to other churches. Now, this organizational connectionalism I've just talked about, is based on a confession that we make. We say we believe things in common. You can look in the back of your hymnal and see what they are. They're all written out. It's called the Westminster Confession. That's the basis of our unity. It says what we believe about the Bible. But there are other true believers who don't believe all of those things. They couldn't sign on to that. What about our relationship with them? That is what I call coalitional unity. It is a unity of coalitions rather than one simple exhaustive confession. It is saying there are certain things that we hold in common that bring us into the sphere of that one body of Christ, but there are certain things we disagree on, such as The use of supernatural gifts today, or the way we baptize, whether we baptize babies, things like that. Things that are secondary to the gospel. In this case, you see, I appeal to what I said last week that a biblical-sized vision requires a biblical-sized church. That means that the Holy Spirit intends to do something in the Howard County area that is bigger than Columbia Presbyterian. And it's the height of arrogance to have a vision that only includes ourselves. Therefore, our vision as a church includes participation in what God is doing on a larger scale. Because of that, we joined together with them for over 12 years. Pastors have been praying together once a month. For renewal, revival, and awakening in this area. Now having over 40 pastors that meet together once a month this Thursday, our next meeting, to pray together. But how has that worked out? Well, just this week, we have families that are alienated, that are members of Columbia Presbyterian, and another church in this area. And so I got on the phone to this pastor of of another family, church uh family in uh this area And we are pledged together for him to work with the family in that area and me with the family in our congregation to bring about a biblical unity. But you see, just because he is a different denomination doesn't mean that we don't work together to bring about biblical unity where there's alienation. That's a fruit of the fact that we have prayed together over the years and therefore can minister jointly in that. A practical outworking of that. Last fall, Dana Collette, pastor of Covenant Baptist Church, was just in the bottom of his emotional reservoirs concerning fighting his cancer. Felt constrained to call for the elders to come and lay hands on them and anoint them with oil. Now what do you do if you're a Baptist pastor? Who do you call? The deacons? Who else are you gonna call? Well, you see, in our praying together and informing this regional concept of the church, what Dana did was entirely appropriate. He called for the pastors of the churches in Colombia. And so on October 29, last year, 18 pastors gathered in his office to anoint him with oil and to pray for his healing. That, brothers and sisters, is a work of the Spirit. When you have Presbyterians pray for Baptist pastors to continue in their ministry, and for Pentecostals and charismatics to be praying that this brother will be raised up and that his church will prosper. That's of the Spirit. I remember a time when we were meeting in the it happened to be in Ken Williams' office, and we were there as these brothers, we were praying together, and one brother began to talk about how he'd been persecuted in his church. And he began to talk about how he had done this and that and he was getting heat and he's getting problems and all this kind of stuff. His other independent Baptist pastor, one Dana, another pastor. I looked at me and we began to ask some questions of this brother. And pretty soon, rather than giving him sympathy, which I'm sure he expected, we began to say, you know, we think you've made some real mistakes here In fact, we think you need to go back to that, brother, in your congregation, and you need to ask for his forgiveness. That kind of shocked him. But because we had prayed together for years, he was willing to listen to us Who else in his kind of ecclesiastical structure would he have ever listened to? Nobody. He was independent. But he listened to us because we had a relationship and we prayed together. And all of a sudden the Baptist pastor turned to me and he said, Alan, he said, you know what we're doing? And I says, what? He said, we're acting like a Presbytery. That warmed my heart. And God worked in that situation. Do you see what I'm saying? We don't have to wait and just wring our hands about the church being divided. If you and I saw a family that wasn't speaking to each other and they were just scrapping and they were they had all moved apart and they never had any contact with each other and when they did it was just competitive bickering. We wouldn't simply say, well, that's too bad, but they really are one family, so let's not worry about it. We'd want to get them together. That's what the Spirit of God is doing in our day. God is doing that on this level. When we come into the missions conference, I want you to open your eyes and see that we are part of what God is doing in Japan, what He is doing in Spain, when we hear reports from the person the task force for the persecuted church to understand that we are part of those brothers and sisters as we pray for them and that as we open our eyes to see we are part of something larger than Columbia Presbyterian and what God is doing. It is healthy for you and for me because it gets us outside of ourselves into part of something God is doing on a larger level to bring renewal and to revival in this area. Amen? Let's pray. God, we want to be part of that larger work of healing. We see it, Lord, in local, immediate situations. We see the need that we have. But we are excited, Lord, because we know that in the history of revival, whenever you have answered the prayers of your people, you have done that on a larger level. You've never brought revival to just one congregation. And so if we're to thrive in fulfilling the Great Commission, it will be as part of a larger work you are doing in this area, which is probably part of a larger work that you are doing globally. So Lord, we want in on that. We want in on what you're doing in Asia and Africa and Latin America. We pray that you would humble us as we come together on February 28th. To pray as the churches of the Howard County region for a revival and an awakening in this area, that you would draw us together as one body of people. To do a powerful and new work in our midst. Protect us from the evil one who would divide us And extend the unity of our body as we participate with Longreach Church of God in worship and fellowship and ministries and pulpit exchange But all the other ways, Lord, we're seeking to obey these verses that you have given to us in your wisdom and by your power. In Jesus' name.