Last week you recall that we spent some time with Ephesians 1, verses 7 and 8. We looked at the riches of God's grace, how they overflow towards us with abundance, they overflow lavishly. And how they equip us, that grace equips us with wisdom and understanding, so that we can respond in kind. to the riches of God's grace. He's given us the ability to forgive, which flows from a proper appreciation of the way He's forgiven us. This week we will be looking at some more implications of God's grace. We'll be looking at Ephesians 4, verses 1 through 3. As this ties us together in the bond of peace. Before we go on to that text, though, I would like to point out one other theme from the book of Ephesians, which I think is necessary for us to see. before we look at that. And that is the theme of unity in Christ. We are in his body. Christ has put to death the hostility that existed between Jews and Greeks that Paul was addressing in Ephesians. Two peoples who were enemies with each other, were opposed to each other, had nothing but suspicion for one another became one temple, and the Jewish stones and the Greek stones could not be distinguished one from the other. There was unity in the temple At one time the Gentiles were not even allowed in the temple. And here they are in Christ, making up that temple. This bondage together in peace was not lost on the observers in the early church. The enemies saw, the people saw that two enemies here were united in this one temple. They saw that the grace of Jesus Christ works. It works powerfully. As we see in Ephesians 2 verse 14, for he himself is our peace. Who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility We see the riches of grace. We see that able to bond these two groups together. We see that coming to a climax at the end of chapter three. And then on into the first three verses in chapter four. I will read that this morning for our scripture reading. Ephesians 3 from verse 14 down to 4 verse 3. Look at the unity and the riches and the peace that we have in Christ coming together in this passage For this reason, I kneel before the Father, from whom all his whole family, in heaven and on earth, derives its name. I pray that out of his glorious riches, he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being. so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. I And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power Together with all the saints to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you have received. Be completely humble And gentle. Be patient, bearing with one another in love. Make every effort to keep the unity of the spirit through the bond of peace. Paul's talking about peace in Christ. We have peace in Christ. We are no longer without God and without hope in the world. As he mentioned in chapter 2, we have a peaceful relationship with God. The church has peace. It is secure in Christ. The passage before us this morning in Ephesians 4 tells us how to keep it. Or if we've lost a good bit of that piece, it tells us how to get it back. How to get that peace back? We are to live up to our calling, the calling that we have in God's family. How do we live then like brothers and sisters in God's family? You see, the church is nothing if it doesn't tear down those boundaries that would separate us from one another. That's the beauty of Paul's letter here, in combining the Jews and the Greeks into one temple. There may well be people in this room that you just don't care for People that you would not choose to do business with, or choose to play tennis with, or choose to have a cup of coffee across the dining room table. The personality may grate against you. You may even avoid that person. Or whatever it is that divides you from other people is just trivial. When compared to the differences between the Jewish people and the Greek people in Paul's age, then what happens? They become one. They are united. How is it that they are united? Of course, it's by the power of the Spirit. The power of the Spirit, but especially, specifically. In a way that's indicated in our text. Make every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. It takes some effort. And that effort is outlined for us in verse 2. Be completely humble. And gentle. Be patient. Bearing with one another in love. You see the first two points in your outline, humility and gentleness, are combined together. And then points three and four, being patient. and bearing with one another are bound together. This morning uh we are just going to look at humility and gentleness. When I uh made up the sermon outline for uh for Marva this past week I thought that we could handle all four of those things in in about a half an hour. And as I got into that, I saw that that's impossible. Humility becomes the umbrella that gentleness and patience and forbearing with with one another in love covers. But we're just going to look at humility and gentleness, just those two aspects. As I've mentioned, the bond of peace then starts with humility. It starts with lots of humility. It says, be completely humble, or literally, with all humility. Now that's not exactly something that comes very easily to us, is it? It's not something that we uh we pursue generally. It's not very popular to be humble, to have humility In fact, in Paul's day, it was a quality, a personality trait, to avoid. You didn't want to come across in humility. And I think much is the same today. Mary, the mother of Jesus, gives us a clue, though, as to what this humility involves. I'd like you to turn with me to Luke, the first chapter. And I will be bouncing around in the word a little bit again today. Please keep up with me if you can. Luke, the first chapter. Look at verses 46 and 47. Mary says, My soul praises the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servants. This humble state, that's the same root that we find in our text. And you might think that it it just has to do with uh a low socioeconomic level that Mary uh lived in. But I think the clue we have in the verse preceding, that she rejoices in God, my Savior, indicates something just a little bit different from that. It's not just an economic level that she's talking about there in that humble state of his servant. For we see in verses fifty-two and fifty-three of that same chapter, she goes on to say, He has brought down rulers from their thrones. But has lifted up the humble. He has filled the hungry with good things, but has sent the rich away empty. He's lifted up the humble. And he has brought down the rulers. That's why Jesus came. He came to give the humble people, something that they could never achieve on their own. He came to do something for them that they could never do. He saw them in their poor and humble and low estate. He saw them humbled before God and he lifts them up. He lifts us up. He exalts us. He gives us forgiveness. He gives us that relationship with God that's impossible in any other way. He has done that because he's seen us in our humility. He has seen us needing that. And he's seen us ask for it. And he delights to give it to us. You see, everything uh that we that we need has come from him. We receive it, though, of course, only if we are humble, only if we do admit that. You know the most important aspect of humility is that we recognize who we are in relationship with God. That's the number one aspect of humility, recognizing who you are in relationship with God. For without grace, we are dead in trespasses and sins. We are excluded from the covenants given to Israel. We are without hope and without God in the world. Humility, first of all, requires seeing yourself as who you are, who you are in the eyes of God. This is pictured for us in a very powerful way in Luke the eighteenth chapter, a very well-known passage, the parable of the Pharisee and the tax-gatherer. We'll see how closely humility is linked with seeing ourselves correctly before God. Seeing who you really are in God's sight. Look at the context there at verse 9. Some who were confident of their own righteousness and look down on everyone else It's those people that Jesus is talking to. He describes the two men who went up to the temple to pray, one the Pharisee and the other a publican. You recall, of course, what the Pharisee is saying. I thank you that I'm not like that other guy. I thank you that I fast twice a week and that I do these good things for you. I thank you that I'm sufficient in myself with my own righteousness. And then we have that contrast, of course, with the uh with the publican, the tax collector. He stands at a distance He does not even look up to heaven, but he beats his breast and he says, God, have mercy on me, a sinner. What does Jesus say about that? He describes, of course The publican. It's the one who ex um he says the one who exalts himself will be humble, and the one who humbles himself will be exalted. You see how humility is linked with salvation. And we don't usually think about uh humility starting there, do we? Don't we often think of humility as something that we have to nurture, an attitude in our own hearts, that we have to develop, that we have to uh to nurture by discipline, by effort, by strain, by working that up. You But Jesus links it with salvation. He links it with seeing who you are in God's sight and realizing that it's only In Jesus Christ, that you will have what your heart desires. You see, we would often bond put ourselves in bondage. to that. We put ourselves in bondage of thinking that we had to develop that humility ourselves. But Jesus says, no. First think about me. First, think about what I've done for you. We see his example very well in Matthew 11, verse 29. He said, I am gentle and humble in heart. I have been submissive to the Father. I have obeyed Him. I have satisfied His justice. And I've done it in order to give you rest. Jesus offers that. The picture of humility. He offers that to us. In Philippians, the second chapter, we again, of course, think about the humility of Jesus. He humbled himself to the point of death, not out of selfish ambition. Or Bane can see, but he considered the others, the needs of others, more important, more basic than his own. You see, when we have that perspective, When we have that perspective, we are free to serve. First of all, we have to recognize who we are Exactly who we are in God's sight. And then we have to recognize that it's in serving that humility comes. It's not an attitude we should pursue. It's not something we go around looking for. When we do that, it eludes us. Rather, it's something that comes in service. Jesus gives us another good example in Matthew 18, how it is that we are to be humble. He shows us how we are to be humble. In fact, he says, humble yourself. as a child. Now, those of us who have children, I think, could recognize that humility doesn't appear to be one of their main characteristics. Kids can be can be pretty haughty. They're little kids running them out about this high. They they think they can have their way. We don't think of them as being humble. But Jesus says, humble yourself like a child. What does he mean there? I think what he's getting at is the dependence that a child has towards their parents. You little kids, when you get home from church today, what's going to happen? Mom and dad are going to put dinner together. You can count on that. You may gripe about how late it is. You may gripe about what they're going to give you. But you can count on the fact. If you're going to have dinner, you depend on your parents. And by their consistency, by their faithfulness, they demonstrate that they won't let you down. You depend on them. And I think that's what Jesus wants us to do. To depend on him with that childlike dependence, to realize that every blessing that comes from him, every blessing we have comes from him. And we realize that We don't have to uh offer up our own uh intelligence, our own abilities, our own capabilities in service. They're too limited. Instead, we can depend on the vastness of his riches. I think when we when we uh uh recognize this we deal a death blow to that exaggerated uh self-importance that we so often develop. I think we we can deal a death blow to to the feeling that we need to be served. And we need others to take care of our needs preeminently. I think rather it's it paves the way for service. You know, I I don't know if we here in Colombia have a a bit of a a difficulty, a bit of a handicap in this area. Our fair city is designed, it is built around the idea of convenience. Uh it's uh so important to have the amenities as close as the nearest village center. We we seem to think that the whole city is tailored around our needs. And rightly so. We deserve that kind of treatment. We deserve that. A while back, I think my wife and I began to uh to feel that more than we had before We began to feel that we uh deserved all the good things that life had to offer. We deserved a minimal amount of distractions, a minimal amount of disturbances And if we'd have our ways, we would have no interferences at all in our lifestyle. Maybe that doesn't have anything to do with Columbia, I don't know. Maybe that's the kind of thing that Christians all over the place deal with. But I think it it might approach us, it might come to us a little bit uh harder, with a little bit more impact. But you see God dealt with us right here, right at this very point. He said, remember what Christ did for you. Remember that Christ served you on the cross. Remember that he sacrificed everything for you. And everything you have is from him. And everything you have is for others. That's the freedom he's given us. He's given us everything. But he's then said everything that you have is to be used for others. It's so simple. It is so simple, but we miss that. You see, Gail and I wanted to protect ourselves. We wanted to protect our family at all costs We had lost humility. Instead, we had replaced it with self-indulgence in the name of protection of the family. You know, that's a very, very popular theme today, the sanctity of the family. You know, it is said that if you keep the big three priorities in mind, God, family, and job, you'll be okay. You'll be right where you ought to be before God. Now that's a there's a positive element in that of course. Twenty years ago, there were no books out on the family, there were no adoption films on the family circulating. But I just wonder if we haven't swung back on the other side and I just wonder if if uh in our concern to uh to to keep the family from abuse, if we haven't elevated the family just a little bit too much. See, I have a problem with those big three priorities. God, family, and job. If you look at the New Testament, you see that very little of it relates to to the family, comparatively. Relatively speaking, very little of it relates to the family relationships. Rather, it's the church. The church becomes the great concern of Paul. In Ephesians 4, we talk about grace. We read about grace there. We read about uh making every effort to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace, in doing these things, and being humble and gentle and patient and bearing with one another in love. What's the implication of that? The implication of that is that. Therefore, the church will be unified. The church will function as it's supposed to function. The rest of chapter 4, and then into chapter 5, deals the church. We just have a couple of sentences uh at the uh beginning of chapter six on the family. And I just wonder if we haven't uh confused that balance just a little bit I would suggest that family life flows out of church life. Family life flows out of church life. Does that sound too strong? Does that sound too harsh? Think of the words of Christ. Go into the world. Make disciples. Of all men, of all people. Make disciples. Well, that can cause some strain, can't it? That could strain the family. It could also strain the family when we try to be hospitable to strangers When we try to feed the hungry, when we clothe the naked, when we bear the burdens of others, doesn't that put a strain on the family? I would suggest it only puts a strain on the family if you juxtapose the two, service in the church, and that isolation that we would tend to to to uh to place upon the family. You see the beauty of it. Is that when we're serving, when we're serving, we can do it with our family. We can blend our families into the service that we participate in. Especially in hospitality. Think of what a tremendous tool the family is in hospitality. How better can you disciple your children? How better can you train your children to serve others, to think about the needs of others, to immerse themselves in other people? How better can you do that than to open up your home hospitable for other people? You see your kids look closely at you, mom and dad. And they're learning one thing or another from me. They're either learning how to serve, or they're learning how to isolate themselves from other people. I am certainly not uh uh denigrating the importance of the family. I hope no one hears me say that. I'm just saying that we have to keep that balance. The balance between isolationism on the one hand and just immersing ourselves so much in other people that we overlook the family. The beauty of it is they're not juxtaposed. They're not juxtaposed. We can serve in our families and with our families. Doesn't that give freedom? That that removes attention for us We've spent a lot of time this morning on service, what it means to serve. I hope you've seen the connection between that and humility. You see they're tied together. You don't get humility by seeking after it. You don't get humility by searching for it, and then all of a sudden one day grasping a hold of it and saying, Yes, I've got it. I've got humility. I've got that one all soda. Not at all. The harder, in fact, you look for it, the more elusive it becomes. Humility is something that is gained rather in service of other people. Humility comes by service. I read a quote from a guy this past week that puts it pretty strongly how we are to uh to go around uh in serving one another. He said, the flesh whines against service. But screams against hidden service. The flesh whines against service. It's not something we really like to do But it screams against hidden service. We like to be recognized. When we do something, we like others to see it. In fact It's almost not worthwhile serving other people. If they don't recognize it and pat us on the back and say, good job. I really appreciate that. But the heart of the servant is the one who removes himself from the situation. He doesn't have to say, well, I'm going to go into the situation and I'm going to be a servant. for for just this 10-minute span right here. I'm going to to uh choose to serve that person The servant is the one who abandons himself to serve. He doesn't cling to that right to choose whether or not he will serve. Rather, he becomes a servant like Jesus Christ, who gave up everything, who wanted to serve. See, pride I think would isolate us and ourselves From service and from humility. He said we should involve ourselves and our families in that service. We've been talking about the bond of peace. That's what I mentioned that we would be talking about. What have we said about it? The bond of peace. I think the point is that humility, in our humble service of one another, there is no better way to uh to heal the wounds that could be there, to reconcile relationships that might be a little bit strained. Our differences with other people fade when we think uh when we practice humble service. There is no better way to strengthen. No better way to strengthen the bond of peace that we have in the Spirit. I also mentioned that we'd be talking about gentleness today. Just a couple of words on gentleness. Gentleness is very closely tied with humility. It's more of the idea of working out your humility in a specific way. It's humility practiced with gentleness, with meekness And we usually think of gentleness as being a very effeminate quality, something that uh involves weakness and passivity, and just uh not uh something that that men certainly should strive for. We would encourage our wives to be that way, but men certainly don't have to strive for gentleness. In uh the Greek, in classical Greek, around the time that Paul wrote this letter, This word, gentleness or meekness, as it's translated in many versions, was the word to describe what went on when a large animal, for example, a horse, was trained, was disciplined to be able to respond to just the faint touch of the rings on his neck. A big, strong animal, a masculine animal, if you will. would respond quickly with sensitivity when that rain would touch his neck. That's what gentleness is I wonder if that's what you're doing for your master. I wonder if you're responding in gentleness to his nudges when he calls you to do something. The idea of gentleness includes slowness to insistence on our rights. We are slow to insistence. on our rights. You see how closely tied that is with humility. Submissiveness, even in the face of provocation. Willingness to suffer injury rather than inflict it. I'd like to direct your attention to 1 Peter. 1 Peter, the second chapter. We have gentleness defined for us in no uncertain terms. Gentleness that would just boggle our minds. Gentleness that uh we we just can't seem to accept. Slaves are called to respond In gentleness to their masters, even when their masters mistreat them, even when their masters are cruel That's hard enough to understand, but something even harder to understand is found in chapter 3 Wives in the same way be submissive to your husbands. The whole context here in 1 Peter is one of suffering. Suffering under the uh The constraints of persecution. We have in chapter 3, then in verse 4, a woman being persecuted, a Christian woman being persecuted by her husband. And what is she to do? She is to be gentle. She is not to have a retaliatory spirit. Well my heart goes out to someone in that situation. Responding in gentleness. That becomes the picture for all of us. Responding in gentleness. Even when the situation would seem to conjure up in all of us the extreme emotions, a violent reaction, we are to respond in gentleness. You're to do that even when your rights are violated. We can be thankful that God won't test us beyond what we're able to bear. We can praise him for that. But we're to do we are to uh be gentle, even in the face of the violation of our rights. We're to be again like Jesus. In Matthew 11 29, again, I am gentle, I am meek, I am humble, he says. I didn't respond in rage. I didn't respond in anger when unjust men. Nailed me to the cross. I gave up my rights, my prerogatives as the firstborn of all creation, the one in charge of all creation And I allowed dainty little men to nail me up to the cross. I gave up my prerogatives I chose to be submission, submissive, even in the face of provocation. That's what Jesus said. There's one other example of Old Testament gentleness that I would like to direct you to, and that's in Numbers chapter twelve. You know that uh Moses wrote the book of Numbers. And it's just a little parenthesis, the third verse of chapter 12, it sort of strikes me funny. Uh he's describing Moses as a very humble man, more humble than anyone else on the face of the earth. I don't know if Moses put that in there. Maybe a later editor did, but in any case we have we have that Becca in there in chapter twelve. The situation is one of Miriam and Aaron getting jealous of the fact that uh God was talking to Moses and was relying on Moses to uh to lead the people. They trumped up some charges about him marrying a Cushite. That was true enough. He married a Cushite woman, but what does that have to do with God speaking through him? But they they hammered him with that And they said, Your authority then is suspect. Will not God also speak through us? Moses was a very humble, a very gentle man. How does he respond to those charges? Notice exactly how Moses reacts. Moses, the one who is the leader. The one who was set up by God to uh to be responsible for all the people, the one to whom God appeared in that burning bush. Man, if anyone had rights, it was Moses. How does he respond to those charges? He doesn't God responds for him. It is God who reacts. God who deals with Aaron and with Marion. God cares for him. God is in control. God protects his reputation. Gentleness recalls that God is in control. Gentleness recalls that God is in control. We don't have to exercise our puny strength to try to maximize every situation that we're in. We don't have to try to retaliate in the face of aggravation, of people impinging on our rights. We're gentle. We recall that God is in control. Don't you see how that will strengthen the bond of peace? Don't you see how that, instead of keeping us in bondage, will release us? will release us, will give us freedom when we recognize that God is in control. When we recognize that those people that we would uh that we would retaliate against are in just the same position as we are before God. Forgiven by Jesus Christ. You see, Jesus does not give us a heavy burden He does not call us to come to himself and be burdened by things. He calls us to come and be free. Can you think of humble service? In terms of freedom. Freedom to forget about yourself. Freedom to think more about other people Wouldn't that be great? What would you what would what would it be like to go through a day and not think 80% of the time about number one? Wouldn't that be free? We won't get humility by seeking it. We get humility in service, in recognizing who we are in God's sight. That we're sinners. We're forgiven. We've been given his riches. We've been given peace. We've been given the ability to serve. Let's look at that. Let's celebrate the bond of peace that we have. Humility, gentleness. That's what God calls us to. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, when we think about you, we think about someone who had everything. You had all of creation at your fingertips. You had everything. And you gave that up in order to serve. To serve us. We praise you for that. We praise you. We thank you that you have made us free to be able to do that kind of thing with each other Lord Jesus, you've given us peace. You have secured us peacefully. You've given us a peaceful relationship with God. Help us to hang on to that. Help us to retain that peace in our relationship with each other. Lord, we recognize how sinful we are. We recognize how much we need you, how we need your grace, how we need your power. We plead for that. We plead that you would help us not to think about ourselves so much. Help us to think about others. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.