That's a particularly joyful morning, isn't it? The Sunday just before Christmas. 'Cause I was beginning to wonder as we were singing, Oh Comey, all ye faithful, how joyful we really were there. Only the faithful were coming through. We've uh gone through in this Christmas season looking at a prophecy of Christmas Looking at Psalm 2. And then you recalled we looked at a portion of the Christmas story, Elizabeth's Song of Praise. And now, well on Tuesday, or excuse me, Wednesday evening, our Christmas Eve candlelight service, we'll be briefly looking at a carol meditating briefly on Hark the Herald Angels sing and what biblical truth is contained in that. And so in this one Sunday just before Christmas, what I want to do with you is I want to look at the meaning of Christmas. As God portrays it to us. And in order to do that, I want to look at a text that we don't often think of as a Christmas text. Romans chapter 8, verses 3 and 4. And I want to look at Romans 8, not Matthew and not Luke, because I think that we find in these verses Some of the best statements about the essence of the meaning of Christmas that you'll find anywhere throughout Holy Scripture. Now I realize that many of us don't look at that as a Christmas text, but I don't think you can beat this for a Christmas message. And in a day when the uh commercial world does not understand that message and in fact prostitutes it. And in a time when even the church, many times, in meditating on Christmas, misses what is the essence of the message that we see here, it's good for us to remind ourselves of what Christmas is about. So let's begin, Romans 8. Let me read the first four verses, and then we're going to focus our attention on verses 3 and 4. Romans 8, beginning with verse 1. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Because through Christ Jesus, the law of the Spirit of life set me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law was powerless to do in that it was weakened by the sinful nature, God did by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful man to be a sin offering And so he condemned sin in sinful man in order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us who do not live according to the sinful nature, but according to the Spirit. Now you see there in verse 1, he says there's no condemnation. That's the statement that's got to stand out in neon lights to us. There is no condemnation. And of course, that's good news to those of us who fear from our own conscience and fear from a holy and just God that we will be condemned. And the message that Paul has for us here is there's no condemnation. Good news. Why? Verse 2 says, Because there's a law, and that law, which is a law of the Spirit Speaking of the Holy Spirit, the law of the Spirit of life, has set me free from the law of sin and death. He has set me free. But how has he done it? And that's what's addressed in verses 3 and 4. And there's two parts to it. The first part is our problem, and the second part is God's solution. And that's what I want us to think about this morning. Our problem and God's solution and how he met that problem. First of all, our problem is in the beginning of verse 3. You see, Paul says here, all right, now there's no condemnation because the law of the Spirit of Life has set me free from the law of sin and death. But how did he do that? Well you say the law could not do it The law was powerless, he says, to do it. For what the law was powerless to do in that it was weakened by the sinful nature. See, the problem is that we are held in the death grip of sin. The problem for many of us isn't that we don't know what to do. God's law tells us how to live. He says, here's how to live in order to not be punished. You want to escape my wrath and my punishment and my just judgment? Here's how to live. Here's what to do. The law tells you But there's just one problem, Paul says, with the law. The problem is our weakened sinful natures. We can't do it. The law is so perfect, nothing wrong with the law, that it mocks us by its perfection. It says, here's how to live like God. Here's how to have a happy life. Here's how to be prosperous. Here's how to have joy and peace. And we say, that's nice, I know it, but the problem is I can't do it. How many resolutions that you made for nineteen eighty six are you still keeping? You see Problem's not that we don't know what to do. We can't do it. Just this week, I happened to be alone. I was sitting in a living room, and I noticed our Christmas tree. is standing and we have our Christmas tree right against the s uh sliding glass windows, the doors. And so, you know, in between uh the the two doors there's that vertical beam that goes up there. And when I put the Christmas tree up it was relatively vertical along with that beam. And the next day it was a little bit off there, you know, and then uh next day a little bit more and it's beginning to look like the Tower of Pizza, you know. And so I'm thinking, I don't think it's my imagination. This thing keeps going further and further from the plumb line of this. thing. So I better go over and tighten it up. So I went over and you know, a little couple turns of the old bolt down there in the tree stand and then I hear crack and out comes the bolt, the tree stand, the whole thing, and now I'm holding the tree up. And and the tree stand's not doing anything, you see. You know the problem is that there's nobody else around. I mean Dean's there, but you know, he's sick in bed, you know, so he's a big help. So I'm standing there and you see the problem is I don't it's not that I don't know what vertical is. I know exactly where that tree should be. There it is, right lined up with that tree. The problem is there's nothing I can get to hold it. You see, yeah, what do you do? You know, you're standing, you can't get a chair, can't get it, you know. I laid this go to get something, and there it goes down the tree. Well, you know, you've got to tune in afterwards to find out how I solved it. The prob the point of this whole thing though is that that's the way our lives are, isn't it? We look at the vertical plumb line of the law. We say, here's the law. It says how to live. Yeah, no problem with what God says to do. You know, I I can read that. The problem is I can't do it. I'm stuck. I'm powerless. Yeah, it reminded me of uh thinking of this of Dean some while ago. He came to me sobbing and crying and he said, Daddy, my tape recorder doesn't work. Would you please fix it? Now you see, I could have responded to him by saying, Well, Dean, that's very simple fella, no problem. Now Dean at this point was six years old. I could have said, Dean, there's no problem with that. You see, all you do is here's an O-meter, and uh, you know, here is a um a soldering gun. And here is some instructions. And you just read those and follow the clear instructions and your tape recorder will be fine. No problem. He'd have just howled all the louder, wouldn't he? You know, he would have screamed, Daddy, I can't do it! I can't do it. There's no way. I know how to use an ometer. I can't even pronounce it, you know, or a soldering gun or all that stuff. I can't do it. You see. But now What in fact I did of course, not being a sadist, was that I said, Dean, give me the tape recorder. Daddy'll fix it. Now, to him, that's good news, you see His tears immediately stopped, and the sobs turned to a hopeful smile. Because Daddy was going to do it. Now I don't have to figure out how to do it. He'll do it. That's the message right here. You see what he says For what the law was powerless to do in that it was weakened by the sinful nature, God did. Doesn't say God told us how to do it. For Doesn't say God gave us instructions to get out of this mess. It says God did it. That's the good news of Christmas. You ought to take those words and you ought to highlight them if you've got a highlighter or something, or circle them, or underline them. Those two words, God did That is fantastic good news. You see the hope of Christmas is that God did something in entering our situation to solve our problem. And there's five ways that this is spelled out that we see in these verses. And in order to keep you looking at it, you're going to fill them in as we go along, okay? The first thing, then, is his initiative. It was done at his initiative. God did it. In fact, it was so much in his initiative. You and I were so helpless in our sin that we didn't even have sense to cry out to God for help. A hundred percent of it was at his initiative, coming in order to meet our need. He did it. He's the one who designed the plan He's the one who executed it to take away sin's guilt and sin's power from our lives. And the only way to do it that was possible was for God to become flesh. For God to enter into flesh, the same battleground as your life and my life, you see. You see, what the law was powerless to do, and it was weakened by the sinful nature God did. He had to enter into that nature. That's the battleground. That's where you and I are stuck. It's our natures. Our natures are corrupt. Our natures are set against God. Our natures revolve around ourselves. And so what God had to do was to enter into that nature by sending his own son. And that's the second point of God's solution. It was his own son. His own son. You see the verse goes on. God did by sending his own son See, the only way that God could save me was to become fully man. The only way that he can rescue me is to defeat sin as a man. So that I can be freed as a man from my sin. To help you understand this, think of yourself and myself As being held prisoners in a dungeon by an evil king of an evil kingdom. Now, in order to rescue us from captivity in that stinking dungeon, where we're lying waste and corrupting. The only way he's going to rescue us is if that king, the Messiah, comes into this kingdom. Hey, not going to do any good for us if he goes and conquers a neighboring kingdom. And I gotta help us. He's gotta come into this kingdom. He's gotta conquer that evil king. He's gotta come into our dungeon. He's gotta open our gate and call us out of the prison. You see, and what is the prison? Our weakened, sinful nature. That's the prison. That therefore is what he must conquer. You see that? Why Jesus had to become a man. Why God had to become flesh. He's got to come into the very kingdom that holds us captive so that he can defeat the foe right within the realm that holds us captive. And that's what he did. They see you need to you need to appreciate if that's the problem, how though is he going to do it? I mean, God has got to become man. He who is spirit Without a body as we are, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable, in his being, his wisdom, his power, his holiness, justice, goodness, and truth, has got to become finite flesh. Now the amazing thing, and you know, the wonder of the gospel is that our God exists in three persons. And so you see, it is possible, it's theoretically possible that one of these three persons Could take on the form of human flesh while the other two continue to uphold the universe in all their sovereignty. That's theoretically possible. But will he do it? Is one of those three persons willing to make that kind of a sacrifice to enter into our dungeon, defeat the king, and rescue us? And the message of the angels that Christmas morning was, unto you, there is born in the city of David a Savior. Who is Christ Messiah, the Lord? He's willing. He's willing to come into our world and to do that. God did it, you see, by sending his own son. The Father was willing to send his son into that hell that he was going to endure in order to rescue us. That's the message. God did it by sending his son. Verse 32 of the same chapter says, He who did not spare his own son. How shall he not then with him freely give us all things? He sent his own son. You look at that little baby, and you think of all the pictures and the crestes and all that, and you see this little baby in a manger. You think that is God Himself. Come in the flesh. But now this verse goes even further. It states thirdly, or see there, his humiliation His humiliation. You see, we have a number of verses that speak of the incarnation. For instance, in the beginning of Romans, You have the statement that when Paul talks about the gospel that he is going to proclaim, he says this gospel in Romans 1:3 is regarding his son, who as to his human nature was a descendant of David. John 1, remember, after talking about the exalted glory of the Word, then says in verse 14, the Word became flesh and dwell among us. 1 John 4, verse 2, John says, the way you can tell somebody who's really a Christian is that he believes that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh. Incarnation is something that we're familiar with and think about a lot at Christmas time. But this goes a step further, and I want us to see that. This says, notice how he states it. He does not say, he does not simply say Now, to follow this because this is so important, I want you to follow the train of thought here. Make sure you've got your bulletin outline flipped over there to see what it does not say and then what it does say Verse 3, you see, says, God did this by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful man. You notice that does not say in the likeness of man or in the likeness of flesh. The Greek word really is more literally translated flesh. It does not say he came in the likeness of flesh. Why? Well, because he was real flesh. It wasn't just the likeness of flesh. It was real flesh. He became true humanity. Notice it does not say that he came in sinful man or sinful flesh. The problem with that, of course, is that that would make him sinful If he came in sinful flesh, then he himself is sinful and fallen and helpless, and somebody needs to rescue him as well as we. He's in the same situation. But what Paul does here is in extremely careful language, he combines two thoughts. He says he came in the likeness of sinful flesh. Now, I don't know any way of expressing what Paul says there any better than John Mary does in his classic commentary on the book of Romans. And on this verse, this is the way he states it When the Father sent the Son into this world of sin, of misery, and of death, he sent him in a manner that brought him into the closest relation to sinful humanity. That it was possible for him to become without becoming himself sinful. You see what that's saying? He didn't just take on human nature. He took on human nature that was subject to sin. He took on human nature that lived in the cesspool of sin. He himself was subject to temptation. Think of what it was like for the very Son of God who had existed with the other two persons of the Trinity in perfect harmony for all hum for all eternity to even be tempted To disobey, to separate himself from the fellowship of those other two persons. And yet Jesus was in the very likeness of sinful flesh And therefore, he not only mixed with sin, he not only touched it. This says that Jesus climbed right down into the cesspool in order to lift you and me out of it. He came in the likeness of sinful flesh. You see, there is no extent to which our God would not go in order to rescue us out of our sinful condition. Why? And here you come To D, his purpose. What is the purpose of all this? His purpose. The verse goes on Now let's uh put it together back up, you see. For what the law was powerless to do, in that it was weakened by the sinful nature, the law can't say this Because even though we know it's right, we're not able to do it. Because we're weakened by our sinful nature, God did by sending his own son in the very likeness of sinful man. Purpose to be a sin offering. How can I make you understand what that means? Look at it this way. You and I were born to live. We were born in order to come into the land of the living and to enjoy life. But in fact, we're in the land of death. We die. I think of the old Puritan John Owen, who after having written so much that has helped the church Down through the years much of his writing still in print to this day, and yet he wrote back in the sixteen hundreds when he was on his deathbed. His secretary was wondering if he was still alive and was going to send a message to some of his friends, and he said, dictated to his secretary, yes, write them that I'm still in the land of the living. And then he paused and he said, No, change that. Tell them I'm still in the land of the dying, and soon hope to be in the land of the living. You see, you and I live in the land of the dying because of our weak, sinful nature. Because God is just and holy, and he must punish it. And the consequences, the wages, Paul says, are inevitably death. We're reminded of that at every funeral. We're reminded of that whenever we see our parents as we go to visit them getting older. We're reminded of it as Dave Chisholm is painfully reminded of it this morning, as his father is critically ill. We're reminded that we live in the land of the dying. But now Jesus had not a sinful nature. He was only associated by his humanity. With sin. But in fact, Jesus' nature was that of life. Jesus, you see, perfectly obeyed the law And so for Jesus, there was no need to die. Except one need. His very purpose for being born was to die. You see, we're born to live, but we die. Jesus was born to die, but he lives. What must that have meant? You see, when Jesus was laying there in the manger, he didn't have any self-consciousness about his purpose. I don't believe that Jesus was laying there and that the wise men came and that they worshiped him and he looked up and he said, good job. You understand who I am Jesus didn't understand as a baby what was going on. And therefore, sometime as he grew, a self-consciousness about his identity was gradually dawning on him. Scriptures don't record that. But can you imagine what it was as he gradually understands that he's unique and he's different and his father is not Joseph, but the Holy Spirit? That he hears his friends talking about what they're going to do with their lives. And it dawns on Jesus. I was born for the purpose of dying. The whole reason for my coming and being born is to die. Can you enter in to the kind of mindset that it is to think I was born for one purpose to die You see, the coming of Jesus Christ has no relevance apart from his being a sin offering. Hey, you may have neighbors like this. We got neighbors that love Christmas. I mean, they prepare for it for weeks in advance. I mean, you know, there's the Christmas cookies, there's the crash scenes, there's all the traditions, the candles, the trees, the decorations, they're all over the place. And I remember last year when we went to visit we always visit with each other, you know, sometime around Christmas, and I remember sitting in their room and it was just the whole living room had been transformed. You know, it was like you were in this wonderland, you know, and everything's by candlelight and there's Cookies piled up all over the place, an eggnog coming out your ears, and all this stuff. And we're looking at all this stuff, you know, and we begin to talk about that little manger scene. And in the context of that, it began to talk about the death of Jesus. And I had this strange feeling that I had brought this, you know, sort of like burping, you know, in the night's conversation. I I had brought some jarring note into what was an otherwise very pleasant evening. And it and I I couldn't help but thinking the death of Jesus has been so ruled out of the meaning of Christmas for so many people that we like to think God sent his son for us and isn't that nice in some vague way. But to think that he sent his son to be a sin offering is somehow repulsive. I mean, it just doesn't fit with all these quaint little things. But you see what Paul says here, he says, you don't understand Christmas if you don't understand that God sent his own son in order to be a sin offering. That was the very purpose of his coming. And so after the angel Gabriel comes to Mary and he says, You are going to bear a son, and he's going to be Messiah, and he's going to have a kingdom, and he'll reign forever and ever. And we see that Mary and Zachariah speak of this great kingdom and his unending power and rule and glory. Then we read of Simeon. When Jesus comes to be circumcised, and he says, This one is going to be spoken against, and a sword is going to pierce your own soul also, Mary. We see that the wise men come a couple years later and they offer to him gifts, and one of those gifts was myrrh. And myrrh was a spice that was used at burials. Strange gift for a baby. And we see that three times in Luke chapter 9, Jesus says the Son of Man must go up to Jerusalem and die. And we realize we've never really grasped the coming of that baby until we see him as a sin offering. A substitute. You see, an offering means a substitute. What is offered is offered as a substitute on behalf of the one making the offering. Jesus is a sin offering for us. Why? What's the this is the E part, the result, his result of all of this The result, Paul says, is that this was an effective sin offering. God did this. He did what the law could never do for us. by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful man to be a sin offering. And so he condemned sin. in sinful man, in order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully met in us. Man, do you see what that's saying? That's why there's no condemnation. Because Jesus has already been condemned. He who fulfilled the law perfectly. Has now satisfied its requirements, and the full, exacting requirements of the law have been met in us. Fully met. I mean that's another word, Gary C that you ought to really underline and highlight. Fully met those two words. Fully met. Nothing that we can add to that. Nothing that we need to do with it. They have been met in us. Why in us? Because when Jesus has the sin offering fulfilled all the righteous requirements of the law in terms of his fulfilling it, and then suffering all the punishments due to those who didn't fulfill it God took that just like a bank account and he said, I'm going to transfer the accounts now. I'm going to put into your account. Jesus' righteousness. And so God looks at your life and He sees in that life not the guilt and the pollution of all the things that you and I have not done in keeping the law. but he sees the righteous requirements of the law fully met in you. Do you believe that, Christian? Do you believe that if you've come here without a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, then he is able to do that? How can we go into Christmas, whatever our circumstances are, without pausing and stopping and saying, Lord, help me not to get caught up with all the tinsel and miss the fact? That because Jesus came as a sin offering, the righteous requirements of your very eye of omniscience have been fulfilled fully in me. And I know that you smile upon me, that you not only love me, but you like me. That you want me in your presence because Jesus has taken care of everything in my life that alienates you from me. The righteous requirements have been fully met in us. And that's why he says at the end of chapter 7, After he has spoken in verses 14 to 23 about his helplessness to keep the law, he says, thanks be to God. Because he is going to deliver me from the very power of that law. Because God sent his own son to be a sin offering. And take the penalty, and to deliver me from the power. And then he begins in the very next verse, the first verse of chapter 8. There is now, therefore, no condemnation to you and to me. We can look at God and look Him in the eye. And we do not have to shudder at the condemnation that we'll receive from that holy burning eye. But we know it's the eye of our Father and not our Judge. Because Jesus became the sin offering. But it's not for everyone. You see, the end of verse 4 says, in us who do not live according to the sinful nature, but according to the spirit. You see, this is a promise to those who are indwelt by the Spirit of God, to those who recognize their need and therefore cast themselves upon Jesus for mercy. And have said, no, Lord, I don't want to live according to my own sinful nature anymore. Lord, I want for your spirit to take my life. I want to belong to Jesus. I want to give myself to you. And if you've never done that, But you're thinking that uh Christmas is a good time to be able to hear something biblical, something spiritual. And then I invite and I encourage and I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ. That you would come and that you would recognize your need and his provision, your problem and his solution. In sending his own son for you, that you might have his sacrifice applied to your life. But as a Christian As you see this, may the joy of it fill your heart. May in all the busyness of what we're going to do, the good news that what you and I could never do. God did in sending his Son so that the righteous requirements of his law are fully met in you this morning because you belong to Jesus. Let's pray. Oh Lord, may the joy of this ring in our hearts. May we consider what it means? That the righteous requirements of the law were met in me. And may we see, Lord, as we think of that baby born in Bethlehem in the manger. The very purpose of the birth of that baby was to die, to be the Lamb of God, slain for the sins of the world. Lord Jesus, may we worship you as the Lamb slain. May we not patronizingly think in vague terms of how nice it was that God showed his love for us by sending his son. Without thinking of the purpose of that commission. Lord, we pray that you will give to us such a love for you that as we're with our friends and our neighbors and our families. And there is the general, vague reference to why Jesus came. That you give us a holy boldness, a gentleness, not not an arrogance, but a gentleness, just born out of love for you, out of hearts that are full for meditating on this, to simply speak in simple terms of the purpose of that birth. He was born to be a sin offering. Ah Lord, glory be to you for the plan and the execution of your solution for us. How we look forward to that time when there will be no more power of sin over us. How we thank you that even this morning there is no condemnation. And that we can look before you, we can look up to you with a clear conscience because of Jesus. Amen.