Please turn with me to First Corinthians chapter six. I think this has got to be a record at Columbia Presbyterian Church where eight minutes into the service and we're all ready for the sermon. First Corinthians chapter six. We'll be reading verses twelve and following to the end of the chapter. First Corinthians six twelve. Everything is permissible for me, but not everything is beneficial. Everything is permissible for me, but I will not be mastered by anything. Food for the stomach, and the stomach for food, but God will destroy them both. The body is not meant for sexual immorality, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. By his power God raised the Lord from the dead, and he will raise us also. Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ Himself? Shall I then take the members of Christ and unite them with a prostitute? Never. Do you not know that he who unites himself with a prostitute is one with her in body? For it is said the two will become one flesh. But he who unites himself with the Lord is one with him in spirit. Flee from sexual immorality. All other sins a man commits are outside his body. But he who sins sexually sins against his own body. Do you not know that your life? Your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have received from God. You are not your own. You are bought at a price. Therefore, honor God with your body. Let's pray. Our Lord, we thank you this morning that we come as people who believe your word and that we can come and learn from it this morning. Lord, we thank you for the truth of the gospel, for the good news. that it is. We pray that good news would be pressed upon our hearts today and that we might glorify you and honor you with our whole lives. We pray for your Spirit to come now and speak to us as your word is open. And applied to each one of us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. You might call Corinth the sin city of Greece. It would easily surpass the wicked. Of Baltimore or Washington or even Columbia. It would uh I guess make Columbia look like a girl scout camp. It was the home, the center for the worship of Aphrodite, and you can imagine that uh despicable But it was if it wasn't bad enough what went on in the city That as we read in Corinthians, we see that it also had infiltrated the church. Paul had alluded to it earlier in the first six chapters, but now he comes to bear down and to show the Corinthians how how unthinkable what was taking place in their church really was as he comes to this. Now if Paul were like me, he would blast him. You know, he you know my Marine comes out at me a lot. Al tells me, you know, that I I exhort a little too much and I sometimes I'm uh I guess it's from my background in the Marine Corps. You know, they have a philosophy that every problem is solvable by big sledgehammers, you know. That if all else fails, attack. But uh you don't go around you go through them. So if I were Paul and I'm you know I've been kind of getting through first six chapters and I come here and I really want to nail home this this thick of these awful things that are going on here in Corinth, I wouldn't give commands. But Paul doesn't give commands here. He gives a few, but when he really bears down here in the last two verses of chapter 6, he gives indicatives, not imperatives. And this is something God's really been teaching me about. about in my own life. An indicative is something that indicates something. It's a fact. It's not a command necessarily. And then he ends with a command, the last mind, therefore honor God or glorify God in your body. Historically and uh since the Reformation especially, we've really stressed that the imperatives of the Christian life flow from the indicatives, from the facts. And sometimes the indicatives, the facts, can be more powerful than the command. For example, someone might tell you, get your baby and run out of the house right now. Alright, that's a strong imperative, but the indicative your attic is on fire might be much more powerful to get you to do that. And here Paul uses the indicatives, some beautiful, marvelous indicatives, three of them, to press home an important fact. It applies not only to the immorality taking place in Corinth, but these three indicatives I think have an effect upon they certainly have Had an effect upon me. This verse is probably one that is that God has used more in my sanctification than any other couple of verses. So let's begin with verse 19 as we look at these indicatives and see the imperatives, the commands flow from the indicatives. The first one we see is that our bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit. And this is nothing new. We know this. Romans 8. 9 tells us that all Christians have the Holy Spirit. But think about what Paul, why this means so much to him. It's not a new truth that God wants to dwell with his people. We saw way back in the Old Testament that God would dwell with his people. We saw the Holy of Holies and how God came and was with his people. We see in John 1 that the word became flesh and dwelled. dwelt among us, a further unfolding of God dwelling with his people in the person of Jesus Christ, of dwelling with his creatures. The word there for dwell is tabernacle, God tabernacle among his people. In Revelation twenty one, three, it's that very end. We see that God will dwell with his people and will be with them. He will be their God. So it's a theme all the way through the Bible. But then here in this age And when Paul wrote, the Holy Spirit, God Almighty, by the Holy Spirit has come to dwell in the lives of the Christians. Now, why does Paul use that as an indicative for this argument against immorality and against any other sin for Christians? Now think of Paul. It's he has his rich Jewish heritage and he's thinking of the Holy of Holies, the place where God dwells. And it's interesting when he uses the word your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit here, he doesn't use the word for the whole temple. You know, he uses the word for the inner sanctuary. Your bodies, Corinthians and Columbians. Your body is a temple, an inner sanctuary of the Holy Spirit. Now even a nominal Jew, it would be unthinkable that someone would go in and desecrate the Holy of Holies. And Paul, the force of his argument is, we are temples, the Holy of Holies in a sense, of the Lord God Almighty, how can such a thing be happening among you? He said to the Corinthians. And the force of that applies to us in every circumstance and in all of our sin. Think that the Lord God Almighty lives in us. We are joined to Christ in the mystical union with our Lord Jesus Christ. We are his. We belong to him. And he is in us. Uh we think that it's bad when a congressman or a judge or someone does some uh you know awful act and it's publicized in the newspaper. It seems to be worse for some reason. How much worse is it when a Christian, a person who is join to Christ, bring Christ, so to speak, to participate in such sins as these that were happening in Corinth Corinthian church. You know, when I was little we used to sing this song uh went something like this, watch your feet, watch your feet. Where they walk. So the father up above looks down and tenderly. That's true. God watches us, but it's closer than that. He's with us. But it's even closer than that. He's in us. I don't think that's really come home to me with a full force of it. That that when I go, when I think bad thoughts, when when we gossip or when we uh go watch things that we shouldn't watch, I'm not gonna pick on the soap operas, they've had enough uh the last couple of weeks. But when we watch things that we watch, when we think things that we think, when we participate in things that we shouldn't, as young people, as older people, whatever, that we are taking the Lord Jesus Christ there with us because we are united with him. That has some force to it as I thought about that this week. More than Jesus just walking with us like you know we've heard before and I thought of he did, and it's and in a way he doesn't sin, and yet in a way it's almost as if he's painted with our sin when we take in places with us. So the first imperative or indicative that Paul uses is he says, Do you not know that your bodies are temples of the Holy Spirit who is in you? Now this is sobering a little bit what I've just said, but you know what's awful exciting. It's exciting because it's a wonderful thing that He is in us and that we have His power and we have He's with us as we go to conquer sin, to help us as we seek, to overcome sin in our lives. That's an exciting thing. But the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ is united with us. He's not just looking above from above, although he does that. He's not just with us, although he is with us. He is in us by the power of his spirit to lead us, to help us, to give us power. We are partakers of the divine nature, Peter tells us. us in first in second Peter one four. That uh that is exciting. But the second indicative that Paul gives becomes even more powerful when you put it with a first. Not only uh does the Holy Spirit dwell in us, but he tells us That we are not our own. We do not belong to ourselves. We belong to Him. Over in Europe, the Lord of the Land would take his vassals, and the vassals would come and they would put their hands in medieval days like this, and the Lord would take his hands and put them over the outside of the vassal's hands, and it was a symbol That vassal belonged to the Lord. He belonged to him as his servant. There was an obligation that went with that. He did not belong to himself, he belonged to his Lord. I read a story recently. recently about some Moravian Christians several centuries ago. They heard of uh some people across the Atlantic. They were in Europe, across the Atlantic, who did not have the gospel, that did not know of Jesus Christ. These were poor, simple Moravians. And as they heard this, they were the ones that followed and were with Count uh Zinzendor. And as they uh heard of this They were moved. They said, We'll go. We'll go. The whole group of them said, We'll go and take the gospel to these people. Now that seems uh to reflect their Christian commitment, certainly. But it becomes even more incredible when we find out that in order for them to do that, they were told they would have to become slaves. Because the only way to penetrate these people who were slaves were to become slaves themselves and to go across on ships as slaves. And to come to these people and tell 'em the good news of Jesus Christ. Now the world would certainly say that's fanatical. The Christian says we are not our own. Even with our modern twentieth century Christianity we might say that That's that's just crazy. We can't do something like that, and yet if we really come to see what Paul is telling us here, we are not our own. We belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. He is our Lord and our master. We have an obligation to uh to live as if we are not our own. So when you teenagers, when people want you to come and and be a part of what they're doing, can you say no? We are not our own. We belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. Or is it fanatical for a a Christian who's a businessman and to change his jobs? The world might say, Uh, why are you changing your job? And his answer, Well, it it interferes with my family family life. I'm not able to be the Christian man that I that I would have God, that God would have me to be, and I just sense him calling me to change, the world would say that's crazy. To the Christian nothing though is beyond the realm of possibility when we think that we are not Now that certainly is obligatory, isn't it? But it's also very free to think that we belong to Jesus Christ. Think of that vessel. Certainly there's an obligation as he puts his hands in the hand of his Lord. Yes, there's an obligation, but there's also the protection that goes with it, the freedom that goes with it. the with being under the Lord to protect him, to give him uh the protection and the security that he needs. Think of the ushers here at CPC. Okay, they have a new duty. And you may hear from them one of these weeks, can't come in the door, past nine. thirty. Now that might be a little hard for them to do and to say if it was only them deciding that. But it but their fear is they say, Please don't come in yet, because the church has said that this is something that they want. They are freed up because of the other authority under which they come. They're not doing it on their own. And I I was reflecting on that this week as I thought of some of the struggles in my own life and how this idea that we are not our own is not only obligatory and not only uh burns in us the lordship of Christ, but it ought to really free us that we can take risks, that we can move out, that we can be free to obey Christ, because we're not our own. We belong to Him. a freeing thing for us. I've really been wrestling in my own life with uh the struggles of caring what others think of um in my preaching, in my teaching, in my leadership in the church of someone new in this business. It's so easy to to uh to want to perform and to care about uh what do they think of me. It was easy this past week as we went to St. Louis and we were assessed and evaluated for four days on whether we were good would be good candidates for the mission field. So care what they thought. And as I was reflecting, I didn't have much time this week, so I thought we'd have time to uh on our own this week. I didn't have much time to work on a sermon there. But as I reflected on this passage, and particularly this part, that I am not my own, I always thought of it in an obligatory. sense. But this week it came home to me that this should really free us to think that we're not our own. That as those people evaluate me, I belong to the Lord Jesus Christ. They can do what they want. I'm His. He's in control. Here's my life, Lord. I'll do the best that I can with what you've given me and seek to serve you on not my own. That is freeing. It's freeing when we think of those people that we'd like to share the gospel with, but we're afraid to. We're not our own. He is like an ambassador. It's freeing for the ambassador because he's under the authority of the president. He just carries the message. We're not our own. It should free us as we tell the good news of Jesus Christ. We can be free to to take risks when we Think of so many Christians who struggle with self-image, all on no good. This this truth that we are not our own ought to give comfort to us. We don't belong to ourselves. We are Christ. It ought to free us as well as obligate us. Why are we not our own? I think this third one here, this third indicative is the greatest of all the indicatives. We were bought with a great price. That's why we are not our own. In my own struggles as a Christian, I'm more, like I mentioned before, charge, duty, obligation, try harder in the Lord's strength, of course, but but push on, you know. I've really been learning. Since I've been here the last few months, not new information, but the depth and the importance of looking and meditating on just what Jesus Christ has done for us, and that being the motivation to follow Christ and obey Him. him. That the imperative, the obedience, flows from what Jesus Christ has done for us. He has bought us with a great price. And that is something that is becoming so precious to me. And the in a greater and greater motive than my Christian life to think and really dwell on what Jesus Christ has done for me. That should really move us. We just sang, when I survey the wondrous cross on which the Prince of Glory died. And I was thinking about that word survey. A surveyor doesn't just pace it off quickly, but he scrutinizes. They measure, they go back and they do it again. We need to survey that wondrous cross, to scrutinize it, to look at it from different directions, to think that we have been bought with a price. It's more than duty and obligation to obey Jesus Christ and follow him, to submit to him as our Lord. It's out of gratitude for what he has done for us. You see there in your outline it mentions a a couple of things that I think help us to scrutinize this fact here. And I know they always say don't use Greek and grammar and all that stuff when you uh when you preach a sermon, but uh to me here this is a a couple things on that verse Verb bought helped to scrutinize this beauty of Christ by us and what he's done for us. First it's in the passive voice, the the the verb there. Passive means that it's not us that's active, it's we are being acted upon. We didn't do anything to buy ourselves. The Lord Jesus Christ, He bought us. He is the one that did it. It's nothing that we have done ourselves, but He bought us out of His own free love for us. That He is the one that did it. We can claim no credit. And the second there, it's an eris tense. The eras tense, there are two different past tenses in in Greek. One of them is a past tense that continues. One of them is a past tense that is point action. This is the one that is point action. Didn't Jesus say on the cross, it is finished, it is done, it is paid for? The buying of his people is done. It's over. He has paid the price, never to die again. For those who have been bought, it is a passion. completed action. He actively intervened. He brought us back, even though we all rebelled against him and we don't deserve it. Why would he do that? Why would his love be so great for us? What should our response be to him? A Korean friend of mine told me a story about a Korean pastor during the uh Korean War. One of the communists that was in the South that was a sympathizer had killed uh his two sons during the war. And after the war, this Korean pastor, after he worked through his brief, went to the authorities and then the the flux and the difficulties of rearranging the government and the laws and all that. He was able to redeem of sorts this man who had killed his two sons. He brought him into his home to live as his son. Now think of him day after day seeing this guy that had killed his son. son in his home, eating with him, talking to him, his love grew for him. Now we look at that and we say, I don't know if I could do that. That, in a much more infinite way, is the kind of love that the Lord has had for us that He would buy us. That He would buy us back. Think of the story of Hosea of Hosea in the Bible. Hosea, uh whose wife had uh been unfaithful to him and was adulterous, and yet Hosea The Lord tells him to go and to buy a back of sorts. Picture him maybe going through the slave market, and there she is, the one who has who has done such evil to him. And unfaithfulness is something that hurts so bad for those who have experienced it. was painful and yet the love that he had or that God gave him in order to buy her back. That's a picture of what the Lord has done for us. But it's not only that he has bought us back, even though we're adulterers, not like the Song of Solomon, you know little different picture here. Song of Solomon, remember how preached, she was faithful. She was a a a good bride. But Hosea goes even deeper, I think, to show us that we, as his people, we are an evil bride. And yet he has loved us enough. To buy us back we are bought with a price. And it comes into even greater relief it seems when we think of the price and the greatness of that price. It was as as Glenn read earlier from Peter, or said earlier from Peter, not with gold or silver but The blood of Jesus Christ. That is what it costs to buy us back. Yes, there is forgiveness and it's free, but it's not cheap because it costs the blood of Jesus Christ that we could be free from our sin. The other night I was with Marshall Stenchcombe. I think most of you have heard that he di that he died yesterday. Um I was with him Friday night and he was only responding very little bit with his right side. He was in intensive care and uh went around And I read from John fourteen to him, Let not your heart be troubled, believe in God, believe also in me, in my father's house, in many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to the fair place. for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also. And I I asked him, said I had the mask over his face, said Marshall, do you Do you believe that? Do you know that Jesus has paid the price for you? So if you do squeeze my hand, he squeezed my hand. We had prayer together and uh he uh said do you believe that Jesus is your only hope and squeeze my hand again after we pray. Marshall professed that he knew about that price, that great price, which was his only hope, and which is our only hope. That's the only hope that anyone can have. None of us can pay a portion of the price. The only price is what the Lord Jesus Christ has done in our place. He has bought us with a great price. And the price has been his own blood. And the question is, what is our response to that price? Remember, Paul is here instead of exhausting He's been giving the indicatives. We are not our own. The Holy Spirit was in us. And now the greatest indicative, we have been bought with a price. What would you think if that Korean pastor who had let that that fellow who had killed his sons, come into his home, had poured out his love upon him, and then that guy lived in utter disregard or animosity towards that Korean pastor. Oh, we would say that is awful. How much Much worse is it if we as his children don't live in love and obedience to our Lord Jesus Christ, not because we're obligated to, although we are, not out of duty, although we are, but when we think that he has done for us, that he has bought us with a price. That should be the greatest motivator in our lives. And for me that's something that's becoming newer and fresher. But it's not out of the duty, not because I push harder. Because Jesus has died for me. He has bought me with a price. That should be the thing that moves us to love him as we sing. When I survey the wondrous cross, upon which the Prince of Glory died. And the last line, Demand, my soul, my life, my all. It's hard to let that get down inside of us. I think some words of song. And this is old. We've heard it all our lives that Jesus paid the price. I trust you have. If you haven't, maybe you need to commit yourself to him. Not maybe you do need to believe in him and trust him as your price if you haven't done that before. He offers that to you to free you. to give you the free salvation which he offers. A couple of verses of hymns have just helped me as I've meditated and reflected on the price and the greatness of that price and how that should move me to a greater love for Christ. You know often says that the Trinity hymnal is not quite as good to sing as it is for devotions and I think there may be some truth there. But to really to use that in your devotions, to take the hands and reflect on the the price and what Christ has done that He has bought us really I know I found it helpful in my devotions. Here's one of the verses from uh a hymn we sang a couple weeks ago. It's not in the Trinity this one. And can it be that I should gain? Just think of this as we try to scrutinize that we have And bought with a price. 'Tis mystery all, the immortal dies. Who can explore his strange design? In vain the firstborn seraph tries to sound the depths of love divine. Who can understand it? 'Tis mercy all, let earth adore, let angel minds inquire no more, amazing love. How can it be that thou, my God, shouldst die for me? For from the hymn, How Great Thou Art, O when I I think that God, his son, not sparing, sent him to die. I scarce can take it in. Think of that time. I scarce can take it in. Can you really fathom it? What should our response be? Oh, when I think that God, his son, not sparing, sent him to die, I scarce can take it in. We can't really take it in. We can't pay for it. We can't do anything to earn it. But what can we do? We can do the last line that Paul says. It applies whether the sin is immorality, it applies to every Christian. The Holy Spirit lives. in us, we are not our own, but the knockout punch is he has bought us with a price. Therefore glorify God in your bodies. Glorify God in your bodies. In light of all of these things. But therefore is weak Must glorify him and seek to follow him. How can I say thanks to him for the things that he has done for me? Things so undeserved that he gave himself to prove his love to me. The only thing that we can do is to Say to God be the glory, and to seek to glorify Him out of gratitude for what He has done for us. Let me move my life. Let it be sweet for me.