And it was the top ten college mascots and the number of times they showed up. How many missionaries you could support, seminaries you could endow, churches you could build, hungry people you could feed, just if you sinned once When he says to Satan, who suggests that he not have to die, but can be a Messiah without undergoing that baptism, get behind me, Satan. Now I'll never forget one of 'em that I I don't remember the title of it or anything, but one of them was talking about how, you know, if if you sense demonic activity in your life or something, just sing Amazing Grace, because Satan hates that song. When I was in Texas, we had a real fine distinction between the two. I'm going to just pretend that uh I'm translating this into Texas, Abilene style. It's just not useful, and they always go to James chapter 1 and talk about how when we're tempted, it's the evil desires within our own hearts which are rising up. If you brought your Bibles this morning, turn with me to Matthew chapter 4. Father God, we thank you so much that you are the God who gave us your word, Lord, not only sending Jesus Christ, but giving us the Bible. And Lord, in your word, you tell us that that harvest is that we might go out in joy and be led forth in peace. It is written, Man does not live on bread alone, but on every word that comes from the mouth of God. The first thing I asked myself was, what are there three of? So uh I'm gonna cram one last thing in here before we go straight to the third temptation. with sinful, dirty people taking their place on the banks of the Jordan and saying, I will undergo this baptism for them. It's kind of just a short little mess and kind of like GIT And it's the sense of getaway And you know, I I have to ask myself, if Satan can quote Scripture on his very lips, why is he going to be so afraid of the words of a song written by a fallen man? Are you resolved in your heart and your mind to worship the Lord your God only and to serve Him only? And he will give you many years in the land he swore to give to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. All this I will give you, he said, if you will bow down and worship me. preach a couple sermons here and I found out there was three and that I could find a way of getting them all in a row. Uh and that's maybe why they have internships so that we can figure out how to plan a little better. I can't tell you how many fishing lures are called red devils, little devils, spinning devils. And how many times have you seen a little kid running around here in church and want to say, ah, you little devil? You cannot do it. He did that from the garden when he said to Eve and to Adam who was with her, Did God really say? And in the next chapter we see, through the beasts who serve him, that his goal is to attract the worship of people to himself rather than God. And then you walked around the block and they offered to sell you back your own watch. And in Christ's response, we see that the basis of his resistance is this: that he knows where he's going. You are my son, whom I love, with you I am well pleased. In those days, baptism was not the covenant sign. And in that picture where the psalmist says, We have not broken your covenant, he says, we have not strayed from the path. Straying from the path, not having strayed from the path. We have got to say that it is crystal clear that Jesus Christ, at the beginning of his ministry, has determined to live Scripture. And we're told in Luke's account that Satan left him for a while. Why it's so very, very useful for you and me to remember always that Christ is tempting us and seeking to get us to bend our knee to Him. in order that a third party might pray more effectively? For I command you today to love the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commands, decrees, and laws, then you will live and increase, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land you are entering to possess. And when we are tempted to think that by obeying God we are denying ourselves pleasure, we are denying ourselves splendor, we are denying ourselves good old-fashioned American fun. The tempter came to him and said, If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. If you are the Son of God, he said, throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command his angels concerning you, and they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against the stone. Jesus answered him, It is also written, Do not put the Lord your God to the test. Then the devil left him and angels came and attended him. And I think that very often we fall into one of two errors that C. We either trivialize them. But it also tells us that neither angels nor demons can separate us from the love of God. This action to bow down and worship Satan is a means to an end. To be challenged to behave in ways that we know are presumptuous or demonstrate a lack of faith. Satan is the deceiver of God's people, the one who seeks to lead the world astray. Having deceived and led God's people astray, when Christ comes back to win them for himself, and he's trying to offer Christ what he stole from him and what he knows Christ is going to get anyway. Begging him, knowing that he is the most high, the son of the most high, knowing that he's come to torment them, begging that he not do it yet. We may be sure that Satan has read the book of Daniel and knows about the promise that the Son of Man will have all authority and dominion. We may be sure that he read Psalm 2 and knew it as well as we saw he knew Psalm 91 last week, and knew that the kingdoms were Christ's inheritance. He would have to be hung up on that tree, filled with shame, naked, exposed. If when they were first tempted to use drugs, they had been tempted with the reality of drug abuse, a broken life, unemployment He presents us with drugs as a release from tension, something that might help us relax, something that will help us to enjoy life. That he would not be swayed. I don't think it's a coincidence that that is the exact word that Jesus uses in Mark 8, verse 33. Now last week we talked about how Satan very meticulously quoted the Greek in the equivalent of the King James Bible back then, word for word. So did Greek and Hebrew. Scriptures that we can just spit out when we're feeling tempted that Satan's gonna leave us be. But when Jesus reads these, Jesus, that Israel, that son of God who is called out of Egypt, read his Bible. Not just memorizing it, not just knowing the words to a couple of famous hymns, but determining to live it. He is ever eager for us to let our guards down or to think that we have finished that aspect of our discipleship which involves resisting temptation. But Satan in casting his fiery darts, what we have seen here, is able to manipulate surroundings. It is n it's a foreign thing for new creations, new people to think these thoughts, and yet we do. Because Satan is alive and well on planet Earth. Those are all instances where we as the people of God decide that, well, for this bigger reason, I'm exempt from obeying these laws. And in as much as we disobey God, we cause Satan to kick up his heels and clatter. We began this morning by asking two questions about Satan. You will not live long in the land you are crossing the Jordan to enter and possess. So that you and your children may live, and that you may love the Lord your God, listen to his voice, and hold fast to him. For the light that you were to all men. We thank you for the fact that you came to live your life for us and gave your life for us. And paid our penalty for us that we might be sons and daughters of God. Are you a son of God? Which side do you line up on this morning? These words were spoken to the people of Israel by God through his servant Moses, just as they were about to cross the Jordan River. Are you across the river on your way to the Promised Land, a child of God bound for heaven? Lord, we thank you for your promise that even as you don't send rain or snow to the earth without it producing its harvest, Lord, your word will not return empty, and it will produce its harvest Devil's food cake. Revelation 20, we see it spelled out very, very clearly that his goal is to deceive the nations. A dysfunctional family at best. In order to win that kingdom. Satan offers Jesus is the splendor of the world and the authority of the world. But he came with an eye out not for the righteous or for the glorious, but for the sinful and the wicked. All I'm doing is causing God sorrow because he's looking down at me and he's saying, You're my son. Heinous to be avoided, to not be thought about and joked about like that. I know many of us, whenever anybody sneezes, the first thing out of our mouth is, God bless you. Satan himself cannot, cannot take away your faith in Christ. If Satan's minions know what end God has in store for this Christ, we may be sure that Satan does. Christ would have to die. And those little hooks that Satan leaves in these temptations stay with us. Take this temptation and get away from me, because I know where I'm going. Now when I was in high school we used to have uh when Halloween we'd roll around, we'd have Halloween parties and different youth leaders from time to time would uh we did a couple of these with other churches, some with other uh high school ministries. It's written in the plural to God's people. The Hebrew reads, Worship the Lord Yahs God, and serve him only. Jesus Christ did not simply write the rules. I know that so often I think that when I sin, all I'm doing is breaking God's heart. Have you resolved that in the midst of a life which is a spiritual struggle, which is a long-distance race, the tools of which are described as weapons of war? And you're just passing through? Challenging you, trying to make you feel guilty, and he's the tempter of God's people, the enemy of God's people who wants to destroy you That is because you sin. But this one's different, because the action itself is about as sinful an action as you or I could conceive of, because it is obedience to the very heart of the devil. Earlier in Steve Green's prayer, he prayed in corporate confession that we know that our sins are legion. He knows that our sin we know that our sins are many, countless, thousands upon thousands, like a Roman legion. It's not like Satan ever hollers out, Uncle, Uncle, and leaves you be for a decade. Think about drug abuse. On the street, not a penny to their name, filled with shame. Do not put the Lord your God to the test. He runs away when he can see that you are determined to live Scripture, and then for a season. I have had people challenge me and say, it is simply not useful to think about Satan as the tempter of God's people. Have you determined in your life to live Scripture, to make what the words of the Bible say true in your life by God's grace and the work of his Spirit But if your heart turns away and you are not obedient, and if you are drawn away to bow down to other gods and worship them, I declare to you this day that you will certainly be destroyed. Are you sitting on the other side, not lined up with Christ, with no hope for eternity? I asked the question at the top, who is Satan anyway? Positions are right. But they were done in ways that led to sin because they were based on unbelief, because they were based on pride But he's just saying, let me lay it down like this. He's not saying here, do this good thing that bad might be increased in your life. Not only is the action a means to an end, a means which is evil to an end, but it is an action that's based on a lie. That the nations, the kingdoms, and their splendor are not his to give. In Psalm 2, we read that God says to his son, Ask of me, and I will make the nations your inheritance. Would you buy it? I myself would not be amused for even a minute. Satan has showed them the acceptance, the comfort, the pleasure. A picture of them stealing from their own family so that they can support their habit, lying to their brothers. And I will not be swayed. Good movies, scary movies, movies about the devil and Satan, and about how we were supposed to resist Satan. He didn't even quote it in a way that any of us would translate those passages from the book of Deuteronomy. Jesus Christ did not. Jesus answered him. Because he did not read that and say, Oh, well, 3,000 years ago the people of Israel were not supposed to put No. The first thing is that we need to always remember that Satan is persistent in his tempting. And we sin, tipping the head to Satan. The word of the Lord through Moses his servant. To bow down in worship, kneeling before you, the Lord our Maker, for you are God, and we are the people of your pasture that flock under your care. Is your heart set on that better place, that heavenly country? Satan's ultimate goal is to get us to worship him. Recognize the lie of the devil. We may praise God that we have grace to persevere, but we may also always be on the lookout because here Satan deceptively tempts Jesus by offering him something in its splendor. There's a sense in which we think that if we have our couple of verses laid out for us, our couple of little And he does not give up. And after doing all the work that they teach you to do in seminary to write sermons and stuff, I wound up not with three sermons, but with five. And that is the base of Satan's pride and arrogance. The other temptations were not things that we would say. But when Satan tempts us to do these things, knowing that our inheritance as sons and daughters of God is joy and peace, tempting us to get that joy and peace through an alternative means. From day one, Christ Jesus knew that it was his job to take the place of sinners. After the service. Think about this whole pragmatic approach to the Christian life of the means justifying, the ends justifying the means. But what we see here in Matthew 4 is an awfully disgusting thought, isn't it? And what is your ultimate goal? And in the Old Testament we have this picture of salvation as being entering into the Promised Land, crossing the river of Jordan. Or else we have an unhealthy interest in them. We had a tradition born that immediately you say, God bless you, as if the person will then be protected. How many of them are seeing that temptation in its reality? Satan is ever trying to tempt Jesus to neglect the salvation of his people and to pursue the glory and splendor of the world. John Owen, a writer from 100, 200 years ago, uh talks about how in this activity Satan is even able to interject blasphemous thoughts into our minds. Oftentimes we're tempted to justify our present behaviors based on some future good, based on something up in the future. All you have to do, Jesus, is right here in the wilderness. You haven't even called Peter yet, so he won't get mad at you for him denying you later. And as I look at this text, I can't help but thank Jesus that he did not come to accept the splendor and the authority of the world. Those liberal scholars that I have to read in seminary who think that Jesus only died because he was frustrated in his plan to put together a grassroots organization could not be wrong. I am to worship and serve Him only. As we struggle with temptation too, be aware that God says He is the Father of lights, who gives every good and perfect gift. But before we read those first eleven verses again, let's take a moment and remember our God Something that no doubt has Satan rather pleased that we don't think that devils and demons are wicked Think about if Satan were to offer you the kingdoms of the world in their splendor, if you would just bow down once Think for a moment about the temptation to commit adultery. As they are tempted, are thinking about the tears on their spouse's cheeks, the look in the little boy's eyes when he realizes what daddy or mommy did And I guess that if there is a theme that needs to run through my life and your life, it is that. I'd like to close just by reading, and I know I've said that two times now. He's not saying, do this good thing in order that I might sneakily develop this bad thing in your life or encourage this unhealthy spiritual growth. Temptation is something that is close to each one of us. And it was assumed that in that moment when you had no control, a devil could come take you. But the problem with that action, to bow down and worship Satan, is that it's based on a lie Think for a minute about how you'd feel if you were walking through DC and someone robbed you In Psalm 44, 18, we see a particularly powerful picture of keeping the covenant as being staying on the path God has chosen and ordained that we pursue. Father God, how many are your works, how we long to be able to praise you for each one. When we look at this passage, we see very clearly that the lines are drawn. Granted there's also an angel's food cake. Superstition and thinking that Bible verses are good luck charms is not how to resist the devil. But if I was going to like the Adele family's house, I would say, I'm going to y'all's house. But he offers Christ another way to get them, because he also knew that in order to inherit the kingdoms of the world in their splendor, Christ would have to go to the cross and die. Two things that I want to under application there that I just want to draw our attention to as we finish this short series on the temptation of Christ. Oh, well, this is the from verse 7. And so Jesus goes on to Jerusalem. The devil makes us do nothing. And are you determined to not be swayed, to be drawn off the path? He would have to pay with his own life for those kingdoms. But Satan says, I know an easier way for you to get what's coming to you anyway. I want to close with a question. And Lord, we praise you that you have opened our eyes that we might see it. Because I want to preach something that there's three of. The Bible does tell us that the devil is like a lion prowling about seeking to destroy somebody. That's not the only lie involved in Satan's temptation. When temptation comes along the road and seeks to pull me off that path, which Psalm 119 over and over again talks about keeping on the path, not Where are you going? Would you actually say, well yeah, I can pay for that I can uh get it back from this guy for less than I can go buy a new one He would not be distracted. We don't here in Maryland. He was not just the author of our faith, but he perfected it. The idea of devils and demons and Satan himself becomes sort of an addition And the second thing is just this. You people are not to put the Lord your God to the test. These are evil things. They're not thinking that. And it is significant. And yes, he's bound. If I was uh invited to somebody's house after uh after church and they were a single person, I would say, I'm going to your house A daughter of God? S. Baptism was an act of repentance. Who is he? Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the desert to be tempted by the devil. I would be angry. Lewis points out in his screw tape letters are equally problematic for the believer. Father, we ask now that you help us to continue in worship Because while it might be sweet, it's a bitter sweetness, which leaves a long, long aftertaste. Bow down and worship me, and I will give you the kingdoms of the world and their splendor. This is what it says in the Texas style Hebrew. Because we've been thinking about temptation. See, I set before you today life and prosperity, death and destruction. And would you believe in the top five was devils and demons? And what is so helpful for us to see is that disobedience to God is obedience to Satan. Just think about that for a minute. As an example of that, about four years ago or so I was reading in a Time magazine and came across one of those colored sidebars on the far right hand side when you opened it up. How many people you know who abuse drugs or have would have ever done that Do you line up with Jesus or do you line up with Satan? And he knows what it is that he's going to be doing. How many times you have woken up a little bit late for church and decided that, oh, it's okay to speed or to not stop at this stop sign? I don't suppose many of you are surprised by that. Is your ultimate goal heaven where we will worship our God and serve him only? I immediately since all my heroes and the preachers' sermons that I like to read and stuff are they call them expositional, they kind of preach in series is And he responds to Satan in these temptations, having not just read and memorized Scripture, but having already applied it to his life. But what I've been doing is I've been taking I kind of disassembled those other two sermons and crammed them around the corners of the three that I've preached so far. And why is that? It's something that I would dare to say does not ever leave the experience of the Christian. And what is his ultimate goal? Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, Worship the Lord your God and serve him only. We pray this in the name of Christ Jesus, our Savior and our Lord. There is nobody here. Just bow down to me now, and you can have your inheritance now, and you don't have to die. Because they have been shown the intimacy of love in its splendor, not in its truth. Jesus Christ did not quote his second and third responses word for word from the Greek Septuagint. This time I mean it. I want to also look briefly then at what is his goal. Are you like Christ? But in Texas, in Greek and Hebrew we do. He's able to make suggestions about behavior. But it is a leash which under God's sovereignty allows him to try us and to test us that we might grow. Have you resolved to worship the Lord your God and serve Him only? But it's not just that. Somebody whom Satan is going to approach and say, if you are a child of God, And I came across these temptations. And as we look at these temptations, this third temptation jumps out from amongst the three because it's totally different. He would have to drink the cup of the Lord's wrath. That when we sin, we are not only not doing the will of our Father who is in heaven, but we are doing the will of Satan. This day I call heaven and earth as witnesses against you, that I have sent before you life and death, blessings and curses. What Christ could have done with such I will not be swayed. That we humbly depend on God, that we love Him, that we hear His voice, that we bow down and worship Him. Walk down any grocery store store aisle, deviled ham. But we have this idea of looking at devils and demons, and we've kind of made them almost cute. And you and I are able to look to him here in this wilderness, here in this temptation series which he told. And as if you look at your bulletin And he's been doing that It might seem trivial, and it is in light of what we have here in Scripture, but think about how angry you'd be He would have to suffer that death on a cross like a common Roman criminal. Christ spit out scripture three times When we think about whether or not it's useful to consider Satan our tempter, and I want to tell you. One of the things I love about this text, and so many like it in the Bible, is that there's only two sides: there's Satan and Jesus. He's not saying make this bread in order that you might become self-sufficient and proud. Jesus Christ refers at one point to his ministry as being a time of temptation. Several hundred years ago it was first observed maybe that when you sneeze, you're totally out of control of your body. The word that he uses here, away from me, Satan, is the Greek word kupage. When I first found out that I'd get to We need to be like Christ. Are you aware of the fact that your citizenship is in heaven? We've been thinking about the fact that the Bible tells you and me that we have a tempter. In Revelation 12, it's described as leading the whole world astray. And here we have Satan. How many people who are tempted to commit adultery And he does that today, when he encourages you and me to doubt our sonship. And it all comes down to you singular and you plural. You have opened our ears that we might hear your call. Temptation is part of our lives Not many. And this lie is rooted in effect Those passages in Deuteronomy read like this Or are you sitting on the other side? But on the other hand And what he's offering Christ, if he would worship him, is his own inheritance. Not mostly, but only Then the devil took him to the holy city and had him stand on the highest point of the temple. He's saying here, do this bad thing in order that you get this good thing. And when Jesus stepped into that water and was baptized, he aligned himself Nobody's going to see you. We have kept our eyes fixed on our goal. Resisting the devil is all about determining in our hearts to live God's word. When I sin Let's pray. Do this thing for us. And as we look at Luke's gospel in particular and see this road being hammered out straight to Jerusalem where he would die on the cross, we see clearly I'm going to read Deuteronomy chapter 30, verses 15 through 20. Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their splendor. And in that very passage we read about those that those demons saying to Christ And the result of Christ's resistance is humble dependence upon God. Jesus answered, I want to close by asking you two questions. And as I read them, I just want you to ask yourself this: Which side of that river are you on this morning? They were making bread. How many times you have perhaps gossiped and betrayed a confidence that a friend has placed in you And I want to tell you that that's In Luke's account, he talks about how what He knows what his mission on this planet is as the son of his father, as the one who has just heard at his baptism. See the difference? Do not put the Lord Y'all's God to the test. For the Lord is your life. And while you may be tempted, that is all you will be. And yes, Amen, that's true. He lies because he offers Christ inheritance in its splendor. And from the minute he steps into that water and is baptized, which is not a show of piety. I think that when we look at the basis of his resistance Do you know that you are bound for glory But like a rotten fruit with only half of it showing, he didn't show on the other side. We can live our lives either intent upon serving God or not serving God. And that's a problem. Well neither of these Are thinking about watching their kids grow up with one parent instead of two? He said, I am not to put the Lord my God to the test. Satan is diligent in trying to tempt us. And so in that superstitious, unhealthy focus and fear of Satan and the demons. I love to go fishing. Demons and devils, tempters We're tempted. Lord, this morning especially we praise you and we thank you for your word, for your truth. What is this tempter's goal? I will not, like so many sheep, go astray, leave the path. And verse 10 He doesn't run away when you say a Bible verse or sing a song. And it's not how Christ did. Amen. I want you to think about that temptation here. A picture of them unemployed and unemployable And we need to say, get out of the way, Satan. Now I'm going to pretend for a minute They had a way of saying y'all versus you After fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. Either disbelief. This morning we ask in Christ's name. We doubt. For Jesus, it was Jerusalem and the cross. Nobody's eavesdropping. That doesn't have to be a big thing What are you doing? You have softened our hard hearts that we might obey you. It does tell us that Satan is the accuser of God's people. Why Who are you? They were trusting in God radically. He read He earned it, he was given it by God. And so we sin. And Lord, we thank you for your obedience. Amen. In fact, he's doing it the opposite way. And I want to draw your attention to this second point. And what is your ultimate goal? You can't keep your eyes open. Trivial as they might be, If you sin. That we might love you. Now choose life. Try it sometime. They'd show us these