So as Tim mentioned, I had uh privilege and opportunity to introduce our speaker this morning. Um I got to know Tito Tito, he uh I guess about six years ago when I first came, he was one of of the speakers we had for our missions conference. And um ever since then I I think every time I've introduced him, I've said he's one of my favorite preachers, and I'm not just saying that because he's here. but because he is uh passionate about the gospel and it's exciting to see that come from him and to know that Tito is not just anybody that we support here at our church. He came from us. He's from Baltimore. He was sent out from our church. And that's exciting for me because that's what I hope to see happen And some of you. You know, we want you guys to go out into the world to do what Tito's doing. And so it's awesome to have uh Tito come back. If you weren't here in the middle hour Uh he shared a lot about their ministry and where they're laboring. He's in El Paso, he's a pastor there, uh planting a church, and it's a lot of exciting work along the border. region, but I would encourage you to talk to Tito after the service. He'll be either here or in the lobby, but uh ask him a little bit more about what he's doing. But I'll bring up now Tito Padilla. Thank you, Robbie. Pues es una alegría estar aquí entre ustedes. Y lo que Robin no les dijo es que voy a predicar en español. He's looking at me and he says, What Robbie didn't tell you is I'm gonna preach in Spanish today. He says, Whatever. That'll work You know, I say that whatever and my uh daughters, uh Lizzie and Becca, they've been after me for years to say, Dad, you can't say that in public because you don't know how to say it right. And so I'm practicing one day I'm gonna get that whatever, you know, say it with that particular way, you know, that kids say that. So Um it is a delight to to be here with you. Boy, it's it's wonderful. It's a great facility that you have, and God has blessed you. Uh thank you so much. And uh some of you heard uh earlier from Samuel Lopez who's my partner in crime there in um in Juarez. I guess I shouldn't say that. Uh at least not that way. Um Yeah, he's uh a partner in the gospel. Uh that's better. That's what I'm supposed to say. Um so anyways talk to him afterwards and uh he understands a good bit of English, right? He says yes, more or less and So uh but he'd be happy to share with you about what's going on on the Juarez side of things, um, and whereas you know we work on the El Paso side But let's pray and ask the Lord to teach us. Our Father, we want to give ourselves to you, because you have given yourself to us in the person of Jesus. And this morning. Would you open our hearts? Would you open our minds? Would you open us up? Would you examine us by your Holy Spirit? And would you display before our eyes the glorious Savior? That we might see him, even as we look at ourselves. But seeing him, we might know once again the great love that you have for us, O Lord, and the great love that you have for a people that you have redeemed. We thank you, oh God, for your word and and ask that you would be the one ministering this morning. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. It was hard to hear. No, I don't mean it was hard to hear physically, but this past week On Monday and Tuesday, I was actually listening to a pastor who was sharing about a sin. He had become addicted to narcotic medication. And it was hard to hear spiritually, emotionally, because as he shared About this journey into this addiction, into this drug life. He also exposed my heart. Because he talked about all these dispositions of his own heart, some of those things that led him to this addiction. You see, beneath that particular sin, as you well know, there are a host of other sins that drive us oftentimes And it led me to reflect on the deeper dispositions of my heart, particularly as it is applied to sharing the gospel. missions, evangelism. I asked myself, what's really going on in my heart? That's a tough question to ask and it's even harder to answer at times. And it made me realize that by God's grace I need a new depth of honesty. If I'm not to burn out If Samuel is not to burn out, if we are not to just simply go through the motions of sharing the gospel and feeling, okay, I'm a missionary, I can check this off my list now, there needs to be a new depth of honesty. As I think about how I proclaim the gospel, so that it glorifies Jesus. And it hurts to think that there are times when I proclaim the gospel And do it without grace. Oh, of course, that doesn't happen to the missionaries and pastors, right? Well of course it does And I want to suggest to you, even as we look at this passage, and I'm going to look at it a little differently than perhaps you have heard about it in the past. And obviously you know Paul is talking about how the gospel about the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and how it's not only worked in us as individuals, but it's so worked so that those individuals that hated each other, Jews and Gentiles, actually are formed into a body, a church. It's powerful when you think about how the gospel transforms. But I want to suggest to you as Paul talks about hostility That missions begins with this renewed sense of honesty about looking at barriers and even hostility in our hearts. I want you to accompany me as we look at Paul's words. In verses 11 Also in 14 and 15 we see Paul talks about this hostility. Remember who Paul is, right? He's a Jew called to preach the gospel to the Gentiles, to non-Jews. And he's quite honest and he says, Do you remember the time when there was this hostility between you two? And so they're in this church, they've been united by the grace of God, but there was a time in which they hated each other. Are you a hostile person? You know, I look at my own life and I I don't see myself as a hostile person. You know, I don't see myself as hostile toward other ethnic ethnicities generally. I I feel and I look at myself, I'm an even tempered man and I'm not given to rage except when I'm around Baltimore and Washington DC. You know, road rage, uh And then, you know, I I I just I look at my life, I go, you know, I'm I'm pretty calm and even, you know, tempered and and then one day I'm I'm I'm praying and I'm I'm wrestling with God in prayer Because there's this person that came to mind, this person of another ethnicity that I struggled with for many years. And um I prayed and I was just disturbed by the brokenness of the relationship and why why it wasn't healing? Why was it still broken? And I imagined myself working with this person and I said, No way. There's no way I could ever work with this person And then I'm talking to God and all this, you know, and trying to wrestle with this and it came out of my mouth and I said, God, but you know the truth of the matter is I hate him I hate 'em? You know, I think that was the first time in my prayer to God that I ever said I hated somebody. And at that moment, I realize That if there's to be healing, if there's to be a right motivation, I had to be honest with myself and I had to realize I could no longer hide the fact that There really is hostility, enmity, even hatred in my heart. But it's kind of buried deeply within me. And it's more insidious than I imagine. But God by His Spirit gave me this lucid moment of biblical theology of sin. Yes, I am a new creature in Christ. Yes, sin doesn't reign in me any longer by the power of the gospel. I've been set free, but yet sin remains, and it's very real. And I realize that there are some people that I'm more alienated from that I want to admit. But I don't like to admit it. That I'm more hostile, but it doesn't look like road rage, not my hostility. It looks a little different. It looks more like indifference at times and apathy. Yeah, that's there in me as well. But I'm not comfortable talking about it always. You know, there are some peoples and there's some cultures that I don't particularly care for much But every once in a while this hostility comes out. There's a window, sometimes, that God brings about through circumstance and providence in our lives. And Paul gives us a couple windows, and one of them is we see in verse eleven insulting words. You see, remember the Jews would call the Gentiles the uncircumcision? Now, to your ears and my ears, that doesn't sound so bad. You know, if you hate somebody, you probably don't go up to them and say, You uncircumcised And they go, Oh, I'm feeling so bad. Why did you say that to me? Yeah, but y you know from a Jewish perspective, I mean the Circumcision was more than just a physical mark, right? A distinction. It was a mark of covenantal privilege, of social standing, of being an insider with God, of spiritual purity of belonging to God. So to call somebody uncircumcised, you're saying to that person you're an outcast. And you're doing with a sense of hostility and hatred Says you have no promise of God, you have no hope, you're separate from Christ, you're nobody Get out of here, you don't belong. Now I can understand that when you be begin to think of it in terms of racial slurs of Puerto Rican descent, this man up here. And so what do they call Puerto Ricans? Spic. That's right. What do they call Mexicans if you have this hostility to them? Well there's all kinds of names. Beaner is one of them Right? Italians, WAPs, white people, crackers, you hear all these names. And I ask myself, and sometimes there's a fine line between humor And hatred. I ask myself when I describe other ethnicities and other peoples How do I do it? Is that a window into my own heart? Or or you see the another window perhaps a sense of superiority And what we find is Paul in verse 14 talks about this wall of hostility. And a lot of commentators believe that Paul is alluding to this wall that separated the the uh court of the Gentiles from the other courts in Herod's temple. Now if you recall and I don't know if there's a there's a slide. No, there's not a slide. Just didn't know there was a slide up there In Herod's temple you have the holy place, the most holy place, and around th those holy places. There you go. There are these courts. There's the court of the priests, the court of the Israel, and then further out the court of the women, all the same level. But each of these courts successively removed, further removed from the holy place. Then from the court of the women, you had to go down five steps. Alright? You went down five steps to another level and there was a wall, about a five-foot wall. Okay? And then you went down another fourteen steps And what do you find? Then you come to the court of the Gentiles. See, so separating the Gentiles, the other nations, there's this wall, and there's this difference of level. Keeping them away from the holy place. So here's this wall that kept the Gentiles separate and distant from a view of God. And you know, some of you may know this, but on that wall there was inscriptions that basically said, any foreigner who passes here You know, you have yourself to blame for your death. You know, we see those. When I walk by the uh wall of the fence on the border, the US Mexico border, you know, trespassers, beware, prohibited, you'll be killed. And I asked myself why? Why this wall separating the Gentiles from the Jewish courts What prompted that? Was it a sense of feeling superior that you felt superior Was it this view of holiness that was wrongheaded? Was it a misunderstanding of the law of God? And I apply it to the wall, this That separates Mexico and the U. S. And there are lots of reasons for erecting that wall. Some are good, but I want to know and I want to ask people, what is it you really think in your heart of hearts about those people on the other side? I understand there are issues of security, but do you hate them? What if they were to come? What would you do? What if they moved next to you? What will you do? And what the gospel is done. And Paul tells us in verse fifteen as Jesus broke down this wall of hostility. But how did he do this? He did it. It says there, when he abolished the law of commandments and ordinances, you go, how does that work? I thought the law was good and holy I thought Jesus came to fulfill the law. Yes, all those things are true. Now, it's difficult and I'm not going to get into the Some of the interpretations of this text, but we can say that at the very least, Paul is referring to the ceremonial law that Jesus Christ fulfilled And we know something about the ceremonial laws, right? You know, the Jews could not eat pork, they had to maintain that things certain clean, they were had to be separate from certain things And even from Gentiles in some sense. But we also know that the law was given. Israel was given the law. Israel to walk with the Lord and to be a light to the Gentiles, a light to the nations. So how do you take these laws of God, even ceremonial laws, and use them in the right way so that you continue to be the light to the nations? But it seems that the reality was that as the Jews used the law and understood the law, it became the basis for hostility and separation. From the Gentiles. And a good gift, then, from God, became the basis, not for evangelism. But for separation. It became a wall and not a bridge Now, Dr. uh Tim Keller, who many of you know, I was listening to him uh at one point he said, you know, you can take this this very idea and this principle and apply it in a more general way. Just as the Jews may have used the law wrongly to set themselves up as superior to the Gentiles and make themselves kind of holier than Gentiles, so that you and I, what we can do, we can take gifts that God gives to us, whether the law, whether with a certain privileges and and we elevate these gifts, we elevate anything, even in our own culture, and we elevate them to such an extent that we stand on this as a platform and we look down on other people. from this platform of our gifts. Do you remember Jesus tells about that Parable of the Pharisee who prayed in Luke eighteen. He says, O Lord, I thank you that I am not like other people. Who was standing next to him? The tax collector, right? I thank you that I'm not like other people. I fast twice a week. I give tithes. And I have to ask myself, Lord, is this is this in my heart? Is this in my heart when I go and proclaim the gospel to the other person? I thank you, Lord, that I'm not like that other person One of the things that we struggle with in Las Tierras Church is that because we're bicultural, we have Mexicans, we have Americans. of other ethnicities in Las Tierras Church that occasionally you hear from the Hispanos, the Latino families and they they look at the American families and they go, Oh, the poor people And I go, what do you mean, poor people? He says, Look, we're very emotionally expressive. We like to express our emotions, you know, and that's a wonderful thing. And they says and what they do, and this is interesting They'll talk about how they're expressive, how they're not afraid to cry and and scream for joy, you know. And then they look at the Americans and they poor people, they're so dry, so dis Yeah. They just don't know how to fun. And so it's so subtle. They take something good about their culture. They take a gift, a privilege, a grace that God has given to them, and they elevate that, and upon that platform they look down condescendingly on other people. I mean you can multiply all kinds of examples. Let me give you another one. Just taking emotion. This happened in Spain many years ago. There was I was at a pastor's conference and there was a A special speaker, Puerto Rican. It wasn't me. Alright. He's a Puerto Rican and uh he was speaking to the Spaniards. Now, if you know anything about Spaniards, Spaniards for the most part are very reserved. Alright. They're not, you know, loud and rambunctions like most Latinos. And so here's this Puerto Rican creature and he is just coming out of his skin I mean, i if somehow you could take his personality and take it out of his skin, he would be there on these laps of these men, these other pastors. He was yelling, he was screaming, he was spitting. It's all right. Now these Spaniards really couldn't they didn't understand this. After two sessions of that, they pulled them aside. They said they said to him, He said, You can You can't do that to us. We're just not accustomed to that. Well, apparently this pastor didn't like it. The following day I saw him in the hall and and he says to me, 'cause he knew I was Puerto Rican, he says It's just they're emotionally castrated, these Spaniards I go, ouch. You see what he was doing from this platform? This gift. He was using the gift against other people You can use the law, you can use the grace, you can use privileges actually in a very bad way And I have to ask myself, have I done that? Have I done that with others? Are there privileges and gifts that I have That I use wrongly to separate myself from people And you know I've told you before in the past how I've had to learn how to adjust my language from the castellano that I learned in Spain to the border language So learn to make up new words. So the roof is leaking, so you say the roof is leakyando You know, and the temptation is to say, no, no, no, no, no, what's wrong with you? That is not a word. Yeah. No? I'm una gotera, there's there's a leak. But yeah, you don't say leakando. But they do. And so I remember a woman saying to me, she says, God can send me anywhere, but just don't send me to Asians. I said, what is it? I remember another occasion I was going into North Africa, and the reason I was going to North Africa is because I wanted to to get our church in Spain ministering in North Africa. And I come come back and I and I said something to my wife, okay, and I'm telling on her now. And I said, Honey, what do you think about going into North Africa? She says, I will never go. She says, I look, I cannot stand Arab Ouch. There's an honesty, a painful honesty Let me ask you, is there a wall? Is the reason you do not share the gospel with other people, whether it's your neighbor or whether it's another uh people group, ethnicity, is it because There's some sort of hostility that's deep in your heart. That's a question for you to to think about. And what I'm learning in this process is that I need the cross of Christ applied to my heart day in and day out. I need to understand things differently. I need to understand that as I go and preach the gospel, as I go and share the gospel with my neighbor, that I do so as a sinner. Yes. I'm redeemed, but I'm still a sinner and I'm still struggling with sin. Do you know and you you've heard, you know, this famous Attribution to G. K. Chesterton when a London newspaper posed the question in asking people to write on this topic of what's wrong with the world? G. K. Chesterton Chesterton wrote, His dear sirs, I am, I am Yours, sincerely yours, G. K. Chesterton. This is the attitude of a person who has grasped the message of the cross. And what I'm understanding is that I've yet to learn how to preach the gospel so that it smells like the gospel, so that it has a shape of the gospel so it has a shape of the cross. Oftentimes our my evangelism is too arrogant and too condescending But how can I preach Christ with arrogance and with hatred in my heart? The cross has to continue to work in me as I speak of the glory of God. I am too prone, like many of you, to a superficial understanding of the work of Christ. Our culture is given to superficiality. And the gospel invites us to go deeper To think deeper about ourselves, about the body of Christ, about the bride of Christ. fifteen and sixteen that he might create in himself this Jesus, one new man in place of the two So making peace and might reconcile us both to God and one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. It is Jesus Christ. It is this very gospel that I proclaim that has to continue to kill this remaining hostility. Yes, he has done it. It is accomplished, but it is being accomplished and being fulfilled in my life until that very day, until I see him face to face, along with all those other people, gathered around the Lamb of God. See, the implication is clear. Jesus had to die for my hostility. This hostility, yes, between Jew and Gentile, but also this hostility that I had toward God. And Jesus Christ suffered the wrath of God that I deserved. Out of love for me, a sinner. He died because of my hostility toward my neighbor and toward other people groups. And that same grace I need day by day to tear down what remains in my heart of this racism and prejudice. It's the cross that will kill this remaining hostility and hatred It's interesting that I read about this hierarchy of hatred and Brian Chapel And his commentary in Ephesians brings this out. He says there are some people in this hierarchy, the scale of hatred. He says they begin like this He says, I have reason, a person may say, I have reason to hate them because of their race. Some some of us are there. And then some move by grace, they move a little further away from that and they get to the point they say, I will tolerate them if they stay in their place And others move a little further away from that? Okay, I'll accept them if they become like us Or you may get to a point and say, well, I'll accept them despite our differences. Or I will love them because God wants us to help them. Or you get to the point you say, I will love them because they are made in the image of God, and because they are a sinner just like I am who needs redemption. Redemption and a Savior. It's very different. But how do you ask yourself this question? How do you take some time, people of God, to be honest about your own heart and attitude? You see, as I go and proclaim the gospel as you go, you go as sinners. You do not leave your sinfulness out of equation. See, if I don't remember that, I will go and think this way. I will go to the person, I will think of myself as one who's been redeemed, rightly so, and I'll say that person has a problem. That person's got sin that needs to be he needs to be saved from. But I forget I have sin that I need to be saved from, that God has accomplished and he will accomplish it fully. You see, as I take a deeper look at the cross, I'm reminded that There is no redemption without suffering. Suffering and love are inextricably linked And it was the love of God the Father and the Son. The Father motivated, and the Son motivated by love for sinners. That moved him to come and gather to himself a people from every tongue, tribe, and language. You ever wonder why Paul would say in Galatians that he will boast in nothing else except in the cross? Oh, I boast a lot of things people. Hardly do I ever say I boast in the cross. Why? Because the cross is insulting The cross is insulting. We may insult other people. But if you look at the cross, there you see. A tremendous insult. That you're a sinner. A very wicked sinner more sinful than you think you are. But there we see again at the cross, great grace and deep love of God for sinners like us. Let me ask you, as you speak the gospel, does it have a cross shape to it? I received an email from a young lady of our church just the other day. And some of you have been praying for this young lady and her family. Her brother committed suicide not quite two months ago, December thirty-first. The lives the lives of the family members have just been, as you can imagine, completely undone. She wrote to me 'cause she's expressing her grief and her pain and her suffering and she said in this email, she says, I am not, you know, the woman I used to be. I don't know who I am anymore. It says, I have all this pain, I have all this suffering, you know, I feel God has abandoned me, I have no sense of God's sweet presence in my life. Where do I go? I have an opportunity to share the gospel with this woman that I've been relating to for years. And she was going to meet with her yesterday, and I don't know how that went. But she asked the question, how? How do I share the gospel with this woman? And I'm so broken, I feel so abandoned, I feel so vulnerable. And I w and I told her, I spoke with her the following day after received that email I said, listen, there is no other way to share the gospel There is no other way to share the gospel except when you feel abandoned, you're in your brokenness, and you sense your pain and you sense the hurt and you feel and you sense your own sin. That you've got to feel, you've got to hold on to that, but you also hold on to the one who suffered for you, the one who loved you, the one that made promises for you You gotta hold on to both of those things. And that is so hard for us. It's so hard for her. It's so hard for me. We think of sharing the gospel out of this sense of victory, but let me tell you the victory and the boasting is in the cross. And see, and so this l third point. I have missions as created a new humanity. Well that's actually not stated very well at all. Christ has created this new humanity, and what we want to do as we share the gospel is we long and yearn for this new humanity that Jesus Christ has accomplished by his work. We want to see that completed. We want to see that multitude come together. This one body of different ethnicities and different nations Perhaps you've heard the story of Bishop of Australia, John Reed. He tells about driving a school bus in Australia and and in a school bus he was carrying White people, Australian people and Aborigines who are dark skin. And typically what happened on this ride on the school bus is they were fighting. They're always fighting and squabbling with one another. And so one day he's out in far in the country and he stops the bus. He pulls over and he stops the bus and he goes to the white boys and he says to you, What color are you? The boy says, white? He says, No, if you're on my bus, you are green. I looked at him and said, Then he asked again, what color are you? Green Then he goes over to the Aborigines. He says, What color are you? Black. He said, No, if you ride my bus, you are green. So what color are you? Green. Everybody seemed to be quiet. He gets back, drives away, and all of a sudden Several miles down the road he hears his voice of a boy in the back announced, I say, All you light green people on the right side, all you dark green on the other side There there is such a deep tendency in our heart to separate and divide The work of the gospel is so powerful, the work of Christ is so deep that it will take those things that don't you think this there's no way that you can put these two things together. He puts them together. There is no way people look at Las Tierras. How in the world can you have Mexicans and Americans worshiping together? How can how can Jesus really have this this multi ethnic church? The gospel, Jesus Christ, does that. He alone can do that. So honestly, why do you not share the gospel? Is there some kind of fear? Is there hatred? Is there hostility in you? Think about that. What what has God given to you? That could be a bridge, but what has become a w but has become a wall. God is creating in this church this new people whose identity is first and foremost. Christian Redeem Sner. So before anything else I am a Christian I am a Christian first, then Puerto Rican. I am a Christian first, then American. I am a Christian first and then college educated. I am a Christian first and then Republican or Democrat, whatever you want to call it. But I am a Christian first. I am a sinner. Redeemed by the Lord of Lords and King of Kings, the great Savior Jesus Christ. And because of that, he who has bought me with his blood, I give myself to him as a sinner being redeemed. And I say, Lord, take my life. As Samuel has said earlier, take my life and let my last words, if I die, may I die preaching Jesus Christ. What do you need to move you? You have a God who loves you and will always love you and has provided everything for you. Come. Follow him. Let's pray. Our Lord, we are thankful. We thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the cross. We thank you for applying it to our lives. May we follow you. Examine our hearts, Spirit of the Living God, that we might preach Christ and boast in Him alone. We ask in His name. Amen.