This morning we come, as we continue in this, come to the book of Revelation, as we continue in this series, naming Christ, naming the one who would change the world. And we are looking forward to that Christmas Sunday morning where we will look at the name Jesus. But it is this name this morning that I wanted to spend some time with because it's not normally a name that we associate with the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. But it comes to us in one of the most beautiful scenes in all of Scripture Very rarely will you be able to open up the book of the Bible and be able to find yourself in the midst of a worship service. Worship is talked about. But rarely do we find ourselves in the midst of a scene of worship. That's what we find here in Revelation chapter 22. If you're not familiar with the passage, let me just say what happens just prior to the scripture that we are reading this morning, Revelation 22, verses 16 through 17. This is John declaring through the vision of what he's been given by the Lord Jesus Christ. We learned just prior to this passage that John is so overcome with the great and exceeding revelations which he has been given. It says that I, John, am one who heard and saw these things, and when I had heard and seen them, I fell down to worship at the feet of the angel who had been showing them to me. So he's worshiping. But the angel says, Do not do it. I am a fellow servant with you and with your brothers, the prophets, and all who keep the words of the book. Worship God. Then we have this verse, this series of verses, which is Jesus speaking Declaring truth about himself in the midst of this scene and what John receives He says in verse 12, and then you will see, why won't you just keep Revelation 22, 16 through 17 before you? But I want you to hear these words that lead to it. Jesus speaking, Behold, I am coming soon. My reward is with me. And I will give to everyone according to what he has done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. Blessed are those who wash their robes, and they have the right to the tree of life, and may go through the gates into the city. Outside are the dongs, those who practice magic arts, the sexually immoral, the murderers, the idolaters, and everyone who loves and practices falsehood. And then these words, I, Jesus, have sent my angel to give you this testimony for the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright morning star. The spirit and the bride say come. And let him who hears say come. Whoever is thirsty, let him come. Whoever wishes, let him take the free gift. of the water of life. This is God's word. Pray with me. Lord, now come by your Spirit with this your word, which you have given to your servant John, through the words of our Savior Jesus. Lord, by your spirit, give to us that which you have given to your spirit, the word. And together open our eyes that we might see wondrous things in your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. What Jesus proclaims about himself in this passage has no precedent. Without precedent, it makes it very difficult and hard for me to describe this name, Bright Morning Star. I want to say to you as I studied this name, I feel dumb. I feel inadequate to be able to describe to you just how wonderful this name is. And with the reality that it is without precedent, that no one else has ever had this name. And the way in which Jesus combines the three here. And because it is only mentioned in bits and pieces that ought to give us an anticipation that this is the name given to Jesus. In Jesus' self-description here, all I can do is testify to Christ. So this morning, what I want to do is the best that I can is to get out of the way of Scripture. And that I think is the hope of every preacher. And may the Scripture open for you these great themes: bright, morning, and star Because I want you to know that these three names put together encompass all of God's revelation. And I mean all of it. From Genesis to Revelation. These are some of the greatest themes In all of Scripture. And Jesus takes them and he says, I am the bright morning star. So together, let's look then at these three descriptions put together for a name. Let's look first at Bright. When Jesus describes here in Revelation 16 that he is the root and offspring of David, that is for a different sermon. But he is now coming to this phrase, bright morning star. When he uses the word bright, he means, I believe, you'll see in your outline, two aspects. That brightness refers to light and radiance, both of which are so clearly used to describe Jesus in the scriptures. That he now is taking here and putting it together that we might hear again exactly who he is. He is the bright radiance of God's glory. He is the radiant light. If we look at the idea of radiance, we should be prepared, if you're familiar at all, with the writer to the Hebrews as he opens this great first chapter of his sermon. In Hebrews, when he says, In the past, God spoke to our forefathers through the prophets at many times and in various ways. But in these last days he has spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed heir of all things, and through whom he made the universe. And then verse 3: the sun, that is Jesus, is the radiance of God's glory and the exact representation of his being. Sustaining all things by his powerful word. Here, Jesus, in saying that he is bright, he's referring to what the writer of Hebrews is describing, Jesus. He is the radiance. He's that which emanates and comes from the Father. And he is the exact representation of all that the Father is. God the Father is Spirit, but Jesus in taking on flesh became the exact representation of his being in his character, in his power, in his grace. and his love. He is to the Father what the heat is to the Son. Even if you cannot see the sun, you can feel its warmth. Two of my best friends are Bill and Nancy Johnson. You will probably never get the opportunity to meet Bill and Nancy, but both were born blind. Both because of the same issue. They've never seen a color. They've never seen a thing at all. But when I had an opportunity to visit with them for the first time Usually it meant going to get medications for them, so I would put them in the car and I would take them to the local CVS. And without fail, when we got into the car as we exited their apartment The first thing Bill would say is he would say, It is a beautiful day. And of course, I would just like to know what What was it beau he was able to see that it was beautiful because he felt the warmth of the sun. Though he had never seen a clear day in his life, he understood that when the sun is shining brightly beyond the clouds and without the veil of a cloud or a gray sky, he can feel the warmth and the radiant heat of the sun, and for him he recognized. He had seen, and he had witnessed to the light. When the writer of Hebrews says that he is the exact representation of the being of God. He is not only saying that Jesus is the radiance of God's glory, that is All that he puts out, all of his character and his goodness, he's also saying he is God And when Jesus refers to himself as bright, he not only refers to the radiance of who he is in being from the Father, he is also referring to himself as that which we call bright, and that is a light. And here Jesus points to in this very short word, bright, in those few short letters. Something that is true of every human being. None of us emanate light. Light always comes from outside of us. It is not innately human. It has to have a non-human source. And when Jesus says he is bright, he is declaring that which the writer we've already heard as Pastor Flora uh read this morning from the Gospel of John. And there in the Gospel of John we hear the great proclamation. of who Jesus is. Yes, he is the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God, and He was with God in the beginning. He says this, through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. Jesus as God is light And he is the light of men. Well, how is he the light of men? Why is Jesus bright? It is because without light Without the radiant heat of the sun, every human being in this room would suffer the death of hypothermia. Jesus is recognizing that when he takes on this mantle of bright morning star. He is the radiant heat of God's grace and love to a dying world. That is cast in darkness. The darkness because of sin and rebellion. Isn't that what John says? John says the light came He was in the world, though the world has was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Though the light came into the darkness as the light of men, we reject the light To our own peril. For the light of men, Jesus is pointing the way to salvation. Isn't that what he says? Verse 5: The light shines in the darkness. Or in him, rather, verse four, in him was life, and that life was the light of men. And he became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen His glory. Remember the radiance of God's glory? We have seen His glory, Jesus' glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. That grace and that truth is Jesus would say, I am the way, I am the truth, and I am the life No one comes unto the Father except through me. John records Jesus' saying in chapter 8, verse 12 of his gospel. When Jesus spoke again to the people, he said, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. We need the light of the life through Jesus Christ, who died for our sins. Who offers us forgiveness today, who is love that has walked among us. And if we do not Give ourselves to this light. We will die of spiritual hypothermia without the light of the heat of God's grace and mercy. We will be those who are not welcomed into the forever relationship with the triune God Pastor Joe Novenson, someone that I've watched from afar, someone who I've had the opportunity to learn from. He preached on a sermon. On the first chapter of Hebrews and the first few verses, and in so doing he illustrated this radiance, this idea of brightness. By telling the story of two climbers, one an experienced climber giving training and aiding another climber in what's called the Bitterroot Cellway. Which is part of a vast over a million-acre national park straddling Idaho and Montana. As they were doing some serious climbing, they had reached 8,000 feet when a storm, which is not unusual at that elevation, came on them very quickly. And they did not have the sun, they did not have p all the proper uh protection. It began to rain and to sleet That began to last not just for ten minutes, but would go on from 45 minutes to the point where they had absolutely no shelter where they were They were on a s just on the side of a sheer face rock. Hypothermia was beginning to set in. Trying to huddle together, what often happens when hypothermia begins to set in is that mental confusion begins to take hold. And as their core body temperatures were beginning to drop and drop precipitously, worry and anxiety began to, of course, set in. But not only are storms at that elevation very common, so is their exit. The storm exited, but the inexperienced climber, as the storm began to leave them, He began to in his confusion he still was unsure what to do. He experienced climber recognizing what happens when we suffer from the onslaught onslaught of hypothermia, he took his fellow yet inexperienced climber, took him by the arm and held him up against the rock. And it told him not to move and to stay next to that rock in the light of the sun. And he says, Do not move. Simply bask. In the heat of the sun. And when hypothermia begins to set in, we need a either an infusion of warmth. Or what they call passive external warming. We cannot save ourselves Because our sin has weighted us down. We were like those who saw the light but did not desire it. Yet God in His grace has come by us. By his brightness on the death on the cross, being born as a child in the midst of violence, to suffer violence, so that we might receive the invitation to be children of light. But if you have brightness, you also have mourning. Notice When he says bright morning star, you'll notice in your outline they're not meant to be other points. Those, a conclusion and a beginning, are meant to be the subpoints of morning. So you're clear. I opened that up this morning and realized I didn't correct that. That was my fault. But l let me say that when you look at the idea of mourning Morning always has with it, when the brightness of the sun rises, you have two things. You have a conclusion and you have a beginning. When Jesus describes himself as the radiant light, as the bright morning star He's saying, I've come, and with me there is mourning. But we must see that when he, and I believe Jesus understands this. That coming as the morning star means that he's pointing to the conclusion. The conclusion of what? The conclusion of the darkness. Now darkness always in Scripture and night is not always a bad thing. Night can be a time of rest. Night can be a time of worship. Night can be a time of fellowship. It is not always meant to be foreboding. And yet night is also often related to the idea of darkness, and that darkness is often filled with chaos. And filled with pain, and full of confusion. In fact, I want you to hear just some of the words of Scripture. Psalm 30, verse 5. I will exalt you, O Lord, for you lifted me out of the depths, and did not let my enemies gloat over me Oh Lord my God, I called you for help and you healed me. Oh Lord, you brought me up from the grave. You spared me from going down into the pit. And then he says Sing to the Lord, you his saints, praise his holy name, for his anger lasts only a moment, but his favor lasts a lifetime. Weeping may remain for a night. But rejoicing comes in the morning. For the psalmist, the night was about being pursued by his enemies, those who hated him, gloating over his defeat. And seeing the darkness as being a place of the possible death and grave, and yet as the morning came, morning was to the psalmist That which Jesus is to the Scriptures, the morning of God's salvation, the night has passed, the morning has come. Also, again, Psalm 59, but I will sing of your strength in the morning, I will sing of your love, for you are my fortress, my refuge in times of trouble. The psalmist recognizing that in the midst of darkness and difficulty and trial, it feels as though they are times of trouble. Yet he longs for the morning, and he will sing, because the morning is an emblem of the morning of Christ and God, who is his salvation. His refuge, his mighty fortress. One more. We know this we know this song because we've sung of it Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord, O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to my cry for mercy. If you, O Lord, kept a record of sins, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness, therefore you are feared. And then hear these words. I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I put my hope. More, my soul waits for the Lord more than the watchmen wait for the morning. More than the watchman wait for the morning. Why do the watchmen wait for the morning? Because when it is dark, enemies prowl around. You cannot always know that your enemies will attack you And so the psalmist, just as the watchman waits and longs for the morning, he recognized that his soul, though cast into difficulty and challenge, finds that when the morning comes His refuge is there, and he recognizes even in the though the darkness is gone, God is his refuge. Jesus says, I am the bright morning The darkness is gone, and I have come And the scriptures tell us full of grace and truth. He is our refuge and our strength. But not only is it a conclusion, it is a beginning. Isn't it wonderful? Then when Jesus describes himself as the bright morning star. He means to say, as you are in relationship with me, you need to know with me there is no end to the day. For I am new. My salvation is a part of God's new covenant, which will never fail, which will never end, because I am Jesus who came to Make sure that the covenant of grace, the new covenant, was sealed in his body and his blood. And when you come to know the Lord Jesus Christ, Though the past is there, though sin is still present, though suffering is quite real, you know that nothing we can say, as with the psalmist, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, even there your hand guides me. Jesus describes himself as the morning because he wants to invite all to come, and with him there is no darkness. Is that not what the scriptures say about God Himself? In him there is no shadow of turning. In him there is no darkness. Again, Isaiah says in fifty-eight, there, then your light will break forth like the dawn, and your healing will will quickly appear. Then your righteousness will go before you, and the glory of the Lord will be your your rear guard. Then you will call and the Lord will answer. You will cry for help and he will say, Here I am. What Isaiah is saying in verse in chapter 58 is that the dawn has come So the light of the Lord the morning will go before you, but the light of his glory will be your rear guard. When you come into a saving knowledge with Jesus Christ He has you in his hand, and the darkness will not overcome you. Isn't that what Paul says? What shall separate us from the love of God? Isn't that what the psalmist says when he says, Even when I wanted to flee from you, even if I wanted to hide in darkness, even the dark is as light to you. Dear Christian, I believe that is what Peter was talking about. It is even hard for the righteous to be saved because we recognize if you're a Christian Even we want to reject the light, but I say to you, if you've come into a saving knowledge with Jesus Christ, good luck escaping him. For the morning has dawned, and it is not you who holds on to Christ, because it is he who has freed you. It is him who has freed you from your darkness. Of slavery to sin and idolatry, and he's given you his salvation, and that sun will never set. And he will pursue you to the end of yourself. If you are not a Christian, he invites you to know the conclusion of the chaos and the emptiness of your idolatry. Come to know the warmth of his morning. His grace, his forgiveness, and his salvation. But he is also the star, the bright morning star I believe when Jesus uses this word to refer to himself, I believe he is pointing to that from which he is speaking to John, from his ascended glory. When Jesus refers to himself as star, he's showing himself as the ascended glory. For isn't that what he says to him as he speaks to him? Behold, I am coming soon. My reward is with me. I will give to everyone according to what he has done. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. He has been what? He has been raised from the dead, and he is victorious And he means as the ascended glory of God, victorious over sin and death. He desires to be and will be the one who is sitting on the throne, if you will, of your hearts. He wants to be your king, and he means to be your king. In fact, Peter tells us, and we have the word of the prophets made more certain, and you will do well to pay attention to it. As to a light shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts Jesus is showing that the morning has already dawned at the ascension. on that third day, victorious over sin and death, but it also refers to the day which is coming in his second coming. So when we worship the Lord in his first coming and we think of Emmanuel, we do so putting all together into the power We would not be worshiping Emmanuel if he was not the one who would be victorious over death. He would not be God with us if he was not the ascended glory, the star, the king of heaven. I believe he is speaking here of his resurrection. And only there Can we find our hope? For all this cute stuff about a manger scene, things about a gift from kings Stories told of Saviors born are nothing without the resurrection They must be taken together. And you see, where Jesus recognizes Only resurrection can be spoken about in the place of graves. As one writer said, only where there are graves is there the possibility for resurrection. And you may wonder, what in the world does that have to do with this passage? Because I want you to see again verse seventeen. The Spirit and the bride say, Come, let him who hears say, Come Whoever is thirsty, let him come. Whoever wishes, let him take the free gift of the water of life. Do you know what he's doing? The bright morning star, the ascended glory of God's radiance His light, the darkness passing away, the morning come. He's pointing to Jesus Himself. Jesus, the bright morning star, says, Come. Are you thirsty? Come, are you hungry? Are you weary? Are you heavy laden? Are you burdened? Are you tired? Come all and receive the gift of the water of life, which is another great biblical theme. We could be here all day long. Okay, fine. In fact, I'm just going to pass the baton over to Pastor Harris. I'm sure he could come. He's had here taught here many years. He could take this and go on for the rest of the day. But here's the here's why I'm so excited about this. Isn't it great that even the last words that we have recorded from Jesus' lips Our invitation. Invitation. Do you do you hear why that's important? Because of what he's just said in verse 15. Outside are the dogs, those who practice magical arts and the idea. sexual immoral, the murderers, the idolaters, everyone who loves and practices falsehood. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are among those, welcome. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because I say to you on good authority, if you're a Satanist, welcome. If you believe in tarot cards, welcome. If you are practicing sexual morality, either as a married person or as a single person, whatever its form, welcome. If you're a liar, welcome. Because Jesus welcomes you. But let me say, He will not leave you the same. He means to give you his light. And in that light is the light of men. And in that light and in that salvation is is that which will satisfy where no idol, no tarot card, no magic art, no form of sexuality, no form of murder, no form of violence, no form of lying will ever, ever save you. Do you want life? Come and receive it. Christian, are you running from the light? Have you run to these things? Come And be renewed in his healing. Wherever you are Let us put aside, and I will just put my cards on the table, let's put aside this ridiculous argument about whether or not there's a war on Christmas. Or whether Christ needs to be returned to Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen, what this scripture tells me is that Christ is ascended above Christmas. What a ridiculous cultural argument. And I mean no disrespect for any of you who've gotten into it, but we've missed the point. Because I can put Christ back in Christmas on my bumper, but I'm still finding myself addicted to stuff while I'm parked outside the mall. So spending money for trees and ornaments and meals and spending time with family. That's all good, but that's not Christmas. That's not Christ. Christ is not just in Christmas, he's above it. And may he return to his ascended glory. If you are a Christian, let us confess before him our trust in anything but him. And may He dispel the darkness of our difficulty, our depression, whatever it is, come. And I say this because of the hymn we're getting ready to sing. We're getting ready to sing as our final hymn this morning, O Love that Will Not Let Me Go. And I share with you this final story. I get it from Kevin Twitt. He's the brother of Corey Twitt. who's a member of our church. Kevin was a colleague of mine at Covenant Seminary and would go on and become our U. S. minister and would begin the movement called Indelible Grace. During a concert in 2010, I had him I I had the opportunity for him to tell the story of the writer of this hymn, O Love That Will Not Let Me Go. His name is George Matheson. George Matheson began to lose his sight while he was in seminary. He would eventually, after seminary become completely blind. He was engaged to a woman who would leave him because she said she did not want to be married to a blind man. And it was on a particular night that he wrote this hymn. The night in which he wrote this hymn was on the night before his sister. But now she would be married and she would go off on to her own life and to her own things that she needed to take care of. And he said these words On that night he said, I had something of incredible sadness pass between me and the Lord. And this hymn came to me almost as if dictated within a span of fifteen minutes. Why is that important? It's because we're getting ready to sing a song from a blind man who wrote these words. It's the second verse. O light, that follows all my way, I yield my flickering torch to thee. My heart restores its borrowed ray, that in thy sunshine's blaze its day may brighter, fairer be. Though he could not see the sun in the darkness of that night, and of his own loneliness He reached out to the bright morning star. And he says, I sacrifice and give over my flickering torch. Without Christ, we are flickering torches ready to go out. Come to Him who welcomes you come And receive the life and the light that will never be snuffed out. Heavenly Father, whatever our motivations for coming here this morning, by your grace, transform them. And may we know that you are the bright morning star, the giver of life. Come And may we know you as the love that will not let us go, that frees us from the power of sin, which is death, and gives us life. In Jesus Christ and life abundant. In Jesus' name. Amen