I'll have to go ask Tony afterwards if it was profound. No one thing I wanted to say about them, as they came, I noticed a couple of them stressed the fact that we are the family of God. And I thought as they were uh sharing together up here how international our family is. Tomas, as I mentioned, is from Germany He and Terry met in England, though Terry is from this area originally, and of course the Mirandas are from Puerto Rico. And so we have in that a representation of the global nature of God's family from every tribe and tongue and nation. Well as Dick said we uh are now um back once again into the advent season And as part of our Advent celebration, traditionally around here, we look at a messianic prophecy, that is an Old Testament prophecy of the coming of Jesus Christ into a weary and a fainting world. And so we look, um, we began this at uh Genesis 3, by the way, and this is the ninth one that we've done. We're up now to Psalm 16 for this year. This is a very practical Psalm. If you haven't already turned to it, please do turn to it. It's a very practical psalm because, like last week, where we saw in Colossians chapter 1, it lifts us beyond our circumstances to see our hope in Jesus Christ. In fact, the Psalm breaks into three parts, quite simply, our circumstances, our hope, and our reason, or, in the case of David, the circumstances, the hope, and the reason. Now I'm going to read this psalm as you follow along with me, and I want you to note, see if you can find the specific prophecy of the coming of Messiah. It's in one verse, and that one verse is quoted twice in the New Testament saying that Jesus in his coming and his work specifically fulfilled the prophecy of that verse. Let's see if you can find it as we read through. Psalm 16, the word of God. Let's give it our best attention. Keep me safe, O God. For in you I take refuge. I said to the Lord, You are my Lord. Apart from you I have no good thing. As for the saints who are in the land, they are the glorious one in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those will increase who run after other gods. I will not pour out their libations of blood or take their names on my lips. Lord, you have assigned me my portion and my cup You have made my lot secure. The boundary lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. Surely I have a delightful inheritance. I will praise the Lord who counsels me. Ever at night my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, and my tongue rejoices, and my body also will rest secure Because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see decay. You have made known to me the path of life, and will fill me with joy in your presence, with eternal pleasures at your right hand. Did you see it? Which verse was it? Verse 10. Yes, I see those fingers. Thank you. Verse 10 That's quoted twice in the New Testament. But now, so what? Well, let's look at it in its context. First of all, let's notice the circumstance of this Psalm in verses 1 to 4. I think that there are two times in the year that we are particularly tempted to look more than other times for joy in our circumstances. Vacation and Christmas. I think especially in our culture, Christmas, because Christmas is always said to be the time when dreams are fulfilled, isn't it? I mean you see it all over in the ads and all of the cultural trappings of Christmas. That's when dreams come true and everybody can remember sometime, you know, when as a kid I so wanted something, you know, and I thought I would never be able to get it, and then there was that special thoughtfulness, and I got what I hoped for, and I was so happy And so we are always looking to try and recapture a perfect circumstance that we may remember at some particular Christmas time. And that circumstance becomes to us a notion of bliss and what happiness is, and we're always trying to recapture it. And we look, I think, especially at Christmas, for happiness in our circumstances. And yet, the reality is often quite different. In fact, you will probably see, with increasing frequency, it seems, again this year, articles on how to avoid Christmas depression. Suicide rates are the very highest of the year right after Christmas. What is it about Christmas That gives us so much hope that we will be happy in that time, and we run around like crazy people, determined that we're going to be happy in these next four weeks, and then so often are let down. I looked in my journal and I wrote there last year on December the 26th, the little uh line that you see there under point one, on December 26th I wrote in my journal, Christmas carries a load of expectation. Which is more than it can bear. That's the truth, isn't it, for so many of us. Let me warn you right now, as we go into the season, if we look for our joy in our circumstances, Christmas will carry a load of expectation which is too great for it to bear. And for many of us, I think Christmas becomes a parable of what's true in our lives in general. We're perfectionists, aren't we, many of us? And as perfectionists, we're always disappointed with reality. It somehow never measures up to all that we think it ought to be. Shell Silverstein, in his delightful book, Light in the Attic, captures this in his little poem, Almost Perfect. Almost perfect, but not quite. Those were the words of Mary Hume at her seventh birthday party. Looking round the ribbon room, this tablecloth says pink, not white. Almost perfect, but not quite. Almost perfect, but not quite. Those were the words of grown-up Mary, talking about her handsome bow, the one she wasn't gonna marry, squeezes me bit too tight Almost perfect, but not quite. Almost perfect, but not quite. Those were the words of old Miss Hume Teaching in the seventh grade, gravin' papers in the gloom. Late up night in her room. They never cross their T's just right. Almost perfect, but not quite 98 the day she died, complaining about the spotless floor. People shook their heads inside, well guess you'll like heaven more Up went his soul on feathered wings, out the door, up, out of sight. Another voice from heaven came. Homo's perfect, but not quite And doesn't that capture for many of us something that inside identifies with that notion, isn't it? Circumstances may be good or they may be bad. But even if they're almost perfect, they're never quite. Somehow my kids don't measure up to what I think that they should be. I find myself always comparing myself with other people and saying, how come when other people compare themselves, sometimes they're above and sometimes they're below? But when I compare myself, it always seems like I come up on the short end. How come it seems that when I set goals for my life, I never seem to attain them? I never seem to be able to accomplish what I hope that I'll accomplish And I feel so much guilt for the things that I feel that I have failed at. Life is simply a a summation of broken promises and unfulfilled dreams. And so circumstances will always let us down. Now, what has that got to do with Psalm 16? Psalm sixteen is a psalm of joy and a psalm of pleasure. And so as you look at Psalm 16, probably the first thing you think is, well, hey, no sweat for him. David was a king. He probably wrote this on the patio of his palace, sipping iced tea, while the slaves were coming to bid him whatever his wishes were that they would be fulfilled. But not so the case. This psalm was probably written in extremely discouraging circumstances It was probably written around the time of 1 Samuel 26, and you can look that up later to see what those circumstances were, but let me just sum it up quickly for you. David was the youngest of all of his brothers. And his brothers picked on him, unlike brothers in our generation. They gave him an extremely hard time and probably didn't do a whole lot for his self-image. Now they were always telling him what his faults were. David was then called by God to be the king of Israel. There was only one problem with that. The current king didn't agree. And so the current king, Saul, drove him out not only of the palace, but of the whole kingdom. He tried repeatedly to kill him. And as a result of God's call in David's life, David gained nothing, it seemed, but lost his wife, his family, his home. He lost his friends, including his dearest friend, Jonathan. He lost everything that was dear to him, and he was a hunted fugitive in the wilderness of Engedi when he wrote this song. It was seeming by circumstances as if God was simply mocking David and saying, Well, here's what I've promised, and delivered nothing. And so in these circumstances, David writes verse 1, Keep me safe, O God. Implying, of course, the danger which you see described in 1 Samuel 26. Keep me safe, for in you I take refuge. He's in trouble and in danger. And then he goes on in verse 2, Lord, I said to Jehovah, You are my Adonai. Apart from you I have no good thing. I look around and there is really isn't very much that I can look at in my circumstances. It seems very good. Often it's true, isn't it, sadly enough, that it's when our circumstances are the most discouraging that Jesus Christ becomes the most precious to us. It's not usually at the time when you're having a party that you say, apart from you, Lord Jesus, I have no good thing. But it's at those times when everything seems taken away from you and your hopes are dashed and your promises are unfulfilled. that you then say, Lord, it really is true, that all these other things are so superficial, and apart from you, I really don't have anything that's worthwhile. Nothing is good separate from Jesus. Nothing is good separate from God is another way that you could translate that verse. And so he goes on. And he says You are the focus of my life. And it he says, and that causes me to delight in your people. As for the saints who are in the land, they are the glorious ones in whom is all my delight I love you, and so I love your people. Then he contrasts that. The sorrows of those will increase who run after other gods. I will pour out I will not pour out their libations of blood, or take up their names on my lips. And David here is probably reflecting on the fact that his enemies had said, Get out of the land, and they had chased him out. And because in their mind God was so identified with the land That if you were outside the land, you could no longer worship Jehovah because you had no access to the tabernacle. They said, Get out of the land, and 1 Samuel 26, 19 says. And they said to him, Go serve other gods. And David said, I refuse to do it. I refuse to serve those gods who are worshipped by the pouring out of blood before them and taking your name on their lips. And so I refuse, we say, in this Christmas season to pour out my life, going after all the things that people are so desperate to attain, and find such shabbiness in the end. And David goes on then to contrast his circumstances with the hope that he has. You see that in verses five to eight. David's saying basically there, I have an altogether different inheritance from that that these people about me are looking at. We compare that, remember, with Colossians 1, verses 12 to 14 that we looked at last week, where we saw that God the Father has qualified us to receive an inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light. And David says, I have got an inheritance, and it's an altogether different kingdom from the one that these people are looking at And basically, he's saying two things here. He's saying, first of all, my inheritance is delightful, and then secondly, my God is my heart's desire. In verse 5, He says, Lord, you have assigned me my portion and my cup. You have made my lot secure. Now what's a portion? A portion is an allotted part of something. It's a share which is received by gift or by inheritance. And a lot is a destiny. It's that which is going to happen to you. And David's saying here in verse 6 that this portion, this lot that I have, He then refers to as boundary lines of his portion. Verse six, the boundary lines of my inheritance or my portion have fallen for me in pleasant places. Surely I have a delightful inheritance. Now what's he talking about there? The background to that is in the book of Joshua. In chapters 13 to 19, you remember after Israel had come in and they had taken Canaan from the locals and had conquered that for the kingdom of God. In Joshua 13 to 19, the land is divided up into portions, and each tribe is given an inheritance of that kingdom. And so Judah's given one portion, and Benjamin's given another portion, and Nathalie's given another portion. And you have six, seven chapters there just describing the portion of the boundary lines of the inheritance. Very interesting. At the end of it, you have Joshua who says, now Lord, I hope you don't mind, but there's a certain little town up there. And that town is just so beautiful. It's got such a beautiful view. It's in a fertile area. It's got this beautiful little stream that runs along it, and the trees are so beautiful there. Lord, I've had my eye on that through this whole campaign Lord, could you give me that as my portion? And in Joshua 19, verses 49 and 50, God grants to Joshua the desire of his heart. And he gives him his choicest portion, the choicest boundary lines of the whole land that was in Joshua's heart. It reminds me of the fact that every year we go to Cape Cod, as many of you know. And we uh vacationed in South Wellesley. I don't own one square foot of Cape Cod, even though we've been going there since 1967 And I can imagine someone saying, Now we're going to divide up Cape Cod and we're going to reapportion it to the saints of God as the kingdom. And I'd say, hey, let me in on the drawing. And they say, well now what we're going to do is we're going to divide up the different townships and all the rest of that. And I'd say, Lord, you know I've always had a particular partiality for Blackfish Creek You know, the salt marsh there and the trails and the rest of that just absolutely beautiful. Lloyd, could you just remember me when you draw up those boundary lines that I'd love to have Blackfish Creek And you see David saying here, God has drawn up the boundary lines and he's given me Blackfish Creek. He's given me more than that. He's given me more than if he gave me the entire cape Because David says, God has given me himself and all that goes with him. Verse 7, I will praise the Lord. Who counsels me. Even at night my heart instructs me, for I have set the Lord always before me, because He is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. David saying here as he looks back on verse 5, the Lord has assigned my portion and my cup. You could also say that about that verse that the Lord is my portion and my cup. And so David is saying here, Lord, you are my chiefest treasure. You are the inheritance that I've desired. Now maybe you say, oh, well that's very nice, but you know, that still doesn't speak to the problem that I hoped that you would address, and that is. how I tend to be disillusioned with my circumstances, particularly as I think of going into the Christmas holidays or anything else in my life. And it seems like what you're saying is sort of a uh You know, it's it's religious and it's vague, but it doesn't relate to where I am on a day-to-day basis. And even worse than that, it sort of sounds like sour grapes. Sort of sounds like, okay, you guys kicked me out of the land of promise, but that's okay. I've got a spiritual land that's better than all you guys. You know, you say, yeah, that's Christians for you Everybody else has everything they're enjoying in this life and the Christians say, No, it's okay, you can have it because I've got the Lord. And they say, Yeah, yeah, you don't have anything that I can see. You don't really have anything that means anything that you can get your hands on. But that's not at all the case. Because if you look at the reason for that hope in the last three verses, you see how wrong that kind of analysis would be. David's reason in verses 9 to 11 is a reason so powerful for that hope That it is more powerful in circumstances for him that were worse than circumstances for you and me, We have not been disenfranchised and chased out of our home and lost everything that we've had for Jesus Christ. It's a reason That is greater than all the pressures that he's under, which are greater pressures than you or me. We're not praying on a daily basis, Lord, keep me safe or they'll take my life. And it's a reason that transcends the dangers that are more alarming than any dangers we find ourselves in. There is a reason that is so powerful that in the light of his circumstances, David can say in verse 9, Therefore my heart is glad. My tongue can rejoice, and my body rests secure. What is the reason? The reason is that David says, Messiah's coming. Messiah is coming. And Messiah is going to deal with the greatest problem of all The problem of death. Messiah is going to deal with my ultimate problem. He is going to deliver me from death. Now, you see in verse 10 that what David says is, Because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see decay. And what does that refer to? Immediately you would think that that refers to David's hope of resurrection. And it does. Don't let anybody tell you that the Old Testament has no hope of life after death. Here is a clear example of that hope in Psalm 16, as far back as 1000 BC, a very clear, explicit hope of the psalmist that he will have life after death. But we have two independent witnesses in the New Testament that argue that David could not ultimately be referring to himself in this verse. First of all, you have Peter in Acts chapter 2. And he says David couldn't be referring to himself because David did decay. And he says here, you won't let your holy one see decay. Peter says David did see decay in Acts chapter 2, beginning with verse 25. Peter quotes this verse. He says, David said about him, I saw the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I will not be shaken. Therefore my heart is glad, my tongue rejoices, my body will also live in hope. Because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see decay. You have made known to me the paths of life, and you will fill me with joy in your presence. Explicit direct quote from Psalm 16, 9-11. Now, what's Peter say about this? He says, Brothers, I can tell you confidently that the patriarch David did die. And he was buried. And his tomb's here right to this day. But he was a prophet, and he knew that God had promised him an oath that he would place one of his descendants on the throne. Seeing what was ahead, he then David spoke of the resurrection of Christ, that he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay And we're all witnesses of that fact. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear On a separate occasion, sometime later, Paul in Acts chapter 13, in verse 35, quotes from the same psalm. Paul says, So it's stated in Psalm 16. You will not let your holy one see decay. Paul says, For when David had served God's purpose in his own generation, he fell asleep. And he was buried with his fathers, and his body decayed. But the one whom God raised from the dead did not see decay. Now what's the point of this? You notice the reference in verse 10 is to your holy one. Now that that word in the Hebrew is a very interesting word, and it's almost always used in the plural in the Old Testament. It's simply the Old Testament word for saints, and it's almost always used to refer to the saints of the Old Testament. At the time of the birth of Jesus Christ there was one party of the Pharisees who called themselves the Cassidim The Hasidim is simply the Hebrew word that you have here. It means the holy ones. They were the saints. Now whether they thought they were more holy than everybody else, You may want to go back to look at the records. But the fact is, that's what they called themselves. They weren't Presbyterians, they were Cassidine, the saints. But in this one place, you have this word used in the singular. The Holy One. And what's David saying in this? David's saying is there is coming a time when there is going to be one definitive, unique Holy One. He is going to be the one who will fulfill all of the covenant that God made with Israel. He will fulfill all of God's law, and therefore he will be the one who will inherit the promises of verse 11. Verse 11 speaks of the path of life that leads to the tree of life. And this one is going to inherit and have access to that path and that tree of life. For he will be the one, because he has kept the law completely, who will not be condemned to die. David saying, This is the one who will know the joy of the presence of the Father. Because he will be the one who will know eternal pleasures at his right hand. He will be the Son, the unique holy one who will be seated at the right hand of God to know his pleasures forever and forever. And this one who is uniquely the Holy One, who therefore inherits all the promises of God to his people in the Old Testament. is going to be the one who will voluntarily take on the substitution the substitutionary portions of the law and become a sacrifice He will stand before the bar of God's justice and he will say, I who am the unique holy one, the covenant keeper, am going to stand before you to be judged as the vilest of covenant breakers. And as covenant breaker, he will bear the very wrath of God. And God's curses that are due to you and to me will be poured out upon him. And so he will suffer and he will be alienated and cast out from God's presence, and he will taste therefore death. For death is the necessary final punishment to sin. Never disassociate sin from death. Every time we go to a funeral, we're reminded of the sting of sin, which is death. And David says, This one has come. And because he will fulfill the entire debt of the sin payment to God, death will not be able to hold him. And so this one will rise up before he can even decay. Death will not be able to hold him. And the Holy One will not decay. You will not abandon him to the grave. And in that holy one who has received all those promises, he will gather me around and he will say, All who come to me, I give to you those promises in myself. And so in Jesus Christ. You and I have the promise of verse 11. What David's seeing here, if you want to fill in those two little lines there. A is the promised resurrection in verse 10, which leads to B promised eternal life in verse 11. Because of Jesus you and I then have the path of life. You say that this solution of the problem of death is not your ultimate problem? I would suggest if you think that that's true, it's only because you don't think about death very much. It's because your mind is on things that are very temporary and you haven't really faced what your ultimate problem is. Let me illustrate that for you. If I were to tell you as a doctor who has just now you've come into me for tests this past week, and I give to you this morning the results of that test, and I say, I'm very sorry to have to tell you, you have one month to live. What does that do to your Christmas plans? What does that do to all the things that you have, as problems and hopes that are at this point all so very, very important or so very, very bothersome? They all vanish into the merest nothingness, don't they? For you have but thirty days to live. And in the light of that one fact, everything else takes on a different significance. David says, Jesus gives me the path of life. Because Jesus was not allowed to decay, because he fulfilled righteousness. Paul says In him you have forgiveness of sins being justified by his grace. That's the verse that follows the one in Acts 13 that talks about him not being allowed to decay here. And so you see in Jesus, you and I have the path of eternal life And if that verdict were to come to you, you have only thirty days to live, even in the light of that circumstance, you could say, But Lord, you've given to me the path of life. And death is for me a transition, a horrible transition, an enemy, but a defeated enemy. And an enemy that Jesus Christ has come to subdue. You have given to me the path of eternal life where there will be no sickness and no sorrow. And in that great city, the city that's too dim for David to see, but is more clearly revealed to John in chapter twenty-two of Revelation, he says, I saw in that city there was a river of life. It's not just a path of life. There's a very river of life. And that river is glorious. And John says, I see on both sides of that river the tree of life. And it bears twelve different kinds of delicious, luscious fruits, and its leaves are for the healing of the nations. John says, I walk in that city, and there's no sickness, and there's no sorrow. Because Jesus has eradicated that. It's the path of life. And he says in verse 11 also, you fill me with joy in your presence. Did you realize that for one who belongs to Jesus, it is impossible to have anything but joy in his presence? When you and I are in the presence of Jesus Christ, there will be nothing but celebration and joy. For all that would mar that has been removed. There is nothing but joy in his presence. I hear Christians sometimes talk, and perhaps you feel in your own life this morning, and I sometimes find it myself. Then we say, you know, I really wonder how much joy there is in the Christian life. Seems like it's all sacrifice. It seems like there's so many burdens. It seems like it's full of all kinds of things that I know that I ought to be doing and I'm not doing. It seems like the Christian life is, to me, more of a list of do's and don'ts than it is of joy. If that's the case for you this morning. Then I'd ask you to get your eyes there on verse 11 and through verse 11 to fix your eyes on Jesus Christ because David says, Lord, in your presence there is nothing but fullness of joy. And to know Jesus Christ, and to be in his presence, to have him come and to take you and say, I've missed you. I'm so glad that you're here now For I love you, is to know nothing but the highest transports of joy. And then he finishes it off, and so you give to me eternal pleasures at your right hand. Eternal pleasures without interruption. Nothing to mar it. Nothing to break it. A feast without ending. And no extra calories or a feeling of being overpull. An unending feast, a drinking of the abundance of Jesus Christ. the abundance that we can't begin to think about here. In fact Paul said, Eye hasn't seen, nor ear heard, nor has even entered into our imaginations the thing that God has prepared for those that He loves. Eternal pleasures at your right hand. And he says that in another place in First Corinthians He says, if you look at those things which now you're suffering for Jesus Christ, and you compare them with the eternal pleasures at the right hand of God, You see there an exceedingly, far more exceeding weight of glory which far outweighs any temporary negative circumstances. So David says, My heart is glad, my tongue rejoices, and my body rests secure. But in order to do that, you need to look in the right place. If you look at your circumstances, particularly in the next four weeks of the mad rush of Christmas, You will find yourself constantly going up and down and up and down. The only way to know that your heart can remain glad, your tongue can rejoice, and your body can rest secure. is to fix your eyes on the hope of verses 10 and 11, what you have in Jesus Christ. And so I have there the two headings for two columns And I would ask you sometime today to list what are the circumstances that you are looking for to give you happiness. And list those. What are the things that you say, if only I had, if only I were, if only things would be like this. Almost perfect, but never quite. And then look what you have in Jesus Christ. The path of life. The presence of joy and eternal pleasures at his right hand and list what that means and let your imagination roam over what you have in Jesus And the only thing then left to do is to choose on which column you'll set your heart. Let's pray. Lord our God, hear us as we seek to fix our hope in Jesus. Lord, help us to get beyond our circumstances, to see what we have in Him. In Jesus' name. Amen.