Reconciliation that Jesus has accomplished between us and God uh through his death on the cross And then in verses 11 to 22, he talks about the horizontal reconciliation that Jesus accomplished between us and other members of his body. And we looked at that time about how uh just as Sandy read now, in Christ Jesus, you who were once far away, removed from God, removed from one another, have been brought near through the blood of Christ, which we then celebrated. last Sunday evening in the Lord's Supper. Then we saw how because of that uh the portrait, remember we talked about the fact that Paul gives here three portraits in these verses eleven to twenty-two. The first was the portrait of the alienated humanity. The second the portrait of the peacemaking Messiah. We saw there in verses 14 to 18 In verses 13 actually to 18, how Jesus then accomplished this reconciliation, who it was that did it and how he did it. You remember we looked at how the Jew and the Gentile or the Greek were at utter hostility, a hostility that far exceeded the hostilities of the races in the United States today between black and white or Hispanic. or Jew or uh Latin, you know, whatever it is, it was far greater between the Jew and the Gentile back then. The Jews In their mind there were only two kinds of people in the world. There were Jews and there were dogs. And that's it. Either you're a Jew or you're a dog. Now the Greeks had all their culture, their learning, and their philosophy, and they said You can divide all the world into basically two kinds of people. There's Greeks and there's barbarians. Either you're a Greek, you're civilized, cultured, and you understand how to think and what culture is and the better things of life, or you're a barbarian. You're somebody who's crude, who really doesn't understand that. The Jews, of course, fit into that category for them. The Romans divided the whole world into two kinds of people. They said either you're powerful or you're powerless. And so you either have glory and power or you don't have it. And if you're a Roman, you have it. If you're not a Roman, you don't have it. And that's how the world was divided. And so we saw that Jesus in verse 14 was the one who alone accomplished a reconciliation that no man could have ever accomplished. We saw there that he is our peace who made the two one has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility. We saw that that was a literal physical wall, a wall that was five feet thick In the outer court around the temple with signs, do not trespass on pain of death if you're a dog Gentile. And on this kind of a welcoming, affirming sort of uh uh invitation to worship. And we saw how all of these things were true that Jesus accomplished, the indicative, remember it, not something he's suggesting, commanding. Simply, Ephesians 1 to 3, all that Jesus has done, past tense, indicative, Jesus has accomplished the peace. He broke down the wall. In fact Jesus taught not only would the wall be broken down, but he taught that the whole temple was going to be destroyed and that this there was going to come a new age, a new time in which he was doing a whole new thing. But he had accomplished at Paul's writing here the breaking down in terms of relationships of that wall of hostility between Jew and Gentile. And we saw that uh because of that, uh that Jesus has done that, that racial reconciliation is not only possible in the United States But that reconciliation has been accomplished in Jesus Christ in the same way that if you deposit money in a bank, it is there to draw upon You may not experience the money that you have in the bank if you don't spend it, if you don't write checks on it. But it's there. And what Ephesians chapter 2 is saying is in terms of this tremendous problem that we have Some would argue the severest, most difficult, most serious problem in the United States today, the tribalism and the breakdown of racial any kind of racial harmony or integration. We talked about the segregation, new segregation of schools and all the rest of this, that Jesus is saying, I have accomplished the reconciliation. It is there to draw upon. It is there by faith for the church to appropriate. And therefore you and I have an opportunity In our day to be able to demonstrate to the world that is watching that Jesus Christ has accomplished a reconciliation that he invites us to experience in reality, drawing upon it, cashing the checks of our relationships with other cultures in order to demonstrate the riches of Christ to the culture. Amen? All right, well, that wasn't as good as last week. Let me tell you what the lesson was. So some of you are sitting there thinking, I thought you said you had a lesson last week. And all I hear you're doing is reviewing last week Well the lesson was that I offered at the end of that a challenge, and I said, if there's anybody who is interested in experiencing this and being available For us to begin to build bridges with churches like Long Reach Church of God or Bridgeway or Valley Brook others, uh, or the Korean Church, Bethel up the Road, or other churches, Latin churches If you're interested in that, let me know. Let me know tonight after the Lord's Supper, and I'll see what we can do. And uh three people came up to me And uh they mention in the morning I I would like to be part of that. Uh may or may not be there tonight, but I I would like to be involved in that. And then after the Lord's Supper last Sunday evening And we gathered around here and a couple more people came up and they said I'd be interested in being involved in that. And so I thought, well, okay, that's about it. Time to get my ice cream, went back, you know. tend to the priorities of the evening here and we uh were mingling back there and after that time was after eight fifteen and uh I was coming on and somebody else said, you know, could I talk about that? And so we talked about a little bit more Somebody else came over and said, You guys having that meeting you were talking about? Well, yeah, I guess we are. So somebody else came over and then another couple came over and we started talking some more. By the time we finished last evening, the last Sunday evening, I had 18 names. Of people who said, I really want to be involved in this. I believe that God's calling us to this. What can we do? And that was a lesson to me because it was showed how weak my faith is. And also, I must say that that God has been working in you. I mean to me it was just a message that was waiting because in those discussions I heard a number of experiences of deep pain. of racial hostility in the workplace, of frustration, of what what is it? What can I do in this? Now let me just say, as an aside, before we go on to verses 19 to 22 that we've been looking at in this passage, in terms of the workplace, we need to make a distinction. In the workplace, there is no guarantee of racial reconciliation because it's outside of Jesus Christ. So, what do we do in the workplace? In the workplace, we apply the model of the Good Samaritan, the model of love your neighbor is yourself as much as lies in within within you, be at peace with all men. And so these are the scriptures that are appropriate to that. That we seek to be able to be agents of God's peace in those situations. But there's a second thing that I think we often miss in the workplace, and that is if I am working with someone of another race, and there is a bitterness or a hostility or a hurt or a pain that I'm not able to bridge The ability to be able to share with that person that in my church or through my church, I have relationships with people of other races. That we are in a community where that is being done, that adds tremendous power to the gospel in the relationship you have with that person. It adds a credibility to say, I am not simply isolating myself with people that are like me. And so if you and I have those relationships in Christ There will be an effect. There will be a ripple. There will be an effect that carries over into our work, neighborhood, and other relationships. because of a credibility and a sensitivity that we develop because of those relationships in a situation where Jesus says, I have accomplished the peace and I'm calling you to experience it. You see that? Now, having said that, let's go on to verses 19 to 22 to see how Paul brings this to a climax. After having given the portrait of the alienated humanity And secondly, the portrait of the peacemaking Messiah. What Paul does is he then talks about the portrait of God's new society. In verses 19 to 22, he pictures this. Now, remember as Sandy read, in verse 15. We saw that his purpose was to create in himself one new man out of two, out of the two, thus making peace. That's a very crucial phrase. We may be confused because it's saying, you know, what is this? He makes one new man, you know. I mean, we're talking about races and Jews and Gentiles and all what's this one new man? Maybe it's better for us as Americans to think in English of the term one new humanity. Because that's really what he's talking about. The word literally in the Greek is man, but it's re it can refer to humanity. So read verse 15, may even want to make a little note in the margin to help you out there, that his purpose was to create in himself one new humanity. One new society, one new transcendent race. You see, the Bible teaches that there are two races, basically, and that's all that really matters. Now there is the race that is in Adam, of all humanity, created in Adam, descended from Adam. Then the Bible says there is another race, it is a new race that comes out of, is in union with and descended from Jesus Christ. That is the new humanity that his purpose was to create in himself, you see, by being joined to him by faith. Now that new humanity he then describes in verses 19 to 22, and he does it by three images. First of all, he describes it in terms of a state or a kingdom Secondly, he describes it in terms of a family. And thirdly, he describes it in terms of a building. Now notice what he's doing in each of these. In each case, it is something new that is created by Jesus Christ. In fact, he goes on in chapter three, we'll look at later to talk about how radically new this is. This is something new. It is a mystery. It was totally undisclosed before. God has created in Jesus Christ a new kingdom. This is something that is new. Jesus' message was he preached the kingdom. This is a new kingdom. It is a new new family that he has created. And it is a new building that he has created. Notice also that essential to what these images convey is the fact that we are joined together in these. You and I are fellow citizens of this kingdom. We are fellow members of this family. We are fellow stones in this building. Now let's unpack them in a little bit more detail. First of all, notice that he's saying we are part of God's new kingdom together. That's the first of the three, A. As far back as Abraham, God had spoken of a kingdom. Remember when he called out Abraham from all the nations of the earth, he said, In you all the families of the earth are going to be blessed. And he's doing he's doing this by creating in to himself a people, a separate people. And those people he constituted as a kingdom in Exodus chapter 19, when he brought them out From Egypt. Do you remember before Sinai, God constituted these people as a covenant people and said, You will be a holy nation. You are to be a royal priesthood. You're a new race of people that I am beginning to form to myself. And so this holy nation was a kingdom, but that kingdom, do you remember, in its disobedience to God and the terms of the covenant, were finally carried away. And it seems as if God's kingdom was being swept from the earth during the time of the exile. And that's why the book of Daniel was written. The book of Daniel is a book of the conflict of kingdoms. The book of Daniel is written to say, no, no, no, wait, God's kingdom hasn't perished just because Jerusalem has been destroyed. This kingdom is far greater than that. In fact, this kingdom, Daniel says, is like a little stone that's cut out of a mountain without hands. And this stone grows until it finally smashes the mountain, and that stone exists forever, and nothing will be able to destroy that. And that's the picture of God's kingdom. So Jesus comes and he preaches the good news of the kingdom. And Jesus establishes that kingdom and the people of that kingdom by his death. This kingdom is not a territorial kingdom. That's essential to what it is. It is not a kingdom like Israel, that is one race in one geographical place. This is a kingdom that is global. In fact, this kingdom is defined simply by God's rule in the lives of his people. If you ever read, you know, and you're reading through Matthew and particularly Matthew talks about the kingdom of heaven. Read the other gospels, the kingdom of God. And you wonder what essentially is the kingdom of God? Simplest definition of the kingdom of God is God's rule in the lives of his people. It's not essentially an institution. It is not geographically oriented. It's not territorially oriented. It's not politically oriented. God's kingdom is simply his rule and the lives of his people globally. Transculturally, every nation is involved in this kingdom, every tribe and race and culture. Nothing will stop it. This year, in Westminster Seminary, Westminster Seminary was founded in 1929. In all those years, they've never had a student from Albania or Nepal. This year, for the first time, there was the very first student from Albania. There was the very first student from Nepal for different reasons, two countries utterly closed to the gospel. The gates of hell cannot prevail, cannot stand against this kingdom. This kingdom is a global kingdom, and it will bring in people from Albania and Nepal. from South America, from Asia. In fact, the thing that we're finding now is as you and I experience the magnificence of this kingdom through our fellowshipping with other believers, try sometime Sitting down next to a believer from Albania. We read about this in the Balma's newsletters, how they talk about how it is energizing the Christians in Italy Because they take the gospel for granted, they've had it, they got the Pope, they got everything, you know, who what's new here, been there, done that. And then they see God going in power in Albania, and they say there's something here we've never experienced You see, it says you and I fellowship with believers of other cultures and other races and other backgrounds, that we get some glimpse of the magnificence of this kingdom. And verse 19 says, consequently, you're no longer foreigners and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with God's people. You and I are fellow citizens with them. We are joined together as citizens of this new state. Of this new kingdom that is moving out among the nations. And we're part of that, part of something far greater than what's going on simply here in Colombia. And you only experience that, you only get a glimpse of that. as you're involved in believers of those other cultures and those races. In fact, the more you're involved in that, the more you discover that the center of gravity of this kingdom is no longer the United States. It's no longer the Western world. The shifting of this, the the center of the power of this kingdom is now moved to Asia. We're now moving more and more in the Western world on the fringes of what is going on in great power. And uh it's very humbling to us as Americans to think, well, you know, we no longer are kind of our The center of what everybody looks to to say, well, where's Christianity? And where's the essence of what marks Christianity? We're doing more learning than we are teaching. We're discovering things that God is doing in other cultures and among other races and in other continents. And so as we as we picture this, it helps us to see our own racial tensions in perspective. What God is doing is that He's forming now a people of of different nations and races to produce this kingdom that is the demonstration of his glory. Now, even more intimate than that is the next image that he uses. And that's the image of a family. Look again at verse 19. He says, Consequently, you're no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens of this new kingdom, citizens Pictures kingdom with God's people and members of God's household. Now this is a new kind of image. This is a more intimate image. This is picturing us as part of God's new family together. That's B, the blank there. God's new family together. He says in, remember in chapter 1, verse 5 That he chose us together to be sons. He adopted us as his sons. And as sons, therefore, we are brothers. And that's generic. Remember the idea of sons in the Bible is never Something that is uh sexist, it's just simply saying has to do with men. Sun has to do with the inheritance and the position in the culture. And so it's speaking of us generically as being joined together in this family as sons with the inheritance of the firstborn. In chapter 2, verse 18, we read that just the verse right before this, for through him we both have access to the Father. And to the Father, speaking of the fact that we're his children by one Spirit. In chapter 3, verse 14, for this reason I kneel before the Father. From whom this whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. And so again, the picture of the church as a family, chapter four, verse six. He says that we have one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God, and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all, not all peoples, but all peoples in the church, all peoples that are joined together in Christ. In chapter 5, verse 1, be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children. Idea again of being children together of the Father. Chapter 6, verse 23. Peace to the brothers. And love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So you see that in every chapter of this letter, Paul makes reference to the fact that the church is a family. He speaks of the church in chapter 4 as a body, and speaks of the integrity of the church as a body and how the different parts work together. He speaks in chapter 5 of the church in terms of a bride and bridegroom and the relationship of intimacy that is between them. But what flows through this whole letter is the picture of the church as a family. Don't miss that. Sometimes we place such emphasis on the church as a body. that we miss the picture that Paul gives in chapter two verse nineteen, that we are fellow members. Uh the word there in the Greek is we are fellow members. We are joined together as members of God's household. We are part of his family. And that speaks of the intimacy that we have with one another. We belong to one another. Brothers and sisters may scrap, they may fight. Boy, I can give you some examples. And I'll tell you. There can be all of that. But beyond that, you are either in that family or you're out. There's a bond in that family that is thicker than anything of a person who's outside of that family if there is the bond of love in the family. And so Paul is saying, Jesus has accomplished this new humanity, which is a family. And it is composed of people of all the races and the cultures of the world, joined together as brothers and sisters. So you may go to a worship. A Hispanic worship. Or a black worship. And you may feel as your first experience of that, or an African worship, that this is strange. And I'm not sure I'm comfortable here. But you've got to remind yourself. Turn to the verse if you need to. But remind yourself in that situation. These are my brothers and sisters And because they're my brothers and sisters, what we have together in that life of the family is far more significant than any of the cultural differences or preferences that we have on our own. Jesus has broken down the dividing wall of the hostility. He has formed one new humanity. That transcends all of the preferences and the differences, all of the races, all of the cultures. This is a family that is joined together as those who are both classic and contemporary. Country and Western and classic or alternative or whatever. We are joined together as a people who are part of a family together in Jesus Christ. And then the third image that he gives, I find perhaps the most fascinating of all. Finally, he says we're part of God's new temple together. God's new temple. That's fascinating language. Look what he says, verse 19. Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but you're fellow citizens. You're part of a new kingdom here. With God's people. Now you're members also of God's household. You're part of this family. In fact, you know, I put in the, I think, in the in the outline there, the most common New Testament term for Christian is the word brother. Very significant. Now, notice how he goes on. You are members of God's household built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. With Christ Jesus Himself as the chief cornerstone. Now stop right there. That's strange, isn't it? I mean, you know, you may have read that so many times, it doesn't seem too strange to you But look what he's saying. You are part of a family that is built on a foundation. You are being built. And then he's talking about you as a building. Now, why does Paul mix his metaphor here? Why does he say that you are a family that is being built like a building? Why doesn't he say you're growing? You know, or something like that. Very important reason. Because the building that Paul's describing is a living building. And he wants to communicate that by combining it with the idea of a family. It's a family building that's being built. Growing, living. Look what he says. You're built on Jesus as the foundation as the cornerstone. The apostles and prophets are the foundation. In him, Jesus. The whole building is joined together and it rises. You see, it's living, rising to become a holy temple in the Lord. And in him you two are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit. Now, in order to understand what Paul is saying here, you need to remember that the Old Testament Temple was the focal point of Israel's identity as God's covenant people. When Israel thought about what bound them together, there was circumcision, there was the law, but the thing that was the dearest to their hearts was the temple in Jerusalem. That's why it was so devastating to them when that was destroyed, and they were in exile. They still had circumcision, they still had the law, but they no longer had the temple, and that was the very core of their identity. That's why it was so important when they got back to rebuild the temple. The temple was the very focal point of their identity. Now, verse 15, Jesus says After verse fourteen, he's divided destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility. His purpose is to create in himself one new humanity. out of these two races, these two uh kinds of people, Jews and Gentiles, thus making peace. In fact, Jesus said not only was the dividing wall, as I said before, of hostility going to be destroyed, the whole temple was going to be destroyed. And so God's new covenant people need a new temple. They need that temple which will become the focal point of their identity. But where are you going to have a temple for a global people who live on a level playing field before their God? You put any geographical temple somewhere. The Jews have their Jerusalem. The Muslims have their Mecca. Where is going to be the temple for God's global people? Where are you going to place it that's going to give them their sense of identity? That sense of holiness. If you put it in any place, that becomes a place that's more holy than some other place. That's essential. Where is then God's new temple for his global people? The answer, brothers and sisters, ought to take your breath away. Paul says the new temple of God's presence is the people themselves. Do you see that? He says, you are now built on this foundation of the apostles and prophets. In him the whole building is joined together and rises to become a holy temple. What is that building? It's us. In him you are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives by his spirit. Why ain't you jumping out of your seats or something, huh? You realize what that's saying. God Himself is living in His people. Now we all say, yeah, I knew that. The Holy Spirit lives in it. That's why I don't smoke and why I don't do this. Temple you and that's why I gotta do my exercise. Ah, you know my body's a temple of the Holy Spirit. This is more than that. This is saying that there is a particular glory that is being demonstrated of God's presence in his corporate people. Now, think about that for a moment. First of all, notice that it's his triune presence. All three members of the Trinity are mentioned here. You have first of all the Jesus is the cornerstone on this which this this is built. The cornerstone is that which is gives the whole orientation of the temple. You put a cornerstone down, that's the first thing It determines where it's going to go this way, where it's going to go this way, where it's going to go this way. The cornerstone determines everything else. Jesus is the cornerstone of this new temple. The apostles and the prophets are the foundation of it. What's that mean? Well, think about what apostles and prophets have in common. They were the vehicles of new revelation. The implication of that statement, therefore, is that the new revelation that God has given in the New Testament is closed. There is no more new revelation until Jesus comes again, because it's the foundation of this temple. You don't keep laying a foundation. The foundation is there. And so on this foundation, there is now being built the foundation of the apostles' doctrine Encapsulated in the New Testament. We are now being built on the scriptures. And as we are being built, he sp says in verse 22, the Holy Spirit indwells us. And the Father indwells us. Verse 22. God, when the word God is used in distinction to the Spirit or Jesus, it's referring to the Father. Notice also, secondly, that every Christian has a vital place in this. Verse 22. You are being built. You are joined together. Excuse me, verse 21, you are joined together. Verse 22, you are being built together. What that's saying is that every member of this temple is one of the living stones. You know, you can't go up to a temple and just kind of pluck out stones. You say, well, you know, that stone didn't sit there right. You know, knock the thing out. Yeah, good. Yeah, a hole in the wall. Now what's gonna happen to the stones above and below in the the stones that are next to it? You know you'd knock enough holes out there, you're gonna not only kinda not look so good, it doesn't exactly look like windows that way, but it's going to get weak. And so what what Paul is speaking of here is that you and I each have a vital place In this, because we're being built together. Jesus Himself has placed the stones exactly as He wants them He's putting us and arranging us within this living temple to be that which gives beauty and which gives glory to him. And then that's the third thing to notice: that the effect of this is a glorious temple of his presence. It reveals his presence by its unity in the diversity. That's the demonstration of his glory in this temple. Did you ever notice that if you drive around Colombia Look at the Ministry Center. Which are the more interesting buildings if you have a building of stone or brick? The ones where they're all uniform or the ones where there's patterns? Sometimes the bricklayers and those that design these things go to great pains to choose the different colors and the textures to place in a wall. You notice even on this wall, it's not got a whole lot. But you walk around the ministry center when you go out. And every time you notice these bricks and notice that there are some that have darker shadings, some that are a different kind of red It's that which gives interest. And God has created the temple with the black stones and the white stones and the gray stones, the yellow stones, the brown stones. He's put these together. In order for us to look at that temple and see something of his glory manifested by the fact that that temple is built together. It's hanging together. You don't have one wall sort of just hanging out there and it's just, you know, there's a few stones kind of laying in a rubble here and they kind of got didn't get mixed in and and there's some stuff. It's all being built uniformly But the diversity of it gives a magnificence to the Spirit, to the Father, and to Jesus who indwells it. And that's his purpose. You are vital to that purpose. And your relationship to the other stones is vital to that purpose. Therefore, two things to bring together in conclusion. The church needs to demonstrate, by its very identity, the loving diversity that God intends before the watching world. When we say that, it's one thing to say, that's nice, everybody of any race or cultures, welcome at CPC. No, no, no. Done cut. You and I have got to take initiative. And that initiative isn't simply a matter of establishing ministries and fellowship together. We're praying that God will do that. But if we intend for more diversity within the body, and I'm not talking about governmental guidelines or proportions, I'm simply talking about whatever the Spirit of God intends for more diversity. That we would be before the watching world a demonstration of the kind of kingdom and family and temple that he intends. It means that there needs to be diversity in the leadership It means that as we plan for our staffing, that we need to plan, not to say it'd be nice if, but to plan. One of you even wrote about this, and I agree entirely, that in the next two staff positions. That one of those should be a non-Anglo, non-white person. You ready for that? You see, it means that elders need to be more diverse. Worship leaders need to bring diversity of culture and race as we join together. How much? How much are we able to do together? The Spirit of God will lead us. I realize I am not naive. Believe me, I was in intervarsity for ten years. You talk about diversity. You go down into New York City and have a worship meeting sometime But there there are practical limits to what we can do, but it's a matter simply of growing as we grow together. I don't know what shape and form all of the diversity will take. I'm simply saying, as I read Ephesians chapter 2, I see the heart of the Lord Jesus and what He's come to do and what He intends us to experience. And I believe that we need to grow, and I need to grow because I know when I have grown. In that area. It's always been painful, but I've always had a bigger picture of Jesus afterwards. I mentioned last week about the time in Urbana 70 When we had that meeting of the African Americans and the whites until the small hours of the morning, the accusations that were hurled at us by some of our black brothers, I remember wincing and thinking, How could that guy even be a Christian and say that to me? But I realized afterwards there was a great deal of pain that I hadn't begun to experience and really to to understand. And it's going to mean a lot of listening But it's following Jesus in new ways. You see, I believe that God's intention is that in a culture that is hardened to the gospel, he finds an unsolvable problem And then he shows how Jesus solves that problem. And the church is always the demonstration of that. And so I believe that as America sees more and more of the fissures and the cracks The tribalization, the balkanization, as it's sometimes called, of American culture. And they look and they say, there is no way to bring this country together. It is utterly fragmenting Whether separate languages, separate cultures, separate schools, separate everything, apart type. And when the Church of Jesus Christ demonstrates a diversity within its unity The world sees the gospel in action. And that provides a credibility. For Jesus Christ in this culture, which nothing else other than homes and families and kids, marriages, the rest I believe that's just as strong. But I really believe, brothers and sisters That God has provided this opportunity that could be for us the key to revival and awakening within this culture. Amen? I really believe that. That God is doing something in our day. Right here in the Howard County area. That may be a new thing that would absolutely stun us to realize what God may do. But for some of us, it means a participation in the body that begins with our own recognizing we are part of brothers and sisters, being in a small group, being in significant relationships, and not ignoring one another, not just coming on Sundays and sitting and then getting up and leaving and preserving our independence, but becoming part of a fellowship in which we experience that. Let's pray. Lord, for each of us, you're calling us to experience, to step out on faith. And for some of us, Lord, it's just simply going to mean getting involved in the body. It's going to mean saying, I really haven't experienced much of what it means to know that these are brothers and sisters here. I kind of ignore them because I'm afraid. But what they'll think if they find out what I'm like. Lord, break down those walls, we pray. Give a freedom for those who are afraid to become more part of us. Become part of our small groups and the fellowships that we have to experience the love and the unity of the Lord Jesus. Lord, that you will continue to do in our midst through these next weeks and months. A new thing in making us more diverse as a body of your people. That we might experience and demonstrate to this watching world. A glory of the temple of the living God, that temple which is your people. Showing in its manifold diversity, within a loving unity, that you have done what no one else, nothing else in this society could do. The world might see and watch, and the people would come to love and to trust the Savior Because of his power demonstrated in us and through us. Do a new thing in us, we pray. Make each of us available to you in Jesus' name. Amen.