Paul wrote the Book of Ephesians to describe a healthy Christian and a healthy church. Do you ever think of how our view of a healthy church in 21st century America might be a little different from what Paul had in mind? Let's say that you are typical evangelical and you've just moved to Howard County and you're looking for a church to be part of. What will be your criteria? Well, the first thing you probably look for is an uplifting worship service. Makes you feel good by the end, gets you going. Um entertaining, no, no, I really don't want entertaining, but maybe a little bit. At least they should have at least a $150,000 sound and video system That's minimal, according to the statistics of those that sell them. The sermons should be therapeutic how-tos, very practical filled with illustrations, maybe a couple of video clips, some scripture references, and not too long. The parking should be convenient, the nursery clean, and uh there should be a and a pretty new looking facility with lots of programs. Programs for addiction, for recovery, how to improve my marriage, how to meet other singles. And a razzle-dazzle youth ministry, where kids come from all over because it's so attractive Lots of things going on. In fact, you see several cars in the parking lot with a bumper sticker. Jesus is coming. Look busy. It took you a minute, huh? So there are lots of buildings, budgets, and boards. It's a church that's growing by attracting people from smaller, struggling congregations who don't have the means and the resources. It's not conversions, it's transfers. And uh did I mention it has a Razzle Dazzle Youth Group? Uh so this is what is typically seen as what is a healthy church today Now think about Paul when in 53 A. D. he planted the church of Ephesus, because Paul was the one that planted it. How did he plant it? He planted it through three months of evangelistic talks and discussions. After three months, he had a core of converts. He took those converts and he trained them for two years. He trained them in ministry. Paul was the pastor of that congregation for about three years from 53 to 56 A. D. And to the end of his time there, it is said That everyone in the county or province had heard the gospel. Five or six years later, he writes this letter back to them. And in this letter, he distills his philosophy of ministry, and he describes a healthy Christian and a healthy church. You've seen in the past how we've looked at this. What he does is he basically takes three chapters to describe this is the gospel. You were dead in sin. God out of his mercy and free grace made you alive. He raised you up and seated you in the heavenlies with Christ, and he has made you his recreated masterpiece. Not only that, he has made you part of a body of people who are very diverse and in fact outside of Christ would have nothing to do with each other. But he's brought you into one family. And then in chapter 4 and verse 1, he links what he has said in terms of this is the gospel of who you are and what you have, and now here is how you are to live it out, by saying, As a prisoner for the Lord, then? I urge you to live a life worthy, that is, a life in equilibrium with the calling that you've received. And then he does something very counterintuitive. He does not talk about private devotional exercises, self-help, any steps. He says simply be part of a body. So in verse 2, he says that you must labor gently with patience, striving to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now this morning you notice that you've got two sheets there, and one of those sheets will uh give you the The front side of your bulletin outline is kind of a review of last week. So you can just look at that, and if you weren't here last week, give you some context to put it in. But what I want to do for just a couple of minutes here is to take a look at this other sheet, the one that uh just on one side kind of has a chart there. Because what I've done there is to give you a kind of a graph of chapter 4, verses 1 to 16. It starts at the bottom because that's foundational and you work your way up. So as we've talked about, the gospel is given to you in chapters 1 to 3, the link, be in your experience, what you are in Christ. Then he goes on to describe this body as a body that is joined together, seven ones, the unity of the body in saving grace, verses two to six. The diversity of the body, but verse 7, the diversity of the body in anybody remember in what kind? The other kind of grace? Serving. Right. So saving grace holds us together. Diversity. I had to know that somebody remembered that makes my day. Thank you, Mandy. So the diversity of the body in serving grace, and that's verses 7 to 16. Break that down into three parts. He starts with in verses 7 to 10 the power of that grace. It's from the source, Jesus, the risen Messiah. He's the one who's made you unique and has given you gifts to serve the body. Then the gifts he is given are persons, that's the second point, persons who are channels of this grace. Those are the leaders in the church in verse 11. Those leaders have a purpose. Point three is the purpose. of these gifts of grace, which is A, you see above that, to equip the saints for ministry. We do a number of things, preaching of the gospel, restoring, supplying, training you, seminars, various things. I promised you that uh this week. I hope it's there and haven't seen it, but there should be some books out on the table. Uh that's a primary means of equipping you in ministry to restore, supply, and train you. So check out some of the books that are in the lobby there as a way of helping you to grow in grace. Uh then he having said this, all the different things, he's saying, This is what you must do, but of course to do this you must be a part of the body. August Uh Christianity Today had an article by Chuck Colson called The Lost Art of Commitment. Let me give you just two sentences. He says, by abandoning commitment Our narcissistic culture has lost the one thing it seeks, happiness. Without commitment, our lives will be barren and sterile. So you must be part of the body with a mindset of a minister, not a consumer, in order to truly grow in grace. Now, what is the purpose of that? Now I want to get down to today's material. Moving on to verse 13. The purpose of that, that building up or edifying of the body in that little chart, it's point B, is C to mature to fullness of Christ. And that's in verse 13. Um now you can set that aside. I'll see if I get back to it. But I want you want to go back to the back side of your bulletin outline now. As you move to verse 13. Because that's what I want particularly to focus on verses thirteen to sixteen this morning. Paul says that we build up the body until verse 13. This is the goal. This is the goal of the ministers. All right? The equippers equip you, restoring supplying, training you to grow in grace for the purpose of. Perfecting of the saints. Verse 13, that's described in three ways until we all reach one unity in the faith That has to do with our convictions, and in the full intimate knowledge of the Son of God that relates to our affections And then to become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ that relates to our character, a word about each. The first thing that Paul talks about as being the description of a mature believer is that we attain, we reach unity in the faith, that the faith should be capitalized. That's not talking about our exercise of faith. It's talking about the body of the gospel, the faith. That is, we all agree. We all think the same, not because of uniformity, because there's one gospel. And the more we mature in that gospel, the more we agree with other Christians also maturing. So the basic thing there is he is saying that You are growing in your convictions because you know your Bible. That's the first thing. First characteristic of a mature Christian. You know your Bible. And that means you're not afraid of the Old Testament. You don't just read the New Testament. Let me offer to you a resource to equip you. This book by John Stott, Understanding the Bible, is an excellent introduction to an overview of the Bible. It's one of the clearest and simplest. We have that in our library. But it's those kinds of things to read something. I'm afraid that some Christians think Uh because I know there's no way I'm gonna know the whole Bible by Christmas, why bother? Why, you know, just give up And I would offer to you as one who's been down the trail a few years that it's really not a matter of mastering the Bible by Christmas. It's a matter of day by day, a little bit more, a little bit more, so that you know another book, maybe one more book by Christmas, you just As you begin to feed yourself, you find over the weeks and the months and the years that there is this accumulation of knowledge. So you read one part and it makes sense because you remember another part that you read and you put the things together. So it's over the long haul that you grow in your convictions and your knowledge of the Bible. And that's particularly to the four of you who came to profess your faith this morning. Make that a habit A little bit of Scripture every day, every week, to grow in your knowledge of the Bible. May I ask you, do you know the Bible any better than you did six months ago? I don't matter if have you mastered it. Do you know it any better than you did six months ago? Do you have some plan for it? That's what Paul's talking about here. The second thing is he's talking about affections because he says In the knowledge of the Son of God, and that word knowledge is the same word that's used in chapter 1, verse 17. Epigenosco refers to full, intimate knowledge. It's used of the marriage relationship. It's talking about affections, deep experiential knowledge of Jesus. I know him intimately. I love him. That's what it's saying. And so if the first is to know your Bible, the second is to love your Savior To love your Savior, because you know more about Him, how wonderful He is, how sufficient, and how much His love committed Him to do for you, and how He holds you in His hand. The third part has to do with character, to become mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. That is not just a matter of intellectual doctrine or mystical devotion, it's a matter of the change of your life, living differently. He will expand on that in verse 17 on through the next couple of chapters. But what he is saying here is that you not only know your Bible and love your Savior, thirdly you reflect your Lord. You reflect him as one who is looking more like Jesus in the way you think, in the way you speak, the way you act. So these three simple goals are the goals of Columbia Presbyterian Church. Life change, not a matter of multiplying programs, but changing lives. That you grow in your convictions, your affections, and your character. That's what the church is about And it's easy to lose track of that, especially as a church grows and life becomes more complex. We have to fight to get back to the basics Now Paul contrasts that in verse 14 with those who are immature, who do not grow in this way. So he says, then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by the waves, blown here and there by every wind of teaching, and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful scheming. It's a reminder that there will always be popular teachers in every age who want to lead you astray and play on your consumer inclinations. And you can think of things that you listen to or watch or hear that do that, can't you? Things when you are honest, as appealing and attractive as they are, when you are honest with yourself, you say, these things really more entertain me. And make me feel good than to challenge me and draw me closer to Jesus. They don't make the cross more precious to me They kind of pump me up and they're interesting and they divert me from my pain. So Paul says there will always be that. There were in his day and there is now. I remember a fella who was a member of Columbia Presbyterian coming to me one day. It was Probably one of the strangest compliments I had gotten. He said, um, Harris, you know, you're not a dynamic speaker like so-and-so, and he named another pastor in the area. But he says, I believe that being here, I have grown more to love Jesus than I would have in that other ministry. So I thought, I think that's a compliment. But I offered to you The search committee is looking very hard and diligently for a person who will be a faithful team leader and will do a lot of preaching. When you come to the place where you hear that person, the criterion is not how dynamic and interesting. But how faithful to equipping you and lifting up Christ. Now I know that that's very important to most of you, but I think it bears again in a day where we are so swayed By people who are able to tell the stories and really show us very interesting, highly illustrated, humorous messages, what we're really looking for. Paul says, it's not like it's just these people and they're all the baddies and here's the goodies. All of us is more of a continuum to fall prey to man-centered versus simply lifting up Christ. So we all have to pray for discernment in that. But then I want to look at these last two verses. He says, How is this done? Verses 15 and 16 are the process. How does this take place? How does maturity happen? Now I told you the mis the ministers, that's you all, your goal is verse 13. How do you get to that goal of verse 13? By verses 15 and 16. And those are two key components that he has there. Verse 15, the application of truth. And verse 16, the availability of all. They're both very personal. Examine yourself honestly in these two areas. I wish that I could sit down and say each of these to you personally. So pretend I'm doing that, okay? Because this is very personal. Verses 15 and 16 First of all, he talks about the application of the truth. Look at verse 15. He says, instead, speaking the truth in love We will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. Now, verse 15 is literally instead truthing in love. It's a very unusual verb we don't have a counterpart in English, but that's what he's saying. Instead, truthing in love and commentators debate back and forth on and on and on. Should that be translated holding the truth or practicing the truth or should be it? Should it be a translated speaking the truth? And as in many cases, as you've heard me through the years, I'd say yes. I think it's both And the reason I think that it's both is because the idea of speaking and holding the truth connected to the verses before, the idea of speaking the truth connected to the verses after. I think Paul has both in mind, and here's why. There's two ideas that convey why I think he's talking about it being the application of the truth. That is Excuse me, practicing the truth. So number one, the blank if you want to fill that in is practicing. Practicing the truth. Because it's in contrast, I believe, to verse 14. He's saying, practice the truth. Verse 14 is talking about deception, lies those things which are focused on ourselves. And he sang, in contrast to that, focus on the truth. Apply the truth. It's also, I believe, comparing what he has said in verse 13, our convictions, which has to do with the holding of the truth and our affections toward Jesus and our growing in the truth in our maturity and character. So I think both of these things connect it. He's talking about applying or practicing the truth. So, how do you become a person like the one described in verse 13? By taking what you read in the Bible and saying, how do I apply that to my life today? What does it mean to hold or apply this truth? As each day of this week goes by, every day has its tests. Every day you are making choices whether you will hold the truth or you will compromise or go by your feelings or something else. Let me give you an illustration of that. And I'll I'll read this because I think it's more effective, just uh pretty short. There's a fellow, Charlie Alcott, who was the president of one of the largest fast food franchises in the country. Another country company was trying to buy them out. The chairman of his company's board came and said, Charlie, I want you to make some 10-year projections on our earnings at a higher sales level than we've originally planned. Charlie, a financial man, said he couldn't do it. I could make them at the original level, but I couldn't estimate them at a higher level just to give the company a better sale price. Just before they were going into the meeting with the investment bankers, he told his chairman, I've thought about it all night. I can't do it. The chairman said, okay, Charlie, you're off the team. Twenty years of climbing the corporate ladder, and like that, he was fired. He called his wife, Suzanne, and said, I've been fired. She said, Good. Come on home. He went home. That was two years ago. And although it hasn't been an easy two years, he can look in the mirror. As he told me, I learned it was wrong to park my Christ-centered life at noontime one Sunday. And God blessed him. He's now on the board of Leighton Ford Ministries. What if you were making a good salary? And somebody offered you a job with a Christian organization for far less than you were now earning. But you saw a unique opportunity to use your gifts in a more strategic way for the kingdom. This week, a man in our congregation shared with me that that was the thing he was struggling with. He says, I told Jesus I was willing to follow him anywhere. Was I lying? So I took the job. What's the issue for you in practicing the truth? In holding the truth in love? Not sterily saying, I will moralistically keep this, but in love, holding the truth of Christ. What God is whispering to you about as you open and read the scriptures. What does it mean for you to practice the truth? CPC is not about multiplying programs, it's about changing lives. And that's teaching us how to practice the truth. But I believe it also means speaking the truth. Speaking the truth in love. And your number two there, blank is speaking. Speaking the truth in love. You see, there's only one other time that this strange word truthing appears in the New Testament, and it's in Galatians 4. 16. Where Paul says, Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth? Same word, by truthing you. Obviously, he doesn't mean by holding the truth or practicing it. He's talking about what he said to them, by speaking the truth. And I believe that this verse connects it to what's going on ahead of it. So, for instance, in verse 25. Paul says, speak the truth. He says, therefore each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor. That is uh not spinning it or manipulating uh for your own gain, not avoiding difficult issues. Somebody ought to speak to her about her critical tongue and her gossip. I hope the elders do it. I hope the pastoral staff will do it. That's their job. But God uses people who are in relationship with each other. And um I'm not just saying that's women. Could be a guy that's got a critical tongue and gossip, yeah, I know. If I don't say that somebody'll tell me after, but I'm telling yes yes either of us. But We wait for somebody else to do it, don't we? Because it's awkward. How do I speak the truth in love? I need to pray about my motives. But if I care about that person, I can't ignore sin-dominating patterns in their life. The body grows by us learning to speak the truth, gospel truth, in love to one another, because we are all ministers. Now that in love part he picks up in verse 29. Because in verse 29 Paul warns us, do not let any unwholesome talk. Remember when we looked at that before, I said you could translate it garbage talk. Do not let any because the word refers to garbage. Do not let any garbage talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. It's not enough to simply say, I have the truth and I need to lay it on you. But I ask myself, will this benefit the person that I'm speaking to? Is this what they need to hear, or will it hurt them? How can I say it constructively? How would I respond if you told me what I'm feeling like I need to tell you? And if I think about how I might receive it and how I might respond, I might ask, how can I do this more gently? Perhaps I need to raise a couple of questions rather than to make assertions. I need to speak simply of what I've observed without judgment. But my goal is to speak the truth so it benefits the person who listens. Practicing the truth, speaking the truth, as a minister with a minister mindset, that's how we grow into verse 13. Last verse. The availability of all, not only the application of the truth, but verse 16, the availability of all. From him the whole body, joined and held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love. as each part does its work. Not just the staff, not just the elders, not just the small group leaders, you uniquely. You notice whole body, every supporting ligament, each part. If you are part of this body, Paul is addressing this to you. Are you part of the body or are you just visiting? Are you afraid of commitment because you've been burned? You know, it's a step of faith to become emotionally part of a body. You become vulnerable. You're more able to be hurt when you invest yourself in the body. You give your heart to it. That's a step of faith for Christ to protect you because the body will let you down. No question about it. But the body only functions healthy when each part Supplied and joined together, does its work. So go ahead, try an HFG or two. Be willing to give your heart. To get to know people here, to ask how you can serve, and to pray for the mindset of a minister rather than a consumer. Now in the next weeks we're going to be continuing this and opening it up. Dan and Tim. We'll be bringing a few messages to be able to help you to see more of what it means to be a healthy body here as we've worked on this together. And we'll actually return to Ephesians after the holidays to finish up some more of these practical, how do you live out the gospel? But let me just say one more thing, one final observation before I finish this. I'm kind of ashamed to say that after having preached the whole series, 125 messages some years ago on Ephesians, That what I'm about to share finally just dawned on me this week Because I was thinking how easily this could simply be a process. And to offer it as a process would be to place you under the law. You could go away from here more burdened. You know, this is what I gotta do, yeah, I gotta speak the truth, I gotta practice the truth, I gotta hold the truth, gotta, you know, care for these people, I gotta get involved. You know, and so you you could walk out of here burdened. So how does Paul infuse gospel into this passage? It finally dawned on me. I've never seen this. Finally dawned on me this week. He weaves it subtly through each verse. Look at verse thirteen. Verse thirteen begins with the word, until What Paul does in the whole process is to infuse it with hope. Because we look at it and we say. Yes, I need to know my Bible better, grow in my convictions, I need to love Jesus better, I need to be m less ashamed of him and love him more fully, I need to become more like him But what Paul begins with is the word until you will be that. There will be a day when we will all agree in our theology, five minutes after we're in heaven. Not before. But then we will all see the truth Perfectly, not exhaustively, because chapter 2, verse 7 says it's going to take them all eternity to show the fullness of his kindness. But we will know it without error. You will and I will. And there will be at that time, five minutes after we're in heaven, we will love Jesus and be more intimate with him than you can possibly imagine now. Because of what he will do in you. You will love him shamelessly, fully, passionately. And the fullness of the stature of your character will be the perfect reflection of Jesus Himself. You will think like he thinks. You will speak like he speaks. And you will act like he acts. Until Paul says. Don't miss it. When he gets down to verse 15, what does he say? Speaking the truth, we grow up. Speaking the truth in love, we grow up into our union with him. What's he saying? He's developing the same idea. The union, which is increasing in experiential uh intimacy. You are growing into that union. You are experiencing it more fully. The more you speak the truth in love by the power of the Holy Spirit, the closer you feel to Jesus, right? The more you feel connected to him. And Paul says that's what God's purpose is to do in you. And then it's interesting, verse 15 says we grow to him, verse 16 says from him. From him we are all held together. From him the grace comes. Remember verse 7? But to you grace has been given. Verse 16, from him, as he's molding us together as a body, as he's fitting us with every support, every part, every ligament, every Different part of the body. He is growing us together. And the grace is from him. Tonight at 6. 30, we're going to say goodbye to Al and Judy Björkis, who helped to get Columbia Presbyterian started over 33 years ago. They poured themselves into this body, and God has blessed them through relationships here, and the richness of participation. Their lives are full because they have acted as ministers. Who will miss you when you leave? What have you invested so that others in this body, their convictions, their affections, and their character. Will be more closely knit to and display Jesus Christ. We labor together with affection. And with hope, because it comes from Jesus. Let's pray. Lord, we are in a battle. And it's very easy for us to want to isolate ourselves. And all of this can sound like one great onerous task until we see the hope. Until we look at that day when we will perfectly know you, when we will perfectly love you with an intimacy that we cannot now imagine. And when to act and think like you will be so natural Right now, we struggle to have a moment to try to think and be like you. But there will be that time when we will be unable to think any other way, free from sin. So, Lord, help us as a body to think like ministers moving toward that goal by gospel grace. That infuses us. Lord, grant to each one of us who's challenged by a particular part of this To know that there is grace from you to be obedient, and that there is hope in you to fill our hearts with joy. In Jesus' name. Amen.