If you have your Bibles with you this morning, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 6. I'm going to be reading for us a text that is very familiar. There's a danger with considering texts that are very familiar. Sometimes we read by them thinking we've already squeezed all the juice we can out of that uh that fruit. And I want to invite you to come before this text with me this morning and let's pray that God would open up our eyes. Let's do that right now. Lord Jesus, we thank you for the gifts you've so liberally bestowed. Lord, we thank you for the gift of song and the gift of truth. The way those were so beautifully merged together in the ministry of the Cleopas family to us this morning. And Father, we thank you too, especially now as we come to the reading of your word. For the truth and the beauty of your scriptures, and the way they in their own key and their own tempo sing to our hearts. Father, help us to hear and to see. O Spirit of the living God, fall on us and help us to with open hearts Lord, with receptive souls, with willing hands, receive your word that it might become a part of us and change us. Almighty God, we pray that the preaching that follows the reading of your word would be blessed as well, in as much as it is faithful to who you are. And to what you have said. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter 6. Having trouble reading this morning. Beginning with verse 46. The numbers are awful small Luke chapter 6, beginning with verse 46, the Word of God. Why do you call me Lord, Lord, and not do what I tell you? Everyone who comes to me and hears my words and does them, I will show you what he is like. He is like a man building a house who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when a flood arose, the stream broke against that house and could not shake it, because it had been well built. But the one who hears and does not do them is like a man who built a house on the ground without a foundation. When the stream broke against it, immediately it fell. And the ruin of that house was great. This ends the reading of God's Word. Over the years I've been asked from time to time to speak on the subject of discipleship. And even over this past year I've been your pastor. I have on a couple of occasions at least shared with you my definition for what a disciple is. A disciple is someone who follows another to learn from them to become like them. Those three things. Someone who learns, someone who follows another person in order to learn from that person to become like that person. You might think, well, where do you get that from, Pastor Bob? And this is where I get it from. I want you to think about the context of this parable that Jesus teaches to demonstrate something about discipleship. Let's think about the context. Jesus is beginning his public ministry in a whole new way with the teaching we find in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew, the Sermon on the Plain in Luke. And both Matthew and Luke are giving us their description of the teaching of Jesus kind of systematically set forth from this early section of his ministry after people have finally started to put together What he is about. Remember in Mark, pardon me, in Luke, beginning with chapter 4, we have rumors going out about Jesus and news spreading about him. But the truth of who he is and what he's starting to say is really coming into focus in chapter 5. And in chapter 6. We find Jesus after the Pharisees have decided to reject him. People have decided we need to pay attention to this guy. That's when they're beginning to gather in crowds, not just one town gathering at it, but this is people from north and south. Jew and Gentile, religious person and secular. They're all beginning to gather. And what Jesus is teaching about fundamentally here after he names his apostles is what discipleship is like. He's describing what are the inward marks, meekness. Hunger for righteousness, sorrow over sin. These are the things that are essential to that Inner disposition of the true disciple. They're not at peace with sin. They long to be more like Jesus. They are humble of heart and gentle in spirit. And Jesus talks about woes, things that are not compatible with the Christian life, thinking you've already arrived. Living your life, pursuing nothing but your own mirth and comfort. Thinking that you have all the godliness you need, you would rather not be a bit more righteous. Pursuing the affirmation and acclaim of the world, these are things that spell disaster for the disciple. He goes on to talk about how important it is for you to love your enemies. He talks about how it's not okay for us to judge others and develop a censorious outlook when it comes to the people in our life. A radical humility with respect to ourselves when it comes to the beams in our own eye, when we think of the specks or the splinters in the eyes of others And then he talks about how bizarre it is that we don't bear only good fruit. And he challenges us to acknowledge the fact that the bad fruit we bear, that comes from us. The good fruit we bear, that we long to bear, comes from abiding in Jesus. And then he says in a concluding manner, And both Matthew and Luke conclude their great collations of the preaching of Jesus with this parable of the house on a foundation. Luke ends it by Jesus saying, Why do you say to me, Lord, Lord? Twice. Not just Lord, which would be a term of respect, but Lord Lord, meaning I recognize your authority and I really mean it. Why do you say that, but then not do what I say? Why do you do that? And Jesus says, now I'm going to tell you what somebody looks like who follows me to learn from me to become like me. That's where it comes from. Listen to what Jesus says in verse 47. Everyone who comes to me Follows me, and hears my words, learns from me, and does them, becomes like me. I will show you what he is like This is the ground zero of your pastor's understanding of discipleship. We come to Jesus, we listen carefully, we change. We follow our Savior. We learn from our Lord. We put into practice what he says. We become like Jesus. So let's think about those three things Jesus wants to point out this morning or afternoon, whatever time of day it was when he addressed the crowds. He says that the one who comes to him and the one who hears his words and the one who does them is like a man who builds a house. He digs deep and lays the foundation on the rock, and when a flood rises, the stream breaks against that house and cannot shake it because it had been well built. What does it mean to come to Jesus in light of that great analogy? We talk about coming to Jesus a lot. I remember as a lacrosse coach saying to a kid, you and I are going to have our little come to Jesus talk right now. And that wasn't an evangelistic sort of a come to Jesus talk. That was about how many how many miles you're going to have to run as a result of some infraction you committed. We use the phrase that way. But since the second great awakening, we also talk about coming to Jesus as that punctilia or g or that one event or that great experience where we give our lives to Christ or accept Christ. And all of these are very biblical ideas, but we think of the one who comes to Jesus, we we assume, oh, that means that this is the life of the Christian, and then next comes the life of the Christian who listens well. And then after that, it's sort of like the varsity Christian who might go on to play D1. He's the one that actually does it. But we're all Christians. That's good. That's not at all what Jesus is talking about here. This phrase, when Jesus says, Let me tell you, this is the one who comes to me and hears him and does what he says, when Jesus talks about people that come to him, Notice what we read earlier in this chapter, in this very context of the people who are listening to Jesus when he first says this. We read in chapter 6 earlier and verse 17 that Jesus came down with his newly minted apostles. And he stands on a level place with a great crowd of his disciples, and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem and the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear him. Same exact verbs. They came to him. And they even came to do that second part to hear him. The one thing that was different. is they were not committed to doing what he said. Coming to Jesus is not simply in this context A one and done, you're safe, you don't need to worry about the rest of your life, your tickets punched, you're guaranteed to go to heaven. That's not what Jesus is talking about in this parable. He even echoes that in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew. The Sermon on the Mount in Matthew, chapter 7, 21 and 23, those verses, there's perhaps the most troubling Thing we receive from the mouth of Jesus, where Jesus says, at the same chapter, if you will, of his ministry, he says, Many of you will say to me, Lord, Lord. But on that great day of judgment, I will say, depart from me, for I knew you not. Many people are coming to Jesus and saying, Lord, Lord. Many people are showing up. Many people are around Christ. Many people stand in the wings or spiritually Keep him at arms distance, but are in the neighborhood. Many people know a lot of things about Jesus They have come to Jesus for advice that they take or leave as it suits them, for inspiration as they think about the fact that they want to lead a moral life. Many people come to Jesus in this general, mere, I know about Jesus the way I know about Aristotle. I uh I I follow Jesus the same way that I follow uh Adam Smith if you're into that kind of economics I I recall on one occasion early in my ministry in California, there was a woman who was came into the church office, she was looking to network because she was going to start a ministry to to homeless people. And Calabasas, California doesn't have a lot of homeless people. But that's where she wanted to do her fundraising. So she came in and I had a great opportunity to talk with her and I asked her about her spiritual life and I said, Do you know Christ? And she said, Oh, I know Christ. And she opened up an old-fashioned wallet. Keep in mind this is 2007. This is the year that I got my first cell phone. So I wouldn't be the only one that was still keeping photos in a wallet. She opened up her wallet and you know the accordion like uh Pixar holders, you know, you could put 'em on both sides and like when you were in high school, I'll date myself. You'd have pictures of all the people that gave you their senior photos or pictures of y whatever you thought was important. You'd have pictures in there and you could show them to people. Well she had something like this, an accordion-type fold out with all these picture holders, and there was Jesus. There was Buddha. There was Confucius. There was Muhammad. And it's as if she was covering all her bets. Yeah, I know Jesus. But did she come to him? Interesting conversation with that lady. How many of us have come to Jesus in that kind of way, where his is just one of many voices? That gives us a menu of options from which ultimately we reserve the Lordship to choose what we're going to do. You see, that's what Jesus does not have in mind. Jesus isn't just a life coach. He is a king. When we say Lord, we're not simply saying Sir. We're saying that he's our God. Coming to Jesus. in the context of this parable is drawing close and hearing what he has to say. And that is true of every one of you in this room this morning. Now, what is true of most of you, perhaps all of you this morning, is that you also hear Jesus' words. To hear implies that they understand. To hear implies that they understand that Jesus is claiming to be someone particular, someone special, someone unique. And as we look at it from the context of the entire New Testament and we apply this sermon, this parable of Jesus to our life today, we could even say that this includes the understanding that You hear Jesus. You could say to Jesus, saying that to know me and to know the Father are the same thing. And you could say, I hear you, Jesus. You're the Son of God. Check. I agree. And you can have that kind of understanding, cognitively assenting to what Jesus says, hearing him. And your faith, as James would say, is no different from the faith of Satan himself. You believe. In God, good, even the demons do and shudder. Many professing Christians today are like those who come to Jesus and hear him. We know what he says about the big issues in our life. We know what he says about things like drunkenness. Things like pornography, adultery, things like drug use, things like Loving spouses, things like forgiveness, things like lying. We know what Jesus says. And we're not in any confusion whatsoever about whether those things are permissible or not. Isn't it yet true that we fail? Isn't that true? I would dare to say that when we do fail, the house tends to fall down. And the crash of it is very great. No good comes from sin ever No good comes from sin ever. And yet many of us come to Jesus and hear from him, and that's where it stops. Jesus, talking about the disciples he's looking for, says that the disciples he's talking about come to him, hear from him. And they do what he says. And they are likened to the man building a house who digs deep and lays the foundation on the rock. Now, I suspect that like every preacher, Jesus had a portfolio of illustrations that he used in various circumstances And I suspect that Jesus likened the life of his disciples to building a house on a foundation in several contexts, and Matthew gives us one and Luke gives us another because they're a little bit different. And Matthew's version of this parable Jesus taught, and I have no doubts that Jesus offered this teaching on multiple occasions with slightly different emphases throughout. In Matthew's version, the man building the house on the rock is building his house in a different place from the man building on the sand. In Luke's version, they're building in the same place, but differently. And this version that Luke gives us in the Sermon on the Plain The one man is just building on the surface of the ground, the other one is strenuously digging deep and laying the foundation on the rock. The effort, the intention, the sweat. Could you imagine what it would be to dig out a foundation? It's not like he could go to Home Depot or Lowe's and order one of those little mini excavators that every person in here wishes they could have for a weekend just to play with. No. It was about a shovel. And the shovel was sometimes basically just a flattened stick with a broad end that's been flattened. Can you imagine the effort that it would take you to dig out a foundation by hand? And then to be intent upon digging it straight down to the rock. And not just saying, well, I'll get below the frost line. I'll be alright. This is a picture of a deliberate, costly, sacrificial, difficult endeavor. But I want to comfort and challenge you, dear Christian. None of us. has our foundation perfectly glued to the rock in the way Jesus is talking about here. Jesus in his parables presents things in black and white where we have to choose Jesus does not teach and preach in a manner that offers us a continuum where we have the out of saying, well, I think I'm in the green range. Jesus talks about sheep and goats, light and darkness, houses that crash and houses that survive. And Jesus does this for a reason, because ultimately there are two absolute and utterly contradictory outcomes to the human life. Heaven or hell. Life with God or life eternally separated from Him. And we have to live our life in light of this great binary, this two options. And so Jesus portrays our life in two options, and he begs us to consider, which option are we in pursuit of? And this doesn't start with the life of Jesus. You open up the book of Genesis, and many of us have been reading through that, and we're what in numbers right now. Just finished numbers a bit ago. And Think about Genesis. You read Genesis and you're immediately presented with Cain and Abel. Which one is you? And then you're presented with Shem and Ham, the sons of Noah. Which one are you? And then you're presented with Lot or Abram. Where will you live? And then Isaac and Ishmael, who are you? Joseph and his brothers. Which one claims your allegiance? The eleven or the one. And you see, there's a sense in which reading Scripture is constantly forcing us to identify with God and His work in the life of people in a way that's exclusive. This not that. And when Jesus comes and he preaches, he offers us things in very simple terms. He says, Bob Bjerkis, you can live your life working very hard. It's not going to be easy, and you are not always going to succeed. But you can live your life with shovel in hand, and you can dig the foundation of your life, the house you are building, down to the rock, or you can just go ahead and build on the surface. One is going to end well. But Bob, remember what I said by my spirit in the book of Proverbs. There is a way that seems right to a man, but in the end it leads to death. And you can take the easy way and think, you know, doing it God's way is too hard. It's too difficult. Too much sweat involved. I don't have a good shovel after all. Or, you know, I'm I'm visually impaired and it's it's hard to dig. It's hard to see the tree roots and cut them. And you know, God will understand if I just, you know, build on a pallet. Well, the end result of that is ruin. And Jesus wants to make it very clear that the one who comes to him, who hears him, and does what he says. That's the disciple. That is the option I am aligning with by grace through faith. That is my aspiration and by the grace of God more and more my avocation. It's what I want, and increasingly as I walk with the Lord, by baby steps, sometimes with scraped knees, that's what I am shooting for. Think about what the Apostle Paul says in his letter to the Philippians. He says, not that I've already been made perfect. This is the Apostle Paul. Not that I already have the perfect foundation going clear down to the rock, but this one thing I do, forgetting what's behind, I strain forward in that heavenward calling that's mine. I keep Digging that foundation, obeying the Lord, finding out what he says, and building my house on Christ. Not only by coming to him, not only by listening to him. But by doing what he says. And dear Christian, that is a note that needs to be sounded again and again in the ear of the child of God. We cannot think that we will succeed in any way building a spiritual life if we don't put an emphasis, indeed a premium. on working out our salvation with fear and trembling, for it is the Lord who is at work in us to will and do that which is according to his purpose. We have been saved by grace through faith. We are God's workmanship, prepared in advance for good works. We cannot separate this idea of justification coming to Christ and being born again from sanctification. being changed by him in conformity with his will. And to separate faith from good works is a dreadful mistake. It's as dreadful as confusing the two Confusing the two would be say I'm saved because of my good works. Separating the two would be saying I can be saved and have no good works. The bottom line is on authentic, genuine faith, a true coming to Christ, a true being visited and attended by his Spirit, that produces over time good fruit. Not perfect fruit all at once, not perfect fruit ever on this side of heaven, but nonetheless. The child of the living God, the disciple of Jesus Christ, is one who is ever singing in his heart that beautiful child's hymn. Trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus but to trust and obey. We live in a day and an age where we have put more emphasis on how we're feeling than maybe in any other era of human history. And I don't really have the credentials to say that with particular authority, but there are others who write and say that that's the case. who do have more credentials than me in the area of psychological health and modern psychological studies, where we have made an entire mental health industry based upon how we're feeling. And one of the ways that's affected the church, according to some of the pundits, is that we tend to emphasize how we're feeling, sometimes at the expense of what we're doing. And as I read Scripture, they cannot be separated. The two are like Think about this for a moment. If the goal of the projectionist is to put something green up on the screen, you have to have both the yellow film and the blue film. Again, I'm dating myself, going back to overhead projectors. And if you're just focused on, well, I'm a Christian, and I'm just real I'm not so much focused on what I'm doing and on obedience. I'm just really focusing on feeling loved and loving God. Well, you're never going to get that green color. All you're going to get is yellow. And you're going to have crashes and breakdowns and failures across the whole spectrum of your life. And Jesus Christ alone knows whether or not you're truly his. If you just decide I'm going to have a legal approach to the Christian life and I I'm just going to work on following every rule and you just have that blue slide, you're also not going to hit the green color. Because what you failed to do is actually listen to everything Jesus says. Because Jesus says again and again things like, if you're thirsty, come to me and drink. If you're weary, come and find rest. You see, we don't, by our good works or our digging deep, earn a single smile from heaven that is not already ours by grace through faith in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did for us. The only way for you to advance in your progress as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ is to, again, to quote Wayne's liturgy. to venture wholly upon Christ, to cast all of who you are upon Christ, body and soul, and to say, I hear you, Jesus. You are offering me the full and free and complete forgiveness of my sins, and here I lay myself before you. Today you are my Lord, you are my God, you are my king, you're my captain, and I will obey you. And the color green starts showing up on the slides of your life. Life begins to take over. The structure of your house becomes solid. Jesus doesn't suppose for a minute that you or I are ever going to live a life that doesn't face floodwaters. Every one of us has floods raging against our houses, swirling around the doors, threatening to break through the windows. And there are times when you and I have major setbacks in life, and through poor decisions, intertentive lives. Parts of the structure collapse. Maybe we start over. And a question that this parable of Jesus, the lover of our souls, invites us to consider. The question that he invites us to consider could be put this way. Did I build that part of my life on the rock? Did I dig deep and offer it to the Lord and build it his way? Or did I take shortcuts and do what seemed right to me? And follow the current of the culture. Listen more to what friends of mine who don't know Christ urge than those opinions offered by the fellowship of the saints. Did I listen to Scripture or did I read Dear Abbey? Those are the kinds of questions that failures and setbacks can and should bring to mind. We should also have an opportunity to reflect on the grace of God every time such a thing happens. I want to tell you about a time when Peter's house collapsed. Jesus had been arrested, and Peter drew near to Jesus, had listened to Jesus, but he did not do what Jesus said. He did not face persecution on account of his name. Something Jesus mentions at the very beginning of this first great public teaching moment, right after Peter had been ordained as an apostle. And Peter denies Jesus three times. He'd come to Jesus, he listened, he did not do. Now I wish that I had a mirror right in front of me. I'm going to pretend that I do. And I'm looking in that mirror and I'm saying, Bob Bjerkes. As often as your house collapses, and you're reminded of the fact that you have simply come to Christ and you listen to him, but like Peter, you didn't obey. Jesus Christ himself appears after his resurrection and says, Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? Peter, do you love me? And as often as you, dear child of the living God, have not done what Jesus said, if you have come to Him, you have heard Him, And you would, at the bottom of your heart, put into practice what he teaches you. He is willing to meet with you, knocking on the door of your heart, and ask you, do you love me? for every failure. And his love is sufficient to give you a new start on building a house, even if it starts from scratch. Never be discouraged, Christian, but always be diligent. Never be afraid. But always, always be faithful. And as you read your scriptures Don't resist that small voice of the Spirit saying, repent, believe, grow, come closer. Don't double down on poor building plans. Be willing to revisit foundations and start over. And for those of you who are here this morning, and you've just come, you're in the kind of thinking about life, you know there's a Jesus, you're Testing out the waters. I talked to someone in that very, very situation just ten days ago Those of you who have heard a lot from Jesus or about Jesus, but you haven't resolved yet whether or not you're going to venture upon him and cast your life upon him and receive him as Savior and Lord, responding to his invitation. I would like to ask you two questions. One, what are you building on? What is your foundation? Is your foundation the power and the love of the God who made the universe? From nothing, and who has conquered even sin itself? Or is it something less than? Why it would have to be And how is it working for you? That's a fair question. How are you doing with the waves of life? What's your house like? And don't you find a blessed attraction in the invitation of Jesus to come, hear from me, and do as I instruct. The last words Jesus gave will be the last words that I offer in this sermon. Gospel of Matthew, he tells his apostles, and the church by extension. Go ye therefore into all the world making disciples, making people who come, hear, and do baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, and teaching them to obey all that I have commanded. That's us. Let's spur one another on in good deeds as we see the day of Christ's return approaching. Amen. And know that Jesus loves you. And as often, dear Christian, as you have denied him and failed. I want you, I desperately want you to hear the voice of this Jesus who gives you the recipe for success. I want you to hear him also saying, do you love me? Have you come to me? Are you listening? Will you do? And I trust that the answer I will give is the same you will give. Yes, Lord, I will. Almighty God, we thank you for the grace you give us. Lord, we thank you in these clear parables and instructions you give in life, we thank you that there's a just basically an on and an off, a good and a bad, a right and a wrong. And Lord, we confess that we are so perplexed at the fact that we want to bear only good fruit, but we also bear partly bad fruit, sometimes purely bad fruit, Lord, and y yet we long to abide in you more and more and produce better and better fruit, Lord. We want to have perfect foundations dug to perfection right down to the rock. And Lord, we confess that we need help even there. Lord, we thank you that you are, among other things, the Lord our helper. Help us. Grant to us a willing spirit to sustain us in new obedience. As we ever and anew give our lives to you, who are the author and perfecter of our faith, that we might read it in your life And grow in it in ours. Bless us, we pray, in the name of Jesus our Savior. Amen.