Thanks for uh doing that, introducing us to that. And uh I thought as uh they were singing, that's a good song to sing while you're sit kneeling and walking and standing in the morning, you know. uh add a little uh more depth to your exercise. Thank you. Uh I was also thinking about what Tim said. He's looking forward to hearing the message this morning. Uh so am I in a way, but um You know, it is really true that there is a mixed sense within us. You know, every Christian lives in tension. Part of me wants to continue to live, gratifying my cravings and living by my feelings. Well, a deeper part of me wants to follow the word, trust it, serve Jesus. Part of me wants to live like a pagan. Part of me wants to live like a devoted follower. Part of me does not live in hope. I live as one who is abandoned, has to take care of myself like an orphan. Part of me lives by hope. Lives by an awareness of the presence, the power, the promises of Jesus. You and I live in that tension, don't we? And so the book of Ephesians is to remind us of the reality, to deepen the hope, deepen the sense of who we really are and what truth is. Ephesians 1-3 gives us the gospel. It tells you in a nutshell that you were dead spiritually, that simply out of his grace and mercy, God made you alive. He made you alive because he placed your sins on Jesus Christ, and when he died, he took the punishment for them. Therefore, there is no more punishment for you. So God raised you up and he seated you in the heavenlies with Christ. He made you recreated into his new masterpiece. And he not only did that, but as we saw last week, he did that forming you into a new people. A new kingdom, a new family, stones within a new holy temple of his presence. All of these things he simply says are true. But Ephesians 1-3 is not theoretical. It's more like a bank statement. Think of a bank statement you would receive, and you've received this notice The benefactor has said, I have placed a million dollars into your account. And you can draw on that count Every day, as much as you want, and when the million dollars is exhausted, there will be a limitless supply more deposited into your account And so by faith, you and I draw upon the account of the gospel day by day. Chapters 4, 5, and 6 are the way P. Paul tells you how to do that. He says at the end of chapter 4, beginning of chapter 5. Some of the general principles of how you walk in that inexhaustible bank account of the riches, spiritual riches that you have in Christ. Then the end of chapter five, the beginning of chapter six, he applies that to three pairs of relationships: husband, wife, parent-child, employer-employee. But before he tells you all those things, before he tells you how to do this stuff He gives a part in the beginning of chapter four that is critical in how to live the Christian life. And I believe that it is one of the most overlooked Ignored passages of Scripture in the entire New Testament in today's American church, in practical reality. Because what Paul does after he gives that link pin verse, Ephesians 4:1, you see it there, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you To live worthy, that is, to bring your life into equilibrium with the calling that you have received. What he does is something which I think is superbly counterintuitive. How does he begin? He does not begin by talking about your relationship with God. He does not begin by talking about your private devotional exercises, your spiritual disciplines. He doesn't start with you and God. He doesn't talk about anything private. Rather, he starts with your relationship with other Christians. He's saying basic to your Christian life. One of the most important decisions that you can make. Is going to be whether you decide to be part of a Christian community, the church, or simply drop in and visit it but remain detached. And what he says in complete realism is, and you know what? It's not gonna be easy. You got some real stinkers out there So look what he says in verses 2 and 3. He doesn't say, and this body is glorious, and it's going to be so much fun, and you are just going to be high when you meet with other Christians because they are so full of grace and mercy and peace and encouragement. Look what he says. Be completely humble and gentle. Be patient. Bearing with one another in love. Make every effort. The Greek is the bend yourself to extreme exercise and determination. Make every effort. to keep the unity of the Spirit through the bond of peace. He's saying there's going to be people you want to avoid, people that you disagree with, people that you find it hard to get along with. People that you would like to have gone from your life. It's not going to be easy. You think getting along with Christians should be easy. Being part of the body should be delight. Nah. I mean I'm not saying it's just misery. Praise God. When our small group gets together, we generally really look forward to getting together. But it's going to take effort. And you see, this is really hard for us who by nature want to live independent, self-sufficient. and have been pressed into the mold of thinking by our culture to be consumers. We think by nature as independent consumers. We talk about Shopping for a church. You ask somebody about their affiliation with a congregation or a church, and how do you put it? Where do you go to church? Not what church are you part of, what church do you belong to? Where do you go to church? It's something you drop in, but remain sort of detached. And we do that as consumers because after we have chopped around for a while and we look and see is the nursery and the parking and the music and the feeding, you know, and Praise God the seating doesn't squeak anymore because if it did we'd lose half of you. You know, I mean just these things that sort of irritate us and and we feel we we kind of maintain as consumers this sense of detachment. So that if they change something, some policy change, or preacher change, or facility change, or you know Financial decision change or whatever it is, and I don't like that. Then immediately our mindset switches from we to they That I'm out of here. What Paul's saying is that in order to grow in the gospel There is a basic mindset that you and I need to make, and it'll become clearer as we go through these verses that says, I am part of this motley crew of sinners that love Jesus. It's family. That's what he said in chapter 2. They're the stones that I'm being cemented to because God's dwelling here and he's part of us. So Paul says it's not going to be easy. It goes against our very nature. Now I'm not saying that it is always wrong to leave a congregation. I understand the mindset that says this is really becoming difficult. And there are situations where a congregation may become unhealthy, and you may decide for our good spiritually as a family, for my good to Be able to grow in the gospel and be able to serve Christ and His kingdom. I need to re-examine that. But that should always be done in consultation and counsel with people in that congregation, its leaders. and other Christians who can be more objective. So I don't want you to understand that I'm saying you are married here, you must stay here, and God'll get you if you ever decide to go somewhere else. But because our mindset as independent consumers by nature Is a mindset of detachment, always saying, I'm evaluating whether the return on my investment is worth it here, rather than seeing myself as belonging to a covenant community of people It is only done by grace. It is supernatural. Therefore, Paul talks about grace. And he talks about two kinds of grace by which this is done. First of all, you see in verses four to six, he talks about the unity of saving grace. The unity of saving grace that binds us together. There are seven ones in those three verses. He says there is one body, one spirit, one hope, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one Father who is over all and through all and in all. Seven times he says, you and I are bound together. You know what that means? It means that you are saved by exactly the same grace that saved the Apostle Paul. He wasn't saved in any way different from you. His standing before Jesus Christ is on exactly the same basis as yours. No different. Augustine, Martin Luther, John Calvin All saved exactly the same way as you are. We'll take any modern-day hero that you have, Beth Moore saved the same way as you are, John Piper, saved exactly the same way by the same grace that you are in Jesus Christ. Also, the people you don't like who love Jesus are saved the same way that you are. The people that you disagree with at Columbia Presbyterian. Your husband, your wife, your parents, they were all saved in the same grace that you are. It binds us together. And the indicative in the imperative says, because you are one, therefore you can live as one. That's his point there. We are all part of the one body and the one hope and the one grace that saved us. Therefore, it is possible for us to live together and live out that unity. And then you come to one of those great butts of Scripture again in verse 7. But, he says, but to each one of us this grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. Now he moves into the diversity of serving grace. The unity of saving grace, contrasted with the diversity of serving grace, that builds us up together. In other words, while you are saved exactly the same way as every other Christian, you are absolutely unique in your personality, your gifts, and your perspectives. No two Christians are exactly alike. You are different to some degree from every other Christian at Columbia Presbyterian and have a perspective that is needed. I'm reminded of this from time to time when we will have an intensive discussion in a staff meeting, and we will bring different perspectives to it. But we will come together and we'll say, okay, this makes sense. This is what we're going to do. And then I got home and I talked to my wife. And she says, what in the world were you thinking? Now part of that may be a feminine perspective. Part of that is Kathy. But I realized that's a whole different way of looking at this that opens up windows of ways I hadn't seen We need all the different perspectives of the body. Paul says we're all unique. We've all been given different gifts. To each one of us, grace has been given. That grace is the serving grace, it is also the grace that enables us to live with sinners. And notice what he does is he goes then into what I call the three P's of the equipping here of the body. The first is in verses seven to ten, the power of the ascended Christ who gave the gifts You see, he says there to each one of us, Grace has been given as Christ apportioned it. This is why it says he when he ascended on high, he led captives in his train and gave gifts to men What does he s ascended mean, except that he also descended, that is, he ascended into heaven, he first descended to the earth in the incarnation. He who descended in the incarnation is the very one who, after his death and resurrection, ascended. higher than all the heavens, in order to fill the whole universe. So the power of the grace that He gives you to serve within the body is a supernatural power of a king who has ascended his throne, and as in the ancient Near East, when a king, conquering king, ascended, he gave gifts to his friends And so Paul is saying Jesus is the King. He's ascended to the throne of heaven. And in his ascension, he's now distributing gifts, the gifts of the victorious Christ King. And what are the gifts? The gifts in verse 11 are the persons that he gives as leaders in the church. Verse 11, is he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers, the pastors and teachers are the office that continues today of elders. Involved in both pastoring and teaching, some particularly set aside in teaching. But that's a different, it's a conjunction there, pastors and teachers, or pastor teachers. And what do these people do? The third P is their purpose. You see it in verse 12. To prepare or to equip God's people, that is the saints, literally it is the holy ones. It's not referring to a subcategory of super Christians. The saints are simply all of those who belong to Jesus Christ by faith in his finished work to prepare or to equip God's people, the saints, the holy ones, for works of service, that is, for ministry. It's the word. from which we get deacon simply to serve so that the body of Christ may be built up. So this is the elders' process in a healthy church. It's to equip the saints for ministry. There's two kinds of churches, more than that, but just to simplify the simple contrast here, two kinds of churches you have in the United States today, there are the churches that appeal to consumers. To entertain the saints for money. The alternative is to appeal to disciples to equip the saints for ministry. And churches take two different kinds of philosophies of ministry, broadly speaking, today. Are we here to pack them in by making a very appealing, entertaining Sunday morning service you don't want to miss? Can't wait for what we have in store for you next week. Because we treat you as consumers. We've got to keep you engaged, keep you giving. Or is it what Paul says, the function of the leaders is simply to equip you, all of you as God's people, to equip you for ministry. That word equip is a very rich word, and it has three primary shades of meaning. I don't have time to go into depth, but let me just unpack them very, very briefly. Three kinds of meaning, three shades of meaning. to this word equip, because this is what we are as leaders, as elders, as staff here to be doing with you, for you, as those who are part of the body. Not consumers who visit, but those who are part of the body of Columbia Presbyterian. The first idea involved in that equipping is restore. It is sometimes translated by the word restore. The word equip is a word that is used in secular Greek for mending fishing nets. When fishermen would take their torn nets and lay them on the beach and they would sew them back up, the word that was used for the repairing of the nets is the word equipping. It was used if you broke a bone and a doctor set it. That word to set the bone is this word equipped. It means to restore, to restore to wholeness. In Galatians chapter 6 and verse 1, you see the word used, brother, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should Restore him gently. The word used there is the same word equip in Ephesians 4. 12. You should restore or equip him gently, but watch yourself, or you also may be tempted. You're restoring him from sin. So part of the equipping ministry of Columbia Presbyterian is preaching the gospel to you to restore you. From your sin. For instance, if you have a consumer mindset and live independently and detached from the body, to call you by the gospel To repent of that and to say, I need to lay my life before Jesus and change my attitude. That's to restore you The word is also used to restore in a different sense in 1 Peter 5, in verse 10, you see the grace of all, God of all grace. who called you to his eternal glory in Christ after you have suffered a little while will himself restore you and make you strong, firm, and steadfast. The word there to restore you is the word to equip. Same word, Ephesians four, twelve. And here it's not to restore from sin so much as it is to restore from brokenness. You've been thrashed about. Perhaps persecuted, but you've gone through some tough times. The gospel restores you. We equip you in the body by restoring you In the goodness and the grace of God, after you've suffered a little while to point you, He will restore you. He will make you strong. He will make you firm. Jesus is able to make you steadfast so that you rest more fully on him, you lean harder on him. That's restoring you, that's equipping you as saints for ministry. The second shade of meaning is the word supply. The word equip also can mean supply. For instance, in 1 Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse 10, Paul says, Night and day we pray most earnestly that we may see you again and supply what is lacking in your faith. The word supply there is the same word in Ephesians to equip you. That we will equip you for what is lacking in your faith. The idea is to supply. That is to help you to see the implications of the gospel in ways that you may not be seeing. We want to supply that that the missing implications. We want to help you to see the fullness of that gospel. And that's part of the equipping. Give you a bigger view of Christ, a bigger view of the gospel, Ephesian, you know, that you might know more of your hope. And the great salvation he has for you. The words also used in Hebrews 13, verse 21. For the author of Hebrews prays that God would equip you with everything good for doing his will. Make ye work in us that which is pleasing to him through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. That he would equip you with everything good. And the word there is the idea of supply. He would supply for you everything you need for living out of this infinite bank account of spiritual riches in Christ. He will supply, you see, all that you need. It's there Draw upon it by faith. God will supply. You say, This is too tough, Lord, I don't know how I'm gonna get through this week. I don't know how I'm gonna get through this new circumstance in my life, how I'm going to face the boss, how I'm gonna finish that report, how I'm gonna be able to look at the the reports of that medical test. He will supply what you need to walk with him. And so part of our equipping you as leaders is to help you to point to point you to Jesus to say he'll supply whatever your need is for this week, whatever it is that has you discouraged that is distracting your faith that is bringing you down. God will supply. That's equipping you for ministry. And then finally, the word has the notion of training. Training. The word equipped is sometimes translated by the word trained. For instance, in 2 Timothy 3:17, after talking about the Word of God, which is God breathed and is profitable for teaching, correcting, rebuking, training in righteousness, verse 17, so that the man of God may be thoroughly equipped That is thoroughly trained for every good work. You were trained by learning how to use the Bible. You're trained in learning how to study it, how to apply it, how to bring yourself under its correction, how to see how it directs you toward Jesus Christ. That your life would be restored. You see, all this equipping is all gospel. You equip through the gospel. Jesus used the word in Luke chapter 6 and verse 40. Where he said, a student is not above his teacher, but everyone who is fully trained, the word used there is the same one, Ephesians 4. 12. Everyone who is fully equipped, trained, will be like his teacher. That is, you equip by life-on-life influence, one-to-one example. Seeing how this person handles the stress, the temptations, the difficulties, how they set their priorities, how they live by them, that's equipping. And so we need to be examples to you. We're examples to one another in our small groups, particularly, as we go through the difficulties and we see How does this person handle that? I hear what they say, but how do they handle that? I was talking to somebody this week, and they were talking about how their life changed. And I said, You say a lot of good things. But I want to see how you live. I want to see you do something you don't feel like doing simply because you love Jesus. That's equipping. That's seeing how we live. So these are the terms that are used, and Paul says that the the pastor teachers, the elders in a healthy church equip the saints for what? For ministry. Well, first of all, who do they equip? They equip the saints again. Again, it's not some subset, it's all of you. If you belong to Jesus Christ, you are part of this equipping ministry if you have committed yourself to this body. That's why it's so important, because you say, I'm here to be equipped because I belong to this body. I want to love and serve Jesus. And you are equipped for what? For ministry. The opposite of the consumer mindset. The consumer mindset is: I am here to give some money, maybe do a little bit, so that I will be served. What Paul's talking about here is the healthy church is a church of people who are there for ministry. So, how many ministers do we have at Columbia Presbyterian? You say, well, let's see, Steve's gone out to the Pacific Northwest, so that leaves Harris and Flora, you know, and you got Robbie and Dan. I don't know, you guess we got four. All of you are the ministers. We're the equippers in ministry. Some churches will put that in their bullet, and they'll say, pastoral staff, elders. Ministers, the congregation. So we have roughly, if everybody were here, maybe 600 ministers at Columbia Presbyterian. That's a totally different mindset, you see. Totally cuts across the grain of the consumer mindset of today's typical church. You say, but I'm not a minister. Man, I'm struggling. I I barely am trying to keep my head above water spiritually and follow Jesus. What do I have to offer? What do you have to offer? You got four things if you're a Christian. You see them there in your bulletin outline. You got the gospel of Christ. If you're a Christian, you know something of the gospel. You've got the Christ of the gospel. You know him. You have the Holy Spirit, no matter how weak a Christian you are or how new you have the Holy Spirit. And if you have people in your life who have needs Then you bring those three things, the gospel of Christ, the Christ of the gospel, and the Holy Spirit to bear in any way that you can To that person in need, and that's ministry. It's simply serving. It's a mindset. You say, but I'm too weak. Well, great. Because Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, when I am weak and understand my weakness, that's when I'm strong. That's when the power of Christ's tabernacles rests upon me. The more you feel your weakness, the more capable and qualified you are to minister. So you can't escape God wants to call you into ministry. He wants to call you as one who is equipped by the gospel. And how do we do that? Well Just a couple of examples. Don't have time to go into this much. We seek to equip you through the home fellowship groups by placing you in groups. You choose them. And in that you are restoring and supplying and training one another by living out the gospel as you seek to apply the Bible to your daily life. That's equipping ministry in small groups. It's the primary structure by which we do that at Columbia Presbyterian. If you are not in a small group, you are missing out on the main structure and means of equipping. Or you think of youth group ministries. I thought of that particularly Uh yesterday, think of Shine Revolution, Pioneer Girls, Christian Service Brigade. Yesterday, the Penningtons moved to their new house. There were about eight of us there in early morning loading up the truck of the old place. And uh we got the truck full and it still wasn't enough and I was thinking this is gonna be a long day. And then we got out to the new house, and there were a couple of dozen kids from Revolution and China all waiting there, ready to go, you know, all pumped with new energy. And I was thrilled to see With you kids, the the devotion, the the you know, the eagerness, everybody was serving. There was nobody out there saying, Hey, when do we get the pizza? They're all pushing stuff, you know, man, I'll tell you, you get Sophia and Christopher on a piece of furniture, you better get out of the way. But these guys were really going at it. And I thought, this is equipping with a ministry mindset. Kids were learning to minister and being equipped for that. Those are the things that we do in the various fellowships and ministries. as a body of Columbia Presbyterian. We like to give seminars. It's harder to do that with the facility limitations we have now. Those a lot of those are kind of on hold Managing money, prayer seminars, sharing your faith, all these things. We will be having a seminar November 12 and 13. If you don't have it down, if you're new to Columbia Presbyterian, discovering CPC That's a seminar Friday night, Saturday morning, to help you to see all of what we're about, equip you with understanding what it means to be part of our body. We'll be having more and more a book table out in the lobby because our library is a means of equipping you. Take advantage of it. Some great stuff. And it's not going to be this week, but next week there's going to be a table out there and a number of the weeks to come. There will be selected books that are basic books for the Christian life for you to take and use for your equipping Conferences that we point you to, men's ministry conferences, marriage conferences, upward coaches have training for making disciples. 12 steps is a program and some material that I've been writing. One-to-one ministry of equipping. I'm taking a couple of couples through that, and every time I go through a session on it, 12 steps of discipleship. I wonder how Christians grow who don't have this kind of input. Because we're going through very practical things about prayer and Bible study and priorities and what it means to share your faith and all these different just one-to-one, life to life. If any of you are interested in that material, it doesn't have to be me. Talk to me at the door. I will I will get you that material so you can begin to feel test it with me. Equipping material for us as Christians. We could go on and on, but you see the basic pattern. God has called you to himself through Christ. He's placed you within a body that's a family. He is challenging each of us in our consumer, self-centered, taking mindset. To become ministers, equipped by the gospel, to grow in that. The question simply is: are you available? For some of you, that's harder than others. Some of us have been raised as takers. Some of us were raised as givers. And we think about ministry more easily, but for some of us it takes an extra amount of grace to think about serving rather than simply being served. But the Holy Spirit is able to do that. He's able to bring us together in a group that makes a difference so that Howard County is able to see People, not a building that's a new building, and say, Oh boy, we're gonna grow when we get this new building, and I'll see it and I'll wanna come in. No. The building they see is the living temple of Ephesians 2. Christians who love one another, serve one another, learn how to minister rather than simply to receive. By the grace of Christ. Who came and gave his life for you and for me, we learn what it means to be restored and supplied and trained to think and act as ministers. The decision to make yourself available to that, to be part of a committed part of the body of Christ here at Columbia Presbyterian. Could be among the most important decisions you will ever make concerning your walk with Jesus Christ and the difference that that one decision will make. Let's pray. Lord, we do live by nature as those who want to remain detached. Our culture is a culture of detached consumers. Suspicious of commitment, afraid of commitment. And yet you have begun here speaking to us in this precious book. about how to live out of the infinite resources of the gospel by saying you are going to live with people that is going to take patience, bearing with one another, making every effort. To maintain the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace because they're sinners just like you. And so, Lord, we pray, give us grace. Give us grace in that person that we want to avoid, the person that We feel very detached from. Lord, speak to our hearts in the ways that we judge and criticize and detach ourselves from this body. Speak to us. Lord, so that we might be those who are equipped with a mindset to serve because of the great grace. The infinite love of Jesus. Receive us, Lord. Receive us as we commit ourselves to you to do that in us. In Jesus' name. Amen.