This morning we turn to Acts chapter 15 as we look at this very important opportunity where the church responds. to a very real element of confusion that had entered into the early church. It is not too hyperbolic at all to say that were it not for this council, Christianity would not look as it does. For what they set out here is a watershed decision. What is communicated to the body of Christ is so important. That it will ultimately direct our trust either in ourselves or in Christ alone. By what means are we saved? This passage declares, by grace alone. Hear now God's word, Acts chapter 15, verses 1 to 11, and then 22 to 29. But some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers, unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. And after Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and debate with them, Paul and Barnabas and some of the others were appointed to go up to Jerusalem to the apostles and the elders about this question. So being sent on their way by the church, they passed through both Phoenicia and Samaria, describing in detail the conversion of the Gentiles, and brought great joy to all the brothers When they came to Jerusalem, they were welcomed by the Church and the Apostles and the Elders, and they declared all that God had done with them But some believers who belonged to the party of the Pharisees rose up and said, It is necessary to circumcise them in order to keep the law of Moses. The apostles and elders were gathered together to consider this matter. And after there had been much debate Peter stood up and said to them, Brothers, you know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us. And he made no distinction between us and them, having cleansed their hearts by faith. Now, therefore, why are you putting God to the test by placing a yoke on the neck of the disciples? That neither our fathers nor we have been able to bear. But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ just as they will. Then it seemed good to the apostles and the elders and the whole church to choose men from among them and send them to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas. They sent Judas called Bar Sabbas and Silas, leading men from among the brothers with the following letter. The brothers, both the apostles and the elders, To the brothers who are the Gentiles in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia, greetings. Since We have heard that some persons have gone out from us and troubled you with words unsettling your minds, although we gave them no instructions. It has seemed good to us, having come to one accord, to choose men and send them to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. We have therefore sent Judas and Silas who themselves tell you the same things by word of mouth, for it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us. to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements. That you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols. And from blood and from what has been strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me again? Now, Lord. Declare to our hearts by the power of your Holy Spirit the wondrous, matchless, amazing grace. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. And may that grace and the work of your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, not be abstract principles. That we adhere to intellectually, but that it actually changes how we live with each other Help us, Lord, not just to receive that grace, but to be changed by it And Lord, I pray, magnify your name. That what would characterize our fellowship and all who will come would be love. Mutual respect in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the extension of grace. Because that grace has been extended to us. In Jesus' name, Amen. What we see here is the beginning of the church collectively debating what is it that we believe And if what we believe is true, how should it characterize the way that we live? How should it characterize those that we are in relationship with those to whom we preach. And what is the message that we are calling them to believe in This is at the heart of the gospel itself. If you get this wrong And it is so easy to get it wrong. But if we get this wrong, we make Christianity to be something that it was never designed to be. And that is a matter of our own performance. A matter of what we do and not what he has done. Either Jesus calls us to radical freedom by his grace Or Jesus comes in with 50% of the load and we take the other 50% and work it out ourselves. Which is it? Both end up in very different places. Both are present in the Church of Jesus Christ today. This debate, though it was begun in this way. is a debate that still is waged today across the world in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ in various ways. So it's important for us to see the early church debating this thing because it's never passe. Grace is never old. But works are always presenting themselves as something I need to do. This is why every Sunday we must continue to live out our vision statement as a church. to experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to Columbia, the region, and the world. What is that grace then that we are called to experience? It's here for us. Let's look together. First you'll see in your outline the identity crisis in verses 1 through 5, then the manifest grace in 6 through 11, and then clear direction 22 through 29. Let's look together then at this identity crisis outlined for us here in verses 1 through 5. One of the things that becomes very clear is They were debating something around the church. It is very clear that those who were, there were a group of people following Paul and Barnabas. the churches that they had planted, the gospel that they preached, and areas where they preached it, where Gentiles were coming to Christ through very clear, demonstrated conversion, receiving, the text tells us the Holy Spirit Just as the apostles had received the Holy Spirit, the demonstration of God's renewing grace had moved in. Now following on those footsteps were a group of people, the text tells us, that went out without authority. with a message that they believed needed to be heard. And what was that message? That message was bound up in what was happening, the church was growing so quickly. That it had gone because of persecution from Jerusalem, now out to the surrounding areas, into the Gentile cities and lands, and the church is growing rapidly. And as we understand about the nature of change, that when change happens, beyond our ability to grasp it and to experience it, it's a very nerve-wracking, anxious thing. And so they were responding by saying, wait a second. We need to figure this out. And so these group of Jews, not given names here, were trying to establish the first thing, and that is an inner ring. Here I'm borrowing the language of C. S. Lewis when he wrote to and he spoke to a group of students at the University of London in 1944 when he talked about As he was speaking to them, here in this very room, there are series of rings, but there is an inner ring, and many of you feel the temptation that what you want to try to do is Yes, you made it to the university, but what you're trying to do, either by your profession or your studies or your relationships or your activities, you're trying to make it into that inner ring. What was happening with the Jews first, but not only, but first is their identity as Jewish people is being turned upside down. The gospel came first to the Jews. The apostles were Jewish, converted to the Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel was first preached to Jews in Jerusalem. And so now it's going out and it's converting their once known enemies And so they simply go out and say, no, there's yet another inner ring that you must work towards. And the text is very clear. That you must be circumcised to be saved. The idea there is this. They're fine with Gentiles being converted But those Gentile converts must go one step further and become Jewish converts as well. Because circumcision and the law and all the external activity of the Jew was not only just a part of theological belief, it was also extremely religious and cultural in identity. And now Barnabas and Paul are going out, these people are becoming Christians, but they're not following in the way of the Jewish practices. And they are just they don't know what to do, so they simply go out and say, No, you you must be circumcised to be saved. And the passage tells us that this caused great confusion. Why did it call great confusion? Because it wasn't just an identity crisis based on culture or religion. It was a crisis because what they were saying While they wanted them to convert to Jewish practices, they were saying in essence, there is yet one more mediator that you must adhere to. There's one more thing that you must do to be saved. So what they're doing is they're saying Jesus plus something else. That Jesus is the mediator, but there's yet one more step. And that other step is circumcision. And what they're establishing is this: performance comes before verdict. Performance comes before verdict. Some of you may have understood Christianity to be just that way. Some of you may think of it even this morning. Perhaps you feel guilt or shame, and what you're trying to do is to tie your own shoes, to come in here all clean and Purged and trying to make everything right and make it seem as though you've done your part. But when we do that, we are saying that there is performance before verdict. That is not the gospel. And when we either infer or deliberately put out that being a Christian is anything other than being in relationship with the risen Christ. No matter how important, no matter how devoted you may be to that thing, if we adhere anything to Christianity other than the central work of Jesus Christ, We are saying do you either need to think this, believe this, or act this way to then be saved? Performance before verdict. There's some of you here this morning that you wonder, could you be a Christian because of your own struggles with sexual morality? Regardless of its strength. Some of you this morning may wonder, how do I deal with a sin that I can't seem to forget? I can't get off my mind. And you're wondering, I need to take care of this before I come to Jesus. Or if you are a Christian, you're wondering, can Jesus forgive me for this yet again? And you doubt. And you wonder. And what happens is, instead of driving you to Christ, Your wonder about the beauty of the forgiveness and grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, instead of calling you to come to confession, you have and allow creeping silence and separateness between you and the Lord. Because you're like, oh, surely not again. I've stumbled again. I've sinned again. I can't even go to church. Coming to church is such a labor. My friend, what I I had good news for you this morning, but also a little bit of bad news. It's because you've turned the gospel upside down. You're putting performance before the verdict. That is not the gospel. It wasn't the gospel. They clearly went out and said, absolutely not. They sent Paul and Barnabas back to Jerusalem to settle the matter. It was cultural, it was religious, but at its heart it was theological. Now, there are many teachers today in Christianity who would want us to believe that in fact it was just cultural, it was just religious, and not theological. That the Jews really didn't see these outward things that they needed to perform so that they might be saved. But that simply does not line up with what the text clearly says. If they didn't believe that they had to do something to be saved, then why does the text say so clearly, it is by grace alone that you are saved? Unless they were dealing with the problem of people saying, Yeah, there's something else you need to do. It's both and it's two sides of the same coin for those who were teaching at that time. It was both cultural and religious, but it was also theological And so they deal with it. And here we see the manifest grace. In verses 6-11, what is very beautiful and clear is they the church works very hard. to decide the matter. And what's beautiful is that is not all the details of the gathering are given to us, the method of argumentation. But what is clear is, thanks be to God, that they wrestled with this central issue. And verse 7. And the text might lead us to believe that everybody was just happy to see Paul and Barnabas come back and have this discussion. The case is that that's not the case. Some are really happy with the gospel going forth and seeing it transform Gentiles' lives, but others were just like, oh, welcome back. Here they are. And so we see, verse 7, and after there had been much debate, can you imagine the debate? These were all Jewish folks gathered together as the early church saying, what is this really all about? And then Peter stands up, praise be to God, brothers. You know that in the early days God made a choice among you, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. And then these words, and God, who knows the heart, bore witness to them by giving them the Holy Spirit. But it is verse 11 that is the pronouncement of the manifest grace. But we believe that we will be saved through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ just. as they will. The manifest grace is this statement first. The verdict is in. And here is the verdict. The verdict comes before the performance. The verdict comes before the performance. There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. If you believe in your heart and you confess with your mouth that Jesus Christ is Lord, that is how one is saved. The recognition that there is no other means by which we come to Christ other than God's electing, irresistible, unrelenting grace. It is so beautiful and rich, but it is also incredibly offensive Why? Because the grace comes in and says all the gifts that you have, all your abilities, all your ideas about what you think makes you matter? Doesn't. What makes you matter is that I have claimed you as my own. I died for you by name. I call you by name. The verdict is by grace alone, through the witness of the Holy Spirit By the power of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Spirit comes in and draws us not to our performance, but to his. You see, here's the incredible thing. The gospel is the verdict comes before my performance. Why? Because Jesus came down as we will celebrate, clothed in flesh. The God had seen and performed so that we might receive the verdict first. You see. Jesus, as Paul would later teach in his great letter of the Romans, he was the second Adam. Jesus performed in the way Adam was supposed to, but failed. Jesus obeyed in the way that Israel was supposed to, but couldn't. The law, Peter says here, we couldn't even bear the weight of the law. It was a yoke. Peter says, why would you want to do that? To add that onto them. Why? It's ridiculous. Why? Because the verdict is in Jesus has done it all. He didn't just die on the cross. He also obeyed for you. Jesus faced temptation for you. Jesus lived for you. Jesus died for you. Jesus was raised for you. The verdict is in by grace alone and nothing else. Soren Kierkegaard made this bit of a parable when he was talking about the second aspect of this manifest grace. What's amazing and so astounding to these Jewish ears is that wait a second, we are the children of God, Israel. But now what they are saying is that the Gentiles are now being brought in through Jesus Christ and are now being called children of the living God. They, along with the Jews, are inheritants, inheritors of the great promise, the great covenant promise that was given to Abraham. Now they become recipients of that promise. They are made children. And Kierkegaard likened it to this. Imagine there's a great king over a great land, and there's a day laborer in the kingdom. Who only imagines as he works in the fields of the king that one day, what would it be like to just come into the presence of the king? And then as his life goes on, one day comes along, and he receives a note saying that the king wishes to make you his son. At first, the the day laborer thinks, oh, this surely this is a joke. This is beyond my comprehension. Maybe what the king is just doing is bringing me to the palace and simply to make me the laughing stock of the of the empire. What's very clear is that the invitation comes from his most trusted emissary, the very one called to deliver the message. And he hears the message and he comes to the palace and he realizes that the king just doesn't want to give him gifts of the kingdom He doesn't want him to just be able to enjoy a relationship and a knowledge and to be called by name, but the king knows my name. No, that the king means to make me his son, change my name, make me his, and all that is his becomes mine. It is nothing short than the absolute. Unchangeable reality that I am no longer my own. I belong as a child of the king. This is what is on offer in the gospel. And this is what was so offensive about the gospel You're like, wait a second, there's nothing they have to do to be called children? No. The king has come and called them by name and made them his children. The verdict is in. The manifest grace has been made known And when that happens, this absolute gratuitous, radical An unrelenting grace comes in, and then, as by order of this group of people, instructing these new Christian converts, how they ought to live, that grace then comes in and says, all right, Grace says that Jesus has performed for you. The verdict is before the performance. But now that the grace has moved in, it does affect how we live. So how we live no longer is the mediator for salvation. Rather, salvation is the one that mediates how we ought to live. And so what is given in this letter is very clear direction. The first part of this letter, as they are as they give these requirements and these instructions, What's very clear is that they're calling them to liberty in Christ. But at the same time, they're calling them to love. To love others. Consider this liberty in Christ. What is being required here when it says, and now what what's happening here in the words of this letter is repeating what James had said. before this council in Jerusalem. Verse 29. It says for verse 28, for it has seemed good to the Holy Spirit and to us. to lay on you no greater burden than these requirements, that you abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols From blood and from what has been strangled, and from sexual morality, if you keep yourselves from these, you will do well As you might imagine, these verses have brought a good deal of ink to paper and some debate But one of the things that's very clear is this. There is liberty here. There's liberty by grace to practice and to live as God has called you to live, but there are Boundaries that that grace calls us to. And those boundaries we see certainly in eating food that has been sacrificed to idols, so syncretism. The mixture of Christianity with the practice of paganism. We saw Paul responding to that last week as they were preaching the gospel to pagans. And so, what is being said here is: if you know that something is being sacrificed to an idol, do not partake of it. Because in doing so, you're participating in something that is counter to the gospel. But then there's also to stay away from sexual morality. Both of those correlate to that which Paul writes throughout his other letters. It also correlates to what John says in the letters to Pergamum and Thyratire in Revelation. That very clearly, that while we're called to liberty in Jesus Christ, That liberty also has the bounds of grace, the ways in which we are to live that reflect the holiness of our Savior. And that is to be seen by not defiling the gospel of grace by uniting it to other false religion. Nor are we to unite the bodies that have been redeemed, and we are now made new in Christ, not uniting these bodies which God has given us our eyes, our minds, our hearts, or our physical flesh. To that kind of relationship except which the Lord has defined in his word, that one man and one woman in marriage This is a very clear teaching of the New Testament, and that seems to be the very clear requirement. Believe it or not, those two are not the problematic ones. It's the other two that seem to cause some degree of debate. And here there are those who see different points, and I will give you my own. When it says here that those who abstain from what has been sacrificed to idols, and then from blood and from what has been strangled. It's those two in regard to those food laws that seem to be, okay, well that was certainly a part of the moral law, as was you know, not participating in religion that was anything other than the the one to the triune gods. We get them the food sacrificed to idols. I need to stay away from that. The law is very clear in regards to sexual morality and what I'm called to live faithfully with my wife, and if I'm single, I'm to live faithfully to my Savior in sexual uh uh ethics and so forth. But there was also another part of the law which talked about food itself. And what it means is to stay away from blood. I don't know about you, but I I love filet mignon. And when I occasionally have it, usually once a year, I like it mid-rare. That's just the way I like it, the way I was trained. And by this understanding, it would seem That I'm in violation to what the requirement is here. I also don't know about you, but I often don't know the animal from which my state came from. So I can't say the method in which it was its life was taken from it. So I find myself in a little bit of a quandary, as would these Gentiles. Now, there are some who would say that what's being talked about here is very clearly these things a Christian should stay away from. I do not believe that that is the case. But I do believe it's the context in which these requirements are given. Note, the issue was not just liberty, but also love. What was the rub? The rub was these Gentiles were becoming Christians among Jewish converts. How do Jews and Gentiles live together in the bond of love through Jesus Christ? So that liberty that I am called to in Christ also means that I'm being called not just to my own liberty, but to consider others' inter other interests even above my own. Meaning this, that what they were being called to here is that when you are at table fellowship with those who are Jewish converts We encourage you, do not refrain or refrain from practicing this kind of food because why? It will offend the conscience and will offend the sensibilities of your brother in Christ. Now, when you're not in table fellowship, you are free to do this. However, notice what he's saying. There is liberty. through grace, but that liberty has boundaries reflecting the holiness of Christ, but that liberty also has boundaries because of the law of love. What they're calling the Jews to do is to love the Gentiles as those who are brought as those who inherit the promises they have through Jesus Christ. So the Gentiles are being called to love those who are Jews who've been converted, who still feel the pang of conscience and not being able to eat meat that still has blood in it. And so it's cooked well well done. And they want to make sure they do not practice eating food that's from a strangled animal. So the Gentiles are being called to love their neighbor. Because what is most important? Not one's individual liberty, but the law of love for those who are brothers and sisters in Christ with you. There's nuance here. There's the practice of grace here. There's the practice of love. And so it's no longer just me, myself, and Jesus. Baptizing whatever practices that so long as I'm not, you know, disobeying him, I can do whatever I want whenever I want with whomever I want. No, it's calling us to a higher ethic, and that is the love for others, even over my own interest. Now that is hard. We even experience that today. I feel quite free to enjoy a glass of wine or a glass of beer. But if I'm with someone who is offended by that practice, I have a choice to make. I can either say, you know what? I'm mature in Jesus and order up the bottle. I could do that. Or I could say what matters most is not what defines me and my practice of my faith, but what matters most is the fact that I share a faith with someone who does not feel the freedom to do so. And that my doing so may cause them to stumble or may offend them. Out of love for them, I'm to lay down my liberty, not because it earns any grace for me. Not because it earns any accolades in heaven, but because it's an expression of what Jesus has done for me. Jesus had all honor and all glory and all liberty as the one in whom all authority in heaven and on earth has been given. And yet he made himself a servant. Even to the point of the cross. Because his love for the other was what was most beautiful about the gospel. I too am to be aware of others because of that same love has been given to me and has been given to you. And it's not that we look at one another and just say, hey, I'll do whatever I want. Go well be uh well-fed and good with you. But it matters that we're in relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the grace that we have been called to. A grace that is utterly free, but that will also cost us everything. But what we receive is what we could never imagine: a relationship with the king May the Lord be glorified in our relationships. May we extend that grace to one another. Not expect performance Because Jesus has done it for us. To love one another more than we love ourselves Because we see what Jesus has done for us, it can radically change how we relate, how we love, and how we live. May the Lord do that in us for his glory and the building of his church. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we now ask that you would equip us with this grace to follow you To love you, but to stand on the foundation that is Christ alone, who gives us a grace by which we are saved alone That we might live for you and your glory. And to love others, and to forgive others as we have been loved and forgiven. We thank you and praise you in Jesus' name. Amen.