The tabernacle was set up. In its first room were the lampstand, the table, and the consecrated bread. This was called the holy place. Behind the second curtain was a room called the Most Holy Place, which had the golden altar of incense and the gold-covered ark of the covenant. This ark contained the gold jar of manna, Aaron's rod that had butted, and the stone tablets of the covenant. Above the ark were the cherubim of the glory overshadowing the place of atonement. But we cannot discuss these things in detail now When everything had been arranged like this, the priests entered regularly into the outer room to carry on their ministry. But only the high priest entered the inner room, and that only once a year, and never without blood. Which he offered for himself and for the sins of the people, the sins the people had committed in ignorance. The Holy Spirit was showing by this But the way into the most holy place had not yet been disclosed as long as the first tabernacle was still standing. This is an illustration for the present time. Indicating that the gifts and the sacrifices being offered were not able to clear the conscience of the worshipper. They are only a matter of food and drink and various ceremonial washings External regulations applied until the time of the new order. When Christ came as high priest of the good things that are already here He went through the greater and more perfect tabernacle that is not man-made, that is to say, not part of this creation. He did not enter by means of the blood of goats and calves But he entered the most holy place once for all by his own blood, having obtained eternal redemption. The blood of goats, bulls, the ashes of a heifer sprinkled on those who are ceremonially unclean, sanctify them so that they are outwardly clean. How much more then? Will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself unblemished to God, cleanse our consciences? From acts that lead to death, so that we may serve the living God. Let's pause And ask the Holy Spirit to teach us and to change us through this portion of His Word Lord our God, we come to you now to submit our minds and our hearts and our lives To your teaching. You have given this particular portion of your word to nourish us. And yet, Lord, I know that my words And the taking of your word will be without any power except your Holy Spirit come upon us to teach us and to change us and to open us. We pray for that ministry and that work in our midst now. We plead to you for it. We come to you for it because we must have it, Lord, or else we'll perish in spiritual hunger. So we ask for you to take us and to feed us. Take these words in a special way to our hearts. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen How many of you are familiar with that old hymn, Would you be free from the burden of sin? There's power in the blood. Power in the blood. Would you or evil of victory win? There's wonderful power in the blood. Oh, there's power, power, wonderworking power in the blood of the Lamb There is power, power, wonderworking power in the precious blood of the Lamb. Grand old hymn that has a lot of truth in it. And yet one problem with a hymn like that is that sometimes it can lead us to think that somehow there is almost a magical quality about the power of the blood There's somehow the blood of the Lamb has a power inherent in itself to do all kinds of wonderful things. There's some teaching going around in the church these days about the mystical power of the blood. I have a good Christian friend who claims the power of the blood on her tantaloupe so that you'll get a good crop this year. And you have all kinds of understandings of the power that's in the blood of Jesus Christ. And we need to beware of this kind of superstitious thinking. It's very easy, you know, to always take the power of God and make some sort of a superstition out of its use. And yet the other danger that I think we may be more prone to is to not think about the blood very much, to perhaps ignore the vast amount of teaching and prominence that the Bible gives to the blood of Jesus Christ. Now the Bible gives a very prominent place to the blood of Christ. Uh you look at the sacrifices in the Old Testament. And what's the point of those sacrifices? Again and again. It's That there was blood shed. A blood was poured. Blood was sprinkled. Blood was on the altar. You look in Hebrews and so much of the book of Hebrews, particularly in this chapter nine You see, about the blood of Christ and its significance. And when the Lord Jesus Himself had come to the end of his ministry and wanted to give us a memorial so that we would remember the essence of his work, what did he give us? He gave us a sacrament in which we remembered his body and his blood. You remember it on that last night. Jesus, when he took the cup, gave thanks and offered it to them, saying, Drink from it all of you. This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. And so the blood is very important through the scripture. It's important because we remember it each time we take the Lord's Supper as we'll do tonight. I remember one time taking the Lord's Supper in which I was Meditating on this scripture, Hebrews 9. 12. And the words there that are in that text stood out to me as if they were in giant letters. He didn't enter by means of the blood of goats and calves, but he entered the most holy place once for all by his own blood. Having obtained eternal redemption. So I want to meditate for a few minutes with you this morning on that one phrase: By his own blood. So that we might have some food for thought for meditation today as we prepare ourselves for the Lord's Supper this evening And so that we may be able to come with an offering, having thought about the meaning of the blood of Jesus Christ and how it applies in our own lives. I want to consider just two points with you as you see in the bullets and outlined this morning concerning the blood of Christ. First of all, the costliness of it And then, secondly, the effectiveness of it, the costliness of it, and the effectiveness of it. First of all, then the costliness of the blood of Christ. He didn't enter by means of the blood of goats and calves, but he entered the most holy place once for all by his own blood. Having obtained eternal redemption. His own blood, that was the price that Jesus had to pay for us. And there's no more precious price In all of the universe. Peter tells us in 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 18 and 19, that you know that it was not with perishable things. cheap things such as silver or gold that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from the forefathers. But with the precious blood of Christ A lamb without blemish or defect. His blood is precious You look at the tabernacle in the Old Testament, and you see there that it was not by, the verse tells us, not by the blood of goats or bulls, that he paid for our redemption. But consider us a family going up to that tabernacle. We're going up to make our sacrifice for sin. So along with this, we take a year-long, a year-old goat. Perhaps it's a goat that we've raised in the yard. It's a goat that you kids have played with. You've froliced with this goat. You've kissed it and you've rubbed its fur and you've dumped with it. And you've played around with it. You've looked into those gentle, mystical, goat-like eyes. And you've played with this goat and come to know it and love it for a period of a year as it's grown from a little baby. And we take this goat up to the temple and we bring it before the priest. And the priest comes to the altar and he takes out its knife and he puts the goat there and he slices its throat. As he slashes its throat, we see the blood of the goat begin to gush out. Vainly the goat bleeps and cries as its life ebbs away. And we watch that goat that we've loved die on the altar. Why did God command this? Is he some side kind of a sadist that likes to see little kids cry as their family pets are taken from them? No, we have here a picture of how awful sin is. We have here a picture of how terrible the consequences of sin against the holy God really are. As we see that picture of life there ebbing from that innocent goat that did nothing to deserve that death being shed for us. We think of the tabernacle and look at it as a wondrous work of art, of gold and tapestry. But look closer at the altar there of burnt sacrifice, and what do you see? The whole altar is covered with blood. There's blood spattered on it, there's blood spilling down the sides, there's blood on the horns. Around the altar was a trench that was made deep so that it would catch all the blood that was constantly pouring down from the sides of the altar. And we come into the holy place, the most holy place, into the very ark of the covenant. And what do you see on that beautifully gold ark, that box with the cherubim perched over top of it indicating their worship of the great God of glory. Upon all the gold, there's blood. There's blood crusted and sprinkled, blood from year after year of the high priest going in and shedding blood. Blood again and again upon that gold and upon that ark. The precious blood of animals. The blood that speaks of the far more precious sacrifice that God Himself would make. For his own people. God said that the blood of animals was precious to him. And yet, how much more precious was the blood of man? We read in Genesis chapter 9, after Noah had come out of the ark, in verse 4, God had said, You must not eat meat that has its lifeblood still in it. Leviticus had made this law very clear. Blood was precious and sacred, and no Jew was to ever drink or eat blood, because that was the symbol of life itself. God goes on to say here, and for your lifeblood I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting from every animal, and from each man, too. I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God, Has God made man? Man's blood is so very precious. God says that if anyone sheds that blood, his life, the ultimate penalty and cost, must be forfeit for it. God says that even as precious as the blood of man is, the blood of his own people, he's even far more precious to him. We read in Psalm 116 that precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. We read that those who persecute or shed the blood of his people will give a fearful account of that But the Lord Jesus will come and wreak terrible vengeance on those who shed the blood of his people because it's so precious to him. It's a terrible thing to take the life of one of God's own people. And to take that life particularly because they bear his name. Because their blood, the Bible says, is precious to him. And yet let it bring it, let's bring it even closer to home. What about your blood and my blood? How costly and how precious is that? You know it's a vastly different thing to talk about the blood of others and to begin to talk about my own blood. Life seems very cheap, doesn't it, when we read through history and even through newspaper accounts. You read so casually about battles that took tolls of five and ten and fifteen and twenty thousand people. Falling in a single day, shedding their blood on the battlefield. I've heard that over 20,000 people in the last few years have been abducted and tortured to death in Argentina. And who even reads about that kind of thing going on in Argentina? Hardly worth notice for the rest of the world. Blood is shed so casually, it seems And that when we see life, it seems so cheap for others. Until I cut my finger. And when I cut my finger and I see that blood begin to flow, all of a sudden it's a very different matter. And there's a very great urgency about stopping that blood from flowing And I'll take a great deal of pain and go to a lot of difficulty to make sure that that blood doesn't leak out any more than it has to, because my blood is very precious to me All the parts of my body are very precious to me. My fingers and my toes. I wouldn't do without a single one of them. I love my ears. I love my nose. You may not love my nose, but I love my nose. And I wouldn't do without it. All the parts of me are very, very precious to me. And yet those parts may be taken from me. I may see my blood shed But I don't relish that thought. Think of just in the last few years in Uganda. How many hundreds and thousands of people have been tortured and killed. In many cases, killed for no other reason than their position or their job. In other cases, killed, because they bore the name of Jesus Christ. Idi Amin and his soldiers, you know, would rarely kill a person outright. Generally, they would torture a person to death. And generally that torture took on all kinds of creative forms that they invented. One of their favorite was to chop off various parts of a person bit by bit, inch by inch, to slice a person up, in order to see how much you could slice off a person and see how long he could still live. without bleeding to death. That's why the torture chamber was called the State Research Bureau. You would see how long a person could live with how little blood Many of these people had no choice. Others did in the sense that they died for bearing the name of Jesus. I remember hearing of one man, a very prominent leader in the Christian church in Uganda, so prominent that Idi Amin himself was involved in his capture, and Idiamine himself stood in that chamber in order to have the pleasure of himself torturing this man to death. But so stalwart and so firm was his testimony for Jesus Christ that it infuriated Amin so much that he lost all control for the Slow, painful torture that he had arranged for this man, and he simply picked up a sledgehammer and bashed his brains in. He couldn't stand it any longer. These people gave their life blood. Because of their love for Jesus. But when you consider Jesus, how different a matter it is. They were caught in persecution. Jesus was never caught. Jesus lived in glory, in a paradise that we can't even imagine, in its beauty, its tranquility, its loveliness. And Jesus knowingly and willfully walked into the torture chamber of men who took him and beat him. with their fists and mocked him. Then they took him out. The soldiers, who were experts trained in torture, tied him to a pole And they took leather thongs in which they had embedded little bits of bone or metal, and for thirty-nine times they lashed that across his back, ripping away the blood. And the muscle, the sinew, the skin, the tissue. Until his blood was just one, his back was just one bloody mass of tissue opened up, leading raw, sore And then they took him to continue their sport and took a crown of thorns, and they pressed it down upon his head, and beat it into his skull with a rod, until the blood streamed down his face. They put a purple cloak on him to make him to be mocked as a king. And after they had some sport with him, they ripped that coat that cloak off Did you ever have a scab and have a band-aid on it? And you ripped that band-aid off? And the blood had just begun to congeal and to clot, and they opened up his whole back again, until once again there was a mass of bleeding tissue. He was so weak from the loss of blood he couldn't even carry his cross. They gave that cross to him and took him out to Golgotha, where they laid him on the ground And they took steel spikes, they drove those spikes through his hands and through his feet into the wood, until his hands and his feet streamed with his blood Jesus wasn't caught. Jesus did that willingly because of his love for you. And for me. Once for all, with his own blood, he obtained eternal redemption. How precious is the blood of the Son of God! Angels themselves must have stopped their mouths and wondered as they saw God bleeding for sinners. God himself, as he looked upon his own son bleeding on the cross. saw at that moment the apex of his own glory from all eternity and throughout all the universe. Nothing ever compared But the magnitude of his glory demonstrated there when God himself bled for sinners. A bloody Messiah. God bleeding for you. And for me. Because he loved you. And he wouldn't give you up. How precious Was the blood of Christ. Oh, never look at salvation. Some mechanical process that was accomplished in which you happen to take a share. Always realize There is nothing mechanical about it. Jesus, by his own blood, bought you. There is nothing more personal about his love than the demonstration that he gave his blood. Willingly and knowingly for you and for me. And all If the law of God has never driven you to the foot of the cross to take your sin there and to trust Jesus Christ and turn your life over to him, may you see the love of Christ here. It is giving his blood for you. And by that be drawn to give your life this morning to Jesus Christ. And all Christian, whatever sin it is that's clinging to you, that you so cherish in your life, to give it up, not simply because of the effects that it has upon you. And how it makes you unhappy, but because it grieves the Savior who loved you and by his own blood bought you. So much for the cost of his blood. What of the effect of him? What if this infinite cost and price was paid could possibly justify such an investment What could be the adequate return on this investment that would justify its price? What did God purchase when he paid the price of the blood of his own son? The Bible lists seven things that were bought, that were purchased, that were accomplished with the blood of Jesus Christ. And I want briefly to list with you those seven things that were accomplished by the blood of Jesus Christ. When I say that, I don't mean again some mystical way, an inherent power in that blood, but rather what the Bible means by the blood of Christ is death and his sacrifice, his giving of his life. For you and for me. What was accomplished by that? Seven things that the New Testament says in connection with the blood of Christ. Follow along. First of all, the blood of Christ purchased Our ransom from the enemy. It was the purchase price of our ransom from the enemy. This is the most frequent thing that is mentioned about the blood of Christ. We read here in verse 12 that he did not enter by means of the blood of goats and calves, but he entered the most holy place, that is heaven. Once for all, by his own blood, having obtained eternal redemption. Notice that. Once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. Redemption is a purchase, and that purchase he made once for all for all eternity. His blood was a purchase price. Now there are two enemies that hold you and me captive. The Bible teaches that one enemy is Satan, and the second enemy is the law. And the Bible teaches us that Jesus redeemed us from the law, that master that held us enslaved. Look at the Jew of the Old Testament. A person with infinite advantages over the man without the Bible. And yet as you look at the Jew, you see a person who there is vastly more miserable than any of us when you compare his lot with us. Why? That there were over 600 laws that he had to keep. The laws which followed him every step of the way, every single day of his life. And every day he had to examine himself whether he had kept himself undefiled and guiltless concerning these over 600 laws. And as he looked at the sins he had made of commission, the sins of omission, sins of ignorance, sins of intent, he had to again and again and again sacrifice them. Every morning and every evening there was a sacrifice made in the temple for the sins of God's people. There were burnt offerings. There were sin offerings, there were guilt offerings, there were peace offerings. On the Day of Atonement, there was a a giant, a more significant sin offering and burnt offering that was made for all the people. And again and again. As soon as the offering was completed, he had to look forward to the next offering that would be made. And it was never finished. The law was never satisfied. But look at Jesus. The Bible tells us, once for all, by his own blood, he made a sacrifice, and it was finished. Never again. Is there a sacrifice to be made? Over your life and my life are now written the words, paid in full. The law no longer has any dominion over you. You are no longer subject to its demands for the acceptance by God the Father. We are freed, we are redeemed, we are bought, we are purchased We were freed. Not only are we purchased by his blood, but the Bible tells us that the blood is the foundation of our justification and our forgiveness from sin. We read in Romans 5. 9 that we are justified by His blood. Ephesians 1. 7 tells us that we are redeemed by His blood, the forgiveness of sins. We have in that redemption. You see, his blood is not simply a payment, but it's also a curse. God, through the blood of Jesus Christ, made a sacrifice. To cover our sin. In the same chapter, Hebrews chapter 9, we read without the in uh chap chapter 9, verse 22, we read that without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness. You know what that's saying? Saying that you may go to church every week of your whole life. You may have a string of perfect attendance pins. You may read the Bible until you've memorized it forwards and backwards. You know there was a man who did that once. Memorize the Bible backwards That you may pray until your knees are knobby and callous with praying. You may try everything possible to please God. And yet without the blood, there's no hope. There's no acceptance. There's no forgiveness. Are you trying to please God through some things that you do? Or have you come to rest in the blood, which is the only adequate payment, so there can be forgiveness? And you can have a clear conscience. The blood not only is the payment, it not only is our justification But the blood of Christ sanctifies us to himself, the Bible teaches. You remember the word sanctify means to set apart Something which is sanctified is set apart, and the blood of Christ sets us apart. We are a blood-bought people. In Hebrews chapter 13, beginning with verse 11, we read that the high priest carries the blood of animals into the most holy place as a sin offering, but the bodies are burned outside the camp. So Jesus also suffered outside the city gate to make the people holy, that is to sanctify them through his own blood. Let us then go to him outside the camp, bearing the disgrace that he bore. It's that saying That's saying that when you have the blood of Christ upon you, you are set apart to bear the name of Jesus Christ, whether to honor or to disgrace and to disgrace in this world. I knew a woman once He went to church every week and said, the thing I can't stand about evangelical Christianity is its bloodiness. It's such a gory religion. It's something which turns people off to talk about the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ. You know that surveys have said that One out of every five Americans today says they're born again or have made a commitment to Jesus Christ. But you talk to the vast majority of those one out of five who make that claim And ask them the question, what does the blood of Christ mean to you? And after they've talked to you about how God guides them and the Lord Jesus leads them and Gives them peace and joy and all the rest of these things, begin to talk about the blood of Christ, you'll find that you're a person set apart. You'll find that the blood set you apart. From those who don't know Jesus Christ. It sanctifies you to him. It marks you. Not only does it mark you with a disgrace outside the camp But it also marks you as one that he has set aside for his own purposes, as chapter 10 tells us, to make us like him. So that in that process, Jesus makes us a people like Himself. The blood is the foundation of our sanctification. It's the foundation of our becoming like Jesus Christ. And it's the motivation of that sanctification. Why is it that you want to become like Jesus Christ? It's because of the blood. Because he loved you and died for you and gave himself for you. You're freed from the law. He no longer holds that mastery over you. But the blood induces you, constrains you to become like Jesus. The blood of Christ sanctifies us. Fourthly, the blood of Christ gives us eternal life. In John chapter 6, verse 53 and 54, we read that Jesus said to them, I tell you the truth, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. I will raise him up at the last day. You notice it says have eternal life, not will have eternal life. Eternal life for the Christian has already begun. It is a quality of life as well as quantity that you already possess. Let me ask you, are you discouraged this morning? Are you depressed? Are you overwhelmed by something in your life? It seems like it's going to take all of your joy, and you wonder where life is. And so you sip a little of Jesus and then shy away. Oh, brother and sister in Christ, Jesus invites you to drink deeply of Himself. He says, Come to me and drink of my blood. Drink of the life that I have to give to you. Come to me to take deep draughts, to understand the love that I have for you and the sacrifice that I made for you. Feed upon him Feed upon him and feed upon him again and don't shy away from him. Come to him. Come to him as a little child saying, I must be fed. Come to him today and drink deeply and go away. Alive. Go away with life full and abundant from you. And then fits in. The Bible tells us That the blood of Christ made peace and brought us near to him and to one another. How did the high priest enter into the Holy of Holies? What gave them entrance into God's presence? Leviticus is quite clear. Hebrews 9 is clear as we've read it this morning. He went in with blood. It was the blood that gave the high priest entrance into the very presence of God. It was the blood that enabled him to draw near to God. And so we read in Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 19, therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus. By a new and living way which he opened for us through the curtain, that is his body. And since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near to God With a sincere heart and full assurance of faith. Many of us don't have any boldness When we come near to God, do we? We don't have boldness in our prayers. They're very weak They're prayers that are sort of little pips and sleeps, rather than a bold claiming of the promises of God. Why is it that we lack such boldness to draw near to Him? Because so often I think we come to him on the basis of our sanctification. We come to him on the basis of the quantity of faith that we have. Or the amount of faithfulness that we may be able to remember. But you know, I find that the closer I draw to God, simply the more convicted I am of my lack of faith and faithfulness and all the rest of it. All for the power to get near to God. How do we do it? The Bible's quite clear. You draw near on the basis of the blood The only way to get nearer to God is to get near to the cross, to take the blood with you and plead the blood of Christ. Let me make a suggestion for you this week in your prayers. This week, as you draw near to God in your scripture time and your time of praying, begin by pleading the blood of Jesus Christ as your entrance into God's presence. Think about that sacrifice. Think about the sufficiency of it. Think about how God Himself has said that gives you full assurance to enter into His presence and draw near. And come boldly, because the blood has given you entrance. Sixthly, the blood of Jesus Christ we read cleanses our consciences and our lives from sin. The blood has a cleansing power. Continuing in that chapter 10, after he has said that we can draw near to him. We can Enter the most holy place and draw near to God with a sincere heart and full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us. From a guilty conscience and having our bodies washed with pure water. Oh, what power. And not only are you a slave that's been purchased That not only do you have your guilt pardoned, but you've had all your defilement cleansed. The blood has a cleansing power. Does your conscience bother you this morning? And do you find that your sins haunt you? Do you find that your weak, vacillating commitment to Jesus Christ plagues you? Do you find that your failures over the past week in serving the Lord burden you? There's only one thing. Try harder next week. See? And determine that you're going to be more faithful this coming week. What will that do? Probably come back more guilty next week. See, the Bible says That if we have fellowship with Him, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. Now back in chapter 9 that we've just been reading, We read that he came to the most holy place once for all by his own blood, having obtained eternal redemption. Goes on to say the blood of goats and bulls and the ashes of the heifers Sprinkled on those who are ceremonially unclean, sanctify them so they're outwardly clean. How much more then will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit, Paul offered himself unblemished to God? Cleanse our conscience from acts that lead to death so that we may serve the living God. That doesn't talk to me about the extent of my commitment, the amount of my faithfulness. What cleansed my conscience? The blood of Christ. Something outside myself. Something outside yourself. Praise God. We can praise him this morning, not on the basis of what we've done this week, but on the basis of the blood of Christ. Doesn't that light you up? Do you see that? Do you understand that? What the Lord is calling us to in freedom. Finally, the last thing that the blood of Christ we read does for us. is that it overcomes Satan, the accuser. We read in Revelation that the saints who have washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb become clean in that. Also in chapter 12 Revelation chapter 12, verse 10 and 11. That these saints, he says, I've seen now come the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God. And the authority of his Christ, for the accuser of our brothers who accuses them before our God day and night, has been hurled down. They overcame him. How? By the blood of the Lamb. And by the word of their testimony, that they did not sh love their lives so much as to shrink from death. The next time that you're praying And the accuser comes to separate you from the Father and persuade you that he's not hearing you because of your sins, because your faith's not strong enough. Because you've lacked commitment in this area or that area. Overcome him, overcome the accuser by the blood of the Lamb. Defeat his accusations Because you're one who's been blood-bought. Because you've been cleansed by the blood. You've been forgiven by the blood. Your life belongs to Jesus. And it's based on his blood, not what you do. The blood of Christ makes hell itself to tremble. And the victory is his, not ours. This week, think about the blood of Christ. In what area of your life do you need to appropriate and take that power To take what it accomplishes for you in your life. Think about it. Think about it today. Come tonight. Have a heart to praise God. For the blood of Christ, its costliness, and for its effectiveness in your life and mine. Just take just a moment to talk to the Lord about an area in our life in which we have not seen or cared To apply the power and the blood of Jesus Christ and bring it before him now. Let's pray