If you could turn in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 1 and take out your sermon outline, I will open us in prayer. Let's pray. Lord, we have to admit that oftentimes we don't see you as lovely as you are. Our focus is not drawn to you the way that it really, truly, according to reality, ought to be. And we're not drawn to the truth of your word nearly as fully as we need. Father, we ask this morning that as we come to this truth, this passage that you have given to us. This glimpse of yourself and your relationship with us. We pray, Lord, that you would speak powerfully to our hearts. That you would show us yourself and your loveliness, your holiness, your transcendence, your purity. And Father, we pray that you would show us your love for us. In Jesus' name, amen. I don't know how long a series this will be because I don't get to preach a whole lot of times, but I I I love the book of 1 Peter, and so we're gonna start on a series that may end until after my death. But this is a truly remarkable two verses. And so I'd like to read it and begin with our study. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to God's elect, strangers in the world, scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ and sprinkling by his blood. Grace and peace be yours in abundance. This passage is typical of Peter's grammar. And it can be very confusing, and it can be very easy to lose sight of the simple thing that he's trying to communicate. But there's two things that we're going to have to look at in depth this morning that he's addressing here. And the first of all, that is being chosen. We are a chosen or a called out people. The second thing is what that choosing is to. And we'll get to that in the second part of the message this morning. But as we begin, one of the truths that I found in everybody that I've come to know is that we want to be accepted. We want to be chosen. We want to know that somebody has seen us, known us, accepted us. And relates to us as friend, as confidant, as as intimate companion. That may be a husband, it may be a wife, it may be kids, it may be friends, it may be somebody, but we want to be chosen. We want somebody's seal of approval put upon us. Now when I was a kid in middle school growing up, I lived in a place called Houston, Texas. And being a kid in middle school, the streets seemed really wide to me. And the front yard seemed really big because we had lots of space between the houses. And one of the things that we did on a regular basis was to play football because football is is the state sport in Texas. In the afternoons on Friday they shut down businesses to watch high school football. And so consequently we played a lot of football on our street when it wasn't flooded. That happened pretty regularly because Houston is a swamp. But One of the things that has to happen in any kind of a pickup sport is there has to be a team selection. I happened to live in a neighborhood where most of the kids were about a year older than I was, most of the boys were. And so my brother who was one of those guys that was a year older than I was, and all of his friends would constantly play football, and one of the things that happened with that was that I'd have to go out there and stand and wait to be chosen. Now I perfected a number of the routines. You never make eye contact. You always sort of look down and you stuff your feet You hope that they remember the past that you made in in the last game so that they at least have some measure of merit to gauge you by and they want you. Periodically I would be chosen in the first half of the team. I thought that was great. That made the day. I didn't care what I did the rest of the game, I'd been chosen Sometimes I had not done so well the game before, and it may be, well, if James will be on our team, we'll take Steve. In other times it was, well, is C still standing there? Is somebody going to choose him? We'll give them to you. You don't have we don't have to take them, we'll give them to you. You can have more men than we've got. And sometimes it was I just get up and go before the game was started because I knew I wasn't going to get chosen. We want desperately to be chosen. And and and there were times that I simply wouldn't even go out to play because I knew there was going to be an issue whether or not I was chosen. I'd really sunk in the last game. We want desperately to be accepted to God's elect To his chosen ones. One of the things that God has shown me this week, just in meditating on this passage and on some times of prayer, is that In line with what Alan said last week, his seal has been set upon those he's chosen. Those of you who belong to God through the work of Christ have his seal upon you, the promised Spirit. And that manifests itself in the fruit of the Spirit. And you know what? God has not established a secret relationship with you. He's not said, okay, we can be close, but let's keep it our secret. This is not something like God's selection of a mistress. We are his bride. He stands before the world and says, This one is mine. I love them. I've called them. I've taken them and I've placed my seal upon them. There is no question, I love them. That's behind what Peter is saying is he says, to God's chosen ones, to God's elect If you want to look real quickly in Ephesians chapter 1, where we've looked in the last week at his sealing us. I just want to read a couple verses that give the flavor of how God has chosen us. Beginning in verse 4. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us. To be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will To the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. This is not an obligatory relationship that God has been stuck with because he wants a better player. This is his love of his children. And to those of you who belong to Jesus this morning, he loves you. It was his pleasure and remains his pleasure. To call you to himself. Now the people that Paul Peter was addressing were believers But they were believers who had a real contrast between God's acceptance of them and God's love and affection for them in the world, because he describes them as sojourners, strangers, and aliens. Who reside in various regions up on the northern part of Turkey under the Black Sea. And that was an area where persecution was about to break out. Nero was about to begin the first of the persecutions against the Christians. Peter understood the signs of the times and knew that the believers in these regions needed the reinforcement of God's calling. They needed to know that God loved them so that they could face the persecutions that were coming and had already begun. And so there's a real distinction between the cultural rejection, and that's the blank On line A. Peter's readers experience cultural rejection. The blanks in line one are we are chosen and not rejected. The contradiction is between the love of God demonstrated in his choosing them and the rejection of their culture, which was about to become very serious. To the point of losing family, losing livelihood, losing life. They could have been imprisoned and tortured. We we can in this time period look back on that and think about that and not be moved because we don't understand what it means to face the suffering and the persecution that they were facing. It is frightening. And they needed to be encouraged. How can you deal with the rejection of your culture? Today we feel like we're rejected by our culture. There's an odds because the values of our culture have shifted and changed. And we no longer fit. The things that they show on TV, the movies that they make, the the games that are made, the the language of of all the people around you It reflects a different worldview and a different set of values. Many different sets of values, and you don't fit. So how can you, even beginning to get a taste of what that that cultural rejection feels like, address that? And how could they survive it? One way. And Tom hinted at it this morning as he was beginning the the scripture readings. I can easily accept being rejected by one if one who is greater chooses me. And what you and the readers of Peter's epistle have to understand, this is the greatest of all, has chosen you. And the rejection you feel from the culture can hurt. It will hurt. It can frustrate you and it will It is something serious not to overlook, but it is not sufficient to crush you because God has chosen you. In verses 1 and 2, we see that it is God who chooses us. Peter says, to God's elect, to God's chosen ones. In verse 2, he goes on and says that we have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ and sprinkling in his blood, by his blood. It is God who has chosen you. There is no one greater. There was no one who can diminish that choosing. There's nothing better to hope for. You have it all This passage is is relatively significant and important because in this passage it speaks of the Trinity. And it speaks of the work of God the Father to choose you, of God the Spirit to sanctify you, and of God the Son to cleanse you. To save you. It's important for you to note in this that God the Father, according to his foreknowledge, has chosen you. What does that mean? Does it mean that God knows that I'm going to do some good things and because of that he's decided to select me for what I may do in the future? No, absolutely not. In Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4, for he chose us in him, in Christ. Before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. We weren't chosen in our own right, we were chosen in Christ, in his redemptive work. We were chosen before the world was ever created Before we could have done anything to bring him pleasure. We were chosen to be holy and blameless in his sight. We weren't holy and blameless in his sight, and therefore we're chosen, we were chosen to become Holy and blameless. And we'll get more to that and how the work working of that change takes place. But God chose us. And in John chapter 10, where Jesus is speaking about the security of that choice He makes it clear that again it is God who chooses. Listen to this passage. My sheep listen to my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of my father's hand. That passage is particularly speaking about our security. And because that security is such a wonderful thing for us, we can focus on that and lose sight of the fact that it is saying that God has chosen us. And we're only secure because God is powerful and has chosen us. No one can snatch us from Him. It is God, the Father, who chooses you. In John 15, 16, Jesus reiterates this, speaking of his own role in that choice. We're speaking to his disciples the night that he's betrayed. He says to them, You did not choose me. But I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit, fruit that will last. And the Father will give you whatever you ask in my name. We have been chosen. That is a passive. We did not choose, we did not decide, we were chosen. It is God who has chosen us, and that ought to be a tremendous comfort and encouragement to you, because the one who is greatest of all. The Holy Spirit is also mentioned in verse 2, and it speaks of him as the one who sanctifies. Now, this choosing doesn't mean that I'm given new requirements and left on my own. This phrase is so magnificent in its depth of meaning that I want you to understand what's being said. Because what's happening is we are made new creatures. Paul says in Galatians, I've been crucified with Christ, and it's no longer who I who lives, but Christ who lives in me. And this life which I live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and delivered himself up for me. Galatians chapter 2, verse 20. Paul speaks of a new life. It is no longer I who live. The Spirit, it says in verse 2, is the agent of the sanctifying work Ezekiel chapter 36 speaks of the work that God does, and one of the things that it speaks of is the work of the Spirit. Listen to this passage, chapter 36, verses 25 through 27. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit in you to move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. You will live in the land I gave your forefathers. You will be my people, and I will be your God. I will save you from all of your uncleanness. Listen to this. I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. The sanctifying work of the Spirit is to transform us. Yes, we are justified by grace, and yes, we are sanctified by grace. Titus 3, verses 4 and 5 speaks again of this work of the Spirit in our redemption. But when the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared, he saved us not on the basis of righteous things we had done, but because of his mercy. He saved us through the washing of rebirth and renewal by the Holy Spirit. Don't lose that again. When the kindness and love of God our Savior appeared. This is not an obligatory selection. God hasn't said, okay, I guess by circumstances I'm bound to accept you. But shape up. Instead, he says, I love you. I want you. And I want you whole. And I will do the work to give you a new heart, a new spirit, a desire to please me, and the ability to accomplish that. By the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit. Second Thessal 2, verse 13. But we ought always to thank God for you, brothers, loved by the Lord. There it is again, his desire for his people. Because from the beginning God chose you to be saved through the sanctifying work of the Spirit and through belief in the truth. The Spirit is the agent of our regeneration. The Spirit is the one who gives us a hatred for sin. He opens our eyes and our hearts to show us what sin really is. And he gives us the power to please God. But we're also saved by the blood of Jesus. To obedience to Jesus Christ and sprinkling by his blood. There is a debt that must be paid. Sin has created a distance between man and God because the imperfect cannot come into the presence of the perfect. There has to be the payment To remove the guilt and the stain and the blemish of sin. In chapter 5 of Romans, it says that God demonstrates his love for us in this. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 21, God made him who had no sin to be sin for us. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Jesus came He lived a perfect life, fulfilling completely the law of God. He laid aside that life in a voluntary sacrifice to pay for the debt of your sin. He redeems and he saves. His work is absolutely essential. And as part of the Trinity, he accomplishes that. We are chosen from something and to something. The very meaning of the term called, elect Chosen is a calling from and to. We are called from our state of sin, and we are called to a new life. In chapter two of Ephesians, Paul clarifies what we are called from. He speaks of our life before Christ. when he says, As for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins in which you used to live, when you followed the ways of this world and the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the Spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. All of us also lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature and following its desires and thoughts. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath. We are called from that life of sin, that slavery to the kingdom of this world But what are we called to? We're called to newness of life. And in verse 2, it becomes very clear, both in the Greek and in this English translation, that we are chosen for Now, one of the things that you need to look at as you look at Peter's grammatical structure is that he begins with the thought, two gods chosen or two gods elect. Then he goes on and he describes them, those who are strangers and aliens residing in Pontus, Lithynia, Cappadocia, Asia. And then he goes on and he talks about the work of God to save. According to To the foreknowledge of God the Father, by the sanctifying work of the Spirit. And then the phrase that is the focus of our choosing comes up for obedience. In the Greek, it's completely clear that what he's saying here is, we have been chosen to obey. We are chosen for obedience. That's the blanks on line Roman numeral two If you look at the Greek dictionaries that look at that term, obedience, it is the obedience that a slave owes his or her master. This is not something that we are chosen lightly into. God is not saying obedience is sort of something that I'd like you to do If you're really interested in doing it, we're chosen, obviously, to be saved, because that's the nature of the relationship that he's establishing with us as Father, Son, and Spirit. But we're chosen in that salvation. for obedience. Now being a twentieth century evangelical as I hear that There are a couple of things that strike terror in my heart. Because if I'm chosen for obedience, does that mean that I'm chosen because of obedience? On the basis of my obedience? Absolutely not. We've already seen that God saves us while we are sinners. And we've also seen a hint of what he's talking about as we look at the sanctifying work of the Spirit. Because the truth of the matter is that God is calling us not simply to a new position. He is not calling us simply to a new status and demanding that we do more than we can. I'm going to read a quote from Jerry Bridges in his book, The Discipline of Grace, as he speaks of this whole transfer of life. He's just spoken in this chapter about a Russian pilot who's defected to the United States and is given a new status as an American. He's now told that he is under a new kingdom. He's no longer under this despotic, autocratic kingdom of the Soviet Union. This took place back during the days of the Cold War. He's no longer to live in fear and trepidation that he's being spied upon. He's no longer to live according to the whims of a political authority. He now is an American. He has freedom. So there's a new status. But he can't live that life without the resources necessary. And and Bridges makes clear that those resources are given to him because of what he has done He's now given all the resources of the American government to make a new life. Now this analogy breaks down for us because we've done nothing to incur God's blessing. We've done nothing to acquire those resources. God has simply and freely given them to us. But listen to this quote describing our status. When we as believers died to sin, we died to a status wherein we were under bondage to the tyrannical reign of sin. We were slaves. At the same time, we were granted citizenship in the kingdom of God, and through our vital union with Jesus Christ, were furnished all the resources we need to become, in fact, what we have become in status. We've been given not simply a new position, but a new life. We have all that we need through the sanctifying work of the Spirit. We have been given all we need to bring the imperative, do not let sin reign in your mortal body, into line with the indicative. We died to sin. We have been given not simply a new position, we have been given a new life. We have all the resources to accomplish that goal of obedience to which God has called us. I want you to hear this clearly. So much so that I want you to write down the two phrases that belong in this sentence. God loves you too much to save you for heaven and to leave you in your sins. God loves you too much to save you for heaven and to leave you in your sins. Our obedience is not an issue of earning salvation. Our obedience is not an issue of sustaining salvation. Our obedience is a part of the calling to which God has given us out of His love for us. We tend to get things skewed. We tend to look at sin as something that we would like to keep Lord, if you would save me for heaven and allow me to be the king of my own life here and now and to choose whatever I want to do and to be able to be in control and still be loved. Well that'd be great. If I could sin to my heart's content and still go to heaven, that would be the best I could possibly have. Wrong. God loves you too much to leave you there. And if you look at obedience as something that frightens you because it means obligation, you're not seeing what Peter and God through Peter is telling you in this passage. You've missed that whole phrase, the sanctifying work of the Spirit God loves you too much for that. In 1 Thessal 4, verse 7. Or actually beginning in verse 3 and carrying through to verse 7. It is God's will that you should be sanctified. That you should avoid sexual immorality, that each of you should learn to control his own body in a way that is holy and honorable, not in passionate lust, like the heathen who do not know God. And that in this matter no one should wrong his brother or take advantage of him. The Lord will punish men for all such sins as we have already told you and warned you. For God did not call us to be impure. But to live a holy life. Sin is not a treat. Sin is a curse. Sin is not your delight. It is your enemy. And if you continue to think of sin as that which brings pleasure, comfort, and satisfaction, you have not seen sin. I challenge you to think of one time where you have delivered yourself over to fully indulge a pet vice, a pet sin, small as it may be. And not rude that day later on. The summer we're having a VeggieTales BBS. My family just bought a veggie tail video called The Fib from Outer Space. I don't know if any of you have ever seen it, but it's pretty funny. And there's this little alien creature that comes dropping out of the sky and talks to this one young kid, Junior asparagus. And don't ask about it. If you haven't seen it, it won't make sense. Junior asparagus into telling a lie. Just one teeny little fit. As a matter of fact, his name is Probillius Minimus. Little lie. But every time he tells a lie, he becomes the the fib becomes bitter. And and pretty soon Junior begins to recognize that he has not been able to use this fib to protect himself. This fib has now taken mastery over him. And has become a big lie. Sin is like that. It may attract you in the beginning, but it is a curse that will eat you alive. And so when Peter is talking about our calling to obedience, he's speaking of a blessing, not an obligation. This is a part of God's love for us that He allows and calls and strengthens us to obey. Because that's what we were created to do, and that's what brings us wholeness. Let me ask this question. Does this mean that I'm saved by my works? If I'm called to obedience, does that mean that I'm saved by the law? Absolutely not. It cannot be. In Galatians chapter 2, verses 15 and 16, Paul speaks and says, We who are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners. In other words, we who have known the law. We who've recognized this culture and this position of obedience and fulfilling the law, we who are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners know that a man is not justified by observing the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by observing the law, because by observing the law no one will be justified. I am saved by the completed work of Jesus Christ. That's here. Sprinkling by his blood. His blood is the sacrifice that had to be made to atone for my sin. While we were yet enemies, Christ died for us. God made him who knew no sin to become sin, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. You are not saved by works. You are not saved by your obedience, and you're not even sustained by your obedience. You are sustained and brought to obedience You are saved into a life, a new life that is characterized by intimacy with God and obedience to Jesus. John chapter 14, Jesus says, if you love me, you will obey what I command. 1 John chapter 2, verses 5 and 6. But if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. This is how we know that we are in him. Whoever claims to live in him must walk, as Jesus did. 2 Corinthians 5, verse 9. So we make it our goal to please him. Whether we are at home in the body or away from it. Listen to that. We make it our goal to please Him, whether we are at home in the body or away from it. Colossians 1, verses 9 through 14. For this reason, since the day we heard about you, we have not stopped praying for you and asking God to fill you with the knowledge of His will through all spiritual wisdom and understanding. And we pray this in order that you may live a life worthy of the Lord, that's the obedience, and may please him in every way. Bearing fruit in every good work, growing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, so that you may have great endurance and patience, and joyfully giving thanks to the Father. who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light. For he has rescued us from the dominion of darkness, and brought us into the kingdom of His Son, whom He loves. In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Do you see what these biblical authors are saying? God has loved us, He has chosen us, He has chosen us to obey and sanctify us by the work of the Spirit so that we might have wholeness So that we can devote ourselves to pleasing Him. What is my response to this passage? Number one, if you don't have confidence that you have a relationship with Jesus that provides you with all of these gifts, you need Jesus. And you need him immediately. Because apart from Jesus, you are in that kingdom of darkness and you're stuck in sin and you're under the wrath of God. And if Jesus doesn't bear that wrath for you, you will bear it yourself. Today is the day of salvation. If you have questions about that, if you want to talk to somebody, you put your name on the grayslip and you put your phone number down If you only put a phone number down, I'll know that that's what you mean. I'll get to you this week. You have my word. Better yet, call me. I'll take your call immediately. Let the AAs know that this is a result of the sermon. If you have that relationship with Jesus, recognize that God takes care of you. God has chosen you. He has lavished his love upon you, and you belong to Him. Turn your burdens over to Him and trust Him. And then I want you to think about one thing. What is God calling you to do this week to please Him? Not what is God calling you to do this week to keep yourself secure, but what is God calling you to do this week to please Him? How can you respond to his love for you and show him love in return? Again, Second Corinthians 5, 9. If I can find it. This is an incredible passage. Speaking of Paul and his decisions and his focus of life. So then we make it our goal to please him, whether we are at home in the body or away from it. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for choosing us We thank you for this call to recognize that that choice is greater than we possibly had imagined. That we need you. We depend upon you. Lord, save us. Save us from our attempts to save ourselves. Save us from fear of devoting ourselves fully to obeying you. Save us, Lord, into your pleasure. That we might receive pleasure from you. In Jesus' name. Amen.