We're going to be starting the first service Sunday, September 8th at 8. 30. We're going to have a schedule that will run 8. 30 to 9. 45 for the first service, which is what you're at now. So you've got to move it a half an hour ahead. Instead of being here at nine, be here at 830. From nine forty five to ten o'clock we will have time to transition from the worship into the to the Sunday school and the alath communities, the adult learning and fellowship communities. Those will all be here. We will not, repeat, not be going to Centennial. We have decided that the difficulty of transferring people back and forth, the lack of time to be together, and the lack of possible fellowship time. It's a significant enough cost that we decided to limit the number of adult lab communities to two plus the Discovering CPC class. And we'll have those meet here. One will be in the ministry center here in the main hall and one will be in the basement downstairs next door. Then that will run from 10 to 10. 45. From 10. 45 to 11 o'clock, we'll again have that transition time and a chance to talk briefly to people you want to catch up to. And then eleven o'clock we'll start the second service. So that'll stay at the same time from eleven to twelve fifteen. Now we need a response from you on one of those issues. If you're an adult and you're not teaching Sunday school, You're not otherwise occupied. We want you to come to one of those two last communities. One will be Galatians, taught by Bill Sianella. It will be a study of Galatians. Excellent book. I highly recommend it. If you want to go to that class, you need to mark that down on your grace list where it says prayer concerns. Just put Galatians. The other class that will be taught will be a Bible survey. It's going to look at the structure of the Bible, the Old and the New Testament, very briefly to try and help you to figure out where things fit and to be able to get a handle on how to read the Bible. That'll be taught by me. So what we're trying to find out in this is how many people will be in which class. We need to know the bigger class so that we can have the bigger class up here. And then the smaller class will meet next door in the basement. If you can get that to us this week, this is going to be the deciding factor. How many of you guys put down Bible survey and how many of you guys put down Galatians? It's not a beauty contest. Please put down the class that you want to go to. because it'll help us not to have to switch rooms back and forth if we find that one really was more attended than the other. So whichever one you're going to go to, and I encourage you to go to one or the other. Unless you're a newcomer and you want to go to Discovering CPC. And that most likely will meet in the living room of the apartment in the house next door. So please, before the offering this morning, put that down on your grace lip along with your name. Whether you're a member or a friend or a visitor and any prayer requests or ministry information you want to have. Let's go back to turning our attention to the to the sermon this morning. We just finished singing When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. And I want us this morning as we begin to look at this passage before we even turn to it. To recognize the wondrous gift we have in looking at the at the whole of this passage with hindsight. Because we can look at this passage through the cross And as we're going to see this morning, this is a message of redemption, and it is clearly focused by the cross. So let's pray and then turn to Ezekiel chapter 3 Lord God, we do thank you that you have called us as your children, that you have brought us together here to worship you, that you have given us the message of redemption. And that you have called us to be watchmen with that wondrous message. Lord, speak to us this morning, clarify in our hearts and our minds a love for you. Focused upon your redemption, equipped to the ministry to which you call us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you turn to Ezekiel chapter 3 beginning with verse 16, I want to set for a minute two settings. The first of which is the historical setting of what's going on in the exile. You recall in the first couple of messages that we've preached, and this is the this is the fourth on this passage. We were looking completely at the issue of the calling as a watchman and the historical setting that God had taken the people of Israel out of Israel. that his love for them was so great he was unwilling to remain in a dead marriage where they had rebelled against him. And to allow them to continue to think that because they had the temple and because they had the city of Jerusalem and they had the name of God upon them that they were okay. So he took them into Babylon, even at the risk of his own name, even at the risk of appearing like he either was not a god or had been defeated by the gods of Babylon. And so we looked at what God was doing in that in that tremendous that tremendous sacrifice. We're going to look at that again this morning, but I also want us to understand that this is a message that is built upon the foundation of the previous three messages. What is a watchman? Am I a watchman? And to whom am I called to watch? Today we're looking at what is the message that God has called me to give. Let's turn and hear the word of the Lord as he speaks to Ezekiel in chapter 3, verse 16. At the end of seven days, the word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. So hear the word I speak, and give them warning from me. When I say to a wicked man, you will surely die, and you do not warn him or speak out to dissuade him from his evil ways, in order to save his life. That wicked man will die for his sin. And I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the wicked man and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his evil ways, He will die for his sin, but you will have saved yourself. Again, when a righteous man turns from his righteousness and does evil, and I put a stumbling block before him, he will die Since you did not warn him, he will die for his sin. The righteous things he did will not be remembered, and I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the righteous man not to sin, and he does not sin, he will surely live. Because he took warning, and you will have saved yourself. I want you to look at verse 17 I want you to see it from your Bible, and I want you to see that God speaks to Ezekiel in that passage saying, Son of man, I have called you as a watchman for the house of Israel. So hear my word. And give them warning from me. That's not the first time in this book God has said that to Ezekiel in chapter 3, verse 4. And I'd like you to write down these three references Ezekiel chapter 3, verse 4, God says to Ezekiel, Son of man, go now to the house of Israel and speak my words to them. Chapter 2, verses 4 and 5. The people to whom I am sending you are obstinate and stubborn. Say to them, this is what the sovereign Lord says. And whether they listen or fail to listen, for they are a rebellious house, they will know that a prophet has been among them. And again, chapter 3, verse 17. Hear the word I speak, and give them warning from me. Now there's a curious relationship between the book of Ezekiel and the book of Daniel that I want you to understand, because it'll make it so much easier and more fulfilling for you to read both of them. Ezekiel is the behind-the-scenes look of what God is doing in the exile. It is God's heart revealed for his people. It is God speaking to his watchman, explaining his intentions. And making clear what he's doing through the outworking of history. It's a glimpse to God. But Daniel, which takes place in the same period of time and covers the same events, is a narrative, it's a story. It relays to us what God wants to happen among his people. And if you look at the person Daniel You need to be seeing him as the man spoken of in verses 20 and 21. He is the righteous man. He is the man whose righteousness has sustained him, but he's also the man that, should he turn from his righteousness, will face God's judgment. Daniel is able in this period of exile to live the life that God is calling his people to live. And we'll refer back and forth to him this morning in the sermon. But I want you to note that parallel that Ezekiel is God revealing his heart. Daniel is God showing what he wants to have happen. As we begin this morning, we need to see that there are really two things that we need to learn from this passage relating to the message of God. The first is: what is the message? And there's really two parts that we have to understand of that. The first of which is that the message is given in Ezekiel 18 through 21, where God says, keep my law. God's message to the Jews in exile is, Keep my law, because you remember that it's easy for them to be thinking, God has been defeated. It is no longer time to worry about God. And so God says to Ezekiel, When I say to the wicked man, Turn from your wickedness. Verse 18, he says, When I say to the wicked man, you will surely die, and you do not warn him or speak out to dissuade him from his evil ways. In order to save his life, that wicked man will die for his sin. Sin is reprehensible. And sin is anything that is counter to the law of God So this morning, the first message that Ezekiel is called to give and that we must hear, and that we must give. is keep the law. We like to think that we're free of that. We like to think that we're free of that because we know that we can't keep it We can look back and say, well, that was true for those in the Old Testament time period, but it's not true for me, for Jesus has died, and the law no longer is my master. Jesus himself, the night he was betrayed, said three times in the span of eight verses, If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Jesus reiterates what Ezekiel is told to say, keep my law. It is as obligatory for you as it was for the Jews in Babylon, as it was for the Jews in Jerusalem. But we come to trouble when we look at this. We see God say, Keep my law in these verses, and we recognize that judgment is at hand because what God is saying is you will surely die for your sin. Both the wicked in verses 18 and 19 and the righteous in verses 20 and 21 will die for their sin. Judgment is at hand, both a temporal judgment and an eternal judgment. That judgment faces us We look at that and we think of Daniel and we say, well, Daniel kept the law. How did he do it? I can't I want you to note some passages as well, and they're on your outline. Galatians 2, 21 says, I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be gained through the law, Christ died. For nothing. Think about that for a moment. Paul speaking in the book of Galatians is saying to the Jews Righteousness cannot be maintained or kept by keeping the law. There's a tension that's building here. God says, Keep my law. Paul, speaking for God, says, We can't keep his law, and righteousness will never be gained by keeping the law. He goes on earlier in the same passage and says, We who are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners. Know that a man is not justified by observing the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ So we too have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ, and not by observing the law, because by observing the law no one will be justified. Acts chapter 15, there was a large council in Jerusalem to deal with how the Gentiles should be brought into the family of God. Paul speaking out speaks and says, Now then why do you try to test God? By putting on the necks of the disciples a yoke that neither we nor our fathers have been able to bear. No, we believe it is through the grace of our Lord Jesus that we are saved just as they are There's a tension I want you to see. God says clearly in chapter 3, verses 18 through 21, keep the law. The wicked will die for their wickedness, and the righteous, should they turn to wickedness, will die for their wickedness. We will die for our wickedness. And yet, we know, because the Bible speaks clearly, that we cannot keep the law. God even knows this. And he says to us in 1 John 1, verses 8 and 10, if we claim to be without sin, we deceive ourselves. And the truth is not in us. If we claim we have not sinned, we make him to be a liar, and his word has no place in our lives. God Himself, who has said, Keep my law, says, You are sinners. You are wicked. You will die. We're between a rock and a hard place. And if we simply limit our view to what God is doing in the exile to chapter 3, there is no hope. But God isn't simply giving us chapter 3. We can look back with hindsight. We can survey the cross. And we can see the message that God is giving to Ezekiel, and we can recognize that it is a message of redemption. It is a message God is giving to us to drive us to the cross. For you see, the watchman who is the watchman of excellence, the one who defines what a watchman must do, is the one who has redeemed us. God Himself tells us that He will make us new creatures and that He will empower us to overcome sin. He will equip us to keep the law. Second Corinthians 5:17 is a New Testament commentary on this, and Paul says, Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has gone, the new has come. God Himself is telling us. That he will make us a new creature. God is our watchman. He has warned us, he has provided our escape, and he has given us the ability to please himself. I want you to turn to Ezekiel chapter 11, beginning in verse 17. There's three passages I want us to look at that will focus us on this redemptive message. In the book of Ezekiel, through the work of the exile, as God intends to bring about a change in his people. It is through these verses that we will see how God has worked in the life of Daniel to make him that righteous man. Ezekiel chapter 11 verses 17 through 20. I want you to look at your Bible as I read this. Therefore, say, This is what the sovereign Lord says. I will gather you from the nations and bring you back from the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you back the land of Israel again. Then they will return to it and remove all its vile images and detestable idols. I will give them an undivided heart and put a new spirit in them. I will remove from them their heart of stone and give them a heart of flesh. Then, notice that connection. God's action leads to a reaction. Then they will follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. They will be my people, and I will be their God. God's message of keeping the law has to be seen in the context of God's transforming redemptive work that He already has planned and is promising to accomplish. Chapter eighteen, verses thirty and thirty-one, please turn to it. I want you to see this as well. Therefore, O house of Israel, I will judge you. Each one according to his ways declares the sovereign Lord. Repent, turn away from your offenses, then sin will not be your downfall. Rid yourselves of all the offenses you have committed, and get a new heart and a new spirit. Why will you die, O house of Israel? Do you see the connection there between two parts of the message? Keep my law. Turn away from your offenses, then sin will not be your downfall. The wicked man who turns from his wickedness is saved. But it can only be done in the power of God as He gives that new heart, as He gives that new spirit. That's the focus of God's message through Ezekiel. Turn to chapter 36, beginning in verse 22. This is the most wondrous passage I'm convinced in the Bible. Other than a clear exposition of the work of Christ. Because this passage so clearly articulates the redemptive work of God in such magnificent splendor. that it can't be speaking of anything other than the redemptive work of God and the life of his individual believers. God says to his people, Therefore say to the house of Israel, This is what the sovereign Lord says: It is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am going to do these things. But for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations where you have gone. I will show the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations. The name you have profaned among them. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the sovereign Lord, when I show myself holy through you before their eyes. Now listen to this For I will take you out of the nations. I will gather you from all the countries and bring you back to your own land. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you will be cleaned. I will cleanse you from all your impurities and from all your idols. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit in you. I will remove from you your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees. And to be careful to keep my laws. You will live in a land I gave your forefathers. You will be my people, and I will be your God. I will save you from all your uncleanness. I will call for the grain and make it plentiful and will not bring famine upon you. I will increase the fruit of the trees and the crops of the field, so that you will no longer suffer disgrace among the nations because of famine. Then you will remember your evil ways and wicked deeds, and you will loathe yourselves for your sins and detestable practices. I want you to know that I am not doing this for your sake, declares the Sovereign Lord. Be ashamed and disgraced for your conduct, O house of Israel. There's a clear dose there of God saying, you guys have blown it. You guys have wandered from me, and I have brought you into exile because I want to focus you on your offenses. I want you to know your sin, and I want you to be ashamed and sorrowful and repentant for that sin. Having done that, he speaks to Ezekiel. And instead of simply leaving the people to die in their sin, he says, Son of man, I have called you as a watchman for the house of Israel. Speak my words. We look at the fact that we are called as watchmen And we're looking at these promises in two ways this morning. I hope you're seeing them in both ways. One is this is a message of redemption for us. God wants you to know your sin. God wants you to repent of that sin and to be sorrowful for it. He is saying to you this morning, be ashamed and disgraced for your conduct, O house of Israel. He's convicting you of your sin as you come and sit and worship him this morning. But he's not leaving you there He's saying, turn from it. He's saying to you, if you are a wicked man, turn from your wickedness in order that you might live. Verses 20 and 21. If you're a righteous man and contemplating wickedness, stop. Because I am here, I am real, and you need me He's saying to you as well, I have given or I will give you a new heart. I will take away your callous heart of stone, which is impenetrable to me, which has allowed you for generations to To adulterate the temple with worship of idols. Whatever sins you've struggled with, for however long you've struggled with them, God is calling you this morning to stop. God is calling you this morning to commit yourself to righteousness. He is calling you to escape the judgment which he will bring. And you need to hear that message. You need to hear that he will give you that way of escape. 1 Corinthians 10, 13 is another New Testament commentary, I believe, on the same concept. No temptation has overtaken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful. And with that temptation will provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. This morning, you are personally responsible before God to repent and to turn. And God will give you the power to do that. The same way that God gave it to Daniel, to Shadrach, to Meshach, and to Abednego. Because you see, God is not simply giving a message of vengeance. God is not saying to you and to those to whom you will speak, You have turned from me, therefore, burn. God is saying, I will do what is necessary to show you your sin and to show you repentance and to give you a new heart. God says in chapter 36, verse 28, you're still there, please look at the verse. You will live in the land I gave your forefathers, and in this most wondrous promise. You will be my people, and I will be your God. God makes clear that judgment is coming. God makes clear that he will not accept the pretense of a false relationship. If you are clinging to anything as an example to you of security in Christ and feeling the freedom to turn into sin. And rebel against God because his name is upon you, because you've made a profession of faith, because you come to church If there is anything in your life that you are clinging to other than a new heart, a new spirit, and a cleansed life, it is not enough It is not enough. Should Daniel have turned from his righteousness at the end of the book? And thrown himself to sins, even though he's one of the three men whose righteous character is mentioned throughout the book of Ezekiel, Daniel would have died in his sin. God wants you to change And he wants you to change so much that he said in these passages, Ezekiel eleven, seventeen, and thirty-six, that he will change you. And he wants you to change so much, not only has he promised this change, but he has fulfilled it in Christ. That is what you see when you survey the cross. Jesus is the watchman. Jesus is the one who has made possible for you this second part of the message. That redemption that we must throw ourselves upon. But in all cases mentioned, this redemption speaks of obedience Again in chapter 11. Then they will follow my decrees and be careful to keep my laws. They will be my people, and I will be their God. Chapter 18. Turn away from your offenses, and sin will not be your downfall. Rid yourself of the offenses you have committed, and get a new heart and a new spirit. Chapter 36. I will give you a new heart, put a new spirit in you, I will remove from you your heart of stone, and give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit in you and move you to follow my decrees and be careful to keep my law. Laws. Jesus says again, three times in the span of eight verses, the night he is betrayed, leading up to his prayer in Gethsemane, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. The message is twofold keep the law and allow me to equip you. But we need to turn now not only to understanding that message in our own lives. We need to understand how it is that we can communicate this. We are watchmen. We have seen in the second sermon that God has called us, that the obligations of the watchman are clearly given to us in New Testament passages. And that while we may not have the title, we have the function. So how can we, as watchmen, in this day, speaking to the house of Israel to whom God has called us, communicate this message? The number one thing I want you to understand is that this must not be done vengefully, for God does not do it vengefully. And it must not be done under obligation. This is not something we do to lead to that final statement, be ashamed and disgraced. Because that's not the conclusion. God is not content if we end with disgrace. God is calling us to be sorrowful for our sin that we might hate it and that we might love Him. So if we come to another and speak a message of being a watchman for the purpose of bringing them to cringe. Or even just to change and to stop sin. We have failed. That message cannot be given anyway but redemptively Because the goal must be the wholeness of the people to whom God has entrusted us. That God has entrusted to us. Listen again to chapter 18, verse 31, and hear the passion of God as He speaks to Israel. Rid yourself of all the offenses you have committed. Get a new heart and a new spirit. Why will you die, O house of Israel? I want you to keep a passage in mind as you think of being a watchman, and that passage is 1 Corinthians 13. Paul says, if I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong and a clanging cymbal. I don't care how much truth you have. If you present it like Jonah presented his message to the Ninevites, God can use it. God turned Nineveh away from its sin, and all they heard from Jonah, after God had brought him through the belly of the whale to the beach of Nineveh, to the city where he spoke, all he said was, God is going to destroy this city. No message of redemption. No desire to see Nineveh turn to God. What happens? What Jonas heared. Nineveh turned to God and at least for a time repented of its sin. And Jonah, displaying his heart, wept because he knew what God would do God calls you to be like Christ, not like Jonah. God calls you to speak out of love for those to whom He has called you. To speak clearly and in a way that will bring those who listen not only the understanding that they must keep the law, But the understanding that God will change them and bring them to Himself. You have to say it in a way that the listener, whoever they are, whether it's your friend, your spouse, your children, your parents, Your boss, your workers, your neighbors can hear and accept it. Now in my family, we we have the good cop and we have the bad cop. I don't know if this is true in any of your other families, but we have one parent who is a good disciplinarian really clear and firm and has rules and laws and and and can speak out with authority. And we have one who is kind and compassionate. Who is able to wound themselves with the wounds that the others have have suffered, is able to encourage them to try and do better, and is able to lift them up. I'm not going to tell you who's who. Oh what the heck. I'm the disciplinarian. But there's a balance that has to be maintained. For you see If you speak too harshly, you speak vengefully, you're protecting yourself God did not send Israel into exile but once. Israel had sinned against him for generations. Not every situation will require an exile. Not every situation requires being jumped on. As a matter of fact, I don't think any require being jumped on. I'm good at it. But it's one of those skills I'm going to have to set aside because it's wrong. You must not speak too harshly But you also must not speak too gently, for if I'm a disciplinarian, my wife must be the one who is kind and compassionate and gentle and willing to lift up. But she's so good at lifting up that when she criticizes me Frequently, I don't even know I've been criticized. You know, it it's a school of thought where if you just shower them with with good things, they're ready for that little nudge that says, okay, move beyond here But you know you've got to understand your audience and with me frequently if you simply tell me so many good things and send one thing to me as a message that's really important It gets filtered out. So you can't speak too gently. The issue at hand, and the one thing I want you to remember about how to speak this message is that it must focus the issue clearly on the issue. God was not willing for Israel to have any idea. Well let me rephrase that. God was not willing for Israel to misunderstand in any way, shape, or form the issue that was between Israel and God. He wanted them to know because he wanted them to grow. And if you find yourself making the issue so clear that the people respond emotionally to you. And not to the issue. That's wrong. If you find yourself so kind and gentle that they don't even know what the issue is and cannot change, that's wrong There is a conflict that is going on that certainly involves this person and God. They are hindered in their growth. They will not be the whole person God calls them to be. Now you can either attack them and say you are a sinner, or you can attack the problem and say this is an issue There is a way to resolve conflict that focuses on the issue and says, it's real. You've done it. Address it. And you have to communicate that in a way that doesn't attack the person, but does not let them escape from the issue. If you are called to the watchman, the concern you have to have is to help this person grow. To help them become whole. And you need to know them well enough, A, to know that what you've observed is true and not merely speculation. Again, we talked a few messages back. Know the facts. Don't simply make speculation if you're not sure and if you don't have concrete proof that they cannot escape or refute. Ask. Hear their side before you come to judgment. But if you know the facts and you know the issue and you know the need for them to address this in order to grow in their relationship with God and with others, And you ignore it. You have written them off. God is calling you this morning to lift one another up, to bear one another's burdens, to love one another, and to desire each other to grow in wholeness. And he has given you the ability to participate in that. You have the choice this morning whether or not to follow through with the commission. Last week I asked you to think about people That God was calling you to watch. This morning I want you to write those names down For those of you who didn't do the meditations last week, one of the questions on one of the days was to write down five to eight names of people that God was calling you to care for, to watch over, to help the wholeness. I want you to write it down. I don't want there to be any question in your mind as to who God is encouraging you to love. But you need to understand that the goal of that is to bring these people to wholeness. And that may mean sacrificial love. That may mean that you go out of your way to pray for, to talk to, to relate to, and to help people that God is calling you to love. Jesus said to his disciples earlier the night he was betrayed. A new commandment I give to you that you love one another even as I have loved you. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. Then Jesus went out, was arrested, and demonstrated that love. Providing that redemption that we must use in order to keep God's law And he's calling you this morning to love one another as he has loved, redemptively, with the goal of building people to wholeness. If you see that God has given you an opportunity to help another to grow, He's telling you to take advantage of it Then it's not an option. Because as we see next week, as God talks about the dangers to the watchman, it is an obligation of love. God calls you to this. God calls you through this to grow yourself because if you go in your own power and if you go in your own strength and you use your own abilities, you will butcher one another. But if you go and you bring these people closer to Jesus, and if you sacrificially love them as Jesus loves you, Katie bar the door because you will grow. We as his people will grow. We will grow in ways we have not seen in years. Do you long? For that? Are you willing to give yourself for it? Is Jesus worthy of that sacrifice so that his body brings him glory? Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we absolutely, totally, and without question defending. depend upon you, for you are our watchmen. You are the one who has bring brought us to redemption. You are the one who sustains us. You are the one who brings us to wholeness. But you have called us as your disciples. To serve others in the same way. And Lord Jesus, I pray that you would make very clear to each of us this morning how it is we can't obey you, how it is we can't demonstrate to you our love for you. And how it is we can't love those that you love. Lord, work. Accomplish your purposes through us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.