In Ezekiel chapter 3. So I'd encourage you to turn there. Do we have an echo? Sounds like Bill Cosby and Noah This really isn't the voice of the Lord directly, it's indirect. But it is his. Let's open in prayer. Lord Jesus Christ, we long to know you better. As we have just sung, we long to see your people redeemed. We long to be able to fulfill the task that you have called us to accomplish, which is to be your watchmen We ask this morning that you will speak to us, but not simply verbally. We ask, O Lord, that you would open our hearts, that you'd open our ears, and that you would make us more effective. More whole, more loving. We pray these things in the name of our blessed Redeemer Jesus. Amen. Some of you are beginning to anticipate boy that sounds bizarre. Is there any way to try and take some of the bass and remove the echo? Okay. You guys are just gonna have to listen Some of you have been anticipating my fifth message. You recall that this is a series of five. I'm sort of trying to be Alan's protege. And instead of taking five years, I'm taking five weeks. And you've asked me a question about the dangers to the watchman. I've had two people, independently of themselves, come to me and say Is the same risk and the same condemnation from God for a failed watchman to Ezekiel the risk and the danger to us? Hold that question. Two weeks from today, if you want to know the answer, come here, because that's the whole of the message is what are the dangers to the watchman? But this morning we're looking at who it is the watchman is called to serve. You recall that the first week we looked at Ezekiel's call as a watchman. There we go, that's much better. We looked at Ezekiel's call as a watchman and what it means to be a watchman, and last week we looked at that call is actually our call. We have the same call to be a watchman. Building upon that this morning, we need to look at who it is that I'm called to care for. Who is it that I am called as a watchman to serve? So let's turn to the passage and hear the word of God. At the end of seven days the word of the Lord came to me, Son of Man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. So hear the word I speak and give them warning from me. When I say to a wicked man, you will surely die, and you do not warn him or speak out to dissuade him from his evil ways in order to save his life. That wicked man will die for his sin, and I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the wicked man and he does turn not does not turn from his wickedness or from his evil ways He will die for his sin, but you will have saved yourself. Again, when a righteous man turns from his righteousness and does evil, and I put a stumbling block before him, he will die. Since you did not warn him he will die for his sin, the righteous things he did will not be remembered, and I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the righteous man not to sin, and he does not sin, he will surely live, because he took warning, and you will have saved yourself. Who is this house of Israel that God speaks of in verse 17? Well again, the initial context of this passage is Ezekiel and his time in the exile. So the first answer we have to look at to understand the house of Israel is it is a distinct cultural group of people that God had called to Himself. As they so eloquently remind Jesus in the New Testament time, they are the sons and daughters of Abraham. There is a distinct family identity. They are a people who have now found themselves in exile in Babylon. They are a camp. The idea of being watchmen for a household or for a camp is that there is a distinct group of people who are at risk. There's boundaries, there's peripherals, there there are people that that he can identify as inside and outside the camp. He knows who it is he is called to watch over. He knows where the danger is coming from. But we need to understand today who God is calling us to be watchmen for. Who is it that we aren't to be alert to serve and to warn? I want to give you Three groups of people, actually two groups and a subset, that I think you need to be very concerned about. The first is those who claim a relationship with Jesus, because today it's not so much an issue of family identity, it's not an external culture. Although there is that element in the church, you can look at each other this morning and realize that there's a group of people that are the house of Israel. As you see each other this morning, you know that there is an identified family Identity, because we share one Father. Ephesians chapter 4, which Alan is preaching about now, says we have one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God and Father over all, through all, and in all So there are people who are of the family of God, people who claim a relationship with Jesus as their Savior. Galatians chapter 6 tells us, let us not become weary in doing good, for at the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up. Therefore, as we have opportunity, let us do good to all people, especially to those who belong to the family of believers. In Hebrews chapter 3, the author of Hebrews is addressing us as brothers, i. e. , referring to our relationship together with one common father. See to it, brothers, that none of you has a sinful, unbelieving heart that turns away from the living God. But encourage one another daily. As long as it is called today, so that none of you may be hardened by sin's deceitfulness. Both of these passages speak of a relationship with each other because we have a relationship with God. Both of them speak in the function of the watchman. We are to bear one another's burdens. We are to do good to all people, especially to the household of the believers. We are to encourage one another daily as brothers and sisters in the Lord. Just like in the Old Testament, there are ways that we can recognize believers We have a similar talk. We use Christianim. For those who claim a relationship with Jesus, we have a similar outlook on life. And so to some degree there is a comparison between those who claim a relationship with Jesus and those that Ezekiel knew to care for. There is a distinct body of believers. Now sometimes we draw the lines a little too closely. And there may be believers that don't fit our patterns and don't speak our dialect. But they're brothers and sisters in the Lord, and we're to care for them. But it's not only those who are currently in the house of God. For you see, we have a responsibility to be watchmen for all those who might yet come to claim that relationship with Jesus. And you know what that does? That now expands to a universal audience, the people we are to care for. It is not simply those that have come to speak like us To act like us, to worship like us, it is those who may yet come. And God has accelerated that program. Even in this passage in chapter 3, verse 18, Isaiah, Ezekiel is told, What I say to the wicked man Clearly there is a sense in which God is warning those outside the house of God for what does God do with Nebuchadnezzar? Through Daniel, through Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, Nebuchadnezzar comes to acknowledge that the God of Israel is the only God of God. He is the Lord of kings and Nebuchadnezzar himself must submit. Daniel is a watchman even for Nebuchadnezzar. Later in his life, Daniel is a watchman for Darius as Darius places him into the lion's den. And as Daniel is rescued, Darius confesses that there is but one God, and he is the God of Israel. But for us this becomes overwhelming. Because we look at the masses of people outside these walls and we say, what can I do? Ezekiel was called to speak both to the masses and to the individuals. So God clearly points out when I say to a wicked man When I say to a righteous man, he's not dealing with it solely as a prophet for the nation You may not have opportunity to speak broadly. You may never address thousands of people. You may never have an opportunity to try and bring those biblical principles to bear upon the circumstances of the people around you in massive numbers. But God has placed you in a neighborhood. God has placed you in a workplace. God has placed you in a family. And God is calling you not only to speak when you see those biblical principles contrasted with with opposing circumstances. For Mathis, he's called you to do that when you speak to your sister or your brother, when you speak to your parents, or perhaps your children When you speak to your neighbor or anyone with whom God gives you contact, for that's the third group of people you need to look at. People with whom God has established a relationship. Because this isn't just a massive group of people with whom I am to speak God's truth and to declare it unemotionally and impartially Jesus says, go make disciples of every nation. He's given us the commission to reach those massive crowds individually. You don't make disciples in large numbers. You have opportunities as I have to speak to people who need to know God's truth. One of the fun things I get to do because I'm a pastor is weddings. One of the things in weddings that is a responsibility for me as a pastor who is helping to establish a new home is to bring biblical principles to bear. Now I get a lot of calls from people outside the church, and generally the first conversation roots out whether they're going to try and contact me again or not. Because the difficulty for the people who want to get married is they can either get married by a justice of the peace or some pastor who will who will deign to perform the wedding. Now, Justice of the Peace generally will only do it in their office, so you can't have a nice unchurched wedding if you're going to have a Justice of the Peace perform the ceremony. You just simply go to his offices and have the ceremony performed. People are desperate to find somebody who will marry people that aren't part of the church. And I have found that most pastors in this area will not do a wedding outside of people who are members of their church. So I have a captive audience. And you know, the first thing that they ask me is, will you do the wedding? And I say, well, that depends on a couple of answers that you're going to give me. Then I have to ask some difficult questions. I can't marry a believer to a non-believer. It is biblically prohibited. And I have to help them to understand first and foremost what it means to be a believer. So there the gospel is already brought to bear. Secondly, one of the best services I can offer is to help them in the area of their physical relationship. And I recall one conversation where there was a couple who was out of the area, wanted to get married, and the mother of the bride called me up Talk about an embarrassing conversation. She asked, Will I do the ceremony? I said, Well, there's a couple of things she has to understand. And so I went through the issue of membership, and they were both members of evangelical churches. And then one more thing you have to know, especially because both profess a relationship with Jesus, one of the things that I believe is an obligation upon me One of the most important obligations that I can do for a couple getting married is to help them to keep in control their physical relationship. Cold silence Do you understand what that means, ma'am? Why don't you tell me? It means that when I talk to them in the six premarital sessions we're going to have together each week, I'm going to ask them, have they blown it? You're going, what? I'm going to ask, have they involved themselves in intercourse? I thought the first silence was cold. The second was frigid. There was never a return phone call. But God gives opportunity for us to bring principles to bear, and this is not a moral bigotry. It is God's plan for how men and women are to relate to each other. There is a moral principle, and we'll get into that in a minute, that has to be communicated because the circumstances are ripe for failing to live in light of that moral principle. God called me into that circumstance to be a watchman because he's called me to be the one to perform the wedding, possibly. They've opened the door for me. We'll get into more of that as well. But you have people with whom you have a relationship, with whom you have both an understanding of biblical truth and an awareness of their circumstances. And God calls you to bring the truth to bear upon those circumstances. That is both evangelism and being a watchman People with whom you have a relationship, with for whom God has opened the door for you to know their lives and their needs, who are willing to listen to you. And to whom God calls you to speak. Those are the people that you are called to watch over. But what does it mean for me to be a watchman for these people? We sort of touched on that. And the first point that Ezekiel hears in chapter 3, verse 17 is, so hear my word. There's two things I want you to understand as you listen to God, and please get them in this order. First and foremost, you are a sinner I want that to seek in. You are a sinner, and you need a watchman. Jesus says in chapter 6 of Luke, why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eye and pay no attention to the plank in your own eye? How can you say to your brother, brother, let me take the speck out of your eye when you yourself fail to see the plank in your own eye? You hypocrite. First take the plank out of your eye, then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Paul says in Galatians 6, verses 1 and 2. Brothers, if someone is caught in a sin, you who are spiritual should restore him gently. But watch yourself, or you also may be tempted. carry each other's burdens, and in this way you will fulfill the law of Christ. Now I want you to listen to those passages because We had a discussion in our neighborhood. We have a Bible study that meets twice a month in our neighborhood, and that was a passage that was used to look at a particular issue of our times. And how were we to reach out or not reach out to the people in our neighborhoods? And everybody read the passage the way everybody usually reads this passage, which is okay, sit down, deal with yourself, and that's it. What God is saying to you this morning as watchmen is first and foremost, recognize who you are. You are redeemed sinners. Secondly, don't fail to move on. God does not say, take the plank out of your eye, period. That's too easy. You see, this parable is not a validation of your desire to remain uninvolved in the lives of those around you It is not an excuse for inaction. Jesus says, first take the plank out of your eye so that You may see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Paul says, be aware you are a sinner, so that you will gently and lovingly bear the burdens. Of those around you. In neither case does it say you are to simply look at yourself, recognize that you're a sinner, deal with your sin, and trust God to deal with the sins of those around you. He does not give you that option. He says to you, you must first deal with your sin so that you may help others who need your help to deal with theirs. I want you to understand we are not watchdogs. See, a watchdog has a very simple function. They're chained to a rope. given enough rope to do their job, and if anybody tries to get into the house that they don't know, they eat them. Simple job. You're not to go around eating people. You are to love them. Restore them gently. The second thing you need to know from God is not simply that you're a sinner who is called to a very difficult ministry, but that you need to know the truths God has revealed to you so that you can bring those truths to bear upon circumstances. If someone were to come to me as a pastor and I didn't know biblical principles of how husbands and wives ought to relate, of how marriages ought to be established, I would simply say, great, I'd be glad to do the wedding, let's just go. And however they come in is how they leave. You see, you have to know God and you have to know his truth. You need to be a watchman approved to his task. Able to accomplish what God calls you to do. That means, first and foremost, you're drawing close to Jesus because he's your Redeemer and He deals with your sin. Secondly, because if you don't know him, you have nothing to offer, and there is nothing that you can do as a watchman. So your primary focus as a watchman is to love Jesus. And if you're loving Jesus, then you will love Jesus' people, the household of Israel. And that's the only foundation from which a watchman can effectively do his job. You are to be aware of the specs. And you are To carefully and lovingly work with those who are plagued by spacks to remove them, realizing that you have your own planks. The next thing that you need to understand beyond God's truth and knowing God intimately yourself is that you need to know the people. God calls you as a watchman to know the people for whom you are to care. That's tough. You see, we want to think about being a watchman in such a way that there's it's it's it's a warning system. There's a perimeter around me so that if sin infiltrates, I have a warning and I can deal with that sin. So that if I'm looking to deal with someone's life, I can be on autopilot. And if there's a problem that comes in as a watchman, I can address that. But I don't want to be focused on other people. It's too draining. It is too time-consuming. It takes too much out of me. I dare to say that's true for you as well. You don't want to be focused upon other people. Let me give you an illustration of this that will help you to place yourself. I have five kids. That's not the illustration. I have five kids, and all of them want my attention. This week uh was a particularly busy week. There was a lot of things going on, and so My two-year-old Timmy came to me one morning at breakfast. It was Tuesday morning, and he sat down on my lap as I'm trying to eat my cereal. And I mentioned to him, Timmy, Daddy has to get ready to go to work. And without even batting an eye, he says, no, go bye bye work. It's just one of those leaping out at you, grab your heart kinds of comments that say, okay, there's a red flag here. Sometimes God doesn't let you put on the filters. Last night as we were watching a show to the family, Timmy wanted my attention again. We have this book of animals and he loves to look at pictures of animals and so he had it on my lap as we were watching the show. And he wanted my attention, but the show wanted it too. And so he would talk about the tiger. And when he realized I was neither looking at him nor responding to him, he'd go, Daddy, daddy, tiger. So he drew me out. Sometimes you are busy with your own things and you're not listening and you're not paying attention, and if you don't have somebody who will force the issue, it simply goes by. There's another example of this. Last week in the Sunday paper, the front of the comic section in the Washington Post, there was a family comic where there's this young four-year-old girl, and she was walking into a room uttering profanities. And you see you watch as she walks in and her mother's busy doing something, and next scene you see mom with her eyes bugged out. And she goes to her and she says, April! You're not supposed to say those words. The next frame is April saying, I know. The next frame is the mother saying. Well then why in the world are you saying them? And she just continues to walk on and says just testing. People test us all the time. People will test you this morning in the conversations you have as you talk before you leave here. People are constantly testing to find out whether you are a watchman for them or whether you are simply ignoring them or whether you're simply too busy to even know that they're there. We are busy people. And it is so easy for us to not listen or to feel that we've understood. Five years ago we were meeting over at HCC. I was teaching a class in Sunday school and and one person was talking about the difficulty they had with their kids in that class. And they mentioned they wanted to throw their daughter out the window. I thought, okay, I've got three kids at this point in time, and I can understand the desires and the emotional issues, feeling like you'd like to have your child leave you alone. And so I smiled and I thought they were joking and I said, I know how you feel, and that was the end of the conversation. Three weeks later they came back to me and said, No, you didn't understand me I literally meant I was ready to throw my child out the window. You felt I was joking, or you didn't, didn't want to pursue it And I have struggled for three weeks, and by God's grace my child has not gone through a window yet. But you did not listen. I needed you, and you weren't there Each of us will have people who will want to share with us. And if God gives us the grace to be able to listen and Redeems us to the point where we will care. There's a lot we can do. You will also, like I do, have your failures. But God is calling you this morning to be a watchman. For one another. You are clearly part of the house of Israel. This morning you'll be tempted as people walk out of the church. To listen only half-heartedly. Remember last week we talked about how are you fine, you're walking and 25 feet later the answer catches up with you. What if the answer is I'm struggling and you're 25 feet away? Not only do you know the people, but you know God, but you also speak God's word to his people. And this is one of the toughest parts. It is so easy for us to recognize the needs and to commit ourselves to pray so that God can change these hurting individuals. Sort of that's a place to start. Jesus said, The harvest is plentiful, therefore beseech the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest field. But who did God send? God sent those who prayed. Don't limit yourself to prayer. Prayer is incredibly important. And if God's not working in you through prayer for the people that you're praying for, you're in real trouble. But if you're praying for these people and God Says to you, all right, you're my feet and my hands and you're my voice. Go. Then you gotta go We desire peace. We desire to avoid conflict. We desire to be comfortable. I desire to be comfortable. And so we don't deal with real issues. I was having dinner this week on Wednesday night at a restaurant in town. It was a farewell dinner for for somebody that's good friends of ours, and so we were having a drink with them as well. Turns out that our waiter was somebody from an independent Baptist church here in town. And I happen to know that independent Baptists don't believe that alcohol ought to ever be consumed by a Christian. I didn't ask him why he was serving it to me, but But then he found out I'm a pastor of this church. And he says, Oh pastor, I'll I'll try and make sure nobody else comes in here so they see you drinking this margarita with your dinner. And I was so tempted to say to him Got a Bible? Let's see what Jesus did at the wedding of Cana. Let's see what Paul says to Timothy about wine with your dinner. Let's see what it says in Ephesians 5 about do not get drunk with wine. God has given us Christian liberty. And if God convicts you that drinking is wrong, then clearly, no matter what else, it's wrong. But I believe firmly that God has given us liberty in areas of our lives And I wanted to help him to understand what I understood to be biblical truth. Now I realize by sharing this illustration, there may be some of you who want to tell me that you believe that drinking is in all cases wrong. And I'm glad to listen to you. I will talk with you about it. I don't want to try and tell anybody by my example that what God convicts you of is not right. But I'll show you passages as well that I believe give me the freedom to drink in moderation. But if I had done what I wanted to do, I would have simply dissuaded him from being effective in his job. And yet it is so tempting. It is so tempting at times. In other cases, to avoid the issues, because peace is all important. You see, we have gotten to the point where we so carefully choose battles that we avoid them. When's the last battle you got into? When's the last time you helped a person to grow in their relationship with the Lord? When's the last time somebody avoided a sin or was able to grow because you shared with them? God calls us to be redemptive. God calls us to seek the welfare of those that He places in spheres of relationship with us. And God calls you to desire their growth and to act upon it. Being a faithful watchman will demand all of you. As I said earlier, there is no formula by which you can simply set a filter and respond. Only when you notice the mistakes. God wants you to see people grow. God loves you and God loves them, and God wants you to work powerfully. and effectively in promoting your growth. It is no formula that allows you to do this. It also places you in great danger Because you may be seen as judgmental, you may be seen as a watchdog. One of the truths that I found in trying to help others to grow is that frequently they don't desire growth. In their head, they know they need to grow. But they're stuck where they are, and they desire peace and a status quo. And for you to come in and to address an issue with them means they have to change. God is using you as a catalyst in their lives to bring them to greater wholeness. And that hurts It hurts a lot. They recognize the hurt and they want to refuse you. So it's easy to assume that if someone's trying to help me, they're judgmental. a watchdog. You have to lovingly care for people in order to help them. And if you can't give them compelling evidence that you love them, they're going to assume that you're judgmental. I know, I do the same thing. But you can't stop because you're going to be judged. You can't stop because you're going to be rejected. You can't stop because when you lift that person from the pit, they're going to bite your hand. We'll get into more of that later, but don't forget there are dangers to the watchmen, and God says if you do not warn, you will give an accounting Now they may reject you. They may not simply be their your help that you offer that they reject. They may reject you. Because you make yourself vulnerable when you come to someone and say, I care enough about you that I have to ask these questions. I need to understand whether the principles are in line with the circumstances. Don't presume that you know before you ask. But even asking, you may be rejected. Even asking, you may be condemned. Be ready to pay that price because that is the price that God calls you to pay. That's one of the dangers that God warns Ezekiel he'll face. They may turn it around and point out that the real person with a need is you. You may go to somebody in good faith thinking that you see something that you need to be sure you understand, and so you ask. And as a result, one of the greatest ways to deflect attention from me is to point it to you If you come to me and say, I see this and I need to understand it more. Can you help me? If I don't want to deal with that area, the first thing I'm going to do is look for an area in your life to distract you with. Now you know what? They're probably speaking of an area that is really in need of work. And so accept their counsel. Work on the area. Deal with the plank. But don't forget the spec. Because the thing that drew you to them in the first place is still true And unless you know that it is already dealt with, you need to continue to love them enough to deal with it. Now if you're like me, you're feeling absolutely overwhelmed at this point and you are intimidated by the task ahead of you. Some degree you guys expect this of me, and you pay me for it to some degree And so you have a willingness to hear from me what you may not hear from someone else. You won't like it any more from me than you will from someone else, but you've already said, okay, well, I really need this, so I'm going to allow them to give it to me. Allow others who love you enough to come on their own and allow me. And I certainly hope you will come to me as well But the only way you can be successful as a watchman is to be close to Jesus. You need to know that he is redeeming you from your sin, and that it is not a frightening thing for someone else to point out to you your sin. It's something you need to deal with, you need to address, and you need to do you need you need to understand that God has redeemed you. You need to know those principles and please draw close to Jesus in the Bible Know his truth. If you only guess that this is the truth, when they question the truth, you're off track. If you know for a fact that Jesus is taught this truth and that they can't dissuade you of it because they're calling it into question, but you can show them the truth of it, that's progress. Be sure of what you go to deal with. Don't be like David. David is a great example of what a watchman ought not do. David had a son who raped his half-sister. Amnon raped his sister Tamar David, because of I think, my speculation, my understanding of the passage is because of his sin with Bathsheba and his murder of Uriah the Hittite, didn't take action because he had not dealt with his own sin. And so Absalom, the full brother of Tamar, decided to take matters into his own hand, and he arranged to kill Amnon. And again, David did nothing. David knew what God wanted, and I don't believe David did it. Don't allow your sin. Don't allow your plank to keep you from dealing with God and with your brothers and sisters. If you cling to God, He is going to redeem you. He is going to bring you safe to Himself. And he's going to use you powerfully in the lines of your brothers and sisters. That is the call. You are the people. Be faithful. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you for your goodness. We thank you for your love. We thank you first and foremost that you have redeemed us and that you are building in us your household. Lord, we pray that we would be faithful not only to draw individually close to you, but that we would do so as a body. That our desire would be to serve you and to build one another up in love. Use us effectively in the lives of one another we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen