Well, it is a beautiful Easter morning, isn't it out there? I mean after all the rain, the clouds and the cold winter. Have I told you I said Easter would come? I mean no, Easter would come Spring would come, and it has come. Christ is risen. Amen. Amen. Beautiful. Well this morning I would like to focus on one verse from the first sermon preached after Jesus died. And when he was risen. This is a very historic sermon because it is the first public announcement of Jesus' resurrection about seven weeks after the event. It was preached by Peter, who, you remember, the night before Jesus was crucified, denied that he even knew Jesus. Before a young servant girl and some others who were with him. Now, on this feast of Pentecost In Jerusalem, there are Jews from all over the world. And they hear the disciples speaking supernaturally in other languages that they hadn't learned, because the Holy Spirit has now come upon them. And thinking, because they didn't understand the languages, that these were drunk speaking gibberish, uh, they accused them of that, and Peter defends What is going on, saying that this is in fact the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy that the Holy Spirit has come upon his people? And he concludes with this statement in verse 32 God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of the fact. There you see it. Now take just that one statement I want to think about just that one statement this morning. If that one statement is true, then it is false that the God of Christianity and Islam and Judaism and other religions is all the same God. It is false to say that God can be known by various names and it doesn't really matter. Because this Jesus had made some very exclusive claims. He said that you and I were in big trouble because we had not honored God the way we should. And that his death was the one necessary and sufficient sacrifice. To bear the guilt and the sin so that God could forgive you and me and give us life. And the fact that Jesus, after he died, was raised by God to new life means that God agrees with that claim. God is substantiating it. He is vindicating Jesus. So again, God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of that fact. Now that's very important because the New Testament does not claim that anyone saw Jesus rise from the dead. The only reason that we know that Jesus is alive from the dead is because of witnesses who saw the risen Christ. And then you realize that Jesus had been beaten and then slogged and then crucified, and then a spear run through his heart. If people say they've seen him looking robust and in good health, then he must have been risen, raised from the dead. That's Peter's claim. There are witnesses who have seen the risen Christ. It all depends on the statement. We are witnesses of this fact. God has raised this Jesus to life. And I hope by the end of the message That will be in your heart. You'll have memorized it and carry it through this week in your heart. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of the fact Now you often hear Easter messages that will seek to give evidence for the resurrection through uh things like uh you know who moved the stone and where's the body, and What about uh the changed lives and things like this? What I would like to do this morning, this beautiful Easter morning, is I would like to focus on just this one verse, and I would like for you to look at that claim. And I want to suggest that there are only three alternative responses to Peter's claim here. One is to say that the witnesses are lying, they're being deceptive, for whatever reason And The resurrection is a fraud. Or, secondly, that the witnesses themselves are deceived. They're not being deceptive. They're simply deceived. They think he's alive, but he's not. Or, thirdly, that the witnesses are in fact reliable, they're telling the truth, the resurrection is true, Jesus is alive, and the consequences of that are staggering. So I want to consider briefly with you each possibility. And then next week, what I want to do is have Easter part two. Next week, after looking at this claim and the evidence for the resurrection, I want to look next week at the nature of the Jesus who rose from the dead. What's he like and what was it like to relate to him? as a risen living Savior. What's it like to relate to Him today as that same kind of person? Also next week we're going to have a special class, just a four-week class, and I'm putting a challenge to those of you who are saying, I don't feel like I know this Jesus very well. But I would be interested in finding out more about him. The challenge is that you take the four Gospels, one each week, next week Matthew, or this week, read Matthew, then next week Mark, then Luke, then John. They're not that long. Very easy to read them in a week, just a few pages for each one, you know, thirty, forty, fifty pages. And then um Sunday at 10 o'clock, there will be somebody to lead a discussion of what you found and any questions you have and any of this kind of thing. And we'll do that for the next four weeks. Next week, Matthew, then Mark, then Luke, then John. So we did this a couple of weeks, uh a couple of years ago, and it was so effective that we thought we would uh try it again. and see if it's of help to some of you. You'll be meeting in my office, which is right over in Potter's house there. See my office, check out my library, there it is. Uh that's where the thing will be meeting, ten o'clock. Then uh two weeks from today, in the sermons, I'm going to begin a new series A study on the one book in the Bible about sex. The Song of Solomon. And if that doesn't get you back, I don't know what will. Sneaky, huh? So uh we will be starting that study two weeks from today. All right, let's look at uh these alternatives. I've talked about three alternatives. The witnesses are either intentionally deceptive Or they are themselves deceived or they are reliable. First of all, you see all these blanks to fill in today helps you to follow along and to be able to um highlight to to have fixed in your mind the important points. But first is that they are intentionally deceptive. That is, that they are lying. The resurrection is a fraud. Now we must admit that this is a possibility, just because Peter says God has raised us Jesus to life. We're all witnesses of the fact. How do you know that's true? We've all been duped by those who try to persuade us of something surprising, spectacular. You kind of tend to think that when you grow up that means to get cynical So that last year when we hear the president of Enron say, I really didn't know that any financial shenanigans were going on here. Really honest. Damn, right You know, or or you hear this week that Lacey Peterson's husband says, I really didn't know what happened to her. I mean, me? You know, so we tend to be kind of cynical about things that don't seem like they are fitting with our experience. And when Peter says, God has raised this Jesus to life, you know, I don't know about you, but I don't know anybody that has been raised to life that I've seen. And so you have to admit there's that uh possibility that you can't trust these guys. There's some reason that they want us to believe that Jesus rose from the dead when he really didn't. They're making it up. They don't want to be looked at as a bunch of losers, so they're making this thing up. The problem is there are seven very serious problems With that hypothesis, and I would like very briefly to call your attention to them. A lot more could be said about them. I just want to review them, at least seven that I've thought of. The first one is that the announcement is too close and it's too soon. This just happened seven weeks before in Jerusalem Now if you're going to make something up like this, then you're going to have a lot better shot at it if you let some time pass, make it up maybe a year, a couple years later, maybe a decade or so. Uh and do it far away so that um those people can hear about it and think, oh, you know, that could have happened and gradually the rumor will get back to Jerusalem and by that time then the evidence will be very hard to disprove. That's not what they do. It would be kind of like me standing up and saying, someone who died a violent death in the beginning of March here in Colombia has been raised from the dead. And you know you'd say, well, that's pretty bold. You know, it's right here. Uh you notice that Peter says to Those that he's talking to there, verse twenty-three, this man was handed over to you by God set purpose. Uh he is the one, verse twenty two, that did wonders and signs before you. You saw him. Most of the people there, uh these thousands, uh many of them were there at that feast of Passover They, some of them, saw Jesus crucified. They knew what was going on. This was very common knowledge. Pretty bold to do that, and it's not what you would expect So um that's a problem. Secondly, notice that the first witnesses were said to be women You know what's wrong with that? Well, simply that according to Jewish law, women were invalid witnesses. That's simply the way it was back then They did not see women as reliable, valid witnesses. So if you're going to make up a story, why are you going to present that the very first witnesses to this thing were invalid? Unless it was true. Especially that the very first witness was someone as disreputable as a woman who had been demon-possessed, Mary Magdalene. Um it just would not very sh be very shrewd in that culture to make it up that way. Not if you wanted to compel people to believe your case The only reason you can think that they would do it is happen to be the truth. Or thirdly, uh I also believe, by the way, in that that there is uh A very tender rebuke of the Lord to the values of that culture, and just this indication historically that it was true. Thirdly, notice the witnesses are named and that they are very diverse. If you're going to make something up, you want to shroud it in some mystery so people can't check it out. But The Gospel writers specify that Jesus was laid in the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea. Joseph of Arimathea was a very prominent man, member of the s of the Sanhedrin. Very easy to get him and cross examine him. Why would you want to do that? And the uh witnesses are very diverse. You have not only the women, but you have the two disciples on the way to Emmaus. You've got the ten disciples of Jesus, you've got over five hundred at one point, you've got Thomas at It's very hard to convince. These people all are from different kinds of backgrounds. The disciples were fur certainly from different backgrounds. Very easy to try and cross examine them and find discrepancies, contradictions in their testimonies. Isn't it interesting? That of all the problems the New Testament deals with, it never even deals with the question of the accusation of discrepancies in the witnesses to the resurrection. That's not an issue. They're named, they're specific, and they're diverse. Not what you'd expect if you're going to make it up. Fourthly, you notice that the accounts appear to be discrepant. That's obvious if you read them through and try to make sense, put them together. Why is this there? That doesn't seem to fit with that. But on closer examination, they can all be harmonized. If they did this in collusion, it was pretty stupid to do it that way. Actually, when you're making something up, you do it the opposite. You make it look like it all fits But then when you study it closely you find the discrepancies that don't fit. This is the opposite of that. It doesn't seem to fit, then you study it closely and you see that it does fit Now that would only be the case if in fact they were historical witnesses, independent eyewitness accounts to this. If you are wondering how that is done, let me mention that I have done that on the past. And somebody asked about that after the first service I actually produced a sheet that shows how you can reconcile by my count 18 post-resurrection appearances of Christ to his disciples. If anybody is interested in that, you try to do it, can't do it this week, come back next week, I'll make some photocopies and have those available so that you can see how you can, in fact, put that together and make sense out of it. That's another reason you come back next week, uh, add all these up. Irresistible. Okay. Fifth reason why this would not hold is that there is nothing spectacular. in the resurrection account. If you're going to make this up, then it would be very psychologically satisfying to have Jesus burst from the tomb, a blaze of glory. Terrifying his enemies and walking in triumph. You don't have that. You don't have any dramatic description of the resurrection itself. In fact, there is no description of the resurrection only of those who saw Jesus after. It's also calm. You know, the first appearance is to a weeping woman who's broken in a garden, just Jesus and her And then to Peter, who had denied him, and to the disciples and to other women, and it's all so calm. It just so Such contrary to other religious writings of that time, where you have angels and pyrotechnics and spectacular miracles and all kinds of stuff going on. That was the common fair. It really is hard to represent that. You have to read it yourself. But if you read other religious writings of spectacular things of that time and then read the resurrection accounts, they are in two totally different worlds. This was not written the way things were written at that time that wanted to persuade something, persuade people of something that was spectacular. It simply has the ring of history. And then finally, sixthly, no, sixthly, not finally, the disciples themselves are portrayed in an unflattering light. They're betrayed as fearful, as unbelieving. I mean, even as uh John read from John 20, you have Peter and John going to the tomb, even after they see the tomb is empty. They still don't believe that Jesus is raised. The women assume that the body's been taken. There's nothing very heroic about them. In fact, even in John 21, Peter's still sticking his foot in his mouth. They're just not the kind of people that you want to hang around and follow. Why in the world, if they are trying to gather a following From this resurrected Christ were the disciples, Peter saying, We are his witnesses. Trust us. And you look at them, you say you're a bunch of bumbling idiots Why do I want to follow you unless it happens to be that you're the ones that saw what happened and Peter's transformed Would you put together such an account and portray yourself in such an unflattering light if you were going to make up this story? I don't know about you, but if it was me, we're not very likely. Then finally, the seventh thing, is you need to explain the motive for the deceit. Explain the motive. Why do they do it Does it bring them money? Does it bring them fame, wealth, prestige? You know, we are disciples of the risen Jesus Of course, as you know, it does quite the opposite. It brings them persecution, it brings them hardship. All but one of the disciples is martyred And he's exiled from his home on a rocky island. You you don't suffer persecution and death for something you know is a lie It just doesn't make sense. And especially if there's dozens who are doing it, somebody is going to break ranks. Somewhere, somebody's going to say, you know, I got to tell you guys I know it's really not true. And that person would then be prominently displayed. You have no such historical account. They all hold to that story consistently. Faithfully, without compromise, to their very death. And here you have Peter, who seven weeks ago trembled before a girl and said, I don't know him, curses himself and says, I don't know the man. And now he stands before thousands, and he says things like, Listen to this, Jesus of Nazareth was a man credited by God to do To you by miracles, wonders, and signs, which God did among you through him, as you yourselves know. This man was handed over to you by God set purpose and foreknowledge, and you, with the help of wicked men, put him to death by nailing him to the cross. But God raised him from the dead, freeing him from the agony of death because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. That doesn't sound like the same Peter seven weeks ago, does it? How do you account for the motive of such a change? Now it's at this point That uh if you're having this kind of conversation, it usually kind of shifts and a person will say something like, Okay, alright, alright. So they weren't intentionally trying to deceive But they probably were themselves misled. They were unintentionally deceptive. The second point is they were unintentionally deceived. They are mistaken. The resurrection is not a fraud, but it's still false. So the resurrection is false. Now again, briefly consider the possibility of that And as soon as you do and see it stated, you realize there's four serious problems with this hypothesis. The first is a where is the body? Um they didn't have acid to you know dissolve it, they didn't have an ocean nearby to dump it. So, you know, what what happened to the body There's two possibilities, uh, because the body was in a tomb, so somebody had to take it no matter what happened to it, if it wasn't raised. First possibility is that the enemies took it. Well, if the enemies took it, of course, why wouldn't they produce it? And the second possibility is his friends took it. If the friends took it, then you're right back to category one where they're intentionally deceptive. And again, do you think that no one would have ever broken ranks from such a conspiracy Now some people say, well, it wasn't really that. It was just that they got to the wrong tomb by mistake. They just didn't know it was a mistake and that tomb was empty. Well The women saw the tomb, and for crying out loud, the tomb belonged to Joseph of Arimathea, don't you think he even knew where his own tomb was? So that one is really kind of silly. Then there's the second possibility about the Roman Guard, the second problem. The Roman Guard, the Roman SEAL Now again, remember we're assuming now that they're not fabricating this, they're telling us that uh in fact the seal was broken. Uh now if that's true, who broke the seal? You know what the penalty was for breaking a Roman seal? Death by crucifixion upside down. Now you're gonna risk being crucified upside down after you've just seen what's happened the last few days by breaking that seal? And what about the guard? The penalty for a Roman guard going off duty was death. Or from falling asleep was also death. Anybody that broke through the Roman guard and violated what they were supposed to be guarding of the The guard themselves paid for it with their lives. And then you have the third thing, who moved the stone? You know, you have this this big stone, this thing is nearly two tons. And and it's not just, you know, there in front. The way they did it was the d this the cave. Uh Joseph of A Arimathea's tomb is a cave. in a limestone rock, and then they'd take this big stone and it would roll it into a groove that was carved out so it wouldn't be wobbling. It would just sit there in that groove. So somebody had to take this thing nearly two tons Move it out of the groove and up alongside the the side of the cave. It would take over a dozen strong men to do it. Who did it There's a fellow by the name of Frank Morrison who had legal training and decided that he was going to disprove the resurrection once and for all. He wound up uh after looking at all the evidence writing the book Who Moved the Stone in which he sought to demonstrate the overwhelming and overpowering evidence for the resurrection because he said whatever else you can get around, you can't get around. Who would have moved that stone? It couldn't have been his friends, it couldn't have been his enemies. Who did it? And the stone, of course, was moved not so if Jesus could get out, but so that those witnesses could look at the empty tomb. Josh McGowell began his ministry by as an unbeliever seeking to discredit the resurrection Studied the evidence, wound up instead writing the book Evidence that demands a verdict, seeking to demonstrate all the evidence for the resurrection. Then he went on to write the resurrection factor. Then he went on to write after that more evidence that demands a verdict. He became a very prominent apologist for the Christian faith. And it all started by his seeking to disprove the resurrection. An essential factor of that was who moved the stone. So you gotta account for that. You gotta you gotta look at that. How could they have been deceived in such a matter. Then fourthly, you've got the problem of the number and the variety of deceived witnesses. Now, one person could possibly be deceived to think that they saw Jesus return from the dead. In my years of ministry, there was one man that I knew, whose wife died, and he became convinced that she had returned from the dead, and he talked to her on a daily basis But I must tell you, sadly, that he did not convince anyone else in his family. In fact, it estranged the family. They wanted nothing more to do with him because he got stranger and stranger as this progressed. You don't see that here. These people become leaders who speak very sanely and turn the world upside down. And there are many of them in many different occasions. Some of the appearances are to individuals, some to groups, some are at day, some are at night, some are inside. Some are outside. How do you account for all these different deceptions, these hallucinations in so many different kinds of circumstances to so many different kinds of people? You say, well, but how do you know that, you know, and you get back to number one that they were intentionally deceptive? Because you really can't account in any convincing way for them all being deceived so consistently. that they were compelling to their generation about this simple fact. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses to this fact. And so if they're not uh deceptive, if they are not deceived, the only remaining possibility, alternative, is thirdly that they are in fact reliable, that they are telling the truth. But the resurrection is neither fraud nor Nor false, but it's a fact. And that, my brothers and sisters, has profound implications. Because if Jesus is alive from the dead, he's not simply a man who's been resuscitated. He is a man with a new body, a resurrection body. And Peter goes right on in the next verse after he says this He is alive, he's raised Jesus to life, we're all witnesses of the fact, to talk about how Jesus is exalted That's necessarily true. Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear For David did not ascend to heaven. And yet he said, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this, God has made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Messiah. Jesus is exalted. The point is that his death was a sacrificial death for your sins and for mine to be forgiven. Only through him. But in his resurrection, he conquered death. He conquered the demonic powers. He conquered sin It is not simply an isolated event without significance. It's part and parcel of the gospel of transformation. You cannot celebrate Easter except at the feet of Jesus, exalted. In your life and in mine, amen. He is exalted to the right hand of God. And because he is exalted You and I are empowered to new life. That's the other staggering implication. See Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. The Holy Spirit has come upon these simple, foolish, bumbling disciples, and he has transformed a cowardly Peter. And to one who can declare boldly before thousands. You need Jesus Christ. Verse 37: the people are cut to the heart Peter declares that Jesus is available to them by repentance and baptism. Every one of you in the name of Jesus for the forgiveness of your sins. And you will receive, he says in verse 38, the gift of the Holy Spirit. His promise, he goes on to say, is for them and for those who are their children and those afar off, even down to Howard County, 2003. The promise of new life through Jesus Christ. You cannot have heaven unless you are forgiven based on the finished work of the sacrifice of Christ. And you cannot be forgiven without having the Holy Spirit come and apply that work to your life and transform you. And you cannot have that apart from faith in Jesus Christ. Now let me be very practical here. The next time that you, as a believer are discouraged and wonder through the difficulties, the difficulties, the trials, the circumstances of your life. Is the gospel really true? Can I really believe that what Jesus says he has done, he really has done? Don't think about how you feel. Look back again at this verse. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses of that fact. And then ask yourself, can I trust the witnesses? Were they deceptive? Were they deceived? And back your mind into that corner that says, Jesus has been risen. He is raised from the dead. And if he is raised, nothing is ever the same. I can trust him. I can trust God. It is more compelling to me than the circumstances that I'm going through right now. And by that means, you can assure yourself of the hope that you have in Jesus Christ to take you through anything. Do you have that this morning? Have you ever given your life to Jesus Christ? Have you seriously examined the witnesses to see if they're reliable? Whether you can trust this record. Think of the alternatives. And then take that challenge that I offered. Read gospel, the Gospel of Matthew this week. Come on back at 10 o'clock in my office next Sunday. Said, well here's my impression as I read the record for myself. Just want you to do it. Just read it for yourself. And then on, you know, if you wanted to, then come on back for Mark. If you want to come on back for Luke, if you want to come on back from John. It's up to you. But there is nothing more important than settling this question in your life and in my life. Because it makes all the difference about everything else in how we live. Let's pray. Oh our God, what a glorious fact. God has raised this Jesus to life. And we can trust the witnesses. Even though we are removed 2,000 years from it, we can trust that this in fact is true. And therefore we can trust you, and you are a Savior who keeps your word and all of your promises. You are our only hope to have our sins forgiven, our shame removed. To be removed from the bondage of evil, and to be freed to follow you in the light. And this morning we thank you for that hope. And pray that anyone here who does not have that hope But look to and trust the Lord Jesus Christ, who offers Himself in all His fullness, in His exalted state, right here, this moment, to forgive them and to save them from that sin. Lord, thank you. Thank you for this hope. In Jesus' name. Amen.