This morning we're going to be looking at John 13, verses 34 and 35. As the focus of the service has already been on the love of God. Now we're going to look at the love that He commands of us. But in beginning this morning, I'd like to tell you a short story about a man named Abraham Beninger, who I don't think any of you here have ever heard of. He was a young Swiss boy from Zurich, and he had come over to the United States, which was then the colonies of Great Britain or the United Kingdom, on the same ship that had brought John Wesley. His father and mother had both died on the voyage, and when he stepped off the gang climate in this new country, he was completely alone. When he had grown to manhood, he asked to be sent to tell the story of the cross to Negroes on the island of St. Thomas, having heard of their great misery and degradation. However, when he arrived on the island, he learned that it was against the law for any person but a slave to preach to the slaves. You see, it was the policy of the plantation owners to keep the slaves in ignorance and in poverty. Shortly after this, the governor of St. Thomas received a letter signed by Abraham Beninger, in which he asked to be made a slave, so that he might preach in his leisure time to the slaves. The governor was so touched that he sent this letter to the King of Denmark, who then sent back a decree that Abraham Beninger could preach the gospel to anyone he wanted at any time. Black, white, slavery-free. In a small way, that's sort of the love that Jesus had, as he came to preach the gospel to us who were slaves to sin in our own misery and degradation. And I want us to take a couple minutes here and think about the night after the Lord's Supper, before Jesus goes to the garden and is arrested. It's late at night. Jesus and his disciples have finished their Passover supper. Jesus has completed his washing of the disciples' feet. And he knows that in a matter of hours he will be taken, arrested, jailed, and on the next day executed. The things that he now says to his disciples are the paramount, the most crucial things that he can teach them. He's got his last shot at his disciples. And he gives a command. For those of you who wonder what Monday Thursday is, I'll enlighten you. In in in studying this passage, I discovered that Monde Thursday is named after the command. It's from the Latin Monda Te. And this is the command. This is the reason that Monday Thursday is Monday Thursday. because Jesus gives his greatest command. That again stresses the importance of this command that he gives. But as he is giving his parting words, he says to his disciples, A new command I give you. Love one another as I have loved you. So you must love one another. All men will know you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Jesus wants his followers to understand this teaching. It is crucial to the success of his ministry. If this fails Then his ministry is set back. Perhaps even preempted. And today, this command is renewed every generation. Because if we do not love as Jesus has loved, if we do not identify ourselves as his disciples by fulfilling his command to love, then his church is dead. It's gone. And so to understand what it is Jesus is teaching this morning, I think we need to look at three things. What is the command? What in the world is he saying? Because it seems confusing in some ways. Two, what is the standard which he gives for that command? And three, why in the world does he give it? Why does he give the command? Well the first thing to look at is what is the command? And he says, a new command I give you. Love one another. Well, it doesn't really seem new, does it? I mean, haven't we known from the Old Testament that God says you are to love the Lord your God with all your heart? And he goes on to say, and you're to love your neighbor as yourself? Is it new? Well, not new in the sense that it's never been given. No. It's not new in that It's new. And even the Greek points out that it's not something brand new. There are two terms that you could use in the Greek, nios, which means brand new, and kynos, which means transformed. And you see, Jesus is saying that this is a Kinos command. It's a transformed command. It's new, not in kind, but in stature. And so we'll get into that in a little bit, but right now we need to understand that this is indeed new. He is not saying the same thing that he said in the Old Testament: that you love God with all your heart and your neighbor is yourself. He's saying it's not enough anymore to love your neighbor as yourself. It's not good enough. It's sort of like marriage. When you're engaged, there is a kind of love that you can have for one another. It's wonderful. It's exciting and invigorating. But it's also unfulfilled. And once you enter that covenant and have married your spouse, then that love has a whole new depth and breadth to it. In the same way as Jesus about to die is about to bring us into that covenant in a full way, the love that we are to have is broadened. It's given a greater depth. And no longer can it simply be that you're to love one another as you love yourself. You see, this command is new both in the quality of the love that's commanded, but also in the basis. He says, as I have loved you. And so it is indeed a new command. But it's not just a request. You see, Jesus doesn't come to his disciples and say, boy, it would really make me happy if He says, a new command I give to you. This is not a friend saying, I would really be excited if you do this for me. This is not a brother coming and saying, would you do me a favor? This is the king. This is the sovereign creator coming to you and saying, a new command. It's not optional. It's not a request. It is a command. It is a requirement for all who take the name of Jesus. Love. A new command I give you that you love. Well, we're going to get to that when we look at what the standard is. And so I only want to briefly say that we're now told how to relate to one another as part of the body of Christ. What's a lot. But we may think, okay, I can gut it out for a period of time, you know, I can handle you for a year Well, I'll make it six months. That's not what he's saying. You see, he's saying, continue to love This is a permanent, ongoing means of relationship. This is forever. And you need to realize that the people you look at here are the people you will probably see in heaven. For eternity. And you together will do what you're doing today. You'll surround the throne and worship the Lord. You'll throw your crowns at his feet. You'll adore him together. And you'll love each other. This is not something you can gut out. This is not tolerating the people who you don't really happen to like. This is loving one another as Jesus has loved you. One another. Who's the one another? Now we can have glorified pictures of the twelve apostles as they sit around the table and they have their halos on and they're they're all smiling at Jesus. But as I read the New Testament, that's not the twelve disciples that surrounded Jesus. Not too long prior to this conversation that Jesus gives his command, John and James. Through their mother, had gone to Jesus and said, Uh, by the way, could my boys sit at your right and your left? And had sought their own interests, only to the fury of the other ten. Some say because they were mad that these people would stoop so low as to request such a favor. I joined the other party which says no they were mad because they didn't think of it first. They were not the glorified group of people we tend to think of as we look at those pictures of the Last Supper. They were not people who put others before themselves. Yet. And that's why Jesus gives them this command. But one thing we need to realize this morning Is that we're not being commanded to love those who wear suits, come to church on Sunday, speak politely, and are nice to you. We're to love the children of God. And many of those have not yet been found. And unfortunately for us, that means we have to love those who may not be Christians, because they may yet be called. We have to love not only those who have got their act together, but we have to love the unwashed masses. Because Jesus did. And if you want to question what I'm saying, I want you to think of Jesus. When Jesus came, who did he come to? He came to his church. Well, who was his church? Those whose sin he was going to die to pay for. He came to his enemies and he loved them. And his enemies were us. Jesus, you see, loved his children so much that he was willing to die. At their hands for their sin. We have a call to love Jesus' children, the unwashed masses, and those who have their acts together. But in looking at the stress Jesus places on this command, there's something else we have to understand. And that is how important it is. Certainly he gave it as his last words. Certainly he gave it the last thing he was saying over and over again to his disciples. But there's something unique about the Hebrew and the Aramaic. When they want to stress things, they didn't have exclamation points. When you read Hebrew, you didn't find something important because there was this nice exclamation point at the end. They didn't use bold like we do on computers today. They stressed by repetition. Okay. What's the one attribute of God that we know is repeated three times? Can anybody think about that for a minute? In Isaiah 6, Isaiah is drawn in the throne room of God. And the cherubim are surrounding the throne. And they're repeating one thing about God over and over, three times. Holy, holy, holy. You see, they're pointing out to us by the repetition that holiness is God's possibly supreme characteristic. Jesus in this command says, love one another. As I have loved you, you must love one another. By this all men will know you are my disciples if you love one another. It's the last thing he says. He repeats it three times. He goes on in in chapter 14 and 15 to repeat the command again, several times, in the same speech, in the same discussion with his disciples. This is where Jesus wants us. Jesus says in John 14, He who has my commands and keeps them, he is who loves me. In the midst of that he is saying over and over again, Love one another. Well, knowing what the command is, who, how important it is to Jesus, who's supposed to love? Now we can all think that this is for those spiritual people. You know, he's he's better than I am because he can really love. Or she's better than I am because she really loves the church. I'm just, you know, I'm I'm a low life in the church. But I'm in the church, so it's it's okay. I don't have to like anybody. No. You see the truth is this is not a mark of the spiritual. This is the identification factor of the follower. Jesus says, all men will know you are my disciples. And that simply means student. It means follower. If you have love for one another. It's not optional. If you take the name Jesus, you take the command to love. Well, we talked a lot about the importance of the command. What is the command? What is the standard that Jesus is telling us to live up to? If you're like me, you're already feeling good and guilty. But hold on, we'll get past that. What's the standard? What am I supposed to do when Jesus says love one another? What is he putting on me? Well, let's look at how Jesus loved. The first thing he did was he left the throne room of God. Think for a moment back to Isaiah with the angels surrounding the throne. With the twenty-four elders on their knees in front of the throne. The worship, the beauty, the splendor. That was home And it was less than he was due. But Jesus came from the throne room to a stable We oftentimes think of the cement the tremendous sacrifice that our missionaries make as they go from modern America where you have microwaves and indoor bathrooms and toilet paper and and uh meals you can cook in in thirty seconds. To a hut with a dirt floor and and and breezy walls and a group of people who give you food that you best not ask what it is, because if you do, you won't eat it. And we think, what a sacrifice these people have made. I knew a pastor who went to Korea for a couple of weeks to visit, and he had made a commitment that whatever they gave him he would eat without asking. And he he came back and reported that he'd done it, and he still survived. But it was a struggle because some of the things were almost recognizable And we thought, boy, how tremendous that he could do that. But Jesus left the throne room of God for stable 2,000 years ago. No television, no radio, no conference. His sacrifice was fairly significant. But he wasn't even he wasn't even able to do what he wanted. He was no longer the king who could dictate the way the universe worked. He was a member of an oppressed people in an oppressed land where soldiers could take whatever they wanted. And did. Not only did he come, but he suffered. Think about the suffering that he underwent. He was rejected by his own family. They laughed at him. He was rejected by his village. They tried to stone him. He was arrested by religious leaders that should have fallen at his feet and joined the 24 elders to offer praise. And then he was thrown into a prison, beat with a whip, impaled with a crown of thorns, and hung on a cross. Now that may seem tremendous, but you know what? It was Voluntary. At any instant he could have called down legions of angels. It's a lot like the games I play with my children, and and many of you have probably play played too, where you're playing cops and robbers. And you're the bad guy. Kids never want to be the bad guys. And so they handcuff you with imaginary handcuffs, and they take you off to a jail next to a tree where you stand. And you stand. And you stand. And then you realize they're no longer playing cops and robbers. They've gone off to play Cowboys and Indians and forgotten you completely Nothing holds you there but your willingness to play their game. Do you think the ropes and the chains could have held Jesus? Do you think the dungeon, the cell that he was in, could have held Jesus? He played the game. Because he had to pay the price. That's love. How are we to love? As I have loved you, so you must love one another. We're to follow Jesus' example. We are to give of ourselves sacrificially to those who don't deserve what we give. There's a story of a young boy. He was in a city street and he saw a man drive up in a brand new car. And he came up to look at the car. Eyes were big with admiration. He was really impressed by this car. And so he asked the man, where did you get this car? And the man smiled and said, Well, my brother gave it to me. And the boy says, I wish. At that point the man was thinking, I know, he's going to wish that he had a car like this. But he looks at the man and he says, I wish I was a brother like yours. I wish I had a car I could give to my brother, because you see he's a cripple and can't get out. And I'd like for him to be able to To enjoy it. I want you to think for a minute as I read and personalize 1 Corinthians 13. I am patient. I am kind. I do not envy. I do not boast. I am not proud. A woman tells a story of one day when she went to see a fellow worker in God's service. She describes her as a very dear Christian, but very impulsive. And says, as we talked together in her hall, I said something she didn't like. She took me by the shoulders and pushed me over the doorstep, shutting the door in my face. I walked home feeling very indignant. But as I walked the Lord, I asked the Lord for light. He turned me to John 13, 35. By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples if ye have love for one another. And he said to me, Will you go to her house to-morrow and show her love for my sake? I agreed to do so, handing over my natural indignation to death, his death, and I went. The result was a unity and a peace instead of division. Then I saw that Satan had tried to separate us and bring a spirit of bitterness so as to hinder our uniting in prayer. Praise God. The victory was a very real one. Through the working power of our union with Christ in death. How often do we find ourselves indignant? And unwilling to turn to John 13. And right about now, you're probably joining me in saying this is impossible. I understand the idea of turning the other cheek, but usually with the cheek I turn the hand as well. I can't do this. I don't have the resources It's impossible. Well you're right. You don't have the resources. You don't. Not a chance. But see, that's how the command is new. See, we're no longer told to love one another as we love ourselves. We know how to love ourselves. We're now told to love one another as Jesus is loved, and it's new not only in the depth and the breadth, but in how. Because Jesus that next day died. Grace became available. God does not call us to do anything. He does not empower us to do. You do have the power. Not of your own. It's like a scriptural chorus says, it's not by power nor by might, but by my spirit. And you have the Spirit. If you are a Christian, and that's to whom this command is given, you have the Spirit. You have the power. You can do it. And that's why, as you answer the question, can you really love? It all depends on one thing. Are you Jesus' child? If you are, then you have the Spirit of God. You've been made a new creature and you're no longer limited to your own abilities. We have been given the power to live lives which reflect, although yet impurely. We still fail, but we have been given the power to live lives that reflect the love of Jesus. You see, we are living testimonies of why Jesus' death was necessary. Because we can't love on our own. But in our love, we are also testimonies, living testimonies of the fact that Jesus' death was effective. It was not only necessary, it was effective. And you can do what he commands. But why? Why should I want to make that kind of a sacrifice? Why should I want to give of myself so completely and follow the pattern of Christ? Jesus says, by this all men will know you are my disciples And that points us to the truth that Jesus' ministry requires that there be an abiding and remaining witness of his gospel. Jesus is saying this to his disciples the night before he dies. If he dies and they don't love, the church is dead. Since he's died, if we don't love, the church is dead I'm sure that if I were to ask for a show of hands, I would see a sea of hands of those who've experienced churches where the gospel has been proclaimed capably in word and has been absent in love. I'm sure you can recall times where you have gone to people And if you share the gospel, it's been in gutted obedience. Well, you've got to gut it out. And you share the words, and you may even do a good job of that. But the love is absent. And the gospel is not proclaimed. The greatest of these is love. The story is told that A godly man on his deathbed said, Farewell, faith, because I now will see. Farewell hope. Because I now will experience. But he refused to say farewell to love, because that made the character of heaven what it was. The greatest of these is love. The witness for Christ must be both verbal If you don't let them know how you can love, they'll make their own guess. But it also has to be in loving action. There's a story. We've all heard the horror stories of the psychological experiments recently where people will find out how babies fare without affection. No color, no touching, no stimulation. And we know that the babies all die. But you know that's not something that was recently thought of. Because there is a historian from the 13th century, 700 years ago, a man named Salem Benek. Who wrote about the attempt of King Frederick II? You see, King Frederick II wanted to know what was the real human language. And so he decided that what he would do is he'd find out what language children would speak if they'd never been spoken to. And so he commanded that the physical needs of the children be met, that they be fed, that they be changed. But there be no talk and no affection. Because he wanted to find out whether they would speak Hebrew, which he thought was the oldest of languages, or Greek, the language of scholars. Or whether they'd speak the language that their parents spoke, just intuitively. And you know, his experiment was frustrating because not one of those children survived. Not one. effectively continue the ministry Jesus has handed to us. We need to love simply because we need love How many of you stayed in those loveless churches that you can so easily recall? I hope none of you, because that would say something pretty bad about this one. We need love. We, like those children, need affection, and if we don't get it, we wither. And if we don't die physically, we certainly will die spiritually. Not only do we need love, but so do those who have not yet been reached. You know, back in the early church it was done so well. The Christians were persecuted so severely, and it was done so well. The loving was so sure and so visible. That the pagan writers at the time would look at the Christians, and one is quoted as saying, Look at these Christians. See how they love one another. They even die for themselves, die for each other. They were being killed and oftentimes people would step in the way. They would sacrifice themselves, and as Jesus says, no greater love hath any man than he lay down his life for a free They would do that. We don't have to here. But what sorts of things do we do for love? And in closing, I want to point us again to how important love is to Jesus. In John chapter 21, the last chapter of the book, Jesus is speaking to Peter And in verse 15, Jesus says to Peter, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me more than these? Yes, Lord, he said. You know that I love you. Jesus said, feed my sheep. Again, Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me? He answered, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said, Take care of my sheep. The third time he said to him, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, Do you love me? He said, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said feed my sheep. The one thing Jesus gave to Peter as a testimony of Peter's love for Jesus was that he loved and care for the sheep. Jesus didn't ask him to go and save thousands. Jesus didn't ask him to die to demonstrate his love. He didn't ask him for millions of dollars. He asked him for one thing. Feed my sheep. Love one another as I have loved you. This morning you need to ask yourself: are you a disciple? Not are you a spiritual Christian, are you a disciple? As Jesus tells you to feed his sheep, how do you respond? Have you taken the ministry that Jesus has given us and continued and carried it forth? Are you loving one another as Christ has loved you, not in your own power, but in spirit? Oh Lord, I know how weak I am, how I so often feel incapable of love. And yet, Lord, I know that that is of primary importance to you. That out of love comes ministry. Out of love comes witness. Out of love comes worship. Father, I pray that you would strengthen me and all of us here that we might have your spirit and sufficient strength to love you with an unbridled passion. And Lord, that in that love for you we would also love your sheep Father, we ask that you would work this in our hearts and in our lives this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.