Well this Friday we celebrate Independence Day, not Barbecue Day. Independence Day, which is a time worth reflecting on our freedoms, our independence, its cost, and its fragility. These past uh four months I have been reading uh the history of World War I from three different books. and have a new appreciation for our freedom and for our peace. But there's a matter that is growing in concern that is Something that such an occasion prompts us to consider is the question of when Christians who are free people Can no longer obey and support their government in all its laws The question of civil disobedience. I don't know if you're aware, but several Christian leaders recently have been raising the question of whether the United States government has abandoned its right to our allegiance By exalting itself tyrannically above God's law and even the process by which laws are made. This question was first raised in any popular way back in uh, and I'm talking about in our own generation. It's been debated since the New Testament, but In our own time and circumstance in our country, this question was first raised by Francis Schaefer in 1981 in this book, the last one that he wrote before he died, called A Christian Manifesto. In that book, Schaefer talks about the eroding and the departing from biblical values within our Culture and the laws which govern our culture to values that are based on secular humanism And he says on page 60, the bottom line is that at a certain point there is not only the right, but the duty to disobey the state. Ten years later, nineteen ninety-one, Randall Turry, head of Operation Rescue, you remember, was calling For Christians to radically disobey the government's laws in rescuing pre-born children. He said at that time that he feared that American Christians worshipped the law and their own personal comfort more than Jesus Christ. Five years later, 1996, Chuck Coulson writing an article in Christianity Today called Christian versus America. raised the question in that article whether in fact the church in America was more patriotic than Christian. He warned that the Supreme Court was beginning in a more fundamental way to undercut Not only biblical values, but the basis for law altogether He says in this article, let me quote just a couple of brief parts of it to help us to get a feel on this week as we celebrate our independence and think as Christians, what does this mean for us? He talks about a Supreme Court case. This was back in April of 1996, was recent at that point, Planned Parenthood versus Casey. He said in that case that the Supreme Court transformed abortion from an implied privacy right to an expressed liberty sweepingly interpreting it as the right to define one's own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life Did you know that you were guaranteed that right by the Constitution to define your own concept of existence, of meaning, of the universe, and of the mystery of human life? But if laws may not interfere with an individual's beliefs about existence and meaning, Colson says, then laws may not cover anything at all. Except for trivial procedural rules, all laws, tangentially at least, touch upon larger beliefs about right and wrong and the meaning of life Hence, Casey undercuts the basis for law altogether. Is it any wonder that Christians feel increasingly alienated? In the book The Naked Public Square, Richard Newhouse says that if laws do not reflect basic propositions about right and wrong, good and evil, they will be condemned as illegitimate. That's exactly what many Christians are coming to believe about the laws of the land that they love. He goes on to say later that Christians are becoming political outcasts within the United States. He says this was the clear message of another decision of the Supreme Court, Madsen vs. the Women's Health Center. Where the court created a 36-foot buffer zone around an abortion clinic designed to exclude pro-life protesters while leaving abortion supporters free to proclaim their message. Madsen exposed the court's blatant lawlessness, its abandoned equal justice under the law simply to silence pro-life activists, as Judge Scalia noted in dissent. The court apparently felt anti-abortion protesters must be taught a lesson, namely that their contribution to public discourse is illegitimate. He then compares our own possible future with that of the church in Nazi Germany in the 1930s. Where the state claimed the right to inform the church about its values. At that time, 139 Christians drew up and signed a document called the Barman Declaration in which they insisted that the state did not have the right to determine to the church what was right and what was wrong And that their conscience under the Word of God, freely held, must be their ultimate allegiance to Jesus Christ. Many of them pay dearly for taking that stand. One year later, April 28, 1997, just a couple of months ago. Chuck Colson has now proceeded to write an article called Can We Still Pledge Allegiance? In this article, Colson writes again about this issue, even more alarmingly. He gives an example of petty officer William Downes of the U. S. Naval Academy here in Annapolis, who refused to do his duties because he learned that the naval hospitals were performing abortions. He had no recourse to protest or to change it, and so he simply conducted an act of civil disobedience, not doing his duties. He was, of course, summarily discharged. Coulson says, is Downs now the model of the Christian in America in the future? Whose only public statement and activity is that of civil disobedience. Is this the model for the Christian in the future. Polson had called together with a number of people in November 1996, the month of the election A symposium on this question, and it was in fact titled The End of Democracy question mark He said he called that was a first things symposium. A number of people, a number of Christian leaders participated in that. out of a concern for the rash of Supreme Court decisions that were not only against Scripture, but that removed uh the ability, short-circuited the ability of the democratic process to even change law. Once the Supreme Court has spoken, there is no further court of appeal. Can't do anything. That's it And so he is saying that you have now removed moral issues from the legislative debate, and so there is now no recourse except that of Civil disobedience if a Christian's conscience is bound. He says he expects that having once determined that the court has now the right to social engineering through its statements of morality legislated through the final court of appeal, that there will be more and more radical social engineering that can be expected to follow not biblical values, but the values which are bankrupt of that, which will push us as Christians more and more into difficult conscience positions as to whether we can in fact comply with these laws. So he's saying, wake up, Christians, we've got to look at this issue now. Where are we going to draw the lines? He writes in this article that he was stunned by the reaction that he received. He's received severe criticism for raising this issue. And what he says in the article is, hey, we can agree to disagree, and we can debate this. Christians have debated it since the New Testament was written. But he says, what amazes me is that Christians seem to be uh uh incensed that I would even raise the question of civil disobedience of an American Christian. He says, guys, where is our ultimate allegiance? We've got to settle that basic issue before we can talk about the particulars. Now, this is a debate, as I say, that's gone on since the New Testament. It's nothing new. It was a debate that was especially heated during the Reformation. Martin Luther and John Calvin both reserved the right of rebellion only to civil magistrates. Do you know who took that radically further? There's a fellow in Scotland by the name of John Knox. John Knox wrote that it was not only the right, but the duty of every private individual Christian. To disobey the government when that government commanded sin to be practiced John Knox changed the history of Scotland. John Knox and Samuel Rutherford, who some years after him Wrote the book Lex Rex, radical book for its time, stating that the king, the government, the king is not the ultimate authority. The king is not the king, but ultimately the king is under the law which is king. God's law is absolute, not human government. And that book, of course, greatly influenced the American colonists in what led To Independence Day, the founding of the United States of America. Brothers and sisters, I submit to you this morning from Scripture that same question is before us right now. This question, you see it in your bulletin outline there, under what circumstances Is a Christian obligated to disobey the civil government established by God? Romans 13 is clear. All authorities, the governments, exist as they are established by God. But under what circumstances is a Christian obligated to disobey the civil government Which has been established by God. Titus 3. 8 tells us that we are basically to be good citizens. We should be seen by those in our culture as those who are peaceful and basically support the government. And are model citizens. 1 Peter 3:17, however, says that we must be willing to suffer When we do right, and the right is not countenanced by the authority. When then do we practice civil disobedience? Well, first of all, what is civil disobedience? Simple defense. dictionary definition of civil disobedience is public, nonviolent, conscientious act contrary to law done with the intent to bring about a change in the policies or laws of the government. Let me say that to you again. Civil disobedience is the public, nonviolent, conscientious act Contrary to law, done with the intent to bring about a change in the policies or the laws of a government. Another dictionary says generally practiced by a group rather than by individual. The Bible teaches that there are two circumstances under which this is to be done. And so let us look at Scripture to see these circumstances. First of all, Point one, when the government commands me to do what Scripture forbids, I am obligated to disobey. When the Scripture commands me to do what the Scripture forbids. For example, in Exodus chapter 1, when Pharaoh was alarmed by the increase of the Hebrews, and was concerned that uh the Hebrew nation, the slaves under him, would become so numerous and powerful that they could become a threat if they decided to rise up in rebellion, he commanded the Hebrew midwives that when they delivered the children, if If the chul child was a girl, fine, let her live. If the child was a little baby boy, that boy was to be killed. Simple law, the law of Egypt. The Hebrew midwives, of course, you recall from Scripture, Exodus chapter one. The Bible says, fearing God refused to comply with that law. They would not do it. They gave the excuse that, well, you know, these Hebrew women really deliver quick, you know, and by the time we get there, boy, kids out, and you know, we job's over and it's too late Whether Pharaoh bought that or not, he then gave another law which said anybody who sees a little baby boy that survived birth is to throw it in the Nile. It was an unjust law. It was a law which commanded sin. The Bible in Exodus 1 says that God blessed the Hebrew midwives. For their disobedience of that law and gave them families of their own. Specifically, states God's approval. It's not all too different from China today. If you're a Christian in China today, after you've had one child, you are forbidden to have any more. Any future pregnancies are to be aborted by law. If a child shows by an ultrasound any deformity, anything that is not seen as physically perfect, that child is to be aborted. That's the law. If you're a Christian in China, how do you respond to that? We need to pray for our brothers and sisters in China as they live under that law, which is not that different from Exodus chapter 1. How does a Christian respond in such a situation? Or you take another example in Daniel chapter 3, the familiar story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Do you remember they were commanded, everybody was commanded to bow before a golden idol. You know how big that golden idol was? The Bible tells us. It was ninety feet tall. That's taller, that's about sixty feet, I think, here. Say another half beyond the ministry center. Golden image. And you were to bow before that at the sound of the trumpet. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego said, the Bible forbids us to bow before any other God. You are commanding what the Scripture forbids we cannot do it. Do you remember their response in those immortal words of Daniel chapter 3, beginning in verse 16? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego replied to the king. Oh Nebuchadnezzar, we do not need to defend ourselves before you in this matter. They're talking to the king who can read pretty pretty bold words. If we are thrown. Into the blazing furnace. That was the punishment consequence by law if a person didn't bow, thrown into a fiery furnace. If we are thrown into the blazing furnace, the God we serve is able to save us from it. And He will rescue us from your hand, O King. Then these words. But even if he does not, we want you to know, O King, that we will not serve your gods or worship the image of gold. That you have set up. God forbids idolatry. He could rescue us. He may protect us Maybe he won't. But in either case, we refuse to comply with this law You remember the story how they were thrown into the blazing furnace. Nebuchadnezzar looked in and there was these three men walking around unharmed, and there was a fourth walking with them. The pre-incarnate Lord Jesus, their protector and their deliverer. God blessed their disobedience. Today, Christians are being pressed more and more not only to live lovingly with people who practice homosexuality and a gay lifestyle But we are being commanded to approve that lifestyle. Do you realize that before 1973 in this country, homosexuality was on the list? And the American Psychological Association of Psychological Disorders. 1973, with only a third of the people voting, and There was great pressure brought to take that off the list. 1997, the movement is to put homophobia, which is defined as any discomfort With homosexual practice as being put on the list of psychological disorders In just 24 years, the movement from homosexuality being a disorder to anyone who is uncomfortable with homosexuality being a disorder and more and more laws. That are being enforced, constructed and enforced to make sure that homosexuality is approved. If you don't believe that, these are two books This is an Orthodox Presbyterian pastor in San Francisco. He's been there since the seventies. He talks about what it's been like to live in that city and some of the activities their church has been involved. Church has been firebombed, his family has been firebombed, death threats. numerous occasions, not because they have not loved homosexual people. They have in fact been very active in ministering to AIDS patients. Very active. But simply because they cannot condone homosexuality as a practice, severe persecution of not only their church, but others in San Francisco. The issue of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, the issue of the Hebrew midwives, is not just something of historical interest. The same moral question comes before you and before me in laws that are being constructed here, Howard County, State of Maryland, as well as the United States Second way that you and I are called to civil disobedience as we celebrate our independence this week. To keep in mind is when the government forbids me to do what Scripture commands. Simply the reverse. In the first case, I'm obligated to disobey when Scripture forbids me to do. When the government commands me to do what the scripture forbids, or in the second case, when the government forbids me to do what the scripture commands. For example, in Daniel chapter 6, just a couple of chapters after Shadrach, Meshach, Shak, and Abednego, all you kids know this story, the one of Daniel, remember, in the lion's den. Daniel had certain political enemies who were out to get him, remove him from power. They couldn't do it by finding anything that they could disgrace him in, any kind of scandal, and so And they got Darius, the king, to make a law forbidding anyone to pray to anyone else except him for thirty days. Just a temporary injunction, no big deal. Daniel refused. He said the scripture commands us to pray to God. You can't forbid me to do that. That's wrong. And Daniel continued his practice of praying openly with his window open so anyone could see. Didn't hide it, didn't go underground. He did it openly. And he was arrested. He was brought before Darius, who was his friend. Darius wished that he could deliver him. He couldn't. And so he was thrown into the lion's den. And do you remember how once again God in that time of showing his greatness to his people, that he is the king not only of Israel but of all the earth. He's king as much in Babylon as he was in Jerusalem and in Israel. And he delivered Daniel from the lion's mouths. And when those who had conspired to do this were thrown into that pit, they were immediately consumed. God showed his power. And bless Daniel for his disobedience to the civil government. No question about it. You come then to the New Testament and the book of Acts, the text which I focused on. Peter and John have just healed a crippled beggar And they proclaimed Jesus while they were doing that. You remember in Acts chapter 4, the Sanhedrin called Peter and John in In order to warn and to threaten them, in Acts chapter 4 in verse 18 We read that they called them in again, and they commanded them not to speak or to teach at all in the name of Jesus. Well, of course, the words were still ringing in their ears how Jesus had commanded them to teach and to preach in his name. Make disciples of all the nations, teaching them all the things that I have commanded you. To how do they respond? They say, oh, well, so much for evangelism. It's now illegal. Can't do it. We can't disobey the government. We're good Christians. We're patriotic. We pledge allegiance He says we can't do it? Guess we can't do it, guys. Maybe we can write some tracks or something. You know, editorials or I don't know. Try something. Maybe we can get the logging. Remember their reply Verse 19. But Peter and John replied, Judge for yourselves whether it is right in God's sight to obey you rather than to obey God. For we cannot help speaking about what we have seen and heard. When a man or woman's life is transformed by Jesus Christ, you can't shut him up. We've seen Jesus. He died on the cross. He rose again from the dead. We can't help but speak the salvation that he brings. So there's more threats, verse 21. Christians today are intimidated very often, aren't we, in the public process of discourse We're called the religious right. We're called the radical right. People say, what right do you have to impose your values on the rest of us? Your values and beliefs, those are fine. Just keep them to yourselves. They have no place in a pluralistic society. Is that what we hear? As if everybody else's beliefs are fair game on the table of discourse except the Christian position, because it's based on something absolute. Many of us tend to back off, thinking, well, uh it's kinda pluralistic, you know, I guess if we're gonna live here we've got to all just kind of live and let live and nobody's value should prevail except the lowest common denominator, which gets lower and lower every year. They weren't intimidated. They continued to preach Jesus. In chapter 5, verse 18, they're arrested. And again they're released. I think that's a very interesting pattern if you look at chapter 5. They're thrown into prison, and then an angel comes And opens the door and they're released. I believe, I suspect, let me put it that way, I suspect that may be a pattern of something we will see more and more in the years ahead. That is increasing opposition and increasing wonders of God's deliverance. You see this pattern in church history and this evidence, I believe. I'm beginning to think I'm going to preach on the end times in 1999. And it's gonna the series will go into 2000. Thinking about that now. Anyway, there's there's some evidence, I think, that we're gonna see an escalation both of the power of the gospel and of worldwide evangelism, as well as of opposition. People say, which is it, one or the other? I think it's going to be both. And you see that right here. And so after they're released, they're preached Jesus again. They're brought in once again, chapter 5, verse 28. We read that the Sanhedrin says to this, it's kind of interesting. We gave you strict orders not to teach in this name. Didn't you hear us? What is with you guys? You're supposed to go back into your hole and shut up. And yet you fill Jerusalem with your teaching and are determined to make us guilty of this man's blood. And then the immortal words of Peter and the other apostles, verse 29 We must obey God. Rather than men. Is that the cry of our hearts? We must obey God rather than men. The Great Commission is not an option. It's a basic principle here. Where laws conflict with Scripture, we must obey God. If the government commands us to do what Scripture forbids, we must obey God. If the government forbids us to do what Scripture commands, we must obey God. Brothers and sisters, the application may be difficult, but the principle is clear. There is nothing very difficult to understand about that. Applying it in a particular situation may take sweat and prayer and tears and agonizing together But I think we need to see this right now before we get to the point where we say, what does this mean about this particular bill? But the principle is clear to us. And so William Tyndale was forbidden to put the scripture into the English language. He said, I cannot comply with that law. The Lord Jesus said, Take the gospel to all nations, teaching them to obey what I have said. They can't understand if it's not in their language. And so he continued to translate the scriptures into English. And in 1536, after having been hounded for years for that, William Tyndale was burned at the stake at 46 years of age. And today the exhibit of his books and translations and the ringing story of his life is traveling around the country, around the United States. We saw it in New York back in April. It's in this area sometime. If you ever get a chance to see that exhibit, it's very worth seeing. What's also interesting is the guest book where you sign in at whatever museum it's at, you can put comments. In New York City and Manhattan, almost all the comments were positive in respect and appreciation of what this man had done. You take John Knox. Forbidden to preach the gospel in Scotland. He refused to comply, and Scotland has never been the same since. Was transformed by the Gospel. And our own church and our own country was heir in many ways to the work of John Knox. Because the apostle said, we must obey God rather than men. Verse 30: the God of our fathers raised Jesus from the dead, whom you had killed by hanging him on a tree. God exalted him to his own right hand as prince and as savior that he might give repentance and forgiveness of sins to Israel. We are witnesses of these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. Is this the Jesus you serve, the King of the nations? The Lord of our conscience and of our lives, the one who has saved you and transformed you, has given the forgiveness that Sandy celebrated and we entered into in the beginning of this service. That's the Jesus we serve. He is Lord who commands our absolute allegiance. Let me then in conclusion ask you simply, briefly, four personal questions. Number one Do you draw any lines in your life where you refuse to compromise? Not just some big issue of the government. Is there anything I think of Lisa Kinney, the Southern Baptists, a couple weeks ago when they were debating this issue of whether to boycott Disney for some of its positions. Forget the boycott, but hear her words. She stood up at the mic, trembling, very nervous. They'd never spoken in a crowd like that before. Tremblingly she said, I met Mickey Mouse when I was a small child. Six years ago I met Jesus Christ and he changed my life. He not only saved me, but he calls me to a life of personal holiness according to his word. I will not visit the park. I will not buy the products. Do I think that my stand will change them? No, I do not. But I know that it has changed me. A boycott will prove to the world that we love Jesus more than we love entertainment. I'll tell you, that had an effect. When somebody's willing to say, here is a line I will not cross out of principle, not because of my own personal preferences, but out of obedience to Jesus Christ, whatever that line is in following Scripture. You grow as a disciple of Jesus Christ and He prepares you for the bigger issues ahead. Secondly, are you willing in principle to swear allegiance to Jesus Christ over the United States government in your life? Whose flag flies higher? The flag of Jesus or the flag of the United States government? Thirdly, what freedoms With what freedoms we still have. What are we doing to effect change? Where we still can do it? Are we using that? The political process, the writing to our legislators, many of whom are sympathetic to our positions. Needing task force within our own congregation to help us, we put things in the bulletin, sometimes to alert us to certain moral issues that we can take action on in writing. Using whatever efforts we can now. Are we involved in that? Rather than lamenting what we can't do. We still can do a lot. And finally, fourthly, how much do we pray for our leaders First Timothy chapter two commands us to pray for all those who are in authority. That that can make a difference, that God can change the history of the United States. Do you believe that you could make a difference? Just you? Let me conclude by telling in the 1930s in Germany there was a strong propaganda effort To desensitize people to ridding unwanted elements of society, the targeted for at that point gypsies, homosexuals, Jews, and the disabled They produced a number of films. They used economic arguments. They showed Hadamar, which was a facility for the mentally disabled. And they talked about how much it cost to keep these people. And over the following years, the first three groups were eliminated, uh begun to be eliminated, the Jews, the homosexuals. and the gypsies without protest. They were never able to eliminate the disabled because of one nurse at Hadamar. She documented the attempts to change Hadamar into a gas chamber. She reported them to her bishop. She publicized them. She put them in the press. She put them everywhere she could. And the Nazi government backed down. From that one Christian nurse. Can God use you? Can He use me? Let's pray. Lord, at this moment we want simply once again in our lives to swear allegiance to Jesus who has died and risen again for us. If there's anyone, Lord, who doesn't know that in their own lives personally, we pray that you would show them Jesus. Lord, for us who know you and serve you and love you, Lord, we pray that your flag would fly higher in our lives than the flag of the United States. We'd be willing to live out of convictions at the workplace in our lives on a daily basis. We'd be those who are willing to follow you, even when it costs, and it will cost. But we love you, Lord Jesus. We don't want to let you down in that. We want to honor you. We pray, Lord, for our nation that you will in fact bring awakening, renewal, and revival. And that you will change the course that we're taking. Because we believe that you can do that, that you would work in our leaders to do that, and you would raise up godly leaders to lead us in the direction that will honor Jesus. We ask this in Jesus' name together. Amen