We've been looking last time I was here, the weeks that I've been preaching, going through Ephesians chapter 4, looking at how we live out the new life. that we have in Jesus Christ. How to put off that old, filthy, sinful, selfish Sin nature and how to put on the new nature of life in Jesus Christ. We have seen that basic to this Is the fact that Christianity, the Christian life, is a relationship not living by a set of rules And we have seen, therefore, that after Paul says in Ephesians 4, verse 29, do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths. But only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen, he then says, Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God. That relationship, you see, you're in a new relationship with a person. Don't grieve the spirit who loves you, who is at work in you And that Spirit then, he goes on to bring the gospel in, is the one by whom you have been sealed for the day of redemption. The Spirit has sealed you. You are secure. Now, it's inevitable that after having been a couple of weeks in England you'll get a couple of England illustrations and you know nothing like travel to at least help you for illustrations One of the things I was impressed in, particularly in one of the castles we visited, there was there was a whole display of seals. Some were rings, some were like stamps, but there was this display uh going back for a couple of hundred years and in a number of the cases they had the wax imprints. So you could see here's the seal and that was the imprint that it made. And again, the point there was that this was that Duke or Earl or whoever it was, that was his authority. It placed his possession He sealed this because it was his. It belonged to him and conveyed his authority. And God is saying here that you and I have been sealed not with something external, but he has sealed us with what? Himself. God has placed Himself in our lives to secure us for all eternity. And therefore there's a tremendous sense of security in Ephesians 4. 30. You and I are secure when we will stand before Jesus Christ. However, a song that we have sung over the years, one of our praise songs, It's create in me a clean heart. And that song, you may remember, goes, Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away. from thy presence, O Lord. Take not thine Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and renew a right spirit within me. Now, why is it that if we are sealed and secure for all eternity, that we would ever sing a song that says, Cast me not away from thy presence, O Lord, and take not thine Holy Spirit from me. And you can't get away from that by saying, well, that's you know, that's a problem with praise songs. Well, this stuff today just isn't scriptural. Well, it's straight scripture. That is simply a paraphrase Pretty good one of Psalm 51, verses 10 to 12, which say, Create in me a pure heart, O God, and renew a steadfast spirit within me. Do not cast me from your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation and grant me a willing spirit to sustain me. That's scripture. That's David's prayer. That is still used in the Episcoparian liturgy. If you've ever been in an Episcoparian service, you'll know that frequently you recite that as the prayer of response of the congregation. We had the opportunity to worship at Westminster Abbey over the last couple of weeks, just one time. It was an even song service. And that was part of the liturgy. That is part. You know, here's fifteen people of us, you know, in this Hugh humongous thing, cathedral, uh this uh edifice, you know, you're looking at all this, beautiful, it's awesome. But this guy's just kind of rambling through this thing, you know praying reading this prayer for the joy of the spirit and everything else. You think if the spirit wanted to break through here, you'd have an awful lot of barriers to come crashing through to do it. But that was part of the prayer. So people all mumble, you know Take not your Holy Spirit from me, cast me not away from your presence. Well, should we ever pray that? Should that be stricken? It's scripture. What do you do with that? How do you square that with the idea of Ephesians 4 30 that we're sealed? For the day of redemption. Was David actually afraid of losing his salvation? Or was that just something that could happen in the old covenant? Can it happen under the new covenant? A number of questions you see that are raised by this, very practical questions. Because we live in a day where often the evangelical church simply says, if you've once made a decision For Jesus. Put up your hand, walk down the trail, sign a covenant, something like this. Then, once saved, always saved. Never have to question it again. But in Scripture we have this prayer, and what does it mean? You can't simply say, well, that's just not something for us to pray anymore unless you understand why that would be that a prayer in Scripture should no longer be prayed. So what I want to do is look at this. I want to look at it for some very personal and practical help as well as to square our understanding of Scripture and also to tell you why it is Next week, then we no longer sing this psalm. So hang in there. What I want to do is this week, I'm going to divide this psalm into two parts. This week I want to deal with the question of the spirit of service. Next week, I want to deal with the question of the spirit in salvation. So I won't deal with all the questions this morning, but I do want to deal with some that set the context and will be very practical, I hope, for all of us. Question of service. Question you see really is when David prayed, Psalm 51, 11, Do not cast me from your presence or take your Holy Spirit from me. What did he have in mind? Why did he pray this? In a word, what David had in mind was Saul. And you need to understand something about the history of Saul to make sense of that verse. You remember that Saul was Israel's first king. Toward the end of the days of the last judge of Israel, Samuel, the people of Israel demanded that Samuel institute a kingship. There was nothing wrong with seeking a king. A lot of people make that mistake. That was not a wrong request, but it was done for the wrong reason, and therefore displeased Samuel and the Lord. They were demanding a king to be like the other nations. They wanted a king to fight their battles, they wanted a king whom they could see rather than to trust the Lord whom they couldn't see. Therefore, God God told Samuel, grant their request, but I want to teach them something through it. So God gives to them a king after their own heart. The kind of king that they want. People tend to get the leaders that they want and deserve. Sometimes God's merciful and gives better ones. But in this case, God gave them what they wanted. When you think of Saul, think of an Arnold Schwarzenegger with a Hebrew accent. The Bible tells us that Saul was a head taller than anyone else around. You could always pick him out in the crowd. And he was built like Schwarzenegger. Uh he you know, he just had a different accent, that's the only thing. Very nice guy, you know, he was the kind of guy who, like Schwarzenegger, could be real tough, but he could also play with kids and have a good time God says to Samuel, go anoint this fellow to be king over Israel. And in 1 Samuel chapter 10, you read that Samuel took a flask of oil. And he poured it on Saul's head and he kissed him, and he says, Has not the Lord anointed you as leader over his inheritance? Now When he does this, verse 10 tells us that the Spirit of God came upon him in power. Samuel tells Saul, you're going to meet a group of prophets, and you will be changed. He doesn't say your heart will be changed He says, you will be made into a different person. People will think that's not Saul. He's different. Now, what he's going to do is he's going to fill him with the spirit of power to change his timidity. To a boldness, a fearlessness. And so the Bible says that the Spirit of God came upon Saul in power But other than praising God with the prophets, nothing else happens then. So he goes back to his work. Everybody goes home fine. Until this nasty guy, Nahash the Ammonite, comes against the town of Jabesh Gilead. And he comes around the town, storms the town, and says, We want to make a treaty with you guys. Basically, you're going to be our servants. And they say, okay, you know you're going to wipe us out so it looks like a better alternative. All right. We'll be your servants. They say, well, there's just one condition We're going to gouge out each of your right eyes. That's partly going to make it hard to fight, but it's also going to disgrace you before the nations. This guy wants to show his power. He wants to humiliate Israel. They say, well let me think about that for a minute. Um I'll tell you what. We'll ask some of our friends in Israel to help us, and if nobody helps us in a week, then we'll give ourselves to you to do whatever you want And Nahash thinks that'll even humiliate him more because he knows what Israel is like. Everybody's scrapping. Nobody comes to anybody else's defense. They can care less. The tribes are all squabbling. So he says, fine, go ahead. We'll wait around So they send messengers and they come to the different towns. They come to the town where Saul is. And they're telling the people, Whoa is us, could you come and help us and Jabesh Gilead, they're gonna put out our eyes, they're gonna enslave us. Could you guys please come and help us? And everybody's just wringing their hand, Oh, it's terrible, we really feel bad for you, I don't know what it can do, you know. Kind of tied up over the next week. And Saul comes back with his oxen. He walks back, and in 1 Samuel chapter 11, you read that when Saul heard their words, saying, you know, what are we going to do? were helpless. When Saul heard their words, the Spirit of God came upon him in power, and he burned with anger. He took a pair of oxen that he was just coming in from the fields and he cut them into pieces. And he sent the pieces by messenger throughout Israel proclaiming, This is what will be done to the oxen of anyone who does not follow Saul and Samuel. And then the terror of the Lord fell upon the people. I mean, can you imagine you're standing there, all of a sudden this guy takes the sword and he starts hacking all these oxen up, and you're standing with a blood of bunch of bloody oxen parts, and you say, I think this guy means business. So they all go running around and they say, Hey, we got somebody here that really I think he knows where he's going. Let's follow him. The terror of the Lord falls upon them, and it says that they all came as one man. Thousands and thousands. In fact it says that I uh believe it was three divisions, it was something like uh thirty thousand, three hundred, yeah, three hundred thousand of the men of Judah and 30,000, excuse me, 300,000 of Israel and 30,000 of Judah, all come and they march up to Jabesh Gilead and God gives them a great victory As they assault the Ammonites and they slaughter them for half a day, chasing them away. That's because the Spirit of God had come upon Saul in power. He equipped him, you see, for that service Now time goes on and Saul continues to have victories. There's one point where he is waiting to fight against the Philistines, and Samuel says, Now wait here. For seven days I will come seek the Lord's blessing, then we'll go into battle. And Saul waits, and all his men are getting really nervous. They're not very well armed as it is anyway. And the Philistines, it says, look like the sand of the seashore in the valley before them And they're getting kind of nervous and so there's a lot of desertion going on. And Saul's seeing his army, which is small anyway, compared to the Philistines, starting to melt away. Because he doesn't have this three hundred and thirty thousand anymore. All he's got is the army, not everybody. And Saul gets a little nervous. The seventh day comes, and he can't wait any longer. And so he offers the sacrifice and asks God's blessing. Chapter 13. Samuel comes just as he's finished And Saul tries to put the best face on it again. Well he says, you know, you weren't here, you know, you didn't come on time, and I had to seek the Lord's blessing, so I did what I could And Samuel says, You acted very foolishly. I told you to wait for me. I was here on the seventh day. And because you've acted foolishly and not in faith, you acted when you should have waited. You will not remain king in your dynasty. God will not establish your house to give you the kingdom. Now it's interesting. At that point, Saul could have heard him, he could have repented, he could have said, You're wrong, what did I do? And learned a lesson. But Saul's an activist. And so, okay, well, you know, I'm not going to argue about it now. We've got a battle to fight. Let's move on. And he doesn't examine his heart Two chapters later, he's fighting against the Ammonites. Excuse me, the Amalekites. In this case, when he should have acted, he didn't In the case of the Amalekites, God says, slaughter them. This is a prefiguring of the day of judgment against the sinful people. Wipe them all out. Take all of their goods, spare nothing, burn it, destroy it. The whole nation and all of its goods are to be a sacrifice to me. Saul goes in, but he can't quite bring himself to torch the BMW dealer. He can't quite bring himself to torch Neiman Marcus. And so he brings the rest of the stuff and he destroys 95% of it, but there's this little bit of the cream of the crop that he comes back and he saves for himself, including some of the Amalekites. Interesting, Saul winds up being killed by an Amalekite. Samuel comes to him and he says, Why do I hear the bleeding of sheep and the lowing of cattle? Everything's supposed to be dead. And Saul tries again to make a lame defense. And Samuel says, Saul, once again, you've blown it. To obey is better than sacrifice. Saul, you are now rejected from being king. And so Samuel is told to replace Saul with another king. And in chapter 16 He is told to come to the house of Jesse, where God would show him the man that would be after his own heart, in contrast to the people's choice. God now wants to show what the king should be like, a man who fears and loves him. Saul was filled with the Spirit in chapter 11. Like the judges were filled with the Spirit, like Othniel and Samson and Gideon and Jephthah, filled with the Spirit to deliver God's people. But now God raises up a king who's got character. And you read in chapter sixteen that when Samuel anoints David, in verse thirteen Samuel took the horn of oil and he anointed him in the presence of his brothers, and from that day on the Spirit of the Lord came upon David in power. Now the Spirit is upon David to serve him and to deliver God's people. And that's why in chapter 17, David is able to come against Goliath. in faith and power. Not because David was a great kid. Not because here's just this guy who's got faith and he is One who just trusts the Lord, now let's all be like David and trust God. Yes, that is an example, but there's much more to it. David is anointed by the Spirit of God to be the deliverer of God's people. Very interesting, however, when you read 1 Samuel chapter 16, verse 13, the Spirit came from that day on upon David. The very next verse, verse 17, now the spirit of the Lord had departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord tormented him. Strange verse. What does it mean? The Spirit now has gone from Saul in power as God's appointed king to deliver his people. And this evil spirit comes. Now you say an evil spirit from the Lord. The Hebrew could also mean an injurious spirit It doesn't mean a spirit that is evil, like a demonic spirit. It is referring rather to the emotions, a spirit of depression of anxiousness. It's the same kind of idea you have in Psalm 32. You know, and you look at Psalm 32 and David with his sin He describes himself in verse 3 and 4, when I kept silent about my sin, as Saul was doing, when I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my strength was sapped as in the heat of summer. That's the kind of spirit that's upon Saul. What does he do as a response? He brings in David to play the harp. Now he doesn't know that God's spirit is now upon David. But in God's providence, he's bringing David into the palace. To serve there. And David plays the harp and it lifts Saul's spirits. David saw what was going on. He was witnessing this firsthand, chapter 16, verse 23. Whenever the Spirit from God came upon Saul, that heavy, convicting, depressing spirit because he refuses to look at his sin, David would take his harp and play, and then relief would come to Saul. He'd feel better, and the evil spirit would leave him. Just like a person today that refuses, names the name of Jesus Christ, refuses to look at sin. And you can find relief in other things, temporary relief from your depression and your anxiety. You can find that in other diversions. And you say, well, see, it's not a spiritual issue. It doesn't mean that. Saul found relief through harp playing when the issue was ultimately a spiritual issue. In fact, it gets worse. Do you remember that after David kills Goliath The people begin to sing a refrain in chapter 18, verse 7. The dancers go out and they sang, Saul has slain his thousands, and David his tens of thousands. And Saul hears that. Here's a guy who was timid, who resisted being king, who said, Who, me, what? You know, I have nothing to offer. Very gentle fellow at the beginning. Now, verse 8: Saul is very angry. This kingship has gone to his head. The power has obsessed him. This refrain galled him. They've credited David with tens of thousands, he thought, but me only thousands. What more can he get but the kingdom? And from that time on Saul kept a jealous eye on David. The next day an evil spirit from God came forcefully upon Saul. He was prophesying in his house While David was playing the harp as he usually did, Saul had a spear in his hand, and he hurled it, saying to himself, I'll pin David to the wall. But David eluded him twice Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him. But David, with the excuse me. Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with David, but had left Saul Verse 14, in everything that David did, he had great success because the Lord was with him. You see that? Saul refuses to acknowledge his sin. He is set apart, set aside in service. And David sees this man becoming bitter, jealous, obsessed. And now David has been confronted by Nathan. And David looks at his own heart and he says, My God, how am I any different from Saul? I have the same heart as this man. I lusted after Bathsheba. I used my power as king to bring her into the palace and to have sex with her. I stole her from an honest man, Uriah. I tried to cover my sin. I lied. I deceived. I manipulated. I finally had her husband murdered when he wouldn't Comply with my attempts to cover my own sin by making it look as if the child with which Bathsheba was pregnant was his. I'm a hypocrite. I'm no better than Saul. And now do you see, having seen what happened in the life of Saul, why in Psalm 51, verse 11, David prays, Oh God. Do not cast me from your presence. Don't take your Holy Spirit from me. I know what that's like. I've seen that in the life of Saul. I've seen what can happen to a person who ignores their sin, who rationalizes, and refuses to humble themselves before you. How am I any different from Saul? Verse 3, he said, I know my transgressions. My sin is always before me. Against you and you only, God, have I sinned. And done what is evil in your sight, so that you are proved right when you speak, and justified when you judge. You could take your spirit from me, and you would be absolutely just and vindicated in doing that. Let me ask you, have you ever been in David's place? Have you ever been in a place in your own life where you realize that you have been playing with sin and rationalizing it, that your life has been slipping from Jesus? Do you ever come to a place where you realize that at some point in the past you had compromised your conscience? At some point you had violated your faith. At some point you pulled back when the Spirit was prompting you to trust Him and to move forward. You sinned. And then you tried to cover it because you didn't want to face it. That's really not the kind of person I am. I was just a slip. And so in refusing to face your heart, you have to continue to cover the sin. And instead of your heart becoming more tender, it becomes calloused. And as a result, you begin to live a double life. With Christians, you can sing and you can praise and you can say all the spiritual things. But then put you in the other circumstances at work where that temptation is confronting you. And you find yourself compromising truth or values. Or the non-Christian friends you've begun to hang around. And they lead you into things that you know you shouldn't be doing if you're naming the name of Jesus Christ. And you'd be as you're involved in those things, no one would guess that you're a Christian, that you stand as one who belongs to Jesus Christ. And you know what will happen? One of two things. Either you come to the place where you pray, Psalm 51, and with a broken heart you search yourself and you come before God. Or You will begin to become critical of Christians, critical of the church. Critical of the ministries of Jesus Christ. Christians are a bunch of hypocrites. Why? Because I'm refusing to face my own hypocrisy. Christianity really isn't what it's cracked up to be. And you become alienated from the Lord and alienated from his people. And you become more and more miserable as that evil spirit of conviction is heavy upon you. Either you will face that, or you will continue to rationalize and become utterly useless for Jesus There was a time when all you wanted to do was to be useful for him. From the time you woke up through the whole day, your thought was, Lord Jesus, you've died for me. You've forgiven my sins. How can I serve you? What can I do that will be of most use to you, that will please you? But no longer are such thoughts in your mind. Now it's to please yourself. And you don't even care that you're grieving the Spirit of God. You're going through the motions. Christian, wake up See what God's Spirit is saying to you through this song before it's too late, and you become a bitter, jealous, shriveled-up person like Saul. That God would speak to you now. If you don't, can you lose your salvation? I will deal with that question next week. And the answer may surprise you. But for this morning, all I want to do in conclusion is to point you to the same solution that David had at hand in Psalm 51. The hope that he had in that prayer of coming to Jesus Christ. You see, he begins. In verse 1, have mercy on me, O God, according to your unfailing love, according to your great compassion. Three things he says about God there. That he's merciful, that his love is unfailing, that he is great in his compassion. And David says, I look at what you are like, and I look at what I am like. And the contrast is staggering to me. But I am able to face my sin because I see your mercy and your love and your compassion. And so he confesses it. Verse 5, surely I was sinful at birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me Surely you desire truth in the inner parts. You want me to recognize and to acknowledge what I'm like and what I've been doing and how I've slipped away from you. Covering it doesn't do any good Even if you can find relief in amusements and distractions, they're temporary. Because if the Spirit of God is in your life, There will be a heaviness as you refuse to acknowledge sin that will not give you peace. You desire truth in the inner parts. You teach me wisdom in the inmost place. Then notice verse 7. He says, Cleanse me with hyssop. Now what was hyssop? Hyssop was a plant. And it was used kind of like a paintbrush during the Passover. You would dip this plant into the bowl of the blood of the Passover lamb and sprinkle that blood upon the doorpost of the house. It was the anticipation of the sacrificial system which he refers to in verse 19. Then there will be righteous sacrifices, whole burnt offerings to delight you, bulls will be offered on your altar. Blood is needed to cleanse my sin. And I come before you now and I plead that blood, the blood of the Passover lamb, the blood of the sin offering, the blood of the sacrifices for sin. That's my only hope. Not my proving to you that I'll do better. Not my turning around. Not my pretending that what I've done isn't despicable and shameful. My only hope is the sacrifice that you provide. And here we come back to David. Saul and David were both anointed with oil, and what did the oil come from? It came from a horn, a flask, a ram's or oxen horn. Because the horn was the symbol of the power of the animal. And when God's Spirit came, symbolized by that oil, it was depicting the power of the Spirit to come through that person for the deliverance of his people. And then you come to Luke chapter 1. You see, Saul had caused the people to realize that the king wasn't the answer. The king could fail. David comes and he is the man after God's heart and you say, He's the one, he's the deliverer. We can count on David. And David utterly lets you down. David is a sneaking, murderous adulterer. And so there's that impelling of Israel, God, what are we going to have the king that we can trust? And when John the Baptist is born, his father Zechariah pulls back from these stories in Luke chapter 1, and he says in verse 69 He now has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. Not David. But the one promised through David, as he said through his holy prophets long ago, salvation from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us, to show mercy to our fathers, to remember his holy covenant. The oath which he swore to our father Abraham to rescue us from the hand of our enemies and to enable us to serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all of our days. That's Jesus, the horn of your salvation, who seals you with his spirit. And when you grieve that spirit, he becomes heavy upon your heart. Until you recognize you will be useless in serving him, until you confess and acknowledge that sin. But if you do Jesus is here, ready to forgive, to restore, to fill you again with his spirit of delight and of salvation. That's why David says at the end of the Psalm, Restore to me, and I'll proclaim your ways to sinners, with a renewed heart and a passion for the gospel. What's God saying to you through this? Let's come before Him, honestly. Oh, Lord our God, I don't know what you're saying to each of us here. But Lord, I believe your spirit is working for some of us who have grown cold towards you. And some of us who have glibly assumed that that's okay, I'm still saved. And we are ignoring the heaviness of a grieved spirit working in our midst, the convicting work whereby our bones are aching. We find distractions but not delight. We find moments where we seem happy but lack joy. And oh God, whatever you're saying to each of us in each of our lives, show us now Jesus. Show us the one who is the horn of our salvation. Who is the incarnation of your mercy, your unfailing love, and your great compassion? That you would take his blood to sprinkle it upon our lives, to cleanse us To restore to us the joy of our salvation as we confess before you that sin that has separated us from you, those idols that have come between you and us.