Glad to be able to sing uninterrupted for a little bit this morning. I don't know about you, but I find that it takes a while to get your heart into worship like that. So uh let me remind you that next week we will be resuming the nine twenty period of worship and hope that uh a number of you will be able to take advantage of that as we We have some time uninterrupted of singing as we come to prepare for the more formal kind of worship beginning at 9 30. Last week, I mean last year, you may remember some of you that we had planned on a particular week to have Ebenezer Offel speak as part of our mission series. Had found he found out just before he was to speak that uh he had double booked himself and so he needed to cancel or maybe we should actually say postpone because he'll be speaking here next Lord's Day morning, Lord willing, if he finds he hasn't double booked himself again. But as a result of that, some of you remember I put together some thoughts um just kind of, you know, comparison for me at the last minute, to uh speak on partners in the gospel. And uh right after that I wrote a message Based on 2 Timothy 1, verses 8 to 12, in anticipation of the fact that this year the missions conference would be right after Easter. And in 2 Timothy 1, verses 8 to 12, you have a beautiful connection between the meaning of the resurrection and world mission. Well, I pulled that message out about a month ago to look at it and work on it again and was doing that and I put it away and the next day it disappeared I mean it just disappeared. Now I figure I must have lost it, unless perhaps the trash man had some urgent need for a missions message based on Second Timothy one verses eight to twelve or something. But somehow that thing has totally disappeared. And so this year again I found myself just before our time of the missions conference putting together some thoughts. uh kind of at the last minute. I'm beginning to think that the Lord does not want me to prepare for missions conference very long in advance. But there's a sense of uh expectation that I have in that because I believe that this message, which originally I had intended as kind of a workshop to be presented in the missions conference, God has intended for a message More directly from his word as a sermon, focusing more on Jesus Christ to be presented to all of you. And that kind of excites me because one of the things that's exciting about preaching is having the sense that you're cooperating with the Spirit of God who addresses his people through you. So I have a special sense this morning that God is addressing you through me And through his word, that he has something that he wants each of you to hear this morning, and he has that specially for you. The text is from Daniel chapter 7, verses 13 and 14. Now the context of that is a vision that Daniel had. It was given to him in the first year of Belshazzar. At that time, you may recall, things were going from bad to worse in Babylon. And Daniel received the vision of four beasts. And those four rather startling beasts, you remember, were in the series of first of all, a lion, and then a bear, and then a leopard, and then this uh rather scary ten horned monster. that uh pictures the uh Roman Empire, which boasts and destroys and crushes all in its path. The whole thing represents a death struggle between two major ultimate powers for lordship of the universe Really. I mean Eil and I are used to seeing on T V and videos and movies, you know, all kinds of weekly struggles for lordship of the universe, you know, whether it's masters of the universe or Transformers or Autobots or Superman or whatever it is. you know, uh James Bond, what you know, constantly we're seeing people who are vying for lordship of the universe. And that can dim our awareness that there really is a power struggle for lordship of the universe. And that power struggle is pictured in Daniel chapter 7. Let's pick up the picture of that in verse 9. Daniel says, as I looked, Thrones were set in place, and the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was as white as snow. The hair of his head was white like wool. His throne was flaming with fire, and its wheels were all ablaze. A river of fire was flowing, coming out from before him. Thousands upon thousands attended him. Ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court was seated, and the books were opened. Then I continued to watch Because of the boastful words the horn was speaking, and I kept looking until the beast was slain, and its body destroyed, and thrown into the blazing fire. The other beasts had been stripped of their authority, but were allowed to live for a period of time. In my vision at night I looked. And there before me was one like the Son of Man, coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the ancient of days and was led into his presence. He was given authority, glory, and sovereign power. All peoples, nations, and men of every language worshipped him His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away. And his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. Now, this is a rather awesome picture if you use your imagination to think about what's going on here. Picture of flaming throne. A flown which is a throne which is a blaze of glory, and so full of glory and power is this throne that you have a river of fire emanating from it Before this throne, there's 10,000 times 10,000 people standing. Calculate quickly, that's 100 million people standing before this throne. There you are. You have a place among that hundred million, and you're looking at all this display of power. The ancient of days versus the beast. The beast is destroyed and he's cast into this lake of blazing fire. Then you see one as a son of Man, coming with clouds. Now clouds in Scripture always picture the glory of God's presence. And so this one who's pictured as a son of man comes with the clouds, and he approaches this throne of the ancient of days. And standing before him, the Son of Man receives power, glory, and absolute authority. Now that implies that he has done something to earn this authority. It wasn't his before. He is given now a new authority, a new power, and a new glory There is a new kingdom that is being established. Something he has done has gained him this kingdom. That's the implication of this text. And that kingdom has two characteristics that are described to us by Daniel. First of all, it's a universal kingdom. You see there in verse 14 that this kingdom is composed of all peoples, all nations, and all languages. Representatives of all peoples, nations, and languages are among that hundred million, just a representative number, standing there before him. And this kingdom then has all people groups of the earth represented in it. The second characteristic of this kingdom is that it's an unending kingdom. You see again in verse 14, his dominion is an everlasting dominion. Now Daniel wants you to make sure you get the point, so he states it three times It's an everlasting dominion. It will never pass away. His kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. And what you see in the pattern here is three times three Three times, three different ways, the majesty of his power are stated. Three times in three different ways the universality of this worldwide kingdom is stated Three ways, three different times, you have the unendingness, the eternal the eternality, the everlastingness of this kingdom stated. It will never be destroyed. In Hebrew, the way you emphasize something is to repeat it. And so a threefold repetition speaks of the ultimate in whatever you're discussing. And so you have here a kingdom of ultimate power and authority in which all people are represented and it will never perish. Now, when you think about it, that's a rather unlikely promise to be given to a group of captives. Isn't it? I mean, you know, you think of the people who received this promise. It's a ragtag group of exiles who are captives under the Babylonian Empire. It's sort of like uh giving such a promise to the Palestinian refugees and saying, Out of you is going to come one who will rule all the world, and his rule will never end. You know, it's just not the kind of people to get that kind of promise. And so, somewhat over 500 years later, an angel comes to a virgin in Galilee. And that angel picks up on the language of the promise of Daniel 7, verses 13 and 14. And he says, Mary, you're blessed. And from what you is going to become going to come he who is called the Son of the Most High. And he picks up on the language of Daniel saying seven seven saying that he will have a kingdom That will never be destroyed. For the Lord will give to him the throne of his father David. And Jesus grows up and he demonstrates his power and his love. He's one who changes lives. He heals people of their sicknesses. He casts out demons. He forgives sin. He's able this morning to change your life. Whatever you bring to him, this Jesus is able to demonstrate his power in forgiving you and in giving you new life, which he can transform. Which he can make new and make your past to vanish in all of its guilt and bondage. This Jesus demonstrates his power. It is love in changing lives. And this Jesus, you remember, came toward the end of his life, the very last week of his life. And you remember He mentioned on one occasion there that the temple, which had been in construction for 46 years, was going to be destroyed and not one stone would be left on another. And now that temple was quite a glorious project. It took Solomon seven years to build the glorious temple of his day This one was in construction for 46 years at the time that Jesus stood with it with his disciples before him. And so the disciples say, Lord, when is this going to be? And do you remember Jesus gives a very unusual answer there? Once in a prophecy conference, I presented a paper in which I sought to demonstrate that what we call the Olivet Discourse in Matthew 24 and Mark 13. Is really a series of twelve signs of the times in which what Jesus is really doing is he is saying that each of these signs was in its essence fulfilled by 70 AD, the destruction of Jerusalem. But each of those signs continues to be fulfilled or filled up, the Greek idea has it, being filled up until he comes again. One of those twelve signs is that the gospel will be preached to all nations. And Matthew 24, 14 adds, and then the end will come. It's right after that that Jesus then describes his coming. Notice the language that he uses. Does it sound familiar? He says, at that time men will see the Son of Man. Coming in clouds with great power and glory, and he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds from the ends of the earth to the ends of the heavens. In fact, it was this language of Daniel 7, 13 and 14, that Jesus chose to use when the high priest asked him, Are you the Christ, the Son of the Blessed One? Do you remember how Jesus answered? And with his hands tied, a criminal standing before the Sanhedrin, as one who is mocked, as one who is stripped of his power And he says to the high priest, I am. And you will see the Son of Man sitting at the right hand of the mighty one and coming on the clouds of heaven. That's the language of Daniel 7, verses 13 and 14. That the Son of Man who appears before the ancient of days, coming on the clouds of heaven to receive the power of his kingdom. And remember that after that trial, Jesus was crucified in absolute helplessness. Absolute weakness. What a mockery to think that this is the king of the Jews, the one who is going to have the kingdom of absolute authority, power, and glory. All nations will have representatives before him. Every people group of the earth will have one among that vast crowd that no one can mount number. And they will all come and they will kneel before this one. And his kingdom will never end. And there he hangs on a cross. Why? Because his kingdom is a blood-bought kingdom. His kingdom is a kingdom of a new humanity that is purchased by his substitutionary sacrifice. taking the penalty of their sin, of all those who are part of this kingdom, by bearing the curse that they deserved. If you want to be part of that kingdom this morning, there is no other way to enter that kingdom but through the cross. But through acknowledging that you cannot stand before God on your own record. But that you need the work of Jesus Christ at the cross where he bore your sin and your guilt, and that you want to come into that kingdom through what Jesus did in what appeared to be helplessness. But in fact, it was the ultimate act of power in establishing his kingdom. And that was demonstrated three days later, as we talked about last week, when Jesus rose again from the dead. And in his rising from the dead, he established that kingdom. He showed that this was a kingdom of life that was defeating all the kingdoms of death of this world. That's why, fifty days later. You'll have a transformed Peter who stands before the day of Pentecost. And the Pentecost, remember, was the feast of the first fruits of the wheat harvest. Wheat was that precious, rich grain. And then that feast of the first fruits, Peter declares to a representation of all the nations gathered at Jerusalem. That this Jesus who has been raised from the dead, God has made to be both Lord and Christ. He's the Son of Man. Come with the clouds of heaven to establish his kingdom. And what happens that day? God demonstrates He's fulfilling Daniel 7. By bringing the first fruits of all the nations, coming in 3,000, profess Jesus Christ. This is the beginning of God fulfilling Daniel 7, 13 and 14. In fact, Daniel 7, 13, and 14 is the basis of the Great Commission that Jesus gives in Matthew 28, verses 18 to 20. For you remember there that Jesus states, All authority is given to me in heaven and earth. Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations. The authority that he's speaking of is that authority that was given to him as he ascended, as Psalm 2 says, This day you have become my son. Acts 13 quotes that, saying, that's referring to the resurrection. That's the kingdom, the new status, the new sonship that Jesus received when he defeated death and established his worldwide kingdom, coming on the clouds of heaven in glory. And so when you and I, beginning in Columbia, Howard County, in whatever place God places us, call people to Jesus Christ, we need not be defensive. You may feel defensive. I feel defensive sometime. We feel like, what are we doing? These people don't care what what we have to say. And we need to remind ourselves, brothers and sisters, we bring a summons from the king. We bring a summons from the mandate of the one who came on the clouds of heaven to say, This kingdom is being established. I call you to come and invite you to kneel at the feet of Jesus, have your life changed, your sins forgiven, and come into that kingdom. That's the basis when you and I come this week to share Jesus Christ with anyone. We need to do it with a sense of confidence that we represent the risen Jesus, not with a sense of weakness, helplessness, and defensiveness Believing that nobody wants to hear our message. Because God is establishing his kingdom. Now that's the beginning of the fulfillment. But where are we today in the completion of that fulfillment? God is doing some amazing things in fulfilling the promise given in Daniel 7, 13 and 14, in bringing all people groups, all nations, all languages to come to the feet of Jesus Christ. God is doing some astounding things in bringing representatives from every tribe, tongue, and nation. Remember Matthew 24, 14. Matthew's version of Luke's of Jesus, all of it discourse says, the gospel will be preached to all the nations, and then the end will come. Now, how is God doing that? Some 250 years ago, a man by the name of Isaac Watts wrote a great hymn which we often sing: Jesus shall reign where e'er the sun does his successive journeys run. His kingdom reign from shore to shore, till moons shall wax and wane no more. That was written in 1719 in England What's surprising about that hymn was that nobody had much of a mission's vision in England in 1719. But Isaac Watts was a man of faith. And he believed that what Daniel had written and what was given to us in Matthew and Luke and Acts, God was in fact intending to fulfill. And in the two hundred and fifty years since that, particularly in the last hundred years since that, more particularly in the last fifty years since that time, God has been doing some astounding things in bringing to fulfillment and completion the promise of Daniel seven. thirteen and fourteen. For instance, at this current time more than one and a half billion people Profess to be Christians in some broad sense of the term. Now we realize that most of that one and a half billion people probably do not have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. But at least they identify in some sense with Christianity. And there are representatives true believers of Jesus Christ in every single one of the 233 nations and territories on the face of the earth. In some cases we may only know of one or two, but in every country there are those who name the name of Jesus Christ as Savior. 200 years ago, less than 1% of the world's evangelical believers could be found outside of northern Europe or on the eastern seaboard of the North America. But in the last two centuries, the Christian mission has so spread in the non-Western world until now more than half of evangelical Christians live outside of Europe and North America. Christianity can no longer be said to be predominantly a Western religion. Christianity has now penetrated so far in the non-Western country. That the whole center of gravity of Christianity is now moving from the lands of the West to the rapidly growing nations of Africa, Latin America, and Asia. In fact, right now there are more evangelical believers in Africa than there are in all of Western Europe. God is doing some amazing things. Now take, for instance, Bible translation. The Bible has been translated, the last count that I had, into 293 languages. Spoken by 90% of the world's population. And Wycliffe and others are rapidly closing in on the final 10%. Take radio. Recently, the three largest international Christian radio organizations, FEBC, HCJB, and TWR, agreed on a plan of cooperation. To provide every man, woman, and child on earth the opportunity to turn on the radio and hear the gospel of Jesus Christ in a language that they can understand, that they may respond to the invitation of Jesus Christ to be as far as the first time. Follows. Take Christian movies. In nineteen eighty-five, the last new year for which I have statistics, every single evening, more than one million people Attended Christian or evangelistic movies. In fact, the number of people reached in some way by radio, TV, films, literature, and scripture distribution has increased markedly from 30 million per day in 1980. To $45 million per day in 1985. 150% in just five years. And brothers and sisters, it's accelerating. God is doing some amazing things. I said before that the center of gravity is shifting. From the West to other parts of the world, for where the center of gravity of the Church of Jesus Christ is By the year 2000, it's estimated that 60% of all professing Christians will be non-whites. Do you know that right now, one out of every four Koreans is a professing evangelical believer? The largest church in the world is not in America. It's not in North America. It's not even in the West. It's in Seoul Korea. Koreans are sending out missionaries by the hundreds. Our missionaries are pulling out of Korea. The only missionary that is left from America, from our church, who is a Korean, spends all his time training Korean missionaries to go to other parts of the world. Singapore. Half the university students in Singapore are professed evangelical believers in Jesus Christ. Singapore has sent out 384 missionaries to other parts of the world. It's estimated that since communist China sought to eradicate the Church of Jesus Christ. That the Church of Jesus Christ was more helped by the purge than anything else they ever did. Currently, it's estimated that there may be 50 million believers in Red China. And God is doing an amazing, explosive work there. In fact, so much has been happening in the fulfillment of Daniel 7:13 and 14. That missiologists such as Ralph Winter have recently begun to pose a new question. And it's the question: can the world be evangelized by the year 2000? Now let me remind you that the year 2000 is only 12 years away. We don't have very much time. Why is that question now being put before us? Well, it's because of a new way of thinking of missions that has recently emerged that every one of us as thinking believers need to be aware of. It's a new way of thinking about reaching the world for Jesus Christ. Now, this new way of thinking probably can be best illustrated By uh by thinking of an illustration that Ralph Winter often uses to try and describe this. It's a way of thinking not in terms of the numbers of people That a dam breaks 20 miles upstream from your hometown of 10,000 people. And so you've got a wall 50 foot high of water that's rushing down the valley. You've got 30 minutes to warn those 10,000 people in your hometown to clamber up the slopes to safety. How are you going to do it? Well, you've got a number of options You could drive through the town screaming at the top of your lungs and blowing your horn saying, Get out of here, get out of here, the dam burst, you know. Or you could run up and down the streets knocking on doorbells, or you could call all of your friends and tell each of your friends to call another friend and then you'd have to organize which friends they're going to call so they're not all calling the same friends. How would you reach these 10,000 people in 30 minutes so that they can go to safety? Well it occurs to you that it's two o'clock in the afternoon and there's three schools in town And all the kids are in school. So you call the three schools. They send all the kids home who can run home in five minutes. Now you've covered all the homes that have kids in them that are in schools. They fan out to their neighborhoods There's four factories in the town, so you call the four factories. That sends all the factory workers home to cloud to communicate to their families in their neighborhoods There's a radio station that broadcasts in your town. You call the radio station. What are you doing? You're penetrating key communication groups to reach their subgroups of your town. That's the new thinking about missions. You see, Daniel 7, 13 and 14 says, all peoples, not all people, all peoples, nations, and tongues will bow before Jesus. And the new strategy of missions is to think in terms of people groups. People groups are kind of a vague term, you can't precisely define it, but it's a group of people that are homogeneous for some reason. Linguistically, culturally, ethnically, uh, could be hobbies, all kinds of things, whatever it is that forms these people into a unit, a unit of communication and shared values is a people group. Now it turns out that by rough estimates, and here we speak just in terms of rough things, just so you get the idea, and so take a look at the back of your bullet, and I'm not going to go through this in any detail. I just want you to get the drift of the thought of this. You see on the back of the bulletin that there are about, it's estimated, 24,000 people groups in the world Now, the bad news is that these 24,000 people groups, 7,000 of them had been reached for Jesus Christ. Reached means that in that people group there is a vital active witnessing church of Jesus Christ established That can reach and communicate to its people group the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. 7,000 out of 24,000. And so that means that there are 17,000 of the twenty four thousand that are unreached, that have no vital church within their midst. He's saying, wait a minute. You're telling me it's taken us nearly two thousand years to reach seven thousand people's groups and we're going to reach the other seventeen thousand in twelve years. Well, it's because of the way that we're thinking. You see, if you look at that, you find that that's not the whole story. First of all, part of the good news Is that the seventeen thousand represent only about half of the world's population? So you see those two circles are about the same size, indicating that about half the world's population has a vital witnessing church within its people group. The other half do not. But now of those seventeen thousand, you see the little l uh paragraphs above it, the P two, the P two point five, the P three, don't worry about the numbers, we're not going into that But what that's telling you is that that first largest circle in there represents non-Christians who are in a people group without a church, but who are culturally similar to another people group having a church. That would be like an American go-to Spain. Speaks a different language, but a lot of shared values. Language base is somewhat similar, not very hard to learn, a lot of those kind of things. 2. 5 says these are non-Christians to whom the culturally nearest church is in a quite different people group. That would be like an Anglo-American going to Russia, where very different language, a lot harder to learn, but there's still a number of shared values and Western culture that you have in common. P3 is saying, here's non-Christians to whom the culturally nearest church is in a totally different people group. That would be like an Anglo-American going to a Zulu tribe in Africa or some great some group of people where there are totally different language, totally different values, and all the rest of that. Now notice The good news is see how small that total black line is. Of all the peoples yet to reach, those that are in totally different groups are relatively small proportion of the world. The rest are not as difficult to reach if, in fact, all you do is penetrate to a people group in them from someone who is culturally similar to them. And so the new strategy is to establish teams within people groups who can then transfer from those to similar people groups the good news of Jesus Christ and establish churches. Transference. Among similar cultures. Now you see, the church is mobilizing and gathering its forces to do this like it has never done before God is doing a work in fulfilling Daniel 7 like we have never seen in 2,000 years. In fact, you see all around us a new sense. Sadly, often not as much in the United States as in other countries, a new sense of fulfilling This sense of the Great Commission that is establishing representatives in every people group within the world that would be the fulfillment of Daniel's seven, thirteen, and fourteen within perhaps even the next twelve years. Perhaps that won't happen. But at least it's something that we can move toward. Now before you think that that's totally unreasonable You ought to realize that for every unreached people group, as many as there are, there are a hundred and fifty congregations. In the United States. If one out of every 150 congregations in the next 12 years raised up a team of missionaries to reach one unreached people group, the job could be done. Is that impossible? All it lacks is the vision and the will. And sadly, America that has far more resources Often lacks much more of the vision and the will than many of our other brothers and sisters in other countries who have many far fewer resources, but much more of the vision and of the will. And so, what we're calling people to do, and what you're going to hear about in these next weeks, is the amazing thing that God is doing both in our culture as well as throughout the world. That we might have a new vision of what God is doing and how we are a part of it. And this is what can change our values. This is what calls us to live as many missiologists like Ralph Winter and those from the U. Center are calling us to live what they call a wartime lifestyle. A wartime lifestyle, you see, is simply saying that I will forgo certain pleasures and privileges and things that I could enjoy, not because there's anything wrong with them, but simply because I realize there's a war on. And just for now I want to forgo those things so that we'll win the war. Then after that we can relax and we can enjoy the fruits of victory. But right now, as World War Two that most of you don't remember and I was born during it, so don't think that I remember it. But during that time I remember hearing my parents talk about the things that they went without just for now for the war effort We call us to a wartime lifestyle when we realize that we have just 82 days left to come up with $109,000 to obtain the Lewis property. That's over $1,300 per day that we need for that property. Now we, many of us, will be forgoing certain pleasures, certain things that we could do with our money just for now sacrificial giving in order to obtain a vision, a goal, something that we have in mind that we believe that is the will of Jesus Christ and we want to see God use us to do that In a bigger picture, we're simply saying that we have an opportunity before us now to see the fulfillment of Daniel 7, 13 and 14. If we become serious about the opportunities that are before us, that's why the Caleb Project is here with us today. Those five people you reheard referred to earlier. Just put up your hands if any of you are here now. So you see there's uh still one, a couple you a couple more up there in the balcony there. Get to meet them afterwards. They're here to share that vision of giving my life to something greater than what I can obtain in this world in order to see Daniel 7, 13 and 14 fulfilled in my lifetime. Perhaps even within the next twelve or fifteen or twenty years. That's why we will be spending the next three weeks to help us to see what we are part of. What God is doing in our day in fulfilling Daniel seven, thirteen and fourteen, so that at the feet of Jesus The Jesus that we love, who's changed us, transformed us, people from every people group, nation, and language will bow. So that God will receive the glory from all that He's done, and Jesus' kingdom that's been established will never end. Last week we talked about the fact that we have read the last chapter of the book. We've heard the end of the symphony. We know how it turns out. God wins. Jesus wins His kingdom is established. We know how it'll turn out. The question is, how much will we be involved in that victory? We have the opportunity to think bigger and to see what God is doing and what he's calling us to be part of. This is the God that you serve As you go out this week, whatever he calls you to do, wherever you are. Amen? Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we pray, give to us the vision to see what it is that you are doing in our day in fulfilling Daniel 7. As we, Lord, could think of the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven, having received the authority and the sovereignty. Power, that every nation, people group on earth, bow before him. Oh Lord, help us to see what you're doing and how we are a part of that great and Exciting work. Open our eyes, Lord. Open our eyes even this week that we will realize that we're part of that worldwide kingdom. In Jesus' name. Amen.