And I think that has changed in the last ten years. Mm-hmm. at Redeemer Montclair, things that you have done to reach the non churched in the area and also just being the church within the neighborhood in which you're located. We want you to come, we want to serve you, we want to get we want you to get to know who we are, and we want to get to know who you who you are. Yet it was a direct ministry of our church. Mm-hmm. and calling me, but I wouldn't say at that point that I knew that, although I was sort of preparing that direction. Sure. Um I think everybody's comfortable that we're opposed to same sex marriage. And would bless us and make this next hour something that is useful and something that glorifies you. is that he and Dina Pennington went to the same elementary school at the same time. I don't know. And I've wanted to share the pulpit with him more, um, but but he doesn't want it as much as I want him to preach, perhaps. through different parts of Manhattan and each one will have its own site pastor and then they will build their team. Um not blindly, but based on the recommendation of someone else. and and reshape some ministries, do some serious evaluation from top to bottom, bottom to top. And so we were um I I was sensing, is it time to go? which is quite grueling and so forth. And he said, That doesn't matter to me. Um, but my my art is going to be prepared and there. And he came right over with all of our Mohawks and everything else and he sat down right next to us and said hey to us every Sunday. Yes. There you go. So if God is pleased to call us here, it will be until he calls us to somewhere else. I love it. So I want to be careful about how and I'm not saying you're suggesting this, but I I I mean you're more diverse than you think. If that's the fastest growing population in our body, then we that ought to be represented in our leadership. He's Korean. to so that people as they come they can say, I wait a second, that that that elder is Indian. Once it came into January and it was leading up to the time where Kate and I and Caroline were coming for our first visit, I then let um almost yeah except for the exception of two elders, so I I added another two elders onto that mix. and my assistant pastor um spoke with the transition team so you know they were able to ask them what life is like with me as a pastor and they still wanted to talk to me. of thing because elders will stab you in the back. Any insights you have? and we put on concerts we've done Easter egg hunts uh in the community that has proven to be a great way to get our name out there. So there was from my junior year on there was no doubt that that's what God was calling me to do, even though I tried to figure out is there anything else on the planet that I can do? uh perhaps own I've thought about going into business for myself with a partner to open up a cafe in downtown Wheaton before there was a Starbucks. The hospitality, the warmth that you've shown, the hunger for the gospel, the desire to reach this community for Christ, that's what excites me. Um I gotta say Dan Halley, uh Robbie Pennington and Tim Flora have been um such an awkward thing. And then open it up to questions, and I have a few questions in my mind if everyone is shy and unwilling to ask. And he was at Wheaton College at the same time as the Vandenhoovels. Eric, my assistant pastor, uh came to us directly out of seminary, but he's been with us for three years. And that is, um, Tim is going to be stepping back from preaching uh a majority of the time. sent the information by Norma Walgrove. Some of you have heard of a preacher, Tim Keller. And who is built on the strength of his preaching and teaching, it's very hard for the church to grow out of that understanding. experience. So we were praying that God would make it clear to us are we to continue on at Redeemer Montclair for the foreseeable future. What do we do with this thing because we had not heard of Columbia Presbyterian Church? No. Um you went there to plant a church. and I became interim pastor, but we knew just prior to going into that interim period that God was I mean, we knew before coming to EPC or to that church that that I wanted to be a church planter, a solo pastor, and um so we investigated church planting, we went through the PCA's church planting assessment process Uh we were engaged in Washington, D C on the banks of the Potomac River, uh overlooking the river and So we traveled in November of 2000 to interview, and they extended a call to us in January of 2001. I was tired of the situation at school. I'd become the very thing that was n I w the music I was listening to, the clothes I was wearing, um, just made no sense for who I was. I mean my my my parents were like southern culture Christian Baptist kind of thing, but we didn't go to church. I went to church and then they invited me to a youth retreat. George, may I pick on you? Um, and here's what I learned. And I got my first skateboard at four. M many of the church planners I know don't trust sessions and they try to wait as long as possible before they get a group of elders and I couldn't wait to get elders. I went down, I got to the end, and I screamed at the top of my lungs. in terms of the equipment. are the most heart the hearts that are most open in many ways in the entire church. But the community is not to be exclusive. That's how I grew in the faith. Uh that means being un uncomfortable and sharing your own weaknesses and struggles. No matter the size of the church, it becomes more of a challenge because you have more people. uh and then the other two um were going through serious upheaval in terms of particular circumstances, it would have been a really bad time to say And then I would spend the next month two, well, in March, April, May, and spend the next eight to ten weeks helping them transition into the next phase of what's coming for them. We want to hear from you. Sort of like an open house but sort of like um a picnic day where we had, you know, lots of events and different things going on and we just we said So what we've done is we've done um we've done now two uh picnics on our property. that we love music, that we see it as a gift from God, and we just open up a free concert with professional musicians that we have that are in our body, that are connected with our church. been a part of one of these. that to be in ministry? So I looked at Westminster, RTS, and Covenant Seminary, and there was no doubt in my mind that Covenant Seminary was where God wanted me to be. Institute, those were the two men and the reasons why I went to Covenant Seminary. Um Brian Chappell, who's now the president of the seminary, was the was the primary uh instructor for preaching, and Jerem Barrys, who was the head of the Francis Schaefer Institute. that maybe this is a season in which it's not the time to be we tried prayer ministry, right? for them too. man of integrity, uh Pastor Harris is. of Christ. Uh my name's Sue Claremont and something that's burning in my heart is a desire to see Christians engaged in the culture and not just the people that are in our our neighborhood, but engaging the political system too. And then make phone calls. Right. people to pray about this, but also to contact Sue to get the names of people that they could call But I'm just speaking my heart. So there are things that um I would say that we ought to be doing as individual Christians, but I I So that we can better understand what your will might be for the future of our church and for the leadership of our church. and haven't sung that song that we've been singing for twenty years. and was there at the same time as Corey Twitt's brother, Kevin Twitt. So that's a pretty brief sketch. question. But we're constantly bouncing things off of one another. But after twenty years, twenty almost twenty-two years of ministry, this year they're getting ready to go to the largest change that they've had in twenty years. Everybody needs to know that Randy did not seek us out. Um and we're looking at those possibilities. Or is this internal wrestling evidence that you may be calling us somewhere else? Um my wife is from the Midwest. uh where for the first three years um I was serving under a senior pastor who then resigned to become an associate pastor in a much larger church specifically Montclair, New Jersey and uh a place in Greenville, South Carolina. Um so we then got a call the very next that act yeah the very next day um Redeemer called and said would you consider taking a church plant in Montclair, New Jersey? This is what it's like. We moved in May of 2001, and we had our first worship service this Sunday after 9-11. So we started with eleven families and it's like laying track before a moving train. through many trials and challenges, none n not the least of which was nine eleven itself. So I just simply went to church retreats to break all the rules to take advantage. Um God brought me to the end of myself. And I and I was just very unhappy and so I happened to be spending the night with a friend and he invited me to church, the church that had kicked me out and and they had hired a new new youth guy in that intervening year. And I went to the youth group I went to the Sunday school and I'll never forget, those of you who teach Sunday school, remember this story. sought me out, ran down the hallway and said, Randy, would you please come back? That did not expect me to be m Mr. And and so they just I said, Can you read that again? And if you and what I've learned about George, this is exactly the kind of thing George would do. This is something different. But uh snowboarding has sort of you know, I want to yeah, I love snowboarding. Uh and I was age thirty five, so it was great. at the urging of one of our members, did some study about diversity in the kingdom of God. And uh that is living out the gospel in the community where we are, but also saying to those who are coming to us, we ought to seek to raise up those of different backgrounds and different cultures. I think our gospel, I think the gospel does call us, it deconstructs our identity in our culture, whatever that might be, and reconstructs us with a gospel identity. So it's not that we I I I don't think we should be building for diversity for diversity's sake. if all we're doing is uh communicating and relating and uh translating the gospel in a way that only makes sense to one sliver of the community, then yes, we will miss we will miss out. Springboarding off of that, and then your comments about transferring our church to our youth in 30 years. situations, but particularly with youth, it is just spending and investing time in a life on life That's what we did. challenging me, pressing me in areas of obedience and so forth, but he met me where I was. Right. you know, almost weekly, um, one of them for ten years. By the way, um so after that weekend I sat both of them down. I've asked that the session prepare an announcement that would immediately follow mine at a congregational meeting and that they would give their one hundred percent support, how it came about, how they've been praying through it, how they see the hand of God in it. Um and what I'm finding is that this is very hard to do while you're pastoring. all the construction and everything. So an example of that is it's just been snowing like nuts in Metro New York. where we just provide a certain kind of music. um came to talk about recovering the idea of Christian call that I knew after his third or s second or third talk that I s I always I sense that's got what God was calling me to do And um I was still engaged in ministry while at Wheaton and so I just asked God to confirm that call and I went back to my dorm room and prayed and that was when that spring I started looking at seminaries. in an old bike shop. it what would not have satisfied my calling in my soul, which was to preach the word. What do you do? Uh my wife and I have experienced this. become passions, and those passions become fiefdoms. And I'm I mean and so sometimes it's it's time to say we need to retool, we need to reshape it, we need to rethink it, and it's not a personal judgment on you as a leader. Elders that I've brought from the very beginning have become elders. uh in opening up themselves to let me ask questions, them asking me the questions that I would ask someone, were I in their shoes. d are just a stitch. And I see that as a direct blessing of what God has done through Pastor Harris' ministry and the pastoral team here and the elders here. Now I forget where they've been moved. That is within your providence, within your sovereign will, that is part of your sovereign grace and an expression of your preserving love. I I see it as a great opportunity and that's what's that's what's drawn me. But I don't believe the church as an institution, um, or me as a pastor, is going to be calling a representative and saying who i who loves Jesus and and has particular views, I ought to exercise those views. So so I need to piggyback on that because we did send we did send an announcement out asking people to pray about this bill it it it you can get burned very quickly, but um this has come up as an issue in my own community and I said I said I will talk to a reporter off the record on certain things. But I should be involved, and I should be involved with prayer efforts. When uh Rick led us through some questions and then we tried to open it up. Um for many of you who were not here when Randy was here before or who don't know anything about him, that I would give you a brief sketch of his biography. Trust me, I spent a little time sleeplessly thinking about that. way to put it, I reckon but team leader, um let me say that uh what CPC is seeking to do Uh the reason the the reasons are are a lot of reasons, but whether was I looking to do it, the question for me was that's what I was looking to establish anyway in Montclair. to lead them through this transition, this this next phase. was feeling that I was sensing that and so January of 2010 I was talking about this with Kate and Kate wisely said to me well then we need to pray the mall. But God closed that door. And uh so yeah, that's sort of who we are. how why you're here right now and your love of church planning and things like that. Sure. Amen, brother. our congregation is not as diverse as our community. But also to be a Christian. Uh and it was more of a knowledge sharing uh type of a thing where you know, what is discipleship, you know, what does it look like? told um my two of my ruling elders, two two of them that I'm the closest with, um, who uh who I've met with Uh he understood that. wanted to take a look at the you know sort of the explanation of what it was. And so we didn't spend a vast amount of our time discussing that, but towards the end we discussed that and I needed to know one thing. Please, please be careful where you park and we put out cones and we try to do whatever we can to respect and honor our neighbors Um and 'cause I someone had told me, try to figure out if there's anything else you can do. being a um I mean it's lucrative. people s had other things going on, their kids were growing up and peop the interest in the leadership was so you know what it did? Well yeah. So the question I wanted to ask is could you hope I didn't step on your toes there, but I'm I'm speaking for Redeemer Montclair. And I'm wondering what your position is on Christian activism. And given an opportunity to have an influence where God places them. And I think we ought to, first thing is we ought to be as the church asking the question: how ought we to be thinking about these issues? And Sue, I don't think anybody's had a chance to call you, but what we had decided we would do is once again in the next couple of days send a prayer request asking people inclined and we're going to I hope be sending Sue's email address out to you if you want to get the name of the people that you should call. To hear your word preached, to hear the gospel, to hear of your preserving love. We thank you now for this time that we have to be together as your people so that we can learn more from Randy, learn more about him and his family. So the first thing that we need to acknowledge is that we're stunned. And he is married to Kate, and they have a daughter, Caroline, who turned 10 a week ago. My my role with him was to mentor him through the cutting his teeth in ministry with the purpose of sharing ministry. I can get excited about this. in its longevity is is challenged when I think if it is only accustomed to primarily one voice, and when that voice is particularly a good preacher is in a great sort of position in the sense that two years ago we were able to buy our first building buildings and uh after being in a rental situation for eight years So ironically, uh we were in Kansas City and I was meeting with the chairman of a search team search committee uh last August uh when the phone call came in from Norma Um and so or how in the world they would find me. Uh the what I had been exposed to was uh extremely legalistic. skipped all the meetings and they asked me not to come back. Or um That's what we called it in the eighties. Um you only have so many moves in you. How will you be involved in the youth ministry? Uh I I've been known to hang out and go by the skate shop in town and I just drool. I have had the opportunity and love the opportunity over the last ten years to speak at youth conferences, and so that's important to me. The building you're building right now will be empty in 30 years. We um we bought a church that was over ninety years old, and the only people who were attending were fifteen very elderly people. Is there water? So our Hispanic population is a hundred and forty percent from what it was ten years ago. It looks like in God's grace he's bringing the world to our doorstep. theology and thinking about the role of diversity in the kingdom of God. That's our experience. The gospel is there are exclusive claims of the gospel. And because we are called to preach the gospel to the nations. Some for quite a while last year, Pete Floyd was chairing a series of discussions uh with uh leaders in the youth ministries on on how do we disciple our youth. We have to show them. teaching them what does it mean to follow Christ and to work as a professional? How did you tell them? But we completely and one hundred percent uh back you regardless of whether you go or you stay. After our after our visit in January, um I shared with my elder uh who I'm closest with. So we had an elder retreat two weeks ago. If this goes forward, then we would announce to our congregation uh what has happened. So uh the month of June, Caroline gets out of school. We learned with the expansion of the facility, we learned about some of the perceptions that our neighbors had of us as a church. We had a just a s just that street. Yeah, we and and we've done we've done a number of open forums uh at our church and open forum is where in our case we've done a lot of mus we've done musical open forums over the years. But it was not until my junior year at at uh Wheaton College where uh someone uh Alistair uh McGrath The church ought to be, sometimes, because we have the grace and the gospel of Christ, we ought to be the hotbed for creativity. Sometimes you just keep things there because that's what we ought to be doing. But I can't I went back and I've said to Kate, I I've I said I I can't explain it, but all I can tell you is everything we have at Redeemer Montclair is fabulous Okay, so let's close with prayer real fast. Well we're a little after 1230 and that's when we were gonna try to wrap up. uh bill that allows gay marriage in the state of Maryland. to this church or to my church to be about something that we are against. But we do hope that you'll all feel free to ask questions. Sort of remarkable to think that we heard a sermon about the how high and how wide and how deep and how long is the love of Christ. Which you may think. We've been able to lead through that entire process, and they are stable financially, they're stable in terms of the building. So things cannot go on though as they have been. And uh it allows me to be i I love the flexibility of planting a church. Right. Sure. I want to find a long-term home for ministry, or are you looking at this kind of as I'll try this and see where it goes and then see where I go next? It's God's calling. That's a compli let me get to the skating question first. But what was your your first question was my involvement in the youth ministry. But the fastest growing population in our church was Pan-Asian, Korean, Chinese, Taiwanese. And uh and and he and then I went to serve with him. I was to come here in December as a part of it was there were I think three candidates at that time. He said he gave us some very wise advice because we've been wrestling with this and discerning God's call, counting the cost. And um so I've already gotten texts and emails this weekend letting us know that they're praying for us. But they know and and and I my office looks out onto the street and so as I as we were going through the painting and the people are not always respectful of other people's driveways. We've served in concert with other churches, some evangelical, some not, with other synagogues seeking to meet the physical needs of the community. But somehow that that is forgotten. That's discouraging. Close us with prayer after I hear what Pastor Harris has to say. And our church has sent out a message, please pray. On on behalf of Columbia Presbyterian Church, we think you should not allow uh gay marriage in the state of Maryland. is um being done by an uh a a select few of churches in the United States. Were we feeling an inward wrestling with what God might be doing? And uh what I can't do. In which I was kicked out of the youth group a year before that. We were there and we stayed and have stayed there because of the certainty of God's calling. I still think, and I if you are a student, I mean no disrespect, but I I actually believe that those who are students are the most impressionable hearts. Not to my surprise, in in our local paper this week, there are statistics about the growth and diversity of the school system in Howard County And diversity is cultural and n and also language. How do you see it implemented in CPC? So I said, oh p by the way, um this kind of thing is happening. But how do you approach a church ministry that is dying? And yet I've come back and I said, But why is my heart drawn to this people? Well thank you. We know that you work all things for good so we can look to the past confident in your will. Because we do believe that individual Christians should be expressing their views to their representatives and to the um state senators and the House of Delegates. And preached and preached and preached. Um we were praying. That's a long answer. as well as uh a youth ministry in Tampa Bay, Florida during the summers. Let me welcome everyone and thank you for sticking around so that we can have this question and answer time. But um I'll let you know. I think I know your question. And so I saw what they're going through, what they're seeking to do, what others were doing, and it just makes a lot of sense to me. I learned from that mistake. And why is that? So, first of all, we enjoy diversity. Folks. But we don't want to get in the way of God's call. What draws me here is not Columbia, Maryland. Getting Christians motivated to be involved in the political process. And and biblically speaking, and then encouraging you to get involved in the political process insofar as you are able and equipped and impassioned to do so. And uh as a staff on Thursday we also talked about should we do something to encourage people uh to take another step And it's and it's incredibly busy. It's about God using my weaknesses. So that's what he was referring to, he says. They love to get it started, get the elders and go, I think it's time to move. The uh we live in a community that is extremely diverse. That when you have a student, particularly high school students and college students, we can't presume that they're just going to learn how to relate to the opposite sex, for example. Um because I had just literally gone through with them the decision-making process with one of them as to whether God was calling him and his family to move to Boston. To work with McLean Presbyterian Church to plant a church inside the District of Columbia. It has taught me that ministry, and I'm sure the other pastors and elders will agree with me, it has taught me that ministry is not about my strengths. You know, they were just tired of it. No, I I um I've somebody else has asked me this in another forum. We uh what we wanted to do was to say to that our neighbors that um But what, less than a year later, uh new moms came along and said, we need a mom's group. What draws me here is not the size of the church. I'm kind of tired of hearing myself talk so. And it can be in a small group, but I think the most effective discipleship has to be equipping the body of Christ so that each one of us in our various Um I knew uh coming out of high school I was already interning as uh a youth intern and then uh my first two years in college were spent working in Reform University Fellowship. I think it it might be helpful for everybody to hear what draws you to CPC. So you're thinking about moving from Governor Christie to Governor O'Malley. Amen. So I just started asking all these questions. No to that second question. We also have a Taiwanese elder. Thank you for that question. But we're going to keep praying. This is your chance, uh this is your chance to stump me. Sure. Uh y y the it's a rather unfortunate group of TLT uh uh candidate. A pandering. There's the and this is related to uh youth, um, but then there's a broader application to it. I don't have a watch, so I have no idea. And um, but you are ver you're very blessed. But I want you to know what fabulous uh pastoral staff that you have. We had um served in a pastorate in Florida for four years, uh PCA church And uh so we we rekindled our relationship and and we're engaged in DC. Does anybody have any water, please? Talk about boring. So um I'm curious, uh you became a Christian when you were sixteen and you went to Wheat and then you went to Covenant. Okay. George Walgrove. Sure. We we want to be a a church for this neighborhood. He is a pastor of a PCA church, Redeemer Montclair Church in Montclair, New Jersey. So if I have any extra money, it goes to cycling. And he let me he gave me his phone number. So a new mom's group started and now it is thriving, it is growing, it is you know, so there are seasons in which I know we have to go. Yeah the team leader pastor, that's kind of a strange idea. This is who's there. We laughed really hard the other night. Thanks everybody. I'm going to say a shocking statement, but give me a moment and I'm going to follow that up. But on the record, I will say, you know, Randy Lovelace, Pastor Redeemer Montclair, speaking, you know, for himself, I I try to be very careful because again, I don't want someone's first introduction So it was already sort of tapping into where s some of my mentors were already going in their own churches. And um I didn't know why. Right. And I didn't know what to do with that. Yeah, I don't know if people heard that. And so it makes no sense. And I prayed to receive Christ. I apologize. That's what we look for. And we think you're snobs, so but yeah, that's another point. Or did you have other goals to other other career paths you want to pursue? So an example of that in our own congregation, we started with three elders, all of which were Caucasian. So we were approved to go into the field to plant a church. Um well uh where we are, um we have at least ten or eleven different languages spoken in our congregation. But let me be careful and say that I think the gospel calls us to be identified by the gospel first, not our culture. Have them into your home. There was a season when the mom's group in our church, I mean, it was raging. What I learned was our very first hire as an assistant pastor was not to youth and family. It dies. We supported it, uh resources and but then after eight years, it just Thanks for the same thing. I had one I was skating before that, but as soon as I could walk, my brothers had me on skateboard to my mother's great fear. What was their initial response? Okay, grab a mic, Julie. Where's Norma? But uh so no w actually what what happened was I um I've always been somewhat addicted to cycling. If there was anything that was a question or a concern of a neighbor, I would do everything in my power to make sure that we addressed their problem as far as it depended on us. And do what we can do as Christian citizens to preserve the integrity of the definition of the m of marriage and the family in the state of Maryland. I know we have to go. I became a Christian when I was sixteen years old at a church A man spent the first two years of my uh relationship with Christ meeting with me once a week. He prayed for me and then I I shared it with m an the second elder and he uh is familiar with Colombia. Um as Kate well knows, um we since we bought a building right in the middle of a particular street, a building that was in disrepair. If you have kids in the nursery, they have all been moved. It's a complicated answer. Um I have a question. He says it. He uh was raised in North Carolina and the first thing that is interesting about his connection with our church Uh Kansas City is her home. It was very clear that that we were not meant to go to DC, and I thank God for closing that door. And so I'm like, but I'll ask questions. Um and I am never inviting you skiing because I think ski boarders are the worst. Um and when we've not been in diverse places, it just felt kind of odd. Our gracious God, our Heavenly Father, we thank you that we've had an opportunity to gather together as your people to worship and to My apologies. It was George a man George Walgrove's age, uh a man of much wisdom, who was a seminary professor. Anybody ever heard? Now it's going to be tough for anybody sitting back there to come up and ask a question So it occurred to me that it might be useful for people to know the other end of your time at Montclair, which is I was tired of life, to be honest. Um once uh we learn that um Churches will stab you in the back. But there are other times when it's just like, you know, I think somebody's sending us the message that maybe this is not what the need is in our body at this time. Yes. We have uh 10 or 11 families that are presently serving in another church plant. And there have been many moments where I said to the Lord, I don't want to do this, Lord. And um so some guys are just serial church planters. So uh thank God that those doors were closed and he kept saying, Nope, that's not what I want you to do. Tom, do you want to ask a question? Um and so when we came out of Florida and came to New Jersey, I was like, now this is this is the world and I I couldn't think of a better place for my daughter to be raised. And what I've seen is when Kate and I met many of the ministry leaders, we were just so impressed with your love for each other, your desire to serve. Because people get that. But we're not going to stop praying. Father, we do thank you for this time that we've had. So but but but the point is um and I know what I know people are thinking, what about abortion? So let me add a couple footnotes. I went directly after graduating, uh Wheaton College. And second, do you still skateboard? Um it has maintained that diversity, but we're surrounded by towns with even greater diversity. We had a prayer service before our worship service for two years. So unless you want to start out by saying something, I could ask questions if you want, but I'd rather that all of you ask questions. Uh you can't do it anyway, so just get out of the way and let me do it and just follow me. It doesn't sound to me like Yeah. Goody Two Shoes and so forth and just received me for who I was, confronted me with the gospel. And that man moved on for different reasons, and our very next person was a man who would be youth and family. That was my life. Um I knew three years in that I had one church plant in me. Um I just need some water. So we we hope that we are attracting through our ministries When she sent me the information, I read the description of the position. Um and I say this appropriately, uh guided by by the word and guided by wisdom of God. And I would say the last ten years, God has continually reminded me of my weaknesses. I almost failed out of the ninth grade. And all these good little Presbyterian kids, you know, they weren't asking any questions. They read it again. And so it was through a youth ministry. I said, That has got to be the finest thing I've ever done in my life and and uh and so um I it it combined surfing and skating and I said, Where has this been? And so after considerable prayer, consideration, uh we decided to fill out the application. Not everybody is a church planter or has ever felt called to plant one, so maybe you could tell us about that. So I came to Christ through a a ministry that was displaying the grace of the gospel, that did not expect me to act like a Christian when I wasn't a Christian. So is there a role that we as a church can play there? So many people may be wondering, were you thinking about leaving Montclair before Norma contacted you or why are you thinking about leaving Montclair? I when I first got the phone call I thought it was a PCA church. I still don't I I to this day I cannot remember how I got from my house to that church. I could call him any any time, day or night. Uh some has been classical, we've done jazz, we've done R and B. And those fiefdoms become like, oh no, you're not touching my ministry. We had a a time with Randy's first visit, I guess. Were you looking to wait a minute. So I I was in his home, I lived in his home. People come to know Christ. And uh and I I love their candidness, their uh their understanding of the gospel, and just what an honorable Let me say before you go, thank you for again, thank you for having me and my family. So Is there any raging, burning question that you want to ask me? And uh it's just it's a hard thing. So do my involvement in youth ministry will be as as much as I can be. And of course the elephant in the room is, what happens if I leave? Christians are called and equipped and gifted Yeah. We got his name. That's a c that's a complicated question because um Show them what a another family outside of their immediate family looks like. Uh-huh. I mean that sort of gives you some picture, but that may ask you may have other questions. So what you need to know is that he was on skateboards starting at age four It can be very lucrative. So if you can maybe talk about how you've dealt with this at Montclair or how you would deal with it at CBC Has anybody think about that? Um if Dan Halley is willing to have me come by and and willing for me to play a part, I would love that. If He calls if He calls you there, then we are absolutely 100% behind you. I don't go away for a weekend and come back down from the mountain with a vision and go, here Eric, here's what you know, I want him intricately involved in that process and I shared it with them and uh they prayed for that weekend and then Yes. Um so and they they they had the right to do that. Skateboarder and a bicyclist. And they accepted all my skater friends and they built ramps in the back of the church. They see right through it. Um we sent out flyers and we did a um Yeah. I adore Kansas City. Um I hated Christians. Um in the zoning and approval process that we went through um in the recent Five years I've been told? Well, with more people, more students, comes the greater need for raising up leaders who can give life-on-life discipleship. So because I wanted them praying. And so I've said to the congregation And and we we get these ideas and then those ideas Okay, they're in the mini theater. Now what that means is that we have to be aware of the cultures or that are around us and not always communicating it in a way that makes sense to Caucasian So I don't know a lot about your background. And um but Redeemer uh was planted in nineteen eighty nine. Um and so through praying and after talking with Norma Walgrove and we spent the next two months really praying, asking God So it was you who asked that question. I should be involved with, as God so leads me, we have an abortion clinic a hundred yards from the front door of our church. Were you thinking, gee, that would be something that I'd like to do and I'm looking for that? What draws me here is you. I'm known throughout the community. And we do need to be praying about it. And we are praying through that, that God would make that clear. And so I remember as I was walking out of that classroom, the teacher So um being Missions Month and Uh it is time that Redeemer Montclair consider uh perhaps going multi-site. This man came back to what I call the skater ghetto, which is where we were, sort of off to the left in these pews So one of the very important things we saw in our church, as soon as we were able to hire a man who could be a youth and family pastor, we did so. But I said, that's not the session that we have and that's not the way I wanted to lead. So we have time for one more question because I also want to ask one question. And should you be called by us and accept the call, how will you transition out of your current church? So their all of their response was we completely and 100% want you to stay. Barb stamps for Andy. Um in sort of opening up your life and that means transparency. But that's exactly what that man did with me. I became a literature major because I felt that that would be the best preparation for seminary and for the ministry. What draws me here is not even the job description. Um this past week, um the state of Maryland approved in committee a gay rights Um is going to go to the floor this coming week. We have a microphone down here and a microphone down here. Once I snowboarded for the first time, I never I said I'll never ski again and it was I got to the top of the mountain and Um I've been so thankful for the time that I've spent with But in my heart, I'd like to see us pray This may have been asked already. So it ought to be open to all who will come Um and so what we have sought sought to do was as soon as we bought the building and moved in Do I want to do that? So I I would just be interested to hear your experience. Norma contacted him. It was just gonna be a matter of where. Yeah. And so if we are unable to pass on the faith to the next generation Uh but I thought well maybe I could be a front of the house uh manager at a restaurant in D C or New York and I And we live in a country that allows us to speak clearly and freely on particular positions. The question is my heart about youth. What is my perspective on what we might call the theology of diversity, or how does diversity fit into the gospel? Since it was mentioned that your session is praying for you this weekend, I'm assuming they have been told that you're a considering disposition. I'm I'm you know, I mean we can't if we're all living in the same community, but but you know, it's discipleship means And so we have no on-site parking, it's all street parking. If there's nothing else you can do and you s you know and so I I thought about that. But we had another prayer meeting that meets at our home, and some weeks nobody shows up. But what that will require is another commitment of a few years. But our actual dream was to go to Washington DC. And I I was looking at myself and I didn't like what I saw. So I was heavily engaged in in ministry already. Five years, then the seven years weren't enough. But I just wanted to ask you to share your thoughts So I would not be able to do that very long to be able to do both. I think it's the Midwest best kept secret. My relationship with my parents was uh really bad uh and I was desperately unhappy. And so Thank you. Pretty amazing. Great. Are you looking at this as And um because they don't like the politics and all that kind of thing and um they don't like working with elders and sessions and so forth. Now it took time, but we are now getting ready to add our second But I see them as distinct. Sure. Nobody's anywhere else. I didn't know. I I actually want another skateboard. The spirit will blow where the spirit will blow. I've got a great cycling community. We thank you for what you have for us in the future, for Randy and his family, for Redeemer Montclair Church, for Columbia Presbyterian Church. He's a graduate of Covenant Seminary in St. And that was our dream. They've been so generous and gracious and welcoming and treating me as a brother in Christ. Um is it two, right? It's the first time we've ever had a preacher go long. And yet I was tired of being in a broken relationship with my parents. Uh and uh so I would be coming with the full commitment is number one, I don't want to do this a lot. Um so that that month I would kind of be in and out. And what exactly was the time frame of short going and covenants? We've tried prayer ministry after the service, before the service. I I don't know what to call it really. We want you all to uh contact people if you're And he was there for me reminding me of the promises of the gospel So how will I transition out if that's what God is going to do? A church that either the leadership is moved on or there's less interest from volunteers or whatever the reason Corey is a m member of our church and Kevin's uh writer of a lot of the uh indelible grace music that we sing. The one sermon I pick is the one book, your pastor is pre-stone, yeah. And the the the idea of that is the the church I didn't know why else they would be calling me. It it just really confirmed all my worst fears about Christianity. Great. Some of you don't who don't know anything about Randy have heard him say skater. I don't look at life in the sense of, well, five years, ten years in, then we'll I mean I don't have a number in my mind. So That's what I would say. You bet there is. Hi Barb. Because we think of diversity, and I'm gonna speak from a white Caucasian perspective, we think of diversity in terms of this color of skin. Now, yes. But do I want to skate again? And so two of them, yeah no uh one of my elders And you'll be selling it to some little church plant that's looking for its first building. Asian population a hundred and twenty-three percent. Okay. I said, This is a risky thing for me to tell you what's going on. That's right. And I don't think discipleship is any different We know that we have the hope of a certain future. We praise you, Father, for Christ our Savior. Frankly, we were praying to go to the Midwest. Um this is the first time I've kind of Anyway, the other thing you need to know about Randy is that he's not actually twenty-five years old. But um and maybe it's too prime. So assuming assuming that you do become our TLP Um Okay. And um so yeah, I So D C and the area holds a real important place for us. And as long as that's where God has us, that's where we will seek to flourish by His grace Hi, how are you? The numbers forty percent, Montclair is forty percent African American, fifty percent Caucasian, ten percent other. So let me ask a follow-up question that may be on people's minds, which Um it is There is an exclusive person through whom the gospel is told through Christ. The congregation is being multiplied. And we looked at three locations, Tempe, Arizona, um, uh Metro, New York. Yeah. Um I came into the to the Sunday school and the teacher was teaching all about the Bible this and the Bible that and I'm like mm We're gonna keep all the ministries in no Um I'd like to Thank you. He's mature for his age, he's got great pastoral sensibilities I'm not interested. They were they're And so I'm sitting back thinking about this, going, well, that doesn't seem right. But It was growing. Um it's just been great. I see the the church, the body of Christ, but I also see us as individuals. I yes and amen. It is on the other hand, for those of us who are really old and have been ha around here a long time Um I hated Christianity. Uh but in that intervening year, my ninth grade year And the place where we were in Florida was ninety-nine point nine percent Caucasian. Um So But you got like three people coming. How what time are we And here we are. Uh discipleship is life on life, one on one. We did memory verses and reading through the scriptures. Um but I think as an individual citizen He's a graduate of a a graduate of Wheaton College. And I can only say that that when I read it, I was like, now that is good. We uh m Redeemer Montclair, um Um Just a small question. We are doing it because we want them to understand But not just outfront ticketing, it can also be supporting the First Choice Women's Resource Center as well. My wife had worked in Fairfax, Virginia for almost two years. And um I yeah, I stole from retreat centers and And Um was your uh kind of plan coming out of high school and stuff like that So I would say, I'm drawn to Tom Broad. I'm going to try to answer that in as brief a moment as I can. And so I I That's all he said. Larry, do you want to ask a question? The institution of the body of Christ is not called to transform political structures. And so um that was something it is I wouldn't one of the things that I when I first And will I be the best person Um Now, he looks like me. That as I look and as I've met the strength and the depth of leadership. And I see the opportunities. And Sure. And it was that that I said, if this guy can accept me for who I am, then And their initial response was open hands. At the most, five people come. Now his official role is to youth and family. So I guess they took me or somebody picked me up so Yes. It's not what I want because I knew that none of that, while it may give me a a season of interest It is Metro New York. Um it reminds me of my hometown without all the southern baggage that I grew up with. I mean, it was just so they embraced us. Good. So um And so I came in middle December. They then came over and they laid on hands and prayed for us. Um We had women coming from all over the community. We pray in the name of Christ. And I think that's what discipleship looks like. And um So those are the kinds of things I think we should be doing. Let me think how I want to answer this. Um And so cycling is more expensive than golf. Um only a few have come to visit. And what that means is for me is there are going to be times and seasons when ministries are just going gangbusters. It just it stopped. And why don't we open with prayer? And God has preserved us. Um so I had somebody to blame things on. It's been a pleasure and we pray for you. But um And so Redeemers feeling that. And what is what so Or did it kind of catch you by surprise and And Um and We're in a reprise right now. There are a lot more parks now. We'll take one more, like really good one. We pray that your spirit would be with us And he said to me, I can't help but see the hand of God in this. Would you be willing to take this core group, this launch team, and plant a church? So I shared with them that and they said, look, we we want you to stay. Louis. Um our small our home fellowship group And uh 108 down the hundred yards. What does discipleship look like to you? So it's made parking very, very interesting. That makes sense to me. And I said I had a pretty good idea that that's where God was leading me. That's such an odd So were we looking to leave It would there's just a lot of work to be done. And I'm just wondering in your experiences Um if if So that's what we've we've tried to have that involvement. But those issues are tangential, important, but tangential to the gospel. He planted that church ten years ago. We're part of the Redeemer Network. What I thought I'd do is That might help us know a little bit more about you. So it is extremely important to me. I'd been a professional waiter for eight years. So this must be a church where it's okay for me to be Indian. And and uh the the Harrises It wasn't a meeting at our church. Yes, I see limitations and challenges. He You probably have a park here. Um and yet We praise you and thank you in the name of Jesus. It was then that um I I I mean I've I've been I I try to avoid all paper interviews. I had never heard John 316 read out loud. I'm also ministering in a context where And there was one other man that I knew I was in a different place. We've done probably three or four open forums. Barb, do you want to ask a question? And so Um but uh I'm in the PC. So let's rethink it and so forth. Amen. That's what happened to us. So I I don't know if that helps or so I I Oh yeah I yeah. All the stuff all my friends say, you don't tell your elders this kind of So It's time to blow things up a little bit. And um So um And thank you. The reason for that is um I um Woo-hoo! I thought about So does anybody have a question for Randy? And so But we have to be careful of of being um Um so There's lots of reasons not to leave. This is interesting. Um