We're now seeking to look at God's Word this whole fall to understand a little bit more how the body should function. What it is that we should be doing with one another, and we're looking at Scripture to see that. We're not just looking at somebody's writings on that. And so we've looked early on in this series to see what God says, to do with one another. Colossians 3. 16, that we are to what? What's it say? Teach one another and then what was the other one? Admonish one another. Yeah, you you know admonish isn't quite as clear. But I I saw your lips and it was admonish Teaching each other what the truth is and then admonishing each other to live it, to help each other to apply that truth so that we're living Scripture Then a couple weeks ago we started looking at 1 Peter chapter 4, in which we see that the first command, first one another, is that we're to do what? Love one another, love and to forgive one another, love for one another for love covers over a multitude of sins. Can't love sinners without forgiving them And that's what we're to be doing with one another, knowing each other well enough that we're disappointing each other and having to practice forgiveness. And then secondly, he says to do what? Practice hospitality for open your homes and your hearts to one another. Love one another deeply, one love one another broadly. The word is to love of strangers, not just people that are close friends. We open our homes. for one another to learn about each other and to give a place where a person who is new is able to come and to feel welcomed and to be uh heard. And so that's another thing that we do with one another. And then last week we looked at the fact that we are to serve one another with our what? With our gifts. Thanks. Serve one another with our gifts, spiritual gifts. We're ministering to one another. We're seeking to do that both in word gifts in which we open up the word of God to one another and we do that with our works gifts, serving one another, doing that in the strength, the power that God provides. Now, all of this is speaking about ministry, principles of ministry in the body. And if you are anything like me, whenever you hear a bunch of principles, then the first chance you get to put up your hand, you put up your hand and you say something like, that's great, but could you give me an example to help me to understand it It's hard to understand principles and abstraction, particularly when we talk about ministry, because I think there's a danger that I want to address head on. That is that even in a place like Columbia Presbyterian Church, and in a time where we have reaffirmed the ministry of all believers, The idea of Ephesians 4, that we are all the saints being equipped for ministry. There's still a danger when we hear the kind of principles that we've been talking about and using our gifts with one another and all these things To when we think of ministry, think, well, that was Paul or Peter writing. They were ministers. They did those things. God uses people in ministry who are set aside in full-time service for that, where you're somebody like Moses or David or Daniel or the prophets. or you're somebody who's a church leader. I find it difficult to relate to the kind of principles you're talking about given the kind of job I have. One person put on a gray slip last week I leave at 7 a. m. for my job. I don't get back to 7 PM. What do you want me to do? You know, take one of those one of the nights, you know, I'm dragging my body from the dinner table and head out to a small group, you know. I mean, how much do you think I have in me? You know, it's nice to talk about that. You know, you're paid to do this stuff. And some other people, you know, they have this time to set aside. But What about for some of us who are taking courses or we're getting, you know, working 60 hours a week and we've got kids to take care of and got all these things. If we get involved in various ministries during the week, how can we function? You're going to burn us out. Is there any example that you can think of in the New Testament where you have somebody who's not an apostle or not a prophet or somebody who's not set aside full-time doing this stuff, not some sort of professional, who is practicing what you're talking about? Well, thanks to Stephen Hopper, I came up with one. Now, Stephen Hopper wrote an article in Discipleship Journal, issue number 73, a while back, on an example of a couple of professional ministers, that is, non-professional people who ministered. That didn't come out right. They were people who had professions and they ministered. They were tent makers, that's what they were. They they were a couple who had a job in a partnership together. They made tents They made sales and they made leather goods. They were involved in both the manufacture and the sales, so they were involved in both manufacturing and retail. And of course, as you pulled out your bullet in that line, you know who I'm talking about. The I'm talking about Aquila and Priscilla. In fact, if I put that down again, I'd put down Priscilla and Aquila, but usually her name comes first. Apparently was the one who was more prominent in that. So you have not only an example of someone who is a person who had a regular secular career involved in ministry But you have a man and a woman joint team involved in this, functioning as husband and wife. Now, even though these people were full-time in this and apparently never left that profession, they are mentioned a number of times in the New Testament. because of the effectiveness of their ministry. And so what I'd like to do this morning is go through their life as a kind of a a case study for us of an example of what we're talking about for people that you perhaps can relate to a little bit more. You notice that uh They're referred to in Romans chapter 16 as one example, so please, if you haven't, turn to that, in order to see just how effective these people were. At the end of the book of Romans, Paul writes, Now this is to the church at Rome, from which Tom's been reading this morning. He says at the end, in that chapter you hardly ever hear referred to, it's a bunch of greetings. Whoever preaches from the greetings, you know. But I'm going to take one of them this morning from Romans chapter 16, verse 3, and let's read to verse 5. Let's start at verse 1, because you get the context. He's saying there at the in the greetings, I commend to you our sister Phoebe, a servant of the church at Kencrea. And I ask you to receive her in the Lord in a way worthy of the saints, and to give her any help that she may need from you, for she has been a great help to many people, including me. Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus. Notice he refers to them as fellow workers. They risk their lives for me. Not only I, but all the churches of the Gentiles are grateful to them. Greet also the church that meets at their house. Now here's a couple of professional people in manufacturing and retail that Paul refers to not only as fellow workers, but says that all the churches are grateful for them. What is it that they did that was so special? Well, consider four things that the Bible tells us about them. First of all, they opened their home. They opened their home. This is very evident and it's prominent about them, and it's one of the things that I think we can best learn from them. They were an example of 1 Peter 4, verse 9 that we've been talking about. Practice hospitality, open your homes to one another. Paul was all alone when he first went to the city of Corinth. Now if you remember anything about Paul and his journeys, he had gone from over in the area of Turkey over to Macedonia. He had gone from Athens down. He had been practically kind of kicked out of Macedonia. He had gone down to Athens where he had gotten a kind of a lukewarm reception. Now he shows up all alone in Corinth. And he's kind of low. He's lonely. He's all alone. Have you ever been in a city where you've been all alone? You don't know anybody in that city? And you don't know the city very well. You haven't been there before. You're there on some sort of business. And so you feel kind of strange. The place is not uh friendly at all to you because you don't know anybody there Well that's the way Paul was. Corinth was not a friendly city. Uh it was an immoral place. He was probably kind of depressed. He walks around through there and he sees no evidence of any spiritual hunger. Now what do these people care about spiritual things? I don't know anybody here, God you seem to have sent me here, but what am I going to do? So he's wondering how he's going to be able to uh stay, where is he going to stay, what's he going to do, what will be the beachhead he'll establish in that city. N And he meets a couple, and they have two things in common. First of all, they're both Jews. Quilla and Prisylus, Greek names, but they had Hebrew names. They came originally from a place that's now called Armenia, and they had moved from there to Rome. They had settled in Rome for a period of time, and they had been kicked out of Rome, along with all the other Jews, uh, in 49 A. D. The situation appears to be from what we read in history. that in Rome there were some disturbances. Some of the unbelieving Jews were reacting to the believing Jews, those that believed in Jesus, and they were creating such an uproar. There were all these religious disputes going on. that finally Claudius the Emperor got sick and tired of the whole thing, all these religious fanatics always making trouble. So he booted the whole crowd of them out. I didn't care whether they were Christians or whether they were unbelieving Jews. He just said you're all a mess, get out of here, get out of town. I don't want to see your ugly faces anymore. Oh a little peace around this place, so he kicked them all out in 49 A. D. Aquila and Priscilla were two of those. They had to find another place to live, and they settled in Corinth They established there a shop and a manufacturing enterprise, making tents and sales and leather goods. And so Paul found these people which he had in common that they were Jews and that they made tents, because that's what Paul did. That was his profession, as you may recall. No evidence that Aquila and Priscilla were believers at this point. They simply linked up together. One point of contact that Paul had with these this couple. And so they associated together, and I'm sure that in the context of that, Paul was sharing Christ, talking about the fulfillment of all the messianic hopes of the Old Testament. And soon Aquila and Priscilla believed. They too trusted this Jesus as Messiah, the one who had come to give his life for their sin, in fulfillment of all the Old Testament sacrifices. And so Aquila and Priscilla give their lives to Jesus Christ, and immediately they begin to open their home for believers. Their home becomes the beachhead in Corinth. In fact, when Paul writes to the Corinthians, years later, he writes and says, greetings to Aquila and Priscilla and the church that meets in their home. They're still meeting in their home after a period of time. Now, they became so zealous for the gospel. They grew so much in their understanding of what the Bible taught and who Jesus was and what it meant to be a Christian. When Paul sometime after that decided to leave Corinth and to go to Ephesus, he proposed to Aquila and Priscilla, would you guys consider possibly giving up your job here and coming with me to Ephesus? And here you see the second mark about Aquila and Priscilla. They were available and eager. They were available and eager. Paul was proposing something that I think it's difficult for us to maybe appreciate how radical it was. You see, there wasn't any Social Security back then, no pension plans, no job security. You basically made what you earned that day. You made tents, sales, and you sold them, that's what you made. You didn't. You only had what you had saved. So he is saying, give up everything that you have. Give up the business, the trade that you've established here. Everything. Come on with me to Ephesus. The Lord's calling me to go on there and to establish a church in Ephesus. Key city. I believe that the Lord wants for us to have a work there. And they said yes. They didn't say, hey, are you crazy? You know, we we're settled here and we'll pray about it, we'll think about it. You know, you want Ephesus, we'll write you, we'll let you know. They do it. They leave. And they move to Ephesus. Now, I don't know if this was planned ahead of time, but what's interesting to me is Paul only stays in Ephesus a short time. And then he moves on and he leaves them there. You know, you can picture this, you know, come out of Ephesus, we're going to do this work here. You know, and then after a couple of weeks in Ephesus, you know, Paul's saying, well Lord's calling me to go on. Now you guys stay here and take care of the work. What word? They're an inner work. So he leaves them, so trusts them. That here, again, as full-time retailers and merchandisers, he leaves them to establish a beachhead for the church in Ephesus And they do it. They establish one of the strongest, perhaps the strongest church in the New Testament. It was not established by professionals. It was established largely by Aquila and Priscilla in their leadership. In fact, they are so effective at this that a fellow comes into town by the name of Apollos. And immediately they recognize in Apollos that here is a guy who is especially gifted. This guy is eloquent, he's a professional, he's a preacher, he comes in And people are entranced by what he says. They are persuaded. He's a very persuasive person, the Bible says. And he comes in and he's speaking of Jesus. There's only one problem. His theology isn't quite on track. There's some things he wasn't taught. He's still back in John the Baptist's era, and he's never really had the full gospel presented So he's effective, but his theology is deficient. Now what do you think Aquila and Priscilla do? Well, knowing Aquila and Priscilla, they invite him into their home, right? And they give him a few meals, they begin to talk to him. And then they kind of get next to him, gain some of his confidence, and they say, Apollasa. That's some of the stuff you're preaching. Uh, you know, can we maybe look in the Bible a little bit? We've learned some things and we'd like to share with you uh a little fuller understanding of the gospel. And so they begin to disciple Apollos in their home. They have him in, they begin to share with him some of the things that God has shown them through Paul, and they help him to deepen his understanding of the gospel. And in fact, they are so effective at this that they send Apollos on to Corinth, or back to where they had lived before, back to Corinth. And he becomes one of the pillars of the church. Remember, Paul writes to the Corinthians, I sowed the seed, Apollos watered, and God brought the increase. That was the Apollos, who was basically trained by Aquila and Priscilla. And so you notice in the third place three things about them. They equipped strategically. Notice the three things under that. The first is that they knew their theology. They did not say, well, theology is for preachers, is for professionals, is for people that go to seminary. Those are the people that have to understand all that stuff. All I want to understand is how to live each day, kind of get through it. uh, you know, basic honesty and how to pray and you know, some of the stuff that I basically need to get by. But I don't need to get into all this theology about the end times and about the person and work of Christ and all the rest of this stuff. You know, that's for the theologians, that's for the elitist. That's for those who are in their ivory tower that want to discuss that stuff. Because Aquila and Priscilla knew theology, they knew doctrine, when someone came who was deficient in that They were able to equip him and prepare him so he was far more effective for the Lord Jesus. They didn't back off from that. The second thing notice in that is that they were gracious and non-threatening. They didn't go up to Apollos and say, Apollos, I can't believe what you're saying. Come on over here. We got we gotta straighten this guy out, you know? Come on in, Apollos You know, I heard this this week, a critique of Promise Keepers deficient theology. Now, it was a good critique. It was a fair critique. And I think it pointed out a number of things we need to be aware of. As much as I applaud and M4 Promise Keepers, there are some problems. The thing that concerned me was that in the critique, it was kind of like you felt that you know these capable kind of lobbying, they were saying good things about promise keepers, but it wasn't a gentle kind of let's Examine carefully together what Scripture says here. It was kind of like, you know, I can believe these guys do this, and can believe these guys do that. And I thought if if I had been Coach McCartney or somebody else, I would have had that you know Who set you up to be my critic? Uh I don't appreciate your attitude. But Aquila and Priscilla We're able to take a guy who was a dynamite guy, I mean Apollos was apparently a pretty intimidating character, and he would debate the Jews and win. And they had him in, but they were able to share with him gently in a non-threatening way, let's look at the scripture. We And he was won over By their persuasiveness and as he looked in scripture, and of course Apollos had to have an open teachable heart too. And so there is that possibility of being used powerfully in preparing people if you both know Scripture and don't just Remain content to be at a superficial level in it and you're able then, non-threatening, without some arrogance, and I know more than you know kind of thing, able to then influence people in your home in a way to show them more about the Lord Jesus. Notice thirdly, under three, the C there, that they were strategic. That doesn't mean that they only paid attention to leaders, people that were early going somewhere, movers and shakers. Clearly they had the whole church that meet at their home. They must have been open-hearted toward all kinds of people. But they noticed in somebody like Apollos a particular heart for God, a particular potential that they wanted to invest in. And so they took a special time with Apollos. They had him in apparently a great deal more. Now, you know, you say, we ain't getting all this. I I'm hoping you'll use the meditation this week. The references are all there. It's mostly from Acts chapter 18. But you can look up the references later from the bulletin outline and from the meditation to check out what I'm telling you. But apparently they spent a lot of time with Apollos. Because they saw that this was a person who was going to be a great influence either for the Lord Jesus or if he wasn't straightened out in his theology, he'd be an opponent. He'd be one that would be counterproductive to the kingdom. And so they saw it as in the light of eternity a matter of priority to be able to invest in this new, younger Christian who had the potential. Finally, the fourth thing to notice about them is that they were loyal supporters. They were loyal supporters. They were people that were different from the typical American churchgoer today in the sense that Today you find typically among people shopping for a church that is going to be what it will help me the most in what I want to do in growing with the Lord. I just gotta have good parking, gotta have a nice clean nursery nursery, an uplifting worship service. Of course I realize that nobody here has any of those criteria in mind. That uh you know everybody in this crowd we're looking just simply to where can I grow in the Lord and where can I serve. But you know, that's for some other people that are in America And Aquila and Priscilla were very much unlike that. Their key question, from the time that they met Christ, back in those days working with Paul on tents. to the end of their lives was where can my life most count for the Lord Jesus? They went from Armenia to Rome, were kicked out of Rome, went to Corinth In order to be more effective, they went from Corinth with Paul to Ephesus. When Paul was placed back in Rome as a prisoner, they apparently went to Rome. They spent time back in Rome where they had been. They, by the way, prepared Apollos to go back to Corinth because they knew Corinth, and so they were able to prepare him both culturally. Here are the people to meet in Corinth, here's the network, here's how to most effectively penetrate that city. Then they go back to Rome because they can be effective there. They've lived in Rome. They know Rome. When Paul writes to the Roman church He says, greet Priscilla and Aquila. They're there in room. My fellow workers. These people who helped me establish the work at Ephesus. They risked their lives for me. Not only I, but all the churches of the Gentiles are grateful to them. We don't know exactly how they risked their lives for them, but knowing hanging around Paul for a while, probably wouldn't take a whole lot to guess what kind of scrapes they might have got in. And then in Rome they have a church again that's meeting in their home. Greet the church that meets in their house. But they didn't stay there. Toward the end of their lives, they went back to Ephesus. You know how we know that? If you read from Paul's last letter that he ever wrote, in prison in Rome, who's it to? Timothy. Now what's Timothy doing? At that point in his life, Timothy is a pastor in Ephesus. And Timothy is having some hard times. Church got off to a great start But now there's some problems in Ephesus. He talks in chapter two about those that oppose the gospel and be careful how you uh how you engage those because you're not going to be able to win them over simply by your arguments. The Holy Spirit's got to enable them to see the truth. He talked about this Alexander, the heavy metal worker, you know, who was really opposing the gospel and giving Timothy a lot of grief. And so he says, Be careful of him. You know, he says, I know him. He opposed me too. He's he can give you a lot of trouble. It's going kind of tough there, Timothy. I want to write to encourage you. Then in chapter four, verse nineteen at the end he says, And also, Timothy, greet Aquila and Priscilla, my old friends. We came back to Ephesus in order to support you, in order to strengthen and encourage you in the difficult time that you're having there. Greet Priscilla and Aquila for me You get the sense that their whole lives were Lord, we're living for eternity. And here's our calling. It is not a lower calling. To be in retail or manufacturing or teaching or research. Those callings are all callings from the Holy Spirit. It's not that I'm called and you're not called We're all called. But as Howard Hendricks has said, there's only two things in this life that outlast this life. The Word of God and people. And therefore, if you want to invest in something that's going to outlast this life, invest the Word of God in people. And so as you look in your own life, let me ask you, do you know the Jesus that so controlled their lives? See there at the end. Aquila and Priscilla knew the Lord Jesus that Paul preached to the Corinthians when he said it's the love of Christ that compels us, controls us. And that word control or to compel is a word which means to press somebody, to hem you in, to um weigh upon you, to to put pressure on you, it can be a positive pressure, but it's a it's a compulsion. The love of Christ is compelling us. Why? Because we judge, Paul says, that if one died for all, then all have died. And he lived and died for me and rose again, so that I may no longer live to myself, but unto him who lived and died for me. Aquila and Priscilla were compelled by the love of the Lord Jesus. They knew their sin. They knew that the law was never going to give them relief from that sin. They saw in the message that Paul preached about a Jesus who died on behalf of sinners, that he was the one who forgave their sin. He was the one who gave them hope of heaven forever. He was the one who gave them meaning in this life and all the things that they did. Do you have that meaning and that hope in your life? Has the love of Christ constrained and compelled you to become the motivating factor in all that you do, in your business, in your home, in all of your plans, and all of the things that you decide are the priorities of your life? Do you know this Jesus that Priscilla and Aquila knew? Secondly, how does the way that God used them encourage you? I really intend that the example of Aquilla and Priscilla be to you an encouragement this morning. That you don't have to think, well God's given to me some second-class calling in the kingdom. And my job really doesn't matter for much in the light of eternity. I'm just doing this to make some money. And I try around the fringes of my life to do something that counts for the Lord, but not very much Aquila and Priscilla were full-time in manufacture and retail. And yet their lives influenced thousands. through the investment in one person, Apollos, through opening their home to those that came in there and met there and worshiped there And through using their gifts, both in word and service, has God simply opened up opportunities because they were available to Him. It's not so much where you are. It's not so much what gifts you have. It's simply a question of are you available? Are you available to the Holy Spirit to say, Lord, whatever you want this week, whatever opportunities you want to open up for me? I want to be available. My home is available. To have someone back. Do you look at your home as a refuge, a place where you go to escape from simply the pressures of the world? Or is your home a base of operation to be open? for people to come in. I mentioned last week or a couple of weeks ago that I did not come from an open home in my background. And yet I've seen as I've grown older that open homes are the happier homes Open homes are the homes where there's warmth and where people enjoy themselves. Is your home an open home? Do you want to discover your gifts and simply make them available to the Lord Jesus to use? What are one or two ways that the Lord's speaking to you this morning? About in the place where you are, not switching careers or callings or anything else, but simply where God has placed you strategically. by his appointment to be used for him this week. Think about that as we go to prayer. Let's join together in prayer.