Their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Jesus answered him, It is also written, Do not put the Lord your God to the test. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in their splendor. All this I will give you, he said, if you will bow down and worship me. Jesus said to him, Away from me, Satan, for it is written, Worship the Lord your God and serve him only. Then the devil left him, and angels came and attended him. The Apostle John, in his first letter, and the very conclusion of that, kind of summarizes all of his arguments with two points. He makes two points. And the first one is, for we know that we are sons of God. That's the first point. And we talked a lot about that last week. How we're sons of God and how that's what Christ had just had affirmed to him before he went into this temptation, and that's how Satan prefaces his temptation as a questioning of that sonship. But the second thing that the Apostle John tells the believers is that we also know that this whole world is under the control of the evil one. And the exhortation that concludes that letter is that therefore we should flee from idols, but I want you to think for a minute about that second point. Because I think we all tend to really like that first point. And I know I do too. I'm tremendously encouraged better not hit that again. Tremendously encouraged by thinking about how I am the Son of God in the sense that He has loved me. Not the son, a son of God, and you are sons and daughters of God, and that He's loved you, that He's bought you with a price, that you are His, and the hope and the joy and the courage for living your life as a son or daughter of God is tremendously benefited by focusing on that. But what about the other? What about the fact that the whole world's under the control of the evil one? I know that as we look around the world we see we see signs of God's activity in the world all the time Just a month ago I can remember uh seeing Seth Rowell. He was over at the townhouse I live at, knew about all that much of him, and just thinking about how his tiny little hands were just so amazing And thinking for a moment about God, the creator of his people, and God, how he gives life, and all of the exciting things that we think about when we see a baby like that. Or a rainbow, and we think about that covenant promise. And we see all of these things in the world and we're reminded that yes, God is sovereign I want you to think about the other things in your life for a moment. Maybe some of you have been to a uh a a senior citizen's home where folks are really in in in a bad way We're a cancer ward. Perhaps you've seen an accident, maybe on the way here this morning. The effects of sin are prevalent, and they are all around us Now, when you look at your personal life, I want to challenge you. Usually we do this kind of thing at the conclusion of a sermon, but I want you to take a pen or pencil if you have one And I want you to write down, last week we spent a lot of time focusing on the fact that we have a tempter and that he's active in our life. I want you to write down just the first three recent temptations you can remember having had to deal with as a believer. Just write 'em down. And you don't have to write 'em down in detail because the guy or girl next to you might get awfully curious if you start writing a short story or something. Just put a little word or something to clue you in. I want you to do that. I'm going to give you another second or two. Write down a word or two. If you believe this world is under control of the evil one, yet you are a son of God, how is that impacting you in your life in terms of being tempted by the tempter? Something that Paul is always concerned about. Now after you've written those three things down, I want you to think about the fact that Paul says that we are to beware of Satan's schemes. Now the word schemes has probably meant a lot of things to a lot of people, but it always it's it's a complex word. I'll just give you one example of that. When I was in high school and even in college, the word scheme, like it if uh If I were to say I'm scheming, oftentimes you know that's meant to imply, you know, uh suppose I like a young lady, and suppose I was scheming. Uh and then I'm scheming on this young lady. That's the way we use the word, just in the vernacular. And what that means is not that I'm going up to her and saying, hey, I like you. What that means is I'm doing all kinds of little things. That I've got this big plan, this big agenda, and I'm working it out. That's the sense of a scheme. A scheme is something that stands together. It's a whole bunch of things organically related one to the other in which one agenda item is sought. How do you see Satan's schemes in your life? I know that I did this exercise myself and was very challenged because I tend to look at those three temptations I wrote down as just being kind of happenstance Just kind of being circumstantial. You know, you're walking around and well here a temptation, there a temptation, everywhere a temptation, and temptations are just kind of coming out of the woodwork, kind of like the potholes on Route 1, and you just try to avoid them, and we tend to forget. that they are all manifestations of a scheme. And they're related to each other, aren't they? I think that's the first thing we notice as we look at the second temptation. The temptations are related to each other. Some of you this past week might have gone ahead and and looked at Luke in his account, or you might have in the past, and you know that the temptations occur in different orders in the two books. In Matthew's account, we have first the temptation to turn rocks to bread, second, the temptation to cast yourself down, and third, the temptation to bow down and worship Satan Now Luke puts him in a different order. He starts the same way. He says, first, turn these rocks into bread. Second, bow down and worship me, and third, cast yourself down. Now I want to be very clear on this Luke never claims to have them in historical order, but Matthew does. Matthew hooks them up with words that imply time sequence. Between the first and second is the word then. Between the second and third temptations is the word again, a word that also implies time sequence in the Greek. Luke, on the other hand, the historian, following the conventions of historians of his day for stylistic purposes, Wants the temptations to end up in Jerusalem. So he just hooks them up with the generic kind of conjunction and. But that's not the only reason we can look at this and see a very, very close relationship between the first and second temptations of Christ. They breathe the same air. They are built one atop the other, almost layered very subtly and yet persistently. I want you just to think about this for a minute Think about that first temptation. If you are the Son of God, tell these stones to become bread. And then the second temptation, if you are the Son of God, throw yourself down. In both cases, Satan prefaces this temptation with some kind of challenge of sonship. Not the third time, but the first two times he does. Last week I confessed that I'm not an athlete, but once again I'm going to use an athletic illustration. There's only one thing that I know about judo, and it is what the word means Judo means the gentle way. I want you to think about judo for a minute. It's an ancient form of martial arts used by samurai warriors, perhaps one of the most deadly ways of killing a man with your bare hands. and it's called the gentle way. Fiu jitsu, its ancient predecessor, is called the soft way. Now the principle behind judo is this. If I was a judo master or a a samurai warrior guy and someone came running at me, and was uh gonna try to mess me up. I could take their their mass, their velocity, their speed, their skills, whatever kind of chop they were gonna do, and turn it around on them and throw them down and break their back. That's how judo works. That's the principle behind it. To use their momentum to hurt them. Now I want you to think about these two temptations for a minute. What is it that Satan wants Jesus to do in this temptation? He says, throw yourself down. Now clearly he's not talking about suicide, so it's not a sin for that reason, because his point is that it is written He will command his angels concerning you, and he'll lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Remember in the last temptation, Satan tempted Jesus to question his sonship. To question the Word of God and God's character, and to act in a way that is self-sufficient and prideful. What is he tempting Jesus to do here? To believe the word of God. Isn't it an amazing thing that here we have Satan saying, for it is written. He is tempting Jesus to trust in God's character to save him. And he is trusting Jesus not to act like a magician. But to humbly, independence, throw himself upon the mercy of God. Satan here is demonstrating a mastery of this judo technique. He has tried to get Jesus to have no faith at all, and then he takes Jesus all the way to the other extreme, as if to tempt him to have too much. And by too much I mean inappropriate. And if you look at those blanks there, the basis of the action, trust in God's word, you can put inappropriate. Inappropriate trust in God's character and an inappropriate humble dependence. Satan is the father of lies, and we may be sure that whenever he speaks, there is a lie involved. What are those lies? I want you to think about what Satan quotes for a minute. We just read it responsively. Some of you might have noticed that there was something. Fairly different. But first I want to say that I there was a a uh Satan is quoting scripture and he's quoting scripture. He's not just quoting some version that is only loved by a couple liberal folks on the fringes or something. He's not quoting some gross paraphrase. There was a version of the Bible back then in Jesus' day and age. It was every bit as popular as the NIV is today, called the Septuagint. It was written about two hundred years before Christ is round. And I compared this myself. In both Luke's account and Matthew's account, Satan quotes word for word, the Septuagint, word for word, with one glaring omission. He leaves a clause out. What I want you to do is I want you to turn to Psalm 91. If you brought your Bibles, if you didn't, maybe look on with someone sitting next to you. Now teaching senior high school Sunday school, I know only half the folks have their Bibles on a given day Psalm ninety one, and I want you to look at verse eleven. Now what I'm gonna do is I'm going to read from Matthew chapter four, I'm gonna read what Satan says, and I want you to follow along with what the Psalm actually says. This is from Matthew 4. This is what Satan says. He will command his angels concerning you, and they will lift you up in their hands, so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. Something's missing. Whatever happened to, he will guard you in all your ways. It's gone. It's just not there. And what does it mean? It means something significant. For the ancient Hebrew, the ways were not significant simply the way that I got here this morning because of traffic. It's not simply the way that I'm going to walk from here back to that door and later back to where I'm going to have lunch and then how I'm going to get back to French Creek Bible Conference this afternoon The way it was how you lived your life. It was a moral statement. It had to do with living your life in a way that reflected a relationship with God. The whole context of Psalm 91 is if you make the Most High your dwelling. Then all of this will be true. There's something a passage in Proverbs that really cuts to the heart of this, what is meant by the word way. I'm going to just read a couple verses and just listen. For the Lord gives wisdom, and from his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He holds victory in store for the upright. He is a shield to those whose walk is blameless, for he guards the course of the just and protects the way of his faithful ones. And moving on, thus you will walk in the ways of good men, and keep to the paths of the righteous, for the upright will live in the land, and the blameless will remain in it, but the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the faithful will be torn from it. Now think about this way of the righteous. It's not like back then in Israel you had two sidewalks in every street, one for the the way of the good man and one for the way of the not-so-good man. It's how you lived your life. And wisdom understood by the Hebrews was skillful living. It was living in a way that was appropriate. It was living in a way that made sense to them in light of who God was and what God has done for them. And Satan leaves that out. He says, it doesn't matter, just go ahead and do this. And there's this image that I know that I have from a painting that was painted several hundred years ago. Maybe some of you are conjuring up in your mind even now. It's a it's a picture of Jesus hanging on to the top of one of these gothic spires on a cathedral or something. And he's hanging on and the sky's black and cloudy and it's obvious there's a big storm out and you know Satan is sitting there all red with a pointy tail and cloven hooves and a pitchfork or whatever, kind of saying, Jump, jump! You know, I got you where I want you. Now you're gonna have to jump. And we have this sense that here Satan was in a situation where it was either Jesus had to look to God for help or look to Satan. He had to just make that jump or he had to say, Satan, uh, do you mind getting me back down from here? That's not the case at all. That simply isn't the case. We're told he was at the highest point of the temple And providentially, a first-century Jewish historian gave us an account of the temple, and he describes it to us, and he tells us what the highest point was It was the top of Herod's royal portico. And looking down from there, you could see out over the city wall down into the Kidron Valley below, across which is Gethsemane And it's about 250 to 450 feet, depending on which commentary you read. So he's high up. But it's a it's a platform. It's a porch. There's a railing around it Not only that, but every single morning this guy with the silver trumpet climbs up this set of stairs up to the highest point of the temple and he looks out and he plays taps or reveler or whatever to announce to all of the surrounding countryside that we're about to Start the temple ceremonies. It's time to come to church. Now here Jesus is. He's up on the top of this temple. And he has an opportunity. An opportunity to commit an incredibly pious act of dependence upon God. An opportunity to say, hey, God loves me, He takes care of me. I trust in Him. I believe His Word. So I'm going to just jump off of this bad boy. In view of all of Israel in a temple courts. Think of the benefits that that would have brought to his ministry. He would have been known as the guy that actually believed God's word to the extent that he jumped off the temple. But Jesus says that would be testing the Lord. Why? Because there was a way down. We're promised in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, not that we're not going to be tempted. In fact, we're promised that we will be tempted, but we're also promised that God will always provide a way out. And there was a perfectly fine set of stairs leading off to this porch. Perfectly fine. And there was absolutely no need for God, for Jesus Christ. to treat God in a presumptive way and say, I'm in a jam, I need an escape, I need an out, I'm gonna just this your scripture seems to say you're gonna whatever I do, you're gonna protect me, so I'm just gonna jump. That's presumption, not faith. And Jesus saw through that. Five or ten years ago, maybe this illustration couldn't be use couldn't have been used at all. But oftentimes we think of God as a bungee cord, don't we? Kind of one end connected to our ankle, the other end connected to heaven, and we can just go around jumping off temples however we want to. God's going to take care of us. We don't have to think about things. And we forget about verses like if you don't work, you don't eat. We forget about verses like a man's got to take care of his family I know I learned a painful lesson after I graduated from high school and I felt a call to go into the gospel ministry and I went down to seminary saying, God you called me to do this. I can find my proof text. Checks are gonna come in. Well guess what? They didn't. That kind of presumption is not faith. It's a charade, it's a counterfeit. And Satan here in demonstrating his judo technique has taken Christ from saying, don't have faith at all. Look out for yourself. To saying, hey, don't look out for yourself at all. Don't worry about living wisely. Don't worry about living skillfully. Don't worry about having a genuine piety before God of dependence. Don't worry about what Nehemiah said when he said, Work and pray. Leave that part out. Don't act as a responsible man or woman of God. Just believe, and how good that sounds to us today, doesn't it? To just let go and let God But there's a sense in which we need to keep in mind a family that's influenced me quite a bit over the years has this plaque in their house that I believe I'll remember for the rest of my life. It says, Hammer stoutly, pray devoutly. And there's a sense in which you and I have to keep in mind, Jesus here sees through this temptation to test God by presuming upon his promises. And that is not humble dependence. It's kind of like there's a back when the flood hit the Midwest, I can remember having heard a joke about this fellow who was a flood victim. And the water got up to about his knees and he didn't have a car, so he started praying, God deliver me from this. And so a big four-wheel drive vehicle drove by and the guy said, Hey, hey, come over and jump in my car, I'm gonna get you out of here And uh the guy says, no, no, no, I've prayed, God's gonna save me. And so the water gets up a little bit higher, and here the guy gets uh gets up in his second story uh of his house and his guy in a canoe comes cruising by. Hey, come on, let me save you out of this problem here. And the guy says, No, no, no, I've prayed. God's gonna save me Then sooner wouldn't you know it? The guy's up on his roof, and a helicopter comes by and he says, No, no, no, I'm not gonna get on that helicopter, God's gonna save me, and the guy drowns Goes up to heaven, says, Lord, you know I prayed. And God says, Yeah, and I tried to answer that prayer three times. There's a sense in which we refuse To look at our faith in God and see how God has called us to live in such a way that we don't test Him. Now, when Jesus answers and when He responds to this temptation, Th the basis of his resistance is a knowledge of God's word and a knowledge of God's character. He knows what God's word says. He's not fooled by it. He's not fooled by this fact that uh Satan seems to presume to tell you and me as sons and daughters of God that we can do whatever we want and God's gonna always be there like a bungee cord or a blank check to kinda fill in all the gaps and to and to make our life one that we don't have to d do anything about He knows better than that. And he understands God's character. He understands who his God is, the God who through his servant Moses told his people, Oh, that my people would be wise, that they would consider their latter end He understands his God who has said observe the ants. He understands his God who has commanded us to rule and subdue the earth in a way that makes sense out of it and is responsible in living. And he takes his response from Deuteronomy again, the book of the law, and he says, It is also written, do not put the Lord your God to the test. Now, if some of you go back later this week, you will see in Deuteronomy six that that's continued, as you did at Massa. And what happened in Massa? The Israelites were wandering in the wilderness before they took possession of the promised land, and they got thirsty. And that seems to me to make perfectly good sense. If I was wandering through a desert, I'm sure I'd be thirsty And what did they do? They immediately started quarreling, and they immediately went to Moses, his representative of God, the prophet God had sent, by whom they were delivered as a means. And he said, Give us water. There's a sense in which their first course of action there was quarreling, was looking at their situation and saying, God is supposed to meet these needs, so meet them. We're not told what would have happened if they'd waited another day or if they'd have prayed. We're not told what would have happened had those people tried to find water. But instead, in a childish insistence And in immature, presumptive faith, arguing, simply saying God owes us water, they acted irresponsibly. And Christ would have nothing to do with that. Instead, his resistance of Satan's temptation did lead to true, genuine, humble dependence, stressing humble, not prideful, humble. Now, as we look at this temptation, what can we learn about Satan's schemes? Because we do know that Christ was tempted by Satan even as we are. I want you to notice first that his temptations are persistent. It's that first blank. They're persistent. Satan doesn't try to tempt Christ one time and then run away. He doesn't try to tempt Christ one time and then say, okay, Uncle, Uncle, I quit. Doesn't say that at all. He tries again. And he adapts his tactic To meet your strengths or weaknesses. Be aware of that. There's an example of that from Ecclesiastes that I've been thinking about lately, Ecclesiastes 7, and it's a verse that's troublesome, and the verse that says, Don't be overrighteous. Neither be overwise. Don't consider yourself a fool. And what do those verses mean? It says, man of God will avoid all extremes, will grasp the one without letting go of the other. What does it mean to not be over righteous? Well, those are verbs that are reflexive in the Hebrew, and it's an idea of don't be too wise in your own eyes. Don't consider yourself too self-righteous. Don't think that you're so holy and good that you can bottle up your bath water and sell it for a profit. That's not the way any of us here are. But at the same time Don't consider yourself unsanctified, absolutely wicked, totally depraved, Ponscom. Because Christ died for you, and his Holy Spirit's at work in your life. And there's a sense in which I can tell you from my own life, there's always that temptation. There's always that temptation to look at those weaknesses For those months or maybe those days when I get my quiet times all in order and I keep my log and my diary updated and I I keep on top of my spiritual life to really think, wow, I got my stuff together right about now When you fall to that temptation, you're in trouble. But when you resist it, I can tell you from personal experience that very often I'm compelled to consider the other ten. Like a ping-pong ball bouncing around between extremes. Even as Christ here is first challenged to have no faith and then to have too much faith. You and I are challenged Challenged by extremes. Satan is not concerned with how you err, simply that you err. The second thing that we can notice from this temptation that we can apply to our lives is that Satan's schemes hold nothing sacred. It's an amazing thing that Satan here quotes Scripture. It is an amazing thing. And it's even more amazing and maybe frightening a little bit to think that Satan probably knows the scripture better than you and me both He's probably one of the first people to get it when it comes off the presses, and I'm sure that he's aware of what it says, and he seeks to use that against us as much as he can. The Bible is not sacred to Satan. Neither is the temple. You see this church right here as an arena where you might be tempted. Do you see your fellowship on weeknights as a place where you may be tempted? Do you see your quiet times as a place where you might be tempted? Remember, Christ is led by the Spirit out in the wilderness in a preparation for ministry like Moses and Elijah before him. There's a sense in which we often don't take Peter's words to heart to be self-controlled and alert. And there's a sense of always Because Satan is like a prowling lion looking just for someone to devour. Now that's a tall order for you and for me to uh be self-controlled and on on the alert against somebody like a devil But it's one that is possible, and I want to tell you why. Because Christ resisted this temptation. Because Christ resisted this temptation, and because he resisted every temptation after this, and because he went to the cross for you and for me. We have access to the throne of grace. We have access to the work of the Spirit in our lives. And we are able to stand. We're able to put on that armor that Paul tells us about in Ephesians 6. And we're able to resist the devil and temptations. I I want to just conclude with a question. In your life, how are you putting the Lord your God to the test? In your life, how are you treating God like a bungee cord? Maybe you're not going to seminary in a way that's irresponsible. But maybe you're doing something else. What temple are you on top of where you're tempted not to take the stairs? If you're not a believer today, if you don't know God, I want you to think about how you're putting God to the test. We're told that God is patient. And we're told that his patience is such that he has with forbearance put up with an awful lot. And in seventeen, in Romans seventeen Pardon me, Acts 17. We read about uh how he is in past put up with ignorance. In the past he has overlooked such things. But now he commands people everywhere to repent. Are you putting God to the test? Are you trying his patience? There's only three responses that the people give to that. Some scoff. Others say to Paul I'd like to hear more. And yet others believe and follow him. I want to challenge you to think about this God who commands our obedience, even as we heard earlier, who's given us his law And who's promised to meet all of our needs out of his glorious riches as we sang, but who has also given us his spirit, given us wisdom, that gift from God in order to live in a way that is pleasing And glorifying to him. Let's pray. Father God, we thank you so much for your spirit. We thank you so much for the way in which you uh You have promised that the work that He has begun in us will be carried on to completion. And Lord, we eagerly look forward to that day when you return, when that work is completed. And when we uh when our redemption as sons and daughters is complete, Father, we thank you for your word. We ask that you apply it to our hearts that we might be transformed more into your likeness. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.