I am both excited and elated about the possibility of proclaiming God's word to you at the same time. I feel a certain amount of unease. I certainly am gratified to hear that many of you have been praying for me and I hope that uh What I pray will be good for each one of you. Pray that whether I believe well or poorly, that Christ will do draw forwards and that God will be glorified. As you know, the topic of the message of this Sunday and next is going to be Christ's second coming. Today we're going to be talking about the presentity of Christ. Second coming, and next week we'll be talking about the circumstances surrounding the second coming. The New Testament teaches that Jesus Christ is going to return bodily at the end of time to judge all men and to bring in the restoration of all things. Someone has counted the verses in the New Testament that speak of Christ's Second Coming and discovered that Christ's Second Coming is spoken of in one out of every thirteen verses in the New Testament. Testament and in the epistles alone is spoken of the second coming is spoken of in one of every ten verses. So you see that this doctrine is one of ten verses important in the New Testament. However, this is in the days before Christ's first time When people misunderstood what his coming would be like, what kind of kingdom he would be in, so today many people misunderstand what Christ's second coming is going to be like. We have many people who do a great deal of speculating about the kind of coming that the second coming is going to be Elaborate speculations about his coming to establish an earthly kingdom in Palestine, much like the one that the youth of Christ's first coming accepted. Many people become very dogmatic about these uh speculations that they make about Christ's second coming, and in many cases make one's belief about Christ's second coming at testament In fact, in many of these circles, the kind of thinking that goes on is more like a Christianized kind of astrology. rather than a reverent study of God's Word. And it is in reaction to a lot of this kind of thinking about Christ's second coming that many evangelical Christians don't talk about about it in lessons. So tend to uh put it aside to talk rather about life summing the first time to contrast him in depth about the Lordship of Christ, about the things that we should do in response and obedience to Him in His life. And we don't talk much about His Second Coming But even though many of the ideas about his second coming are distorted and abused, we still need to look at God's word to find out what it's says about God's second coming. You have to avoid the experience of either on the one hand ignoring what the Bible teaches about the Second Coming and on the other hand having an accepted confirmation with the circumstances that will surround us up and coming. So we need to see what exactly the Bible teaches about Christ will crown at the end of the age, and also about what we are required to believe. above five seconds coming. So with that in mind, let's turn to Acts chapter 1 and read verses 1 to 11. That will separate for what we were about to study. Acts chapter one, verses one through eleven. Let it hear the reading of God's Word. The first account I composed to Apollo about all that Jesus began to do in Greece until the day when he was taken up After he had by the Holy Spirit given orders to the apostles who he had chosen. To these he also presented himself a lie. Of his suffering by many convincing truths, appearing to them over a period of thirty days, and speaking of the things concerning the kingdom of God And gathering them together, he commanded them not to leave Jerusalem, but to wait for what the father had promised, which he said you heard of from So John baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit, not many days from now. And so when they had come together, they were asking him saying, Lord, is it a good time you are Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you shall be my witnesses, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, and even to the remotest part of the earth And after he had said these things, he was lifted up while they were looking on, and the cloud received him out of their sight. And as they were gazing intently into the sky, While he was departing, behold, two men in white clothing stood beside them. And they also said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into the God. This Jesus who has been taken up from you into heaven will come in just the same way as you have watched him go into heaven. That ends the reason of God's word. We see there a very specific reference to Christ Captain Sonics. The example that came down said that we will return. In order to introduce uh to us some of the things that we'll be talking about today, I thought it would be good to refer briefly to uh the topic of beginning and ending. Christ doesn't come in and thinking it's a kind of reference ending. And in fact beginning because that will actually end. All of us are fascinated by beginnings and endings. Little kids, when they become old enough to understand what is going on and ask questions, will often ask us parents, where did I come from? Where did I come? And if it'd be a member of the family guy or a close friend die, they will ask the questions, where did uncle's done go? Where did my plan go? And so they are even curious about beginnings and endings. A great deal of money is spent on archaeology. men and women trying to find out the origins of our culture. We have people very interested in their roots. They dig back into history to find out where they personally seemed from. Who were there for their scientists also founded the beginnings of the universe. A great deal of your path money on that science is done by scientists trying to understand how things began. Also scientists and philosophers are fascinated by science the endings of things. Many people write many words about how it all will end. And so this certainly is something that uh we need to consider. What does the Bible say about beginnings and ending? First of all, the Bible says something about human Human life. Human life is one of those things that we can eat grass, we eat catalogs. We know that we were born. We please small babies being born each day. Not be scared, but often he's even being born. We also see people dying, and we can reflect upon the end of our own lives. The Bible says very clearly in Hebrews 9 27 that it is appointed unto man one And after death comes with judgment. So the Bible teaches that human life is a linear thing. Human life begins and human life begins Many philosophers decide to get around that by proposing that human life is secret, that we are reincarnated to find death into some other form of life. The Bible doesn't The Bible teaches very clearly that our life goes from a beginning to an end. Similarly, the Bible speaks very clearly about the universe having a beginning and an ending. We find one of the pictures uh the Bible gives us of creation. The things that we see around us are the mountains, the trees, the river The valley, the spine, the seeds. All of those things were not there once. At one point, God said, according to his infinite wisdom that he was going to make the universe. And we have recorded in Genesis 1 that story. So we see that the universe did have a beginning. Furthermore, the Bible teaches us that this universe as we know it will have an end. In second Peter three, verses ten to thirteen, we see uh the following. Peter is writing and he says, But the day of the Lord will come and Like a sea, in which the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the elements will be destroyed with intense peace, and the earth and its work will be burned up. Since all these things are to be destroyed in this What sort of people ought we to be in holy conduct and godliness, looking for and hastening the coming of the day of God An account of which the heavens will be destroyed by burnings and the elements will milk melt within ten seeds. But according to his promise, we are are looking for new heavens and a new earth in which life is misdwell. So we see there a promise that one day this earth as we know it will be to be destroyed. So the the earth will have an ending. The universe will have an ending. And it's in this frame of of beginnings and endings that we find God's word being given to us. God's word begins in Genesis with the creation of all things. It ends in the revelation of the description of the enemy. of this view of Z more. And so what we're going to try to do this morning is follow a thread, three that hip six, three that's fabulous, that plant of history we're going to follow a thread from the beginning to the end. You might think that's a often task to try to do and be something like a couple of hours here. But uh we'll we'll That victory I've chosen upon redemptive victory. Redemptive because it reveals God's redemption of people. And so what we will follow is in capital form the history of man from the time he has created until the time Christ comes again. That summary very beautiful is that God made man, he made Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve fell into They rebelled against God. God made a promise that he would come to redeem it to them. And then God's plan unfolded throughout the old testament. You see Noah did respond to God, God's salvation of him. You see Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. You see Moses, you see David, you hear the prophets speak in the Old Testament following the time of David. You see the picture of Christ coming, first time We see his victory over sin and death and Satan. We see his assentance following his death to his throne in heaven. where we reign today. We see him sending the Holy Spirit to the church to empower us, to spread the gospel to all people. And then we see at last Christ coming again. at the end of the ages for the resurrection, the judgment, and the restoration of all things. But that history that we are going to be looking at this morning. You'll look at it in three parts, as you see in the album. The first part will be the Messiah Fourfold in the Old Testament. Second part will be the Messiah present in the New Testament, and then lastly, the Messiah coming at the last day. Well first of all, the Messiah foretold in the Old Testament. If you turn with me to Genesis chapter three, We find there recorded the story of Adam and Eve rebellion against God. We find that God gave instructions to Adam and Eve. Of which too is the knowledge of good and evil. And nevertheless, uh when certain came the country, he indeed read people that food and gave it to Adam and together they sent. And following that occasion, God came and took to uh the woman in particular, but there's no reason to believe that Adam wasn't very good as well. And in verses 14 and 15 there, we find these words And the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you more than all cattle, and more than every beast of the field, on your belly shall you go, and dust shall you eat. all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your food and her food. He shall bruise you on the head, and you shall bruise him on the heel. These virtues provide a true perspective on all of human history. They reveal to us the cosmic conflict between the will of God and the and the role of Satan. They also point to the ultimate outcome of that struggle. We see there the succeed of the woman. You understand that That seed will cross, will bruise the head of the person, Satan, and all he will do will be to bruise the heel of the That's one who was to come. And throughout history, a line can be church of Satan and his efforts to try to force the coming of the truth. A bigger presentation of that. Where Abel was killed by chance. So he was trying to to stop this line from continuing and what we see steps being born and the line continuing down through the down through the ages. So we see from this that a deliverable promise to God. God's people to deliver them from the power of Satan, from the power of sin and death. We see later on, in the life of Abraham, that another promise was given A promise that was closely related to the one given to Adam and Eve in the garden. In Genesis chapter twenty two in verses fifteen through eighteen we find an angel appearing to Abraham saying this then the angel of the Lord called to Abraham a second time From heaven and said, By myself I have sworn to praise the Lord, because you have done this thing and have not withheld your sin. Indeed, I will greatly bless you, and I will greatly multiply your food as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is on the sea shores, and your food shall suggest the gate of the their enemies. And when you appeal, all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed my word. That's what Ms. Made to Abraham, after the word Willingly place his son on the altar about the sacrifice the sons of God's command. And and God made a chronicle that Make it promise that in the food of Abraham all the nations of the earth would be blessed. And indeed, the food of Abraham, again, looking at verse The seed of Abraham will possess the date of their enemy. So once again we see this prophecy of deliverance from the enemy of Satan As well as a promise of blessing to all the nations of the earth. Next, we go on to Take a glimpse of comic Major David. If we turn to Psalms 89, we find in verses 2 and 4 The following words. I have made a covenant with my children. I have sworn to David my servant. I will establish your peace And build up your throne to all generations. If we go on to verse twenty-seven, we find this repeated. I also shall mention my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. My loving kindness I will keep from him for him forever, and my covenant shall be confirmed in him. So I will establish his This prophecy was partially fulfilled when Solomon was born, and Solomon took But only particularly. Because the reference here is to a sound that would be established forever. Something that no earthly person could do. This duality of the deliverer, of the human. The uh fact that he came from the seed of the woman, the seed of agreements, the seed of David, a human, and also the fact that his throne is the effect Forever, for all eternity, tell us the good individual who would come to be our deliverer, if someone unique in history. The prophet Isaiah spoke also of the It's double identity of the Messiah who was to come, to redeem and deliver us of Israel, of God's people. In Isaiah chapter nine, verses six and seven we find those words that are familiar to all of us. For a child will be born to us A son will be given to us, and the government will rest on his shoulders, and his name will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Eternal Father, Prince of Peace. There will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace. On the throne of their living over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness. From then on and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. We see there a reference to a child being born, again a child human some someone who will be born to man a beast of Adam and E Abraham observed. We see also a reference to a son a to a son being given. God gave the son. This was something other than an ordinary baby being born. This was the Son of God being given. We see his true humanity as well as his true divinity revealed to us in this chapter. Additionally we see here a reference to his name being mighty God. Again, a reference to the divinity of this deliverer who would come to to Israel to uh deliver Israel from the power of Satan and evil. Later on, when the angel Gabriel comes to men We find another reference to the one who had sent it to deliver Israel. In Luke chapter one Verses 31 to 33, the angel said, And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. And you shall name him Jesus. He will be graced and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give him the throne of his Father. David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. Again, a reference to a deliverer comes A king coming, whose kingdom would have no end. Someone more than human, someone divine. And then as he heard for the few weeks to see them set up. The truth, Zechariah, on the birth of John the Baptist of Sentinel prophesied in the Benedictus. And in those verses, he also referred to God visiting his people, God coming to his people with a deliverance, with a salvation from their enemies. And we so we see that all of these steps that I've referred to in the old testaments, speaks of a deliverer coming, someone who was redeemed to people, someone who would reign a king over his people forever There are three things you need to remember from the first judgment. Those three things are If this one who would come would deliver his people from the enemy of Satan, this one would be a blessing to all the nations of the earth Yeah. This one who would come would establish a kingdom which would be forever. So remember those three things if you forget everything else that we said. Remember those three things and looking back again in the later chapters. The Old Testament you see looked at history very simply. It looked at at it as a different of God's asking. It looked primarily as creation being that first and mighty after God in the middle of the name. It looked at the fall. It's been that time when man rebelled against God, fell out of fellowship with God, was expelled from the garden, and then it looked For the deliverer to come, the one who will deliver God's people, sons, the power of creating, and the power of sin and death. So creation to fall And the deliverer to come. Well, we come to the second point then. The deliverer did come. The Messiah did come. We find recorded in Luke 2 that story of Christ's birth here on earth, one from the other. The divine son of God And yet the son of Mary. And we see references to that salvation that God provided in the words of people who observed that event. You recall that on the The eighth day after Christ was born, his mother and father took him to the temple or put an earlier there as well for the rite of purification. Jesus was to be circumcised. And on that occasion they missed this old supper in the temple, Simeon. When Simeon thought to baby Jesus And he said these words. Luke chapter 3, verses 29 to 32. Now Lord, God has left thy bonds For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light of revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel. So we see that's then returned to two of these things. He refers to the deliverer, he returned to the salvation of people, and he refers to the doctrine that this delivery reduce to all nations because once he started with baby to marry man could be a life to the grandfather. So we see a fulfillment of that promised in those words. Also in Luke chapter seven, verse fifteen, we see a reference to God visiting a people. Jesus had been passing by the village of men, and as he passed by he saw a funeral profession. A young man was being buried. A young man who was the only son of his mother who was a widow. And when he was raised that one man to life, the people around took note of it, and which is what they said. In Luke chapter 7, verse 15. And Peter gripped them all, and they began glorifying God, saying, A great prophet has arisen among us, and God has visited his people. There we see a reference to the thumbs that Zachariah spoke of and the Benedictus, that God would visit his people, the Pensiah, begin with a deliverance. You see the people outside that novel can entrance. So God visited them. Well, what does Christ do? He didn't just come for a visit. If we think of a visit, just flip around and go back And what he did, we can divide into three things again. The number three is the convenient number, so it's easy to divide into the three Once you stand up there, it becomes very important. Christ did three things. The first thing was to live a holy life, a sinless life. And then to sacrifice that life on our behalf to pay for our sins. In that sacrifice, he won a victory over sin. The second thing he did was after his death he rose again. He won a victory over death. The third thing he did, by resistance that we had Templation in the wilderness, by perfectly obeying his father during his life, and by his death and resurrection, he delivered a death glory saving it. That swepting of the head that was referred to second Genesis three, fifteen, and fifteen. In doing those things to God His presence And so the three things that he did were we conquered sin, we conquered death, and we conquered Satan. You find a reference to this in Hebrews chapter 2. Verses 14 and 15. In that passage we find the word that through death he might render powerless him who has the power of death, that is the devil, and might deliver those who fear of death were subject to slavery all their lives. So we see there that that first promise to Adam The second point in that second session, I put in the outline, is the two reign. When French came, there was more to it than just winning this guy over Because you remember in the Old Testament, the prophecies referred to a king, someone who would come to rule the kingdom forever for all eternity. What kind of kingdom was that? Well, we don't have time to go into a deep depression of that kingdom that would take many centuries But what we want to do is take a quick language of something about that kingdom before we go on. In John chapter 18, verse 36, readers and questions by power. And in response to one of Pilate's questions, Jesus said this, My kingdom, the phase of Christianity My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then my servants would be fighting that I might not be delivered up to the Jews. But as it is, my kingdom is not of this realm. Even the claim of this kingdom is primarily a spiritual kingdom, not a physical kingdom. The kingdom does, however, have a physical manifestation in each one of us, because we as believers are in his kingdom. And so there is that physical manifestation of it. Another time when Jesus was being questioned by the Pharisees as to when the kingdom of God would come. He recognted in this way in Luke chapter 17, verses 20 to 71. He refused, the kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be able to do Verse, nor will they say, Look, here it is, it's there there. For behold, the kingdom of God is in your meet. But then in Matthew chapter seven, verses twenty-one The Son of Christ, Peter said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But he who does the will So here we find Jesus speaking of his kingdom in two ways. He says, Look, the kingdom is right here. You are forming in the midst of it. And another time he refers to people entering his kingdom is some people town. And we see that throughout the New Testament, even in the writings of Paul, that the kingdom over which Christ is his king is a kingdom that is already here, but is not yet here in its fullness. And so the Christian lives in a sort of tension between the already and the not yet. We are caught between that. And many times uh we have problems understanding just what that is. That we take what the Bible says That the kingdom was here when Jesus was here, the kingdom is here, embodied in its sense, but yet there is a time when the kingdom will be consummated. Finally, at the last day, the Christ will come and take up his thing and on On that occasion, the kingdom will be consummated. Following Christ's work on earth, following his life and his death, he ascended to heaven, and there he waits interceding for it, waiting for all of his people to be gathered in. He waits for the restoration of all things, so we find in Acts chapter 2 three nineteen to twenty one. Peter in his great term refers to the fact that heaven must receive Christ until a restoration of all things. So there we see an indication that something more is going to happen. After Christ ascended and gave the Holy Spirit to the church, there is more. There will come a time when things will be restored So if we look now, as we conclude our thinking on section two of the outline, the Magia present in the in the the New Testament. We we want to look again at those two points I mentioned in the first section. First of all, Christ came as He delivered his people by coming and conquering sin, death, and plague. He began his rule when he ascended to his throne in heaven. There are many references in scripture to him attending that film following the leaving of the earth. He also began to collect the nations of the earth by establishing He sits, empowered by the Holy Spirit, and now wait for that blessing to be complete. So we see that in his coming he indeed did satisfy those who prophecies. But there is still more to come because his reign is not yet complete. His blessing has not reached to all the And so we come to the third point. The Messiah is coming at the last day. Looking at Acts chapter 1 verse 11, we see a simp stated differently that this is not Christ dropped into the sides, so you will see him from again. He is coming. What the Old Testament prophets saw as a deliverer and king coming to redeem and rule God's people We see in the New Testament as an advanced structure in it. Recall that in the Old Testament the picture thing to do that the things of God were looking for a deliverer to come. That was all they knew. They knew that God had made them. They knew that they had come. And they knew that a deliverer would come. But they didn't know all the circumstances of it. coming. And the New Testament fills that in for us. And while next Sunday we'll be spending a lot of time talking about those circumstances, today we want to talk about them any reference to the certainty of Christ coming. We see then that Christ came, he trust Satan in order that he be a blessing to all the nations, he sent his holy spirit church to empower the church to spread the gospel. He picked up his throne when he ascended to heaven. Now, the Queen quiet Christ's first and second coming. we have what we call in a limited sense the curse age. That is not the meaning that atoms was not in the curse. But what we mean when we use this period of curk age is that period of time In the New Testament, that first day, that period of time, it's means by first coming and second coming, is spoken of is the last days. We often find people uh using the term the last days in a way that isn't awfully helpful. Uh they think of the last days We'll talk a lot more about this next Sunday. But for now, let me replace the Hebrews chapter one. Hebrews chapter one Verses one and two. God, after he spoke long ago to the fathers and the Prophets in many fortunes and in many ways, in these last days, have spoken to us in his son, whom he appointed heir of all things. So we see that Christ came in the last days. See, just as the Old Testament believers understood it, that the Lord That deliverance would be the last thing of this church. And so when Christ came, it was the last day. And we see that during this period of the last days, the church Empowered by the Holy Spirit, proclaimed the gospel, proclaimed the good news of salvation to all the nations of the world. But then there will come a last day. We saw a reference to that in that passage from Second Peter that we read at the very beginning. They looked on their last days at the conclusion of these last days. And in that last day, sometimes Sometimes referred to as the day of judgment, sometimes referred to as the day of the Lord, if it was referred to in Second Peter. Several things happen. On that day, Christ will return On that day we find mention in John 6 verse 40, there will be a resurrection of all the dead. On that day we find mention in John 12, 40. There will be a judgment. On that day following the resurrection of judgment, there will also be the restoration of all things. And so I want to bring to my attention several passages that bring this out, bring out the fact that on this last Christ will come as king, he will come as judge, and he will come as our Savior. These passages have so much power in them that they're little I can add to them in terms of uh making them seem more real to you. So without a vocal comment, we will read some passages to describe. So coming on that day. The first one is found in the Revelation chapter one, verses four to seven. Revelation Revelation chapter one, verses four to seven, in which we have Christ spoken of a coming extreme. John is writing here and he says, John to the seven churches that are in Asia, Grace to you in peace from him who is and who was and who is become and from the seven faces who are before his throne, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the death, and the ruler of the sins of the earth, to him who loves us and releases us from our sins by his And he has made us to be accommodated, priests to his God and Father. To him be the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen. Behold, he is coming with the cloud, and every eye will see him, even those who feared him, and all the clouds of Europe will mourn over him, even so We see that beautiful picture of Christ coming as king, as ruler of all things on that last day. We also see in the New Testament the picture of Christ coming as a judge, as one who would drudge all the peoples of the earth. We call in the Old Testament with the liber with the little or who would come to God's people would also judge the enemies of God's people, that enemy being epitomized in Satan. So in Second Thessalonians chapter one would be a reference to Christ's coming as judge. Chapter One verses six through ten. For after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to give relief to you who are afflicted, and to us as well, when the Lord Jesus could be revealed from heaven. with its mighty angels and slain by us, ruling out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. And these will pay the premises of the son of the Away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. When he promised to be glorified, in its name On that series, and to be marveled at among all who have believed, for our testimony to you was believed. Today we see a picture. It's like coming to drugs All men. We'll refer more to that in a moment. In Second Corinthians we find another reference to Christ coming on that last day of the death. In Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 10 believe, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may be recompensed for the deeds of In the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. For there will come a time when Christ replace, and all men will stand beforehand and have to give an account of what they have done, whether they did for them good or evil, whether they have cast themselves upon Christ for God's mercy or whether they have been depending on their own word to save them. But this time will not be a time only of judgment. This will be a time of salvation for God God's people. Same back to Hebrews chapter nine. We find a reference there to the salvation of the Son of God's people on Christ's return. Hebrews chapter nine Verses 27 to 28. And inasmuch as it is appointed for man to die once and after To those who eagerly awaken, that's the salvation. It would be there on that last day. For the temple's last, it will be a time of salvation. the time of rejoicing. And then following that time of judgment, that time of testing for all men, there will be the restoration, which it looks like in the Old Testament and in the Bruce. We find that restoration pictured in Isaiah fifty five in a way that kind of picture In Isaiah chapter 65, verses 17 to 19, you find a picture there of what is what is in store for God's peace for those who believe in him. Isaiah 55, verse 17. For behold, I create a new heavens and a new earth. And the former things shall not be remembered or come to mind. But be glad and rejoice forever in what I create. For behold, I create the each and I shall rejoice in. And the people for gladness. I I will also rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad in my people. And there will no longer be heard in her the voice of weakness and the sound of crying. That same sentiment, that same feeling, that same understanding is given in Revelation chapter 21, verses 1 to 4. Revelation chapter 21, 1 to 4. John says, And I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth passed away, and there was no longer any peace. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride again for her husbands. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is among men, and he shall dwell among them, and they shall be his people, and God in the God shall be among them, and he shall wipe every fear from their eyes. And there shall no longer be any death. There shall no longer be any mourners. We see there a reference to the final conclusion. The final conclusion Of all those prophecies from the Old Testament. The deliverer of Cain delivered his people from the power of the enemy's servants. Frove his spirits to bless all the nations. And then the kingdom will be consummated on that last day. The kingdom which is begun on the appendor throne, following His resurrection will be completed and consummated on that day when we return. For the particular true and broad stroke of Christ Second coming is that it's intimately tied up in the first coming. It's part and parcel with that deliverance that the Old Testament saint looked for. In those last days, the seed is first coming in the second coming Over sinning death, ascending to the throne of his father, to rule the kingdom, sending the Holy Spirit to his church to empower it. And then coming again on that last day when all other people have been gathered and on that last list he wrap almonds from the birds, to judge almonds, and then to re A new heaven, a new earth, a new people. That is what the Old Testament saints look for. That is what we look for. So in conclusion, we can say that More perhaps more certainly than anything else we can say that Christ is indeed coming to complete that work which he began. The prophets propose