If you have your Bibles turn to Philippians, Matt Bowling has been looking at a series looking at the attributes of God. I am working through a series in the book of Philippians looking at our joy in Christ. Today we begin this last section of Philippians. It is the concluding remarks. It's Paul's final exhortations, his encouragements to his friends. His partners in the gospel. And he's woven together three primary themes that you find throughout all over the letter: joy, steadfastness, and unity. They're prevalent everywhere. And we'll take the next several sermons to walk through this concluding section and look at the various challenges to our joy in Christ. And today we're going to look at anxious worry. Now, verses 4 through 9 actually fit very well together. But we're going to save 8-9 until next time. This morning, hear from God's Word, Philippians chapter 4, verses 4 through 7. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Father in heaven, would you help us to understand this passage? But even more importantly, would you transform us? Would you renew our mind and renew our heart according to your word, so that we might with great joy follow in your word? To know it, to believe it, to walk in it. Help us to do these things, O Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. A number of years ago, Bob Newhart guest starred on a sketch comedy show called Mad TV. I couldn't remember if I've shared this before because it's one of my favorites and maybe you have heard of this. But in one of the sketches, he played a therapist. And he's meeting with a new client, and that client is sharing about why she's there. He's inviting her. He's like, hey, tell me what's going on. What would you like to talk about? The client begins saying, I have an intense fear of being buried alive in a box. I start thinking about being buried alive and I start to panic. Well, Bob Newhart's character, the therapist, asks a very poignant, clever, clinical question. Has anyone ever tried to bury you alive in a box? Of course, she replies no. But truly, when I think about it, it makes my life horrible. I can't go through tunnels. I I can't be in an elevator. I can't be in a house or anything boxy. And, you know, Bob Newhart's taking this in. He's listening. And he says, I'm gonna tell you two words. I want you to carefully listen to them. I want you to take them from this place, and I want you to incorporate them into your lives. He pauses, he leans in, and he just yells, Stop it! And they go back and forth a little bit, but each time that's his reply, stop it Now, of course, the client is certainly, she's kind of taken aback by this approach. She doesn't understand what he's saying. And she's very aware about the fear that's very real to her, and she begins to say, uh and it to explain and and he's like no no we don't we don't go there uh just stop it um now this is a sketch this is comedic relief uh but it touches a button doesn't it I mean some of you in this space might have even gotten anxious thinking about being buried alive in a box, thinking about going in a tunnel. Or being in tight spaces like an elevator full of people. We're an anxious people, are we not? According to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America, anxiety disorders are the most common mental illness in the U. S. affecting approximately 40 million people. That's about 18% of adults, and it affects approximately 25% of children between the ages of 13 and 18. Now, anxiety disorders are highly treatable, yet less than 40% of those suffering receive treatment. Such anxiety can be associated with social anxieties, specific phobias, chronic pain, chronic stress. Obsessive-compulsive behaviors, post-traumatic stress, other mental health symptoms like depression often is associated with it, or other physical illnesses. Now we can speak of anxiety in a more as descriptions for more clinical diagnosis, and we can speak of anxiety as in a general sense of worry. It impacts us, but it may not overly impact our lives too negatively. And today's text addresses this: it addresses the peace of God Now I believe the Word of God is sufficient. I believe the Word of God is trustworthy concerning God and His people, and I also think God, in His wisdom. And his kindness, he works through common grace to provide help. So I encourage anyone to pursue additional help and care for specific debilitating anxiety. And the symptoms that surround that, that so negatively impact your life. And because today it speaks about the peace of God. Now It's certainly relevant to that more clinical, more debilitating anxiety. But today I have in mind the more general anxious worry of our hearts. And so, regardless of where you find yourself on this spectrum of severity, we want to. We long to be free from anxious worry. Such worry consumes us, it impacts our lives, it frustrates our relationships. We all want the anxious, the anxiety, the anxious worry to go away, and we want peace. And how we get that sometimes feels elusive, feels outside our grasp. And God's peace sometimes feels out of grasp. Our anxious worries eat away our joy in Christ. So, how do we cultivate it? How do we cultivate joy in Christ despite experiencing worry in our hearts? And so today's text reminds us of that. You see, Jesus is our peace. Jesus is our peace, and so we must engage him with all of our anxious worry. Now, if you're note takers, you can jot these three phrases down. Our spiritual devotion. Our personal interactions and the peace that God gives. Our spiritual devotion, our personal interactions, and the peace God gives. Now, before we go much further, I want to emphasize that big idea, the big point, that Jesus is our peace. Paul is talking about the peace of God. And in verse 7 of our text this morning, he's connecting God's peace with Jesus. And Jesus himself in John 14, verse 27, says, Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Jesus is our peace. So let's first look at how we must engage the Lord with our anxious worry. And so we engage the Lord in our spiritual devotion. Look with me at verse 6 first. This is going to be my biggest, longest point, but it's where our focus goes, right? We're anxious, we don't want to be anxious. He's telling us not to be anxious, so we've got to stop being anxious, right? Stop it. Is that what Paul's saying? I don't think so. Verse 6: Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. The anxious worry of our hearts creates more anxiety. The more we stop to focus on how we are being anxious. The more we try to stop, the more we get anxious. It's the worst thing you can tell an anxious person, right? It's a terrible advice, Bob Newhart. Stop it, it doesn't work. But here we see it is a command from Scripture. So how do we wrestle with that? Paul is not saying, nor is he expecting that you can change your anxious worry from within yourself. He offers a way for reflecting on what makes you worry. And he's offering a way to entrust them to the Lord. It is more about growing a heart of trust than lives without worry. When Jesus was going around preaching about the kingdom, he spent a lot of time talking about this. In Matthew 6, Jesus says, you can flip over to Matthew 6. Therefore, I tell you, do not be anxious about your life, what you will eat, or what you will drink. nor about your body what you will put on. Is not life more than food, and the body more than clothing? Look at the birds. Of the air. They neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them Are you not more valuable than they? And which of you being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field How they grow, they neither toil nor spin. Yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which today is alive, And tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you, O you of little faith? Therefore, do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat? Or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your Heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Therefore, do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. That resonates with our experience, doesn't it? Something he said Several thousands of years ago resonates deeply within us. Those things are on our minds Now last week Matt Bowling referred uh to Tim Chester's four G's uh and he provided a chart. Last week he talked about God's goodness. And this morning I'm going to briefly mention one, although he's going to kind of expand that chart more in the weeks and months ahead, but it's relevant to what we're talking about today. Paul is showing us that the way we engage the Lord in our spiritual devotion is uh it comes from cultivating our sense of God's greatness. Do you see even how Jesus went from the lesser to the greater? He goes from the birds of the air and the lilies of the field to you. How is something that is of God's creation that is cared for, how is then he going to look over in the ways that you need to be cared for? The greatest nightmare for our anxious worry is uncertainty. Because of uncertainty, we seek control Control over our circumstances, control over our security, control over our possessions. Could you hear that in Jesus' teaching? We are ensnared by this intense drive for control. Because whether we are self-aware or not, Deep down, deep down in our heart, it runs a narrative like this. Life only has meaning. Or something like, I can only have worth if I'm able to get mastery over my life in the area of fill-in-the-blank. It could be life only has meaning if you master your finances. Life only has meaning if you protect yourself from everything that could be taken away. Everything that threatens your security, your safety. It could be that life only has meaning if whatever we think will evaporate the worry of our heart. But that is exactly why the worry of our heart rarely decreases. You're focusing on the worry, not on the root of what drives the worry. It's incredibly important. Think of it like a seesaw. whatever you envision peace to be on the other side. And the the center fulcrum of that seesaw is control. The problem is we like to control those things that we either don't have responsibility for or we seek to control the things that we can't control. And so not only are we worried about our worries, but it's exacerbated by the fact that we're trying to grasp and hold on to control. The seesaw doesn't work. The terms that Paul uses here in this passage, prayer, supplication, requests, all these terms are related to prayer that he's talking about. So even to stop and think of a simple word like what is prayer? What is it? One way to define it would be that prayer is simply just offering up our desires to God. And we we do that as Jesus teaches, that we do this in the name of Christ, and we do it by the help of the Holy Spirit. And at the basic levels, as we're communicating our desires to God, We are engaging our heart with humility that we are full of sin, but we're also full of need. And we're acknowledging that it is only Christ Himself who can deal with that sin and provide our needs. And so we come in prayer with thankfulness, acknowledging his mercies. And we can pray for all sorts of things. Just think of all the things that you can be anxious about. Who's who's up to one, two, ten, fifteen, thirty, a hundred? We can stay here and quiet and make it really awkward and we just keep thinking about it, right? But I don't have to do that because you're already doing it. Our minds and our hearts gravitate toward the anxiety, the worry of our heart. But we can pray for all sorts of things. We can pray for anything that involves the glory of God. Those things that that build up the welfare of the church. Those things that provide the good for others and ourselves. And all these things are as the Lord taught us to pray in the Lord's Prayer as well. Your will be done. These things are to be done for the glory of God, but also in light of what is good and what is right according to the will of God. We can pray for those leaders who are serving Christ's Church. We can pray for leaders who are serving the public good. We can pray for our family. We can pray for our friends. And the Lord even invites us to pray for our enemies. Paul Miller in his book, A Praying Life, Connecting with God in a Distracting World is a great book. If you haven't read it, I I strongly recommend it. What I like about the book, not only does it talk about what prayer is and methods for prayer and incorporating them in your own spiritual devotional life. He spends a great deal of time talking about why don't we pray? And I think that's where the explorations of our heart have so much fruit. Of what our anxious worry prevents us from going to the Lord. In that book, he says this: prayer is asking God to incarnate, to get dirty in our life. Yes, the eternal God scrubs floors. For sure we know he washes feet, so take Jesus at his word. Ask him Tell him what you want. Get dirty. Write out your prayer requests. Don't mindlessly drift through life on the American narcotic of busyness. If you try to seize the day, the day will eventually break you. Seize the corner of his garment and don't let go until he blesses you. He will reshape the day. In the same book, Paul Miller observes that both naive optimism on one hand, but also kind of a cold cynicism hinders our spiritual devotion in prayer. He says, in naive optimism, we don't need to pray because everything is under control. In cynicism, we can't pray because everything is out of control and little is possible. In naive optimism, we don't pray because we don't need to. In the cynicism of our heart, we can't pray because it's overwhelming. And that naive optimism is usually shattered. And so a key means of God's grace to you is for you to seek his greatness and his kingdom. By engaging the Lord in prayer, you are acknowledging his greatness, his will, his provision, his power. In prayer, we are exchanging our worries To receive his grace. We ask for our daily bread and express our needs, not because he doesn't know them already, but because he is the true source of joy in trusting in his sovereign care. It's it's like the uh Narnian horse uh named Fledge in the magician's nephew. Polly and Diggory are having a conversation, Fledge is there, and they're having a conversation about somebody could have been arranging their meals. And Fledge says, I'm sure Aslan would have if you'd asked him. Polly then asks, wouldn't he know without being asked? Fledge says, I've no doubt he would, but I've sort of the idea he likes to be asked. And so when we come to the Lord in prayer, it is not focusing on that you are to not be anxious no longer in your own strengths, but rather it's living a life without worry because you're trusting in the Lord. And so that brings us to our second point, looking at where we must engage the Lord with our anxious worry. And we do that by engaging the Lord in our personal interactions. Look at verses four and five. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Here in these verses, Paul is giving two commands. First, rejoice. Dick Stumm said great things at the beginning of the service of rejoicing in the Lord. There's a great Charles Wesley and hymn, rejoice, I say again, rejoice. These things of being brought uh caught up in the greatness of God moves our affections. to take great joy and delight in who he is. And here Paul is beginning to conclude his remarks. of the whole letter. And he's returning to a theme that he has said again and again throughout the letter regarding joy. Go back and look at it even this afternoon. Joy is in every chapter in the book of Philippians And so here he's encouraging Christians, saying that they must rejoice. Rejoicing. Rejoicing is to enjoy a state of happiness and well-being. It's an affection of our heart that positively impacts so much. It impacts our outlook and perspective. But it also is an attitude that shines forth and becomes contagious, offering encouragement and building up the faith of others. So this rejoicing is to be done because you are responding to God's goodness in your life. But then it becomes also something that the church is doing because we're seeing God's goodness happening all over the place. When I am not seeing it and I am overwhelmed with my anxiety, I am strengthened and encouraged when I see you rejoicing. When you are down and anxious and overwhelmed, you are encouraged and built up when you see me rejoicing. This is not Pat, this is not fake, this is not pretending or performing with a spiritual kind of piece of or uh some butter on a piece of toast, this is authentic, true, and deep of what is the wellspring of our heart to the Lord. This brings us to the second verb in these in these verses four and five, where he says, Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. Now, uh if you're using another translation, it might say gentleness. I actually like the word gentleness a little bit better in this translation, but both of them get at the same thing. It's a character trait. that exhibits a courteous, kind, gentle forbearance. It's reflecting something about your inner life But it is experienced by others in your outer life. For example, Paul uses this in Titus 3, verse 2, to speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, quarreling, to be gentle. And to show perfect courtesy toward all people. And James uses it in his letter in chapter 3, verse 17. But the wisdom from above is first pure. Then peaceable, gentle, open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits, impartial and sincere. Although it's a different word being used in the original, it's the same family of words that come from the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians chapter 5. Gentleness is a fruit of the Spirit. That is born in our lives. It's experienced in our hearts and it is reflected to one another and to a watching world. Paul is saying that Christians are to have this inner life that cultivates a gentleness rooted in Christ. But it is meant to be expressed. It's not just private. It's not just to yourself. And it's not also a disconnection between, well, I believe this. But I am certainly acting a fool over here in this way. Paul is always holding these things together. He is saying that our reputations must be known to reflect this reasonableness, this kindness. It's not a strategy. It's not a way to only win the argument. It's not to be the better person. It is to be It is to be something that is reflecting of who you are in Christ because that is who he is. He is gentle and lowly, he is kind So may this be the reputation of you. May this be the reputation of Columbia Presbyterian Church. And may this be the reputation of Christ Church around the world. Sometimes it is, and sadly it is not. Now where does the motivation come? From doing these things, from rejoicing and making our gentleness be known. Well, the motivation comes from the gospel. The gospel here in these verses is the proclamation that what? The Lord is at hand. Now you can look at this in two ways. It could be that that Paul has Jesus' future return in view. So he would be emphasizing the encouragement to rejoice and to be reasonable because the Lord is coming. But it also could be Jesus' present nearness that's in view, thus emphasizing the encouragement that because the Lord is always near, we are not to be anxious about any saying. So one emphasizes what kind of comes before it, the other kind of emphasizes what comes after it. But I'm of the view that it's actually ambiguous on purpose, that it's both. The placement of this phrase, the Lord is near is the present encouragement to practice these things, and it is the future reality as a motivator to continue practicing them. Smooshed in between what we are to be doing and rejoicing and expressing our very character of gentleness is to. To be hinged that the Lord is near and present. This is the gospel motivation. This is the reality of how then we can go into verse six. of living without worry. Because remember the fulcrum? Remember the the seesaw It doesn't change because we're in two places. We're in the worry side of the seesaw, and we want to be the fulcrum. It doesn't work because you can't be in the two places. You have to relinquish control, and the one who is the fulcrum, Jesus Christ, is the one that is at hand. That is how we move into the rejoicing. That is how we move into living a life without worry. Not a carefree attitude as if it doesn't matter, but because we know the Lord is near and he cares He knows what we need, and he wants us to be with him and engage him, trusting him, depending upon him. So look where you have personal interactions with others. Is your rejoicing empowering how you interact with people? Do you, do people, do people in your life experience you as gently forbearing? If you're like me, we don't do this perfectly. But it's an opportunity to repent in our hearts to the Lord, and it's an opportunity to go and have our relationships renewed by acknowledging where we have fallen short. And saying, my Lord is gentle. And I want to be like my Lord. And he gives me the grace so that I might walk in his steps. It's easy to rejoice and be fair-minded when things are going well, though. As you explore your heart of anxious worry, you will come face to face to the challenges of your joy in Christ. when things are not going according to your plan. So this is an invitation for prayerful reflection. Asking the Lord to search your heart to help you understand more about what is holding its grip on you, that you would look to what triggers your anxious worry. Remember, it's usually connecting very deep down when our sense of present comfort is threatened or our future security is uncertain. Why does Jesus spend so much time talking about this? Why is Paul spending so much time to talk about this? Our anxious worry eats away our joy in Christ. But the call to rejoice in all things is because joy evaporates our anxious worry. So it's very important that we engage God, asking Him to help us understand our inner lives, our affections of our hearts. And this work is deep. It's deep soul work to reflect and understand what heightens. our anxious worry. And likewise, it is deep soul work to reflect and understand what we are looking for to meet our joy. We all want joy. What are we seeking to find fulfillment in that joy? What is the source of that joy? And Paul is directing us to the Lord Jesus Himself. And that brings us to our last point and final remarks. We can look uh at why we must engage the Lord with our anxious worry. On the surface, we want the worry to go away. We want peace because we want the absence of discomfort. But we must engage the Lord with the peace that he gives. As I mentioned from John 14 earlier, it is Jesus Himself who offers himself. Paul says this in verse 7. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. This peace of God comes from being in Christ. Our joy that we're longing for comes when it's fulfilled in Christ Jesus. This phrase, will guard, is an interesting uh military word, actually. And I can't help but think about the context of Paul writing to his friends in this Roman colony in Philippi. Where there would be a Roman garrison and and we've looked at in the past how there might be many veterans who are kind of living in this place. When you have power and strength, you're guarded. You're protected. Things are more certain. You can control things. But he is saying the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Now he's saying kind of with two things, one thing, two words, one thing, our hearts and our minds. He's getting at the the our very core of our affections, the very um kind of centerpiece of of our makeup, our our our When the Bible talks about our hearts, it's talking about our our whole being. Our think, our thoughts, our feelings, our choices, all these things wrapped up. And the word minds here is specifically thoughts. We'll come back to that more next time too as we go into verses eight and nine. But it's the peace of God that He gives. of himself that we find that we are within his provision and we are within his protection. David Pallison in his book Overcoming Anxiety, Relief for Worried People, says this. The antidote to anxiety is not some mental trick. Like rehearse some Bible truth. So, although I would encourage you to memorize this passage, I think it's wonderful to dwell on the Word of God, to recall it to your mind. Put it into practice. Those are great parts of our spiritual devotional lives as well. But it's not magic. It's not a it's not a mantra. It's not something that we just use to trick ourselves in our heads. It's not to rehearse some Bible truth. Say this calming promise over and over to yourself. Remind yourself that you are a child of God and your anxiety will disappear. Although that's true, we are not to use God in a controlling way as the way to dissipate our worry. No, Palison writes, he uh God is after bigger game. You are his child, and he wants a relationship with you. He wants you to talk to him. He intends for your anxiety, your troubles, your response to your troubles to drive you to him. He doesn't intend for us to artificially calm ourselves with truisms. God's peace comes to us as our relationship with Him becomes deeper, more honest, and more intimate. So Bob Newhart's funny. I I love the I love it. It's it really I watch it probably a couple times a year. Um That's a little weird to say out loud, but I do. It's funny because it resonates with our desire. We want things to stop. We want to tell people to stop. The Lord tells us to stop. But the way the Lord does it, He says, cease from striving and know that I am the Lord. Find your peace in me, and I will transform you. So I end with this prayer. Prayer is praying for people. It's praying for our needs. But prayer is praying as an act of prayerfulness. It is our spiritual devotion. It's how we also, with the wellspring of our heart in the Lord, interact with one another. It's part of our worship. It's our awe and wonder for the fullness of God. And engaging God in prayer is a key way that we are transformed by His grace. A lot of times our anxiety and the worries of our day, they don't go away. We have responsibilities that are here that we have to interact with. But we go to the Lord to engage our anxious worry because we need his grace. We need his strength and endurance. We need his wisdom to know how to move forward. We don't go forward in our own strength, and we don't stop and quit because we don't want to deal anymore. We keep moving forward because the Lord calls us to himself and he calls us to live a life to his glory and for the good of others. This living our lives without worry is not some kind of spiritual mysticism that we can just do by just stopping and and and getting rid of all of our worries and getting rid of all of these things, the attachments of our of our lives. But it's proper stewardship of them, recognizing that they are needs. But it's trusting the Lord for them, experiencing his peace. That surpasses all understanding. This peace will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Let us pray Father in heaven, we give you thanks. We rejoice. We rejoice in our pains. We rejoice in our pleasures. We rejoice in our kindnesses. that we receive from you and from other people in our lives. May we bring our needs to you Give us the eyes to see them. Give us the wisdom to discern our hearts so that we might run to you. to find that you consider us of more value than the birds of the air and the lilies of the field. To know that you provide all that we need and you are the source of all of our joy. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.