How many of you who are married in this room have heard your spouse say to you at one point or another You're just like your dad or you're just like your mother. How many of you have heard that said to? How many of you have heard that said in a tone that made you realize that was not intended as a compliment. Yeah. And now I can also ask how many of you heard that more than a dozen times and on and on and on. But uh What happens when you hear that? You hear that and your your immediate response is, no, I'm not. I love my dad. I love my mom. Don't tell me I'm like him. And then uh maybe you calm down a little bit and uh after a while you agree and you say, Well, um, yeah, maybe I am. But you realize that that area that your spouse is bringing to your attention is not an area that you particularly admire in your mother or your father. And so you're frustrated and you say, you know, I always said I hated that in my mom or my dad, and I was never gonna be like that. Now why in the world am I just like that You know, you say you're you're you're controlling just like your mom. You pout just like your dad, you know And there's these things in you and you're thinking, you know, if there's anything I determined that I would not be, he was like my mother or my father in that area Why is it that I'm becoming like that? I just can't seem to help myself. Well you look at your kids Why is it that we look at our kids and see only the bad things in us that they replicate? Why couldn't you be industrious and loyal? and uh faithful and responsible like me. You know, why do you have to be stubborn like me? Why do you have to be blame shifting like me? You know, those kinds of things. Why do these things replicate from generation to generation in spite of our efforts to stop it? Let me offer to you a thesis. Character is contagious and will replicate itself where there is an emotional focus. Where there is a primary emotional focus, be it positive or negative. We will become just like the person that we're fixed on in our deepest emotions. Who's your deepest emotional focus this morning? Is it your dad? Is it your mom? Worship the Lord Jesus. Ah I know. You're all saying, oh, the Lord Jesus. Because you know that's what you want to say. And that's what you would like to think is true But in fact, if you are angry at your mom or your dad, and you have not broken the chain of that anger If you have never forgiven them for the pain, for the disappointment that you feel like you've experienced at them, if you've never forgiven them, if you're still bitter, You will become like them. It's an amazing thing. Kathy's brother does not have any closeness, let's put it that way, toward their dad. If you asked our brother who he would see as his role model, one of the last people he'd pick would be his dad. And yet the whole family will always agree whenever they're together. John is just like his dad. He's exactly like him. Why? Because whether it is positive of love, or whether it is anger and bitterness, or even hatred, that person becomes our emotional focus. And even if it's a negative emotional focus, it becomes the controlling image and pattern for our life. Now what's all this have to do with Psalm 112? Psalm 112 we've looked at for four weeks. We did it in connection with promise keepers to see the promise that the Lord gives to us The ultimate promise keeper, the promise for families concerning kids. From Psalm 112 we saw that verse one, Blessed is the man who fears the Lord and finds great delight in his commands. If this is what We as parents do the condition. Then we will be able to claim the promise. Verse 2, His children will be mighty in the land or the kingdom. The generation of the upright will be blessed or saved. Now I said that uh there is first of all the promise, and we looked at that a few weeks ago, the salvation, and in fact the going on beyond us of our kids. In the things of the Lord. We looked at secondly the conditions, the fear of the Lord, living in a continual awareness that I am thinking, speaking, and acting in the presence of a holy, just and almighty God who hates sin. Which drives me to faith in Christ, whose record imputed to me, accounted to my record, is sufficient for 100% of God's requirements. That's just from your bulletin outline, summing it up And then, and by the way, that should be a Roman numeral. The A and the B under two should be a Roman numeral one and two. And then there's the delighting in his commands that we looked at. I delight in them because they are good like God and because they are good for me. My kids should see a delight, not just a duty in serving the Lord that is contagious. And then three, the last thing to look at this morning, that should be a written out. Not yeah, I gotta look at my screen when I'm doing this stuff. But um that should have been uh written out three to make it follow Character is contagious. Now what number three is the comparison. Now what is the comparison that I'm referring to in this psalm? I'm referring to the comparison between Psalm 111 and Psalm 112. It's generally recognized that Psalm 111 and 112 were written as a pair. Scholars recognize that because if you look at those Psalms in the Hebrew, both of them have twenty-two lines And each of the lines follows through from Aleph to Tau, the first and last of the twenty-two letters of the Hebrew alphabet. Each line begins in successive order, kind of like from A to Z in 111 and 112 Well that gives you a clue that there might be a connection, but then if you look even more closely, you find out that the same phrases appear in the same order In 111 and 112. Neither psalm has an author attributed to it. They're both anonymous. They were probably both written after the exile. But 111 describes the Lord. 111 describes God. Psalm 112 describes the man of God. And so what you see here is the principle being demonstrated that we become like our emotional focus. Because there is in the beginning of these two psalms an emotional focus described on 111. I will extol the Lord with all my heart And then 112. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands. You see, this is very similar to what we talked about last June. You remember we talked a year ago about 2 Corinthians 3. 18? We read from that, and in fact, let me read that verse again to you. We looked at that last year. Where we see that we who with unveiled faces all behold the Lord's glory are being transformed into his likeness with ever increasing glory which comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. You may recall, if you have you know one of those photographic memories, that three year uh that uh last year we talked about three contrasts. between verse 18 and the previous verses describing Moses under the old covenant. Who remembers the first coven? I forget it The first contrast was that we have here in verse 18 unveiled faces. Moses' face was veiled. Because he couldn't uh the people couldn't behold his glory. But we are given to behold the glory of the Lord. Our faces are unveiled Paul says in the verses before it, that's the unveiling of our minds to behold the gospel. We can understand spiritual truth. The second contrast was that Moses had his face glowing. His face was what was uh reflecting the glory But in verse 18, Paul says, it is our character, it is your life that is reflecting the glory of the Lord Jesus. And then the third contrast was that in the case of Moses, it was only a temporary glory that faded. Whereas in our case It is an ever-increasing glory that doesn't fade, but rather becomes stronger and stronger. And the the dynamic of the whole thing is that that happens simply as we behold the Lord. It doesn't say as you get to work and lift the different commands and then begin to work on them and knock them off one by one to see your life change. It is as you behold the Lord And so Psalm 111, there is this beholding the Lord. And you'll see that. We'll look at that in a couple minutes. But you behold the Lord, you expect stall him because you're looking, you're contemplating with delight, what he is like. And 112, then because he's your emotional focus, you reflect him in your own character. Now, you know, I don't know if that does anything to you, but let me suggest it it it really ought to be a profound insight to set us free Because so oftentimes we as Christians have this idea that the Christian life is a matter of finding out what are the areas that I'm deep fishing in and how do I get to work on those areas and becomes oftentimes a kind of an An exercise in disciplining the flesh. And what this is saying, what scripture's telling us and what it's illustrating in Psalm 111 and 112 is that the way you and I change is not to say, I'll never be like my dad, I'll never be like my mom. We will lock in on them and become like them in those areas that we want to change But rather that we look at the Lord, Jesus said, All you who are weary and burdened, come, take my yoke upon you and learn of me. It is not a matter of following the rule. It is a matter of delighting in the person. And as you delight in me, he says, then I will do that work in you to transform you. As you delight in my commands because they reflect me. Now, you know, it's it's hard to really kind of get that in a way that I feel like you're saying, Oh yeah, you know, that that's that's free. I become like the person that I have my emotional focus Fix upon, whether it is positive or negative. And let me try to illustrate this in Psalm 111 and 112 by showing you very briefly, you see, on the back of your um outline there. Eight parallels between 111 and 112. Take a look at these real briefly. I want to make a couple of applications from that. You notice that 111 starts off, praise the Lord, I will extol the Lord with all my heart. And the council of the upright in the assembly Then 112 praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord who finds great delight in his commands. So in 111, There is the delight in the Lord, and that delight then becomes a delight in his work. Verse 2. Greater the works of the Lord, they're pondered by all who delight in them. I see what God I look at what He's done and I say, that is wonderful. I delight in it. Lord, you've done a great thing. So 112 says, he finds great delight in his commands. I find delight in his works in 111. I find delight in his word in 112 because it reflects. him. And then on to verse three, glorious and majestic are his deeds, those deeds that I'm delighting in, and his righteousness endures forever. Then you go to 112. Wealth and riches are in his house, the man of God and his righteousness endures forever. Now here is here is an amazing statement because what you're seeing here is 111, 112 Both God's righteousness and our righteousness endures forever. And what we need to see is that our righteousness is stunningly the same and yet different. Different from God. He is righteous forever. It's inherent to his nature. You and I are righteous forever. Our righteousness is the same as his righteousness. Righteousness is simply being innocent before the law, fulfilling all of its requirements And so as God, who is the author of the law, is obviously righteous, it reflects him, so he says, you and I are righteous. That law Has no condemnation upon you or me if we are in Jesus Christ, not because it is an inherent righteousness, but 112 is talking about a righteousness which is declaratory. It is God saying as the judge looking upon your life as you stand Before his law, he says, I declare you innocent, I declare you righteous, I declare you having absolutely fulfilled every requirement of the law. Why? Because I sent my son Jesus and he fulfilled every requirement of that law. And having fulfilled that, Jesus sent his mark Luther put it, accomplish the great exchange. He takes your record upon himself, all of your guilt. And he gives you his righteousness. So your righteousness is his righteousness. It is declared in your account. It is deposited just like writing a deposit into your bank account. Righteousness is your righteousness. But it is simply a declaratory righteousness. As you get up tomorrow morning and you feel like You're grouchy and you're miserable and you have thoughts that you wish were never in your head and you look at all these things and you say I'm bitter and even what he said yesterday, I still don't like this part of my dad or my mom and I wish I wasn't like that and all the rest of these things. But you can stand up and you can say, but I have the righteousness of Jesus Christ this morning. I have his righteousness. Because that has been given to me. And verse 3 says that righteousness will continue forever. Nothing will ever take that away. I have his righteousness. And when Jesus comes back, that righteousness, which is right now simply a declaration in my account, which determines God's relationship. relationship to me will become an experiential righteousness. It will come to become true in my actions and my behavior and my thinking and I will be righteous forever. And so we look at 111 and we see God is righteous. He's righteous forever. And then 112 says, I am righteous, and I'm righteous forever. Because I have Now why is that? Because verse four goes on to say, because he caused his wonders to be remembered, the Lord is gracious and compassionate. So what is 112 foresays? Even in darkness like dawn for the upright, for the gracious and the compassionate and righteous men. Obviously I don't need to say it, but I'll just throw it in anyway. Obviously he's referring to men and women. The idea of the character of God being reflected in us as creatures, as those who belong to the Lord Jesus. And so we look at this and we recognize that We who are righteous and if in describing that righteousness you found yourself saying, I'm not sure I have that righteousness. I hear what you're talking about about but I'm not sure that that is something that I can rest in. Then I would ask you to put on the back of that grace lift that you have there. There's a part in the back there that says for prayer request And I would just put on there I'd like to talk about how to get that righteousness or please call me or whatever it is. Put your number on there and I'll get back to you to talk about how you can be sure that you have this righteousness because God is gracious and compassionate. Now you see there's a there's a link here and those are the blanks to fill in He is gracious and compassionate. Therefore, I am gracious and compassionate. I reflect his grace and his compassion. You see this coming back to our interaction with our folks, Paul says in Ephesians chapter four, in verse thirty one, get rid of all All bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice, be kind and compassionate to one another Forgiving each other. Forgiving your dad. Forgiving your mom for those ways that they disappointed you or let you down. For those ways that you felt they were not the example to you that they should have been. Forgiving, just as in Christ God For me, you be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us And gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. seen so many angry people in recent days in the last couple of weeks. And it's sort of like there's an epidemic of anger going around or something. I've just seen a number of ang angry people. And Paul says here, get rid of your anger. Get rid of your anger By realizing that when you look at what you have suffered, poor me, I'm a victim. Look how I'm being treated. Look at how people take advantage of me. Look at how people use me. And I feel like I I'm a I get kicked around sometimes. And I'm angry. I'm angry at this person and that person has disappointed me, abused me, let me down. I'm a victim. Dan Allen in his book Bold Love talks about a woman who's counseling. She said once I was a little girl and Uh when I was a little girl I I bought an inexpensive uh pair of glass earrings for my mom. And I spent hours wrapping those earrings and writing a card for her to just tell her that this was a gift for because I loved her. And I gave it to her And she said, Thanks, honey, I'll take a look at that later to put it aside. So after dinner I went back to her and I said, Mom, did you open my present yet. And she said, Oh, I'm sorry, honey, I threw it out with a trash by mistake and for the dinner And she determined as she grew up in that kind of a household that she would never give her heart to someone who could break it again Bitter, shriveled, angry person, within a shell of self-protectiveness that no one One can get inside. Psalm a hundred and eleven says our God is gracious and compassionate You know what that means? It's the same phrase that's used in Nehemiah 9. Remember when Nehemiah talked about the history of Israel and how they treated God. Nehemiah says, Lord, we were in Egypt, and you saw us there in our misery. And you said I've heard your misery because I'm a compassionate God and I I drew you out from Egypt. I judged you the mightiest nation on earth and humbled it to bring you through the sea to myself in the desert. And what did you do? Nehemiah recounts how Israel was arrogant And stiff necked and rebellious. And he says, but you were gracious and compassionate, and you didn't cut us off, but you continued to refine and to us purifying you brought us into the land and you gave us this land a land rich with the inheritance that you intended for of milk and honey and how did we treat Again, your people were arrogant, stiff-necked, and rebellious. And we refuse to follow your ways. And what did you do? Again, you were gracious and compassionate. And you didn't cut us off. And every time through the period of the judges that we repented and we called out to you. You came and delivered us for your gracious and your compassion. And then through the history of Israel, there Continued refusal to hear the prophets. Nehemiah recounts how God swept them away into captivity. But you were gracious and you were compassionate and you didn't obliterate And you brought us back into the land. And we complete Nehemiah's confession by saying, Did you even save your son in order to rescue your people? And how did your people treat your son? We crucified him as a common criminal. We put him on a cross. And you, because you are a Gratian and compassion Is sovereign God use that very crucifixion for the forgiveness of our sins. For your gracious. compassion. Dan Alender says you could form a formula. It says the degree to which a A person is able to love is the degree that they are able to forgive. And the degree that they are able to forgive is positively correlated with the degree to which we are stunned into silence by the The fact that our sin heaped high against the Holy God has been utterly canceled and forgiven Sun into silence. You see why Psalm 111 says, our God is gracious and compassionate And you and I are able to forgive those people who have wronged us, disappointed us, and hurt us, and continue to do us. Offer to them a heart of forgiveness. There can't be the reconciliation unless there is the repentance and the restoration, but a heart that is not bitter Because we recognize what our God has forgiven us of. And so the man of God, the woman of God, is gracious and compassionate. Do you see what he says in that verse 4 Or even in darkness, lights on. Feel like you're in a darkness this morning in which you long for the light Of God removing the burden of your bitterness could dawn in your heart. Look to Jesus May your emotional focus look to him and see the grace and the compassion that he has had to you. And be honest with yourself. How much do you deserve that? Grace and forgiveness are never deserved. They're offered as a gift. And so the next verse says, He provides food for those who fear him. He remembers his covenant forever. And therefore you see the person who has understood that grace and compassion, verse 5 of 112, good will come to him who is generous and lends freely, who conducts his affairs. with justice. When I understand something of the grace and the compassion of Jesus for me, it moves me to be generous. To be gracious to those who may not deserve it. Jesus says, give to him who asks you, and lend freely to the one who asks to borrow you. Because you understand the grace and the compassion of your God toward you And then he goes on in verse 7: The works of his hands are faithful and just, all his precepts are trustworthy. And so in 112. You notice in 111 it's that he remembers us. Uh 111 of verse 5, he remembers his covenant forever. In 112 We are the one who is remembered in verse 6. We will be remembered. And because he is trustworthy, verse 7, we will have no fear of bad news. His heart is steadfast, trusting in the Lord. He is trustworthy, therefore you and I are secure. The his precepts in 111, verse 8, are steadfast forever. They are done in faithful and upright In 112, his heart is secure. He will have no fear. In the end, he will look in triumph on his foes. He's trustworthy. We're secure. Because of that, we realize that ultimately he is going to be magnified in verse 9 of 111. He provided redemption for his people. Ordained his covenant forever. Holy and awesome is his name. The name of Jesus, every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Psalm 112. Amazing. Look what he says. Verse 9. He has scattered abroad his gifts to the poor. Continues the theme of our being gracious and compassionate. His righteousness endureth forever. There it is again. And then his horn will be lifted up high in honor He is magnified and I am glorified because the name of Jesus is lifted up and you are in union with Jesus by faith, you will be lifted up. You're already seated in the heavenlies with him. And one day you will be lifted up, and your name will be lifted up, and you will be seated experientially in the heavenlies with Jesus Christ. Exalted and glorified in his kingdom forever. And so he ends it. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. In 111, 10 The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. All who follow his precepts have good understanding, because to him belongs eternal praise. And then that's the link you see. Follow his right in Praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord. And so there's that link pin of the last verse of 111 and the first verse of 112. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord. He gains wisdom in 111. He gains blessing in 112. The blessing of wisdom, the blessing of perception. Perspective and you see that in contrast to the last verse of 112 to round the whole thing out, kind of like an O. Henry short story here. He comes to the end, and then he describes the contrast of that blessing. The wicked will see and be vexed. He will gnash his teeth and waste away. The longings of the wicked will come to nothing. You ever feel like nobody envies you? I mean, you look at the world, you know, and you say You know, always compromising what I could get if I compromise my integrity and doing with less. And I look at my non Christian friends and they don't Saying man I I'm glad I got my life rather than yours, you know. I'm they're just going their own way, indulging themselves, doing what they want, and sometimes you feel like, you know, it seems like I o ought to be envied. He's like if if I'm following the Lord, why isn't it that my life is apparently and obviously an enviable life? In some cases we'll see that The people get to know us and they open up. But you see what Psalm 112 is saying? He's saying when the end is written The wicked are going to look at you in verse 10. They're going to look at you and they're going to be vexed. They're going to gnash their teeth and they're going to say, I wish I had what that woman or that man had And for eternity, across that vast chasm between heaven and hell, they will look and they will see. There'll be some awareness of what they have lost. Because of their renunciation of Jesus Christ. And they will envy us forever. You are blessed if you fear the Lord. And you're blessed if your emotional focus is fixed on him. 2 Corinthians 3. 18 We who with unveiled faith behold the Lord are being transformed from one degree of glory into another. That is a powerful principle. It's powerfully illustrated in the story of a little kid by the name of Brian Walker. Brian Walker was a fourteen year old boy who lived in Potontock, Mississippi. How many of you have ever been to Pontock, Mississippi? no idea where that is. But Brian Walker, 14-year-old, loved football. That was his chief delight. He wanted to be a star football. player. And his chief hero was a fellow by the name of Jim Miller. Jim Miller had been all American at the University of University of Mississippi. He went on to play pro football with a San Francisco 49ers played in the Super Bowl. He was considered one of the nation's top hunters. And Brian said My goal is to be like Jim Miller. I want to be a punter like Jim Miller. I want to play football like Jim Miller. And he thought about Jim Miller. He idolized Jim Miller. He was his model. One day Brian woke up and thought he had the flu. He had a slight achiness And the achiness didn't go away, it became worse until after a few days he was in dreadful agony in every muscle and nerve of his body, and his parents took him to the hospital He was diagnosed as having Ghilaine-Barre syndrome, very rare disease that attacks the nervous system. Some people recover, some people die. It depends on the course that the disease apparently takes in the first few days. In the case of Brian, he became weaker and weaker. After a while he couldn't move his legs, his arms, couldn't lift his head, and then pneumonia set in. Pretty soon he was on a respirator. He couldn't even twitch, couldn't lose a single muscle, and clearly he was dying. His parents had an idea. They said, let's call Jim Miller and see if he'll talk to him. They called Jim Miller and Jim Miller said he would come and visit him. Imagine that 14-year-old kid when they said, We have somebody here to see you, Brian. Jim Miller. And Jim Miller, star of the San Francisco 49ers, walked into the house room he said hi buddy how you doing and brian without even thinking about it lifted his left hand and grabbed his arm And Jim said, Brian, you're gonna fight this thing, aren't you? I mean, you know, everything in my life I had to go for was work, was struggle, I had to set goals, I had to determine, I had to not give up. Buddy, you're gonna fight this, right? And I'll tell you what, when you get better, you and I are gonna teach each other how to punt. We're gonna play football together. How's that And Brian said at that moment he could hear him, couldn't talk, couldn't move a muscle. You know, his hand was just gripped onto his arm as it. He thought I'd walk on the ceiling if you asked me to, Jim And so after Jim left, Brian laid there and he said, I'm gonna move, I'm gonna move. And for two hours, he determined, I'm gonna move that finger, and he tried with everything in him to move his finger. It was like stone after two hours. Not a twitch. But he thought of Brian. And he kept going. And after three hours, his little finger twitched. A fraction of an inch. He said, I can do it. I can do it. I'll do it for Brian. Brian's counting on me. I want to be like Brian. I'll do it for him. And so he worked on it for another couple of hours. And after three hours, he had moved all ten fingers. A week later, Brian came back to see him. He was sitting up in bed and was off the respirator. In another week, he was feeding himself. In a couple of more weeks, they released him from the hospital. He continued physical therapy for months. And then after three more months, he was out on his front lawn. And he said, I'm gonna punt this one for Jim Miller. A couple of weeks later, Jim came to him and the two of them played football together. He said, I owe it all to Jim because I wanted to become like him. He asked you Do you adore Jesus that much? Does Jesus' character have that much influence on your life? Your goal? Oh Lord our God. We love you. But we realize, Lord, that our emotional focus is so easily shifted. There's other people that we look at and generally there we're fixed on them often in a negative way and that removes our focus from you Lord, we pray that once again this June, that you would draw us to behold Jesus, with an unveiled face to see your glory. To see your character, to adore you. And then in adoring you, to watch what you do. In changing us. in making us like you. Lord, for each of us who wants to do that, feel in our hearts now the desire and the determination this moment To look to you as our emotional focus, the delight of our heart