Well I want to apologize in advance for the comparison I'm going to make in just a second to all those who are school age or teachers. That uh this comparison may cause feelings of anxiety to creep up. It's that wonderful time of the year between interim reports issued and report cards issued. And it's that time that seems to strike fear into the hearts of students from the straightest of A students to those who navigate academia in the C is for cat, D is for dog cranks, like I did. It's unnerving to have a standard raised up and then to be compared to that standard. And if we're not careful, there's a temptation here in the text before us, Acts 2, 42 to 47. There's a temptation to have this be a report card for the church. A standard by which you better measure up. And so you may be afraid of that. I would be afraid of that as well. And although I firmly believe that in these few verses we clearly see the characteristics of a church that is empowered and equipped by the Holy Spirit of God, I do not believe that this passage is intended. to cause us to shudder at the potential for failure, but rather to see again from Scripture The beauty and the majesty of what we should expect when the Holy Spirit of the living God indwells his people. We should expect to see these things if the Holy Spirit is at work. It's his work after all, is it not? It's not us. It's not us getting ourselves to the level where we can, you know, grunt out the fruit of the Holy Spirit or all these other things. It's it's Him working in and through His people. So an evaluation may in fact take place as we delve further into this word. There may be an evaluation. There will be, in fact, because every encounter with God's Word, we should expect that. But I want us to enter into this time of evaluation, if you will, resting in the finished work of Jesus Christ, who gave his life for his church. For you, beloved, because therein is our hope. We can enter into a time of uh delving into God's word Seeing these characteristics and expecting that they become increasingly evident in the lives of those individuals who have been regenerated by God's Spirit and His bride, the church. So let's read from Acts 2. I will read aloud and you follow along. God's word for us. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And all came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts. Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. God's word for us. Thanks be to God. Amen. I think it's important for us as we get into this text to figure out what has occurred, just to remind ourselves what has occurred to this point. You see, you've got the eternal Son of God, the second person of the Godhead. He's taken on flesh. He's come to earth. He's had a ministry. A real life, real humanity. For God took on flesh and he lived a perfect life and he suffered at the hands of those who Placed him on the cross. He died on the cross. He was buried, and on the third day he rose triumphantly from the grave. And then in that transformed body, that body that was Able to be touched and eat food, but also fit for the heavenly dwelling, that same body by which his uh his followers will be transformed into that same kind of body. Resurrected Christ then fellowshipped with his disciples. He walked with them. He talked with them. He had breakfast and lunch with them. And for forty days he took them through the high privilege of hearing from his own lips how the law of Moses And all of the prophets and all of the wisdom literature, all of the psalms, how they found their fulfillment in him. Can you imagine? Just put yourself in that scene, the Jewish believer, hearing the old covenant, all of those sacrificial systems, all of the laws, all of the history of their forefathers. Find their fulfillment, all the types, all the shadows now fulfilled in Christ, and he's sitting there in the room with them And then, wonder of wonders, he gives to this ragtag group of Jewish followers the commission that they would be the ones. To carry on the mission. They would proclaim repentance and they would proclaim forgiveness of sins in his name, in the name of Jesus. They were given this commission to be his witnesses to all the nations, all people groups, beginning in Jerusalem of all places, the place where he had his trial, the place where He was mocked and beaten and ridiculed, the place where just outside Jerusalem he was hung on a cross to die. In Jerusalem it would begin. He called them his witnesses. And he promised then to provide them with the power from on high. You'll receive the power from on high. You will be my witnesses. But he told them to wait for that in Jerusalem. And then he departed from their presence. He was taken up through the clouds, and they saw him no more. Can you imagine then their reaction? We've got this commission. We're his witnesses. But what did he say? He said to wait. So we wait. Let's wait. Let's wait on the Lord. And there was by that time, Luke records, that there was about a hundred and twenty who had gathered with the brothers. And on the day of Pentecost, part of the Jewish calendar we heard about a couple of weeks ago, the day of Thanksgiving, the day of the harvest. They were all gathered there together, and they heard the sound like a mighty rushing wind. And the Holy Spirit empowered and indwelt those 120 or so followers of Christ. And they began to speak the gospel to anybody who could hear. They spoke in languages unknown to them, but not unknown languages. And what was happening was all those who had gathered for Pentecost started to hear the good news in their own tongue. They started to hear the gospel. They'd started to hear about. You guys know all about the sacrificial system, how every year we'd have to give our sacrifice. But Christ is the Lamb of God, He was sacrificed once for all, and repentance is possible now. Forgiveness of sins full and free is possible. But picture the scene. There's about 120 people doing this like I'm doing. It'd be like we take this section here. Everybody preach the gospel now. And I'm sure it sounded like a cacophony of sound. Big word, S-A-T. Write it down. And Peter approaching the skeptics, because they say, well man, these people are crazy It must be drunk. Peter says, silence. He drew the attention to himself with a loud voice and says, Peter said, they're not drunk as you assume What's happening in these men is the fulfillment of the prophecy of Joel. What's happening in these men is God bringing about the once-for-all. The once-for-all full-time fulfillment of his plan to save his people from God's holy wrath. That's what's going on. They're the messengers, they're the witnesses. They're declaring it because the Holy Spirit has empowered them to declare it. They've received it and now they're sharing it. It's a natural outcome. Peter says King David is going to be seated on his throne, but not the David that we knew as Jews. He's in the ground still. Not so Jesus Christ. You see, you get the excitement of what's going on here is that these witnesses are now empowered witnesses And you know the Holy Spirit is behind Peter's message because they're hearing that they're the ones that put Christ on the cross. And they didn't respond with stones and sticks and wanting to take Peter out in the courtyard. They were cut to the heart because the Holy Spirit was giving them a reception of the message. And they're cut to the heart and they said, brothers, what do we do? And Peter rejoiced to tell them, repent, turn away from your sins. Repent because Jesus is offered freely to you today. Take on the sign of this covenant community. Take on baptism. Receive baptism in the name of Jesus. Be a part of this community of faith. And they did. And we read that powerfully God added to the church that day 3,000 souls. The word souls is usually used when it's men and women and children. You see that passage used uh in the Old Testament and the New. If it was men, it would say men. It was souls added to the church that day. And Peter admonished that crowd, you need to come apart from the world. But you need to now Get your understanding of God no longer from the world's ideology. You need to get it from those who walked with God when he was walking the earth. And that's what's going on when we get to this passage. In verse 41, we see that 3,000 souls were added to the church. In verse 42, we have the benefit now to see the genuineness of their faith. On display. Three thousand souls added to that hundred and twenty. The church, the fledgling church, beginning to grow. And what is the characteristic of a spirit-empowered church? Well they were devoted to God's word. They were demonstrating the love and the mercy of the lavish grace that they'd received. They were disciplined by God's grace. They were a part of a community. And they were identified with that community, and so they were either in communion or they were out of communion. They're disciplined by God's grace, and they were ever and always Dependent on the sovereign care of God. Says that they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and the prayers. So they were devoted to God's word. That's a characteristic of a spirit-empowered church. It's a characteristic of us who have been regenerated by God's Spirit. We've been born from above. It's a mystery. I can't see the spirit. You can't see the spirit. Jesus spoke to Nicodemus, the rabbi who came to visit him at night, said, Nicodemus, you don't know where the wind comes from or where it's going, but you can see the effect. Of the wind. So it is with the Spirit. This is an effect of the Spirit indwelling the believer. The newly forgiven followers of Jesus, they wanted to know more about themselves. No, they wanted to know more about Jesus. It's the cry of every new Christian. Are you telling me that the God who made everything walked the earth and then died in my place? Tell me more. That's where they were. Tell me more about Jesus. There was a devotion to some kind of teaching. A devotion to some kind of teaching implies that there's an active, submissive posture with regard to what's being taught. They were devoted. They were they had rapt attention. They were listening. They were ready to learn. And it's not just any kind of teaching. Luke records that it's a devotion to the apostles' teaching. It's a devotion to the teaching of those men who had walked with the resurrected Jesus directly Eventually, the Apostle Paul would take on that name apostle because he encountered the resurrected Lord on the road to Damascus. He learned of God in the wilderness. So you have the apostles' teaching before us. These are men qualified to elaborate on the way in which Jesus fulfilled the Old Testament and to Speak to that fledgling church of how to live lives that are appropriate in pursuing the God who is holy For us today, it simply translates into a study of God's Word. A spirit-empowered believer is devoted to God's Word. When Jesus walked the earth, he validated the thirty-nine books of the Old Testament. The New Testament writers, those apostles, and those who were those the authoritative word that was received by the church. They validated the Old Testament. And then the 27 books of the New Testament is what the church has received as with marks of the apostles. and authority of the apostles' teaching. And so it's a devotion to God's word. It just doesn't fit with anything we know about how God describes the followers of Jesus to think that you can have a believer filled with the Holy Spirit of God who neglects the study of the Word of God. Remember, this word is inspired by God's Spirit. So he's always going to join that together with his work. Our devotion to God's Word may take all kinds of forms, sitting under the preaching of the teaching of God's Word by a man who's been set apart for the church to serve in that capacity. Someone qualified and appointed to that task. It may be that you read and meditate on the scriptures and you uh uh Consort with a devotional on that and meditate on what's being taught there. You may study the Bible and process the truth with the truth with a group of like-minded believers in a small group fellowship. Maybe you listen to the word of God auditorily as you run down the trail working off your bacon. There's all kinds of ways to intake God's Word, but the one thing we realize is this: that the Christians who are indwelt by God's Spirit will be devoted to the teaching of God's Word. And we can't get away from that. Remember, there's an evaluation that's taken place in our hearts as we sit under the teaching of this word today. If you believe salvation is in Christ alone, you'll want to learn more about the Christ who has saved you. So we see also that they that a Holy Spirit-empowered church demonstrates the love and the mercy of God through their actions towards others. These are the people that received God's grace. They've received it by faith. They've understood it to some level, and they're growing in their understanding. And as they grow in their understanding of what God has given to them, They want it to keep on going. There's no such thing as a Christian who receives it and then hoards it to himself. No such thing. It's received and delivered. Received and sent out. And you see this noted most uh Pointedly in the word fellowship. They were in fellowship together. This is a Greek word that you may be familiar with, Koinania It's a word that means partnership or sharing. It's a community. And it's got a sense of which we belong to one another. You and me, we're part of the same fellowship. This is a local expression of the koinanea of God. But there is a global or worldwide expression. There's also an expression of God's fellowship across the ages. This is our local expression of this fellowship. Words used when believers are living in community and sharing with one another from grateful hearts. Remember in verse 40. Peter has just admonished that crowd who is hearing his sermon. You need to separate yourself from the crooked and perverse generation. And remember Pastor Randy last week said that there is no concept ever taught in the scriptures where somebody comes apart from the world But they stay in isolation in and of themselves. There's no island Christian. There's no Lone Ranger Christian. You come apart from the world and you join the community of believers. But Peter wasn't telling them to give up their homes and move out to the desert somewhere. He was saying, don't no longer get your ideas about who God is. From the people in the world that hate God. That's not going to be a good setting for you, and you won't grow So join the fellowship. We join the fellowship ourselves. We live in a community that there has particular marks to this community. We're baptized into the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Earlier in chapter 2, Peter preaches that sermon. He says, be baptized in the name of Jesus. This is a crowd that would have already known that God, Jehovah, covenant making, covenant-keeping, God is God the Father. This is a crowd that already would have known that God is the Spirit who moves among his people. And what Peter wanted them to know is that God, who is Jesus, who walked the earth, is also God. So he's not calling for a different mode of baptism or a different mechanism for baptism. You can rest assured the apostles baptize the way that Matthew 28 Jesus tells them, instructs them to baptize. And we baptize in the same manner, in the name of the triune God. Joining the community of faith, you join by that mark. That's one of the marks. We publicly profess our faith for salvation in Christ alone. We acknowledge our need for the Holy Spirit, and we humbly rely on Him for all good that comes out of us. That's what people say when they stand over here and take these membership vows. There's nothing good within me. There's good in God, and if God indwells me, then there should be good coming out of me. We acknowledge our need to submit ourselves to a local church. Albeit a local church comprised of sinners just like us. Because that's the only kind of church you can pick from. There really is no other church to choose from. They're all made up of sinners. So this one, sinners. The one down the street, sinners. The one across town? Sinners, yeah. Oh, really? No. Yep, sinners. The church, this is church fellowship. It's where our faith is encouraged to grow. It's where whenever possible we receive encouragement, and whenever necessary, we receive correction. That's what's supposed to be happening in the church. It's the fellowship of believers. It has less to do with food and more to do with preserving and protecting our faith, but food is involved. We'll get to that in just a sec. That's why the writer of Hebrews is talking about when in chapter ten of Hebrews he says this Let us hold fast to our confession of hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And let us then consider how to stir one another up toward love and good deeds, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but Encouraging one another and all the more that encouragement to walk with Christ as you see the day drawing near. What's that day? It's the day when Christ comes again. Remember in Acts 1, when Jesus is taken up from their sight, he passes through the clouds and they're standing there because they've got this commission to be witnesses and they don't know what to do next. And men appear in white and they say, Men of Galilee, why are you looking up into the sky? This same Jesus who was taken from you will return. And when he comes, he'll come the same way he left. He'll come in a bodily form. He'll come as the resurrected, resurrected, transformed body of Jesus Christ. And when he comes that second time, he's coming in all of his glory. And every knee will bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. And so the writer of Hebrews says, we await that day. Let's encourage one another along that way. That's what the fellowship does. Or at least that's what it's supposed to do, right? You encouraging me to live like Christ, me encouraging you to live like Christ. Where we stray, pull them back. Where we see positive, praise God. That's fellowship. And we see in these verses 43 and 46, 43 to 46, at least three marks of this kind of fellowship. The fellowship was marked with a sense of awe and reverent fear. The church kept feeling a sense of awe, Luke describes. The word translated all here is the Greek word phobos. And it's a it's a word that actually means a holy terror. A reverent fear. It's one of those like the Mysterium Tremendum when they encounter the living God. If you want to liken it to something, it's like on those summer thunderstorms when a rolling thing of thunder comes through and all of the windows in your house shake and you feel it. Imagine that not being created by a storm, but by the presence of the living God. That's the sense of this word. And they were in awe. What were they in awe of? The apostles were performing miracles. To signify God's message of salvation and that the church was being instituted. So there's a reverent awe here We also see a mark of this fellowship is that it's a grace that there is associated with this kind of fellowship, grace-motivated, generous sharing. You gotta see that the support here in this scripture is not a scriptural support for communism or for socialism. There's no government edict. There's no church authority edict here for everybody who claims the name of Christ. to immediately go and sell all that they have and share with one another so we're all equals. This is rather a picture of what occurs when people start to experience greater and greater understanding of the lavish gift of Christ on their behalf. They're willing to let goods and kindred go. And this mortal life also, the body they may kill, but God's truth abideth still. His kingdom is forever. That's what happens when we are empowered by the Spirit. So, those of you who have wealth, praise God for his incredible gift to you to make money. And pray God enable you to use it for his glory and for the good of those around you. For those of you who do not have wealth, thank God for what He's given to you in Christ. And trust that He's the provider of all you need for life and for godliness. For all of us, regardless of our level of possessions, the picture for us here is that the spirit-empowered church realized that the greatest treasure is Jesus Christ. And so they're not clinging to their bank accounts. They're not clinging to their possessions. They're using them for the glory of God. Another mark of this fellowship besides the sense of awe and reverent fear, the generous sharing. is that they were marked by a sense of unity aided by close proximity. Luke records that all who believed were attending the temple together. And they were breaking bread together in their homes, and they were receiving the food with glad hearts and generous hearts. See, I think there's the picture again of the reception is never meant to be hoarded. They received with glad and they shared with generous. This is the fellowship, it's a sense of unity, they were common, they had the common bond. They realized to Didn't matter what socioeconomic status they come from, what region they had traveled from to get to the city uh to celebrate Pentecost. It didn't matter because now they realized All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and God is no respecter of persons, and they're all part of the same family. That's beautiful. That's the church. They are marked by a sense of unity aided by close proximity. The breaking of bread together. So I said that the church was devoted to the Word of God. It's demonstrating the love and mercy of God. And this is the third point. They're disciplined by the grace of God. Two times in this passage the phrase the breaking of bread is used. And there's different connotations that we can derive from the way that the scriptures use that phrase. The first is Very simply understood. They ate food at the same time with each other. They enjoyed meals together. That's a part of it. See how it's so refreshing that food wasn't tossed out Fellowship does have food, but it's all about food. We get that. It's about protecting and preserving our faith. And if you use food to do that, praise be to God. So the first way we understand the breaking of bread phrase is that they ate together. And I hope and pray that you have experienced at some point in your life the opportunity to relax and enjoy a meal with close friends and family. Because that's the picture of what's going on here. They were joined together in this common bond and they fellowshiped together. And they probably lingered over that fellowship to enjoy the food that's been prepared, to see it as the one more expression of God's lavish grace to you. We come not with the kind of hunger that people maybe in other continents experience, but we come with hunger to the table. And you come with that hunger and you sit down and you see that meal before you and you praise God. I feel hunger. It's going to be satisfied. God gave us this food. That's why we thank God before we eat. Sometimes in our family we thank God after we eat. Sometimes we thank God while people are still eating. They sneak in it. But we're thanking God because I didn't produce that food and I didn't produce the money to buy that food, and it's there because of God's grace toward us. That's what the meal does We enjoy a spiritual truth revealed at a meal. We feel the hunger and we feel the empty stomach and we long for that ribeye steak medium at 1800 degrees to satisfy. And somebody at the table with us points, you know, we're hungry today, but we'll be hungry again tomorrow. But remember Jesus' words when he said, Blessed are you when you hunger and thirst after righteousness. Why? Because Jesus said, You will be satisfied. Amen. That's what the meals do. They they draw our attention to that. We enjoy the people we share the meal with. We hear their story. We all live in the same fallen world. Sometimes there's peaks, sometimes there are valleys, sometimes it's a level, arid, dry, desert place. But when we gather together, the fellowship over the meal is for all of us who belong to Christ to keep pointing to Christ. I need you to do that when we have coffee together. Or go to Bob Evans for breakfast together. Whatever we're doing. And you need me to do that for you. That's what the fellowship is about. To savor and to see God. The other use of the term has a more specific reference. It's to celebrate the Lord's Supper, the bread and the wine, that which we celebrate today. That's what was happening here. They broke bread together in the homes. And it's uh apparent as the New Testament unfolds in its revelation and the letters that Paul writes that some of those times it Corinthian church most notable is that when they got together for those agape feasts, some were indulging too much, and they were hiding or veiling the gospel message of the bread and the cup. And Paul is admonishing them. This is all apart. Someone would break that bread and they'd say, you remember Jesus on the night he was betrayed? He took bread and he broke it and he held it as that symbol, that sign that points to him, and he said, This is my body given for you. And he would take the cup You remember when Jesus, what we've learned from the apostles' teaching, that Jesus said, This cup is the covenant in my blood, which was shed for the forgiveness of your sins. Turn away from your sins. Stop sinning. This is what Jesus has done to free you from that. Guarantee that that fellowship meal was a part of the communion. And those who kept identifying and showing their faith to be genuine were continually welcomed to those tables. Those who sadly started to demonstrate lives that weren't in keeping with lives that evidenced the Spirit's work within After much pleading and much praying and much entreating to turn, to repent, to turn back to the faith, to trust Christ anew. And then eventually And our church has experienced this as well. Eventually, the church is left with no alternative but to place them outside the communion, excommunion. Excommunicate because the person's life does not reflect the life of Christ. And it's always a sad time, and it's always a serious time, but it is always a time with hope that the discipline of the church will cause that errant brother or sister to realize their separation from God and run to him like the prodigal son did. That's why we do church discipline. Which brings us to the last characteristic of a spirit-empowered church The last characteristic is that they were always dependent on God's sovereign care. This is one of those moments where we read scripture and there's a temptation just to pass really quickly over this phrase and the prayers. Luke records, and they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, to the breaking of bread, and the prayers. They say, well, yeah, we get prayer. Yeah, we said spiritual discipline, we know that. When you come to Christ, everybody says you need to pray. But if we pass over this phrase too quickly, we will miss something extraordinarily important about what it means to look for the characteristic of being a A spirit-empowered believer in church. When the Holy Spirit of the living God indwells a person and enables them to believe the truth about Jesus' saving work He also gives to them that same dependent sense of need that Jesus Christ himself displayed in his earthly ministry. We don't think of Jesus as being dependent. But he demonstrated that he was the most dependent man that ever walked the planet. The church staff is studying Paul Miller's book, A Praying Life. Many of you have read that when Alan Harris highlighted it several years ago in our discipleship classes But Miller's point, drawing from the wealth of Scripture that support it, is that Jesus was the most praying man that ever walked the planet. And in his busiest times of ministry, he would come apart from the crowds in order to commune with his heavenly father. He stood outside the tomb of Lazarus, his dear friend, and cried aloud to the God who always heard his prayers. In the Garden of Gethsemane, when he wrestled with a plan, the wisdom of God, that he would be the sacrifice. He prayed to the Heavenly Father, not my will, but your will be done. Jesus prayed, and so how much more is it necessary? For us to be displaying our own need for God's sovereign care over every aspect of our lives, that's what's contained in the phrase and the prayers, I believe. I think the spirit-empowered fledgling church and the church of Jesus Christ in this very room Is to be a praying church, expectantly believing that God is active, that He will answer. And His answers are always going to be better than our um theories on what the answer should be. We just have to wait on him. He's got something for us. And so we pray. Why do we pray? We pray because Christianity is not an easy calling. Jesus himself said, this world hates me, and if you follow me, they're going to hate you too. If you Then begin to live that righteous, straight and narrow road, you're going to and you should expect persecution But he issued the promises, always issuing the promises. Blessed are those who are persecuted for the sake of righteousness. For they persecuted the prophets before you. Right? I to me that's why we pray. That's what's going on here. And we trust that in those prayers, the teaching that we have from the Apostle Paul in Romans chapter 8, that's where I rest. That's where we rest when we pray. Listen to Paul's words helping frail people like me and you. The Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. The Spirit intercedes for us. So we are invited to be a praying people. Let it fly. Childlike faith. Messi is all get out, not understanding all theology that's ever been you know thought about. Pray Heavenly Father, help me. Help me in this situation at work. Heavenly Father, help me in this situation of relational strain. Heavenly Father, help me in this situation of Fear the future. Heavenly Father, help me in this situation where all I do is regret my past. Heavenly Father, help me and trust that the Holy Spirit is interceding And he's bringing about whatever it is that God is going to work in us for his good. I mentioned right at the beginning that there might be an evaluation going on in our hearts and in our minds as we encounter God's word. I think they're supposed to be every time we encounter God's Word. So we see that a spirit empowered believer is devoted to God's Word. He demonstrates the love and mercy of God. disciplined by the grace of God. He's constantly dependent on God's sovereign care, as evidenced by prayer. And I would ask myself I I would ask you the same question I've asked myself as I've taken a look at this text for the last How am I doing on that? I think the evaluation is a good thing. But the evaluation has got to be informed by the fact that Christ has already accomplished all that was necessary for our So secure in Christ, we can take a look at what are you doing in me? Lord help me to be a a more dependent, expectant Prayer. Lord, help me to be bold in my witness for you. Lord, help me to rejoice more than I do that God Himself placed Himself on the cross in my place. All those things, I think that's what God is trying to draw us to. And slowly and gradually, with an ever increasing depth of understanding and rejoicing, I believe that God will draw us to From grace to grace and glory to glory, till that day that we're the bride, without any spot or blemish Can I can't picture myself there? But we're the bride without any spot or blemish, with no wrinkle at all, pure and blameless, and we're seated at the table of the king. We're seated and we're savoring and we are fellowshipping face to face. In just a moment, we have a foretaste of that In just a moment, we're going to celebrate what the Christian Church with the community of faith has been celebrating for 2,000 years For all those who have been baptized in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, those who have publicly professed their faith in Jesus Christ as the only way to be saved. Those who humbly rely on his Spirit for all that is necessary for life and godliness. That's who this table is for. And when we take of the bread and when we drink of the cup, the scriptures tell us that we are proclaiming the Lord's death. until he comes again. That's what we're about to do. Let me pray for us and pray that the Lord would use this time in our worship to um to grow us and encourage our faith. Lord please help us. Only you can work individually in this number of people. We're amazed that you can do it. So help us with the evaluation that's going on as we encounter your word. And Lord, draw us to rest more more firmly in your finished work. And then to be motivated, compelled by the love that you've already demonstrated. to go forward in life. Lord, I pray that you'd use this time of fellowship around your table That we receive these elements by faith now, that you would encourage our faith, strengthen our faith, and Lord Jesus, as we meet with you, cause us to rejoice all the more fully in a God who would give himself in our place. In Jesus' name we pray, amen. Amen.