We begin the last chapter of the book of Ephesians. Hallelujah, I heard that. I I want you to know that I'm really not trying. to prolong this series, although I know that some of you will find that hard to believe when you see that today I am only preaching on the first word of the first verse of the last chapter. We will pick up the pace But why am I going to preach on just the first word of chapter six? Because that word, children Has a lot of implications and raises a number of questions for things that we do at CPC, like the place of children in church or particularly in worship. And this is another one of those sermons where I kind of take my courage in my hands and I stoop down behind the pulpit, coward that I am, and I push the text out, so that all you see is hopefully God's word. And if you have a problem with it, that at least you can say that's what the Bible said. Because that's what we need to deal with. What the Bible says And how that applies to you as parents, to you kids, and to the rest of you. Because it's not just for parents and kids every time we baptize a child up here We receive that child into our community as believers to help mom and dad raise that child in the faith. So what we do with kids affects us all. And I realize this is a very emotional issue for a number of people here in this congregation, especially if you have young kids And wrestle with the question of why do we say that baptized children who have not made a public profession of faith are members of Columbia Presbyterian? Or why do we have children's church? And why just for the ages that we do, and why just for that period of time during the message? Rather than not at all or during the whole service. So I realized that this is a hot topic Some of you would say to this, my kids don't get much of anything out of The worship service, and we must have an alternative. In fact, I think we ought to have the alternative for the whole service, and I think it ought to be more than just up to third grade. I think it ought to be for all of elementary school at least And more and more churches do that kind of thing. More and more churches now, uh, you can go up and when you arrive at the church Uh the kids go one direction and the parents, the other adults go a different direction. The services are entirely parallel and separate, sometimes in a separate facility or separate room. And that may be true all the way up through high school. We have had the people who have left Columbia Presbyterian because they say, I liked having that kind of a situation. Now others of you would respond to this question by saying, I think the whole idea of children's church is simply an accommodation to the culture. In fact, so are nurseries. Ah. Fellow by the name of Richard Bacon, 1993, PCA pastor, wrote a book. Entitled Revealed to Babies, Revealed to Babes, Children in the Worship of God, which he makes the point. In the Church of Christ there were no nurse nurseries for nearly two thousand years. Nurseries and children's church are a recent innovation entirely without scriptural support. I bet that licids some emotions from some of you. So what about this issue? Now you can understand why I can only take on one word, huh? Want to try and deal with this from Scripture and believe that if we follow Scripture That therein lies blessing. And so for first part is for some of us to just try to honestly grapple with Scripture, I'll tell you, I had some of the most lively conversations after the first service this morning I've had in a long time since preaching around here. So we'll see how it goes for the second service. What does Paul mean when he addresses kids in his letter to the Ephesian church? What can we take from that? What would be too much? What would be not enough? Now you notice that I uh put a brief summary of last week's review in your outline to remind you simply that Ephesians 6. 1 Is a verse that cannot be taken to stand alone. Remember, it is a statement on how to live out of the gospel and the filling of the Spirit. uh in the second of three basic relationships in life. The first was the relationship between a husband and wife, and the second now is between children and parents. And if you weren't here last week, I wish at this point that I could send you all out of the sanctuary here with a tape of last week's message and have you listen to that for a half hour and then come back in to get what I'm going to say And I know that's kind of ridiculous and uh don't worry, we don't have the teach, we're not going to send you out. Um but I think it's so important that you understand that what Paul says here is how to live out of faith in Christ and the fullness and power of the Spirit. And it is not something in isolation as a law. Remember we saw, try to even belabor last week. Change is from the inside out, not by simply determining to decide to obey certain things and then changing, hoping that change occurs from the outside in. Some people have said does that mean that you just don't obey until you feel like it? That's not what I was saying. Uh there are different levels of our heart pleasing to God. Never can we excuse simply saying, I don't feel like doing it, so I won't But the change of our hearts comes from the inside out. So what does it mean when we look at a verse like this? Well, there's two points that I want to make about that first word in Ephesians 6. 1 children in church and the first one is to notice that children are addressed as part of the congregation. Children are addressed as part of the congregation. That's the first blank there. Now, again, we need to see who is the letter of Ephesians addressed to. If you look back in chapter 1 and verse 1, it's quite clear. It's Paul and Apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God to the saints in Ephesus and the faithful in Christ Jesus. So he is writing to those who are the saints or the holy ones and the faithful ones. That doesn't mean that they're reliable, it means full of faith So the next two blanks there, you look at Ephesians 1. 1 to the holy and the faithful. That's who he's addressing, the holy and the faithful. And to the holy and the faithful, he declares the gospel. He says, this is the gospel that you live out of. Here is what God has done in you and for you. And talks about the changed life. And then, as we saw from last week, he begins in chapter 4, 5, and 6 to talk about now here's how to live out of that. Here's how to experience that. And he then addresses certain categories of those who are holy and faithful, like You wives who are among the holy and faithful, here's how to live with your husband. You husbands who are holy and faithful, here's how to live with your wives, then you children Now you can't separate that. Children, you see, are a subset of the holy and the faithful that he's described in chapter 1, verse 1. He's not talking to another group now. He doesn't say to the parents, how you go tell your kids to do this. He's addressing the kids directly as part of that group who are the holy and faithful ones And so um he underlines that. He um he makes sure that you know you you don't miss that point. You say, well Harris, I think you're reading too much into that Well now it's exactly what Paul says in verse one, because notice how he addresses them. He says, Children, obey your parents in the Lord. For this is right. Now, in the Lord there, we'll deal with that a little bit more next week, but uh you not you gotta make sure you don't get confused because of the order. He says children obey your parents in the Lord doesn't mean If your parents are doing what the Lord wants, you know, then you can decide, oh, obey, because that was in the Lord. What he's saying is, children in the Lord, obey your parents And so what he's saying is that you kids as Christians, this is how you respond to the filling of the Spirit in learning what biblical submission is. In your particular life, where God has placed you now. Children in the Lord, obey your parents. And so the whole idea here is that you are part of the body of Christ. Now, that is why when kids are baptized at Columbia Presbyterian, we say you are part of the body. Does that mean That your baptism guarantees that you are a Christian, your baptism makes you a Christian, your baptism presumes that you're a Christian Or that automatically at some point your baptism will guarantee you will become a Christian? Absolutely not! One of the things that concerns me and concerns us as staff and concerns the elders, but for right now I just want to speak for myself, is how easy it is. For you kids to presume that because you were baptized and because you've grown up in the Sunday school and the youth ministries and in a Christian home And you know the answers to all the devotional questions in the Sunday school, Bible, Jesus, prayer, Holy Spirit. Or any combination of the above, maybe all of them, that you think that somehow that makes you a Christian Or that by doing certain things, following along, not actively resisting, it somehow kind of gets carried along in the stream. It's kind of a you know passive thing. I just I'm a Christian because that's why I was raised. Now, for you to be among the holy and the faithful, you need to exercise faith. That's not passed on to you. You don't inherit that through the genes. It's not something you get, like whether you have brown eyes or blue eyes, or the color of your hair, or the rest of that. You kids. And I'm addressing you kids particularly now. Please, heads up. No coloring looking at books or anything else. This is to you kids, from my heart to yours. It's important that you understand that you need to trust Jesus Christ yourself. You need to recognize that you need the record of Jesus instead of your record for the things that you have done wrong. That you know That were not just what mom and dad were said were wrong, but things that you know you shouldn't have done, things that you should have done that you haven't That you need for God. Imagine your life as a computer These days these illustrations make more sense to the kids and adults. Could you think this way? You think of your your life as a computer, there's a bunch of stuff on your hard drive The you wish was deleted. And the gospel is that Jesus Christ paid the penalty so that God would delete from the hard drive of your life all those shameful things It shouldn't be there. And not only that, but that God has written on the hard drive of your life The record of what Jesus has done and how he lived. But only, only, kids, if you have admitted your own personal need for that. Not if you have just agreed with your parents that you'll continue to go to church and give the answers and go along with it. It's a matter of whether or not you decide that you are going to stand here and confess before this congregation. That you have received Jesus Christ as your personal Savior and Lord. That's what's required for you to become what we call a communicant member, that is, to be able to take the Lord's Supper. That's what's required in order for you to be able to say, I am a follower of Jesus Christ. Now am I saying if you don't do that, if you don't stand up here, you're not a Christian, you're not going to heaven? No, I'm not saying that. But I am saying that in the New Testament, God has created one church. Now it's split into lots of denominations today, but the fact is that He has created the body of Christ in every locality. And you kids to call yourself a Christian, you can't just do that privately Why is it if you're walking with Jesus and trusting him, why wouldn't you stand here and confess and say, because I don't need to. The Bible doesn't say I have to. Well, I don't think you're right. In Romans chapter 10 In verse 9 and 10, Paul says, if you confess with your mouth, and that's a public confession, Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For it is with your heart that you believe and are justified. And then parallel, it is with your mouth that you confess and are saved. Why kids, if you trust and believe in Jesus, wouldn't you want to do that? You shamed him. Let me ask you a a personal question, kids, and listen to me. What if your parents said, beginning tomorrow, we have absolutely no expectations for anything that you do spiritually? You want to read the Bible? It's up to you. Want to pray? It's up to you. We're not going to do it around our house anymore. And it's totally up to you whether you do it. How would you react to that? Say, ah, what a relief. Burden's been lifted. Or would you say, uh-uh, I love Jesus. And I'm going to continue to follow Jesus because I love him. You see, is it just dependent on what your parents do or expect? Or is it in your heart? Let me ask you another question. What have you ever done simply because you love Jesus? Not because you had to do it, not because it was any pressure, expectation for anybody else, but you simply said, I simply did this because I love Jesus. I wanted to please him. Can you think of anything? See, kids, Paul addresses you kids in the Lord. And he is saying you must respond to the gospel personally. You must see your need for Jesus. And it It's of concern to me. It's a pain and an ache when I see kids growing up and they come through many years and and you say, I just don't see any need to do that. As a church, we are very careful that we do not want to press you kids into making a decision maybe because your mom and dad want you to. Because somebody else is saying you ought to do or your friends are doing it or anything else, any kind of other pressure. But we have to also be careful that we don't neglect Putting before you the need for you today, right now, if you've never done it, to say, I need to give my life to Jesus Christ. And I would like to pause right now and pray and for us to come to Him, particularly for you kids. Be thinking now, have you ever come personally? To trust Jesus Christ apart from mom and dad. Let's pray. Lord, with our eyes closed, our heads bowed, we ask right now if there's a kid here that is saying, Yeah, I've been just drifting along and And really this isn't part of me. It's something my parents have, and I don't have a problem with it, but really isn't me. Lord, that you would show them their need For you to delete from the hard drive of their life all the things that are wrong. Not just errors as with computers, but sin, wrong things. And for you to write on the hard drive of their life the record of Jesus, so that they'll know they'll go to heaven, that they'll be right with you, that That the life that they live will be for you and will avoid all the mines and the pitfalls and all the rocks and the things that would cause them to stumble and trip and be hurt. And so, Lord, speak to the hearts of each of us. If there's a kid who's resisting, Lord, I pray that you'll work in that kid's heart. He won't be able to rest until he gives his life to you and is ready to say, I want to publicly declare Jesus is mine. To your glory and to that kid's life. In Jesus' name. Amen. If God's speaking to any of you kids about this, talk to your mom and dad today. Say, look, I really want to make this right. I want to be clear and definite. And then call your elder this week. If you're a member of CPC, call your elder, get that person involved, say how do we move forward so that my son, my daughter can publicly state Jesus is mine. Confess that publicly, as the Bible says. Now let me say something to you, parents. Second thing I want to notice is that uh you see the kids are present in the congregation. Paul says, children. Now you say, well, come on Al, you're reading too much there to say that the kids were present just because he addresses them as present. Maybe he's addressing them through the parents. Wants them to pass it on or something. Well, I'd say you might have a point there if it wasn't for the rest of Scripture Which is the background of what Paul says. Many times in the Old Testament, God's people are assembled before him for worship, to hear his word. It's interesting how many times God specifies that kids are present in those situations. You see a number of references listed in your bulletin outline, and don't worry, we're not gonna have you turn to all those and go through them. But what I did was I put them on the overhead. So Michael, if you'd just flip that up there please now. Appreciate that. You'll see these are the scriptures listed. And what I've done is uh I've highlighted in red The references to kids, and then where it was appropriate, the reason why they're there in green. So for instance, you see in Deuteronomy chapter 29 that uh God has his people come and stand before him, and this is a a covenantal meeting where God uh is um Entering into a covenant, he says, you are there to enter into a covenant with the Lord your God, a covenant that the Lord is making with you this day, that he may be your God. And who is that? Well, it's the elders, the officials, the men of Israel, together with your children. So the covenant involved the whole families Distinctive about the God of the Bible. He works with families. And then you go on to Deuteronomy 31. Assemble the people, men and women and children, and the aliens in your town, so they can listen and learn to fear the Lord your God and follow carefully all the words of this law which was being read to them. This was at the Feast of Lean Tus, and the Bible said that every seven years, Feast of Lean Tus was an annual feast, but every seven years, you read all the way from Genesis to Deuteronomy, the Torah. And that was so that the kids as well as the adults would listen and learn to fear the Lord. If your kids don't learn to fear God in his power and his holiness, you won't want to go to him as a provision to protect you. From the necessary punishment your sin deserves. We all need to hear that and learn to fear the Lord. Basic part of understanding the gospel. Adults? Your kids. Twice he says there. Children. They're children. Then go on to Joshua The whole assembly of Israel is there, including the children. Second Chronicles, all the men of Judah, their wives and children and little ones, that is, the toddlers, the little kids. Stood there before the Lord. Or in the next sheet, Ezra chapter 8. You notice there they're in need and they come as a whole body, as a congregation, to humble themselves before the Lord and ask him for a safe journey for us and our children Provide for us. How important it is that our kids see God answer prayer And that that's done corporately. If we ask God to provide for the early debt retirement fund, to provide the money to retire the debt for this uh and take up an offering for that and to see God provide so that we can expand the base of operation. And we go out on a limb and we Exercise faith. Our kids see God answer those prayers. He sees what he does to us as a congregation. And they learn God hears and answers prayers. Our congregation prayed this. God answered that. He's real. It's important that the kids are part of that and they see that. Nehemiah chapter 8. That's where the priest comes, brings the law, and he comes to the people that are gathered, all who are able to understand. When he reads the law, reads at the water gate in the presence of the men, women, and others who could understand. The people listened attentively And this is why we talk about the importance of, in however we do it, whether it's adult or with children's worship, making sure that the gospel is presented on a level that you can understand it. And that's an important principle as returned to in a few minutes to talk about why we do have children's church as an option. Then in Nehemiah chapter 12, same thing, women and the children are rejoicing. They're singing out loud to the Lord. And you notice the rejoicing could be heard far away. And my guess is that was probably largely because of the kids. You know, you can get the kids sing at top of their lungs and they probably could hear them all the way up at the Sea of Galilee, you know. Um God loves to hear you kids sing loud And so blow the trumpet. Joel says this is a day of fasting, a day of repentance, humiliation. And he says, Bring all the people together, bring all the elders, gather the children, and does nursing at the breast. It's interesting. Why would he have those nursing at the breast? Why is that important? John Calvin has a very interesting observation on that. He believes that part of the reason was so that the adults in seeing their children would understand the consequences of their repentance or lack of it. What I do affects my family and my kids. And the kids see the parents repent. They see there's something contagious about seeing how my parents come before God. Whether they take him seriously or not. I may not understand everything that's going on. I don't understand very much about what Pastor Harris is preaching about, but I see how my parents Sing and pray and listen and take seriously what God's saying. I see them repent I see them humble themselves before God. And that makes a deep impression on my life as a little kid. And so it's in the context of all of this that Paul says, children obey your parents. in the Lord, for this is right. So a couple of comments in conclusion By the way, notice that in Psalm chapter 8, this wasn't up there, but in Psalm chapter 8, in verse 2, the God says that he enjoys the praise of children. Jesus picked up on that verse in Matthew chapter 21 when he was at the temple And he was healing and the kids around him, Matthew says, started singing and shouting. Hosanna to the son of David, and they're singing and they're shouting and the f Jewish leaders get all indignant, that's the word that's used, and they go look what's going on. These kids get all rowdy and they're still shouting and you know, and they're they're grumbling and mumbling. But it's clear that Jesus enjoyed their praise. You know that that is so precious. Jesus loves you kids and wants to have you near him. He enjoys hearing you sing. He enjoys hearing you sing to the top of your lungs. Sing out, kids, when we sing. That doesn't mean show off about how loud you can sing. It just means Because you love Jesus, sing it out. God says he loves it, he enjoys it. He delights in the praise of his children. So why do we do the things we do at CPC? A couple of observations. It's why kids are part of our worship. It's why we're different from some churches where there's all separation. We have you kids here because you're part of the covenant community. We are a community of families that is the family of God, not just biological families, singles, single parents, all the family of God is here. Now that's for our singing, for our praying, for our hearing the scripture. But we give the option for you to take your kids, and by the way, that shouldn't have said second service. That was we only had one when I was writing this, and now it's post services We give you the option for the kids to go down to what we call children's church to hear a message on their level Uh for a couple of reasons. Number one, uh because there is a limited time. I'm under pressure and time, and so if we had more time We could just take a couple of hours. We could spend more time addressing different parts of the congregation, doing things for the kids, and doing all that. But there's a limit. And so one of the ways to do that is you kind of do two things at once. We're doing parallel while I'm addressing uh those of you here, all of you, not leaving out the kids, but simply the focus here is on equipping you whether adults or kids, but particularly the focus is more on the older because I believe that strategically that's important, that you are fed, and that you can then discuss these things. with your kids at home. Or if they're downstairs to bring them up, discuss what went on down there. But there's it's the limitation factor, that's all. We're also in a more formal setting. If we had all our kids here, Kathy and I went to a church for six years, but there was no nursery, there was no children's church, everybody's together. And that worked, but I'll tell you was a lot rowdier, a lot more noise A lot more informal kind of atmosphere. Now that's fine, there's nothing wrong with that. But you've got to decide what you're going to do. If you're going to do that, there's got to be a lot more toleration for the way that we function. Now we had somebody who came here as a worshiper a few weeks ago and I send these little cards out when I write letters and a number of you have gotten those that ask for feedback and this person said I will probably never come back because it was so rowdy. And this is C B C here. It was so rowdy, you know, kids were writing and scrolling and you know walking in and out and it was just, you know, it was a mess and I couldn't concentrate and you know, forget it. That this was ri ridiculous, it was a circus, I'm not coming back. And I I must say I had some real ambivalence when I read that. Part of me was sad that they couldn't tolerate kids, um, in what is precious with you kids. But the other side of it is I think sometimes we could do a little better as parents In making sure our kids don't tromp in and out or unnecessarily disrupt or disturb. But the point is we need to work together. And there needs to be a give and take in the community of God's people. You know, we need to flex a little bit. You know, we tended our culture to think that everything ought to be just the way I want it to be But you see, that's not the way it is in a family, and we're a family. And so part of what we do here at Columbia Presbyterian is we're we're trying to provide options, but we're also saying Let's join together and appreciate that God is a God of families. And so for you of a family, maybe maybe what it means is you want to sit up toward the front so your kids can pay attention better. Or you need to sit in the back because you're going to be in and out. Hey, you decide. But think about where you sit and what you do to help you and those about you to be able to worship the best. The other thing is that there's some research was done recently that uh on kids who uh react to worship, And they found out the very amazing correlation. They said it was almost a one-to-one correlation where the parents were critical of worship. The kids were, guess what? Critical of worship. And uh there was one difference. The parents continued to go to worship and criticize it, the kids just dropped out as soon as they could Parents who enjoyed worship entered into it, the kids tended to also enter into it and to enjoy it more. They also found the other thing that was significant in the study they said was the amazing correlation between what went on between Sundays, whether the parents took the Bible seriously Or whether Christianity was just something for Sunday and God was not part of the life of the family between those two days. where there was no Christian activity, worship, taking God's word seriously. Kids tended to see it as all just a sham and dropped out. Where the family, not perfect, far from perfect, but at least said we want to follow Jesus, kids saw much more of the reality of that. And you see, that's really what we're talking about, is simply gospel-focused worship. The fact that when we come here, that your kids see that you come here to worship, that you come here because you are astounded that the creator of the heavens and the earth has invited you. That you are amazed that this one who is God Says, come and call me father. Come into my presence. Enjoy intimacy with me. The Lord's Supper is a family meal where we take that bread and we take that cup and our kids see us hold it. And they see that Jesus is precious to us. As he meets us in that. And they long for that. I wish I could take that. I wish I knew Jesus like that. I don't understand it all. But they're part of the family. And that we celebrate from the bottoms of our toes right on up the fact that Jesus is alive, He's risen, and our kids see that celebration and they understand that we're people who are filled with the gospel. That God is precious to us. And they want to be part of that. See, God is a God of families. That's the amazing thing about the Bible. He's not just the God of intellectuals, the God of people who can talk and big talk about big ideas. But he wants those who sing, Jesus loves me, this I know, because the Bible tells me so. And simply love Jesus. And he wants you all here together because he wants you all in heaven. Let's pray. Lord our God, forgive us some of our attitudes. Where we've been critical of kids making noise, or Lord, in other times when we as parents have grumbled and complained and wondered why our kids have problems with worship. Lord, help us to understand how much is contagious of our own attitudes. Lord, help us as a church to do better in including the kids. A lot of ways we need to improve. Lord, there's a lot of ways we fall down, all of us, in this. And we thank you that you're a forgiving God. And the part of what we worship you for here now is that you're a God who does invite us to come, even in our brokenness and in all our imperfections, and to believe, Jesus, that you've taken that away. And that we can love you, whether we're nine or ninety, whether we're toddlers, or whether, Lord, that we've walked with you for 70 years. That you call us all together to love you, to worship you, and to work in our lives. Hallelujah. Help us to understand that and live it out in Jesus' name.