Several asked this morning with the humidity and heat that you were met with when you entered the building, whether I was preaching on hell. And um I am not. Uh there was uh we've been trying to figure out a new start time and got all that worked out and uh new lower setting and all kinds of stuff and uh some switch was tripped in the uh compressor. So it was started up about um, I don't know, eight uh eight thirty or so Thanks to Mike Newkirk, who uh knew where that switch was and uh hit the reset. But we will proceed. It's good to be in the house of the Lord. With um you have probably noted um all of the back to school uh advertisements Um you're probably lamenting like we are in the Flora household. Kmart is shut down, so you can't do your back to school clothing shopping like we normally do But uh I figure with the back-to-school theme I might start you with a uh with a pop quiz. And so uh I'm gonna give you some scenarios and I want you to answer however your heart uh springs forth an answer, okay? You and your family, first scenario, are in line uh to purchase tickets for a movie that you've really desired to see for some time. And as you're in the habit of doing, you're cutting your time a little close. And uh the movie starts at 715. You're in line at 713 And the guy in front of you, in line, is choosing to purchase his tickets with a credit card. Only problem is the magnetic strip on his credit card has been worn thin, and the guy behind the register is convinced that it is his now personal mission in life to swipe that card until he gets a response from MasterCard in China or wherever it's going to find. All right, question. What's your view of that guy with the credit card and the gentleman behind the register? Think about that Or how about one for you young drivers out there? You and your friends are Driving on a road to a destination of fun and privality, uh you're all together, very happy time, and um you're really looking forward to getting to this. Social gathering. And the road that you're on goes from two lanes to one lane, and right before it goes to one lane Someone with gray hair on their head moves right in front of you. Now, although you were already Staying within the parameters of the speed limit, slightly above possibly, they have decided that it is their mission in life to stay slightly below the speed limit And teach all young whippersnappers how to drive. Alright, question for you, young driver. What's your view of that individual driving in front of you? Remember that. And you don't have to be a young driver, by the way, to uh to answer that one. Okay, one for you even younger set out there. You've gathered all your Barbies. You're a girl in this scenario. You've gathered all your Barbies. They're all set up. They're all dressed up. Prom gowns extraordinaire, one's in a wedding dress for all things. And they've come to this tea party. And your younger brother, who's not into Barbies at all and in fact quite antagonistic toward Barbies, comes into the room and clears the deck of everything Tea Party associated. All right, young Tea Party planner, what is your heart towards your brother All right. You getting tired of this? Hey, one more. Consider someone close to you. Now if you're married, it must be a spouse. Got it And your spouse has just given you some constructive criticism on the dinner you just made Or the shelves you just hung. Or the outfit that you just picked out yourself Now you can insert hurtful comments there in the parentheses. What's your response to this one that you have committed to love and care for the rest of your life. Okay. I can't take any more questions. Stop. I will. What's your heart like in those? I'm convinced that as I review those in my own life, even the Barbie Tea Party, as I observe that from afar across the room My heart is not loving. And I believe that there is almost epidemic proportion A lovelessness among us. Here in this church, here in this city, here in this country, and on this planet, we're not very loving. We're not naturally given to love one another. And so we find ourselves in Ephesians The end of chapter 4, the beginning of chapter 5. And I'd like to read these three verses, four verses, and then by God's grace make some comments. Paul says this. He's just finished this uh whole lesson at the end of chapter four about what it looks like to put off the old man and what it means to put on the new. To put off the old, to put on the new. This is what a regenerated heart looks like. You who were lying should not do that anymore. You should speak the truth to one another in love. You who were stealing, don't do that anymore. But it's not just enough to not do the bad. It is put on the good, and that is give. Selflessly to others. Be generous in your heart. And so he ends that with this be kind to one another. Tenderhearted, forgiving one another as God in Christ, God in Christ forgave you Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children and walk in love as Christ has loved us and gave himself up for us. A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. But sexual immorality and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you. As it is proper among the saints. Some translations say there shouldn't even be a hint of it in your midst. When saints gather, that stuff shouldn't even be winked at So we're left with this dilemma. I don't know about you, but I failed the quiz. If you got one out of four, you failed. If you got two out of four, you really failed. If you got three out of four, you seriously failed. And if you got four out of four, please come see me about that Barbie thing. See? See how quickly we can get it in there? There's grown men in this room, and for us to wink at or laugh at or or indicate somebody's playing with a Barbie. There's something wrong there, right? I don't know. It's just an experiment. This command here, be imitators of God, is found nowhere else in the scriptures The imitators of God. The Greek word here is memeta, something. Get Steve to help you pronounce it after the service. It means to mimic, to directly mimic that one who is the object of the imitation. Now, I have to clear some things up here because there is confusion even in the evangelical world At one point in time, we were perfect reflections of God. In the garden in Adam, we imitated God perfectly Question 10 of the shorter catechism. You can look it up in your hymn notes there. It says, How did God create man? And the answer, God created man Male and female, after his own image in knowledge and righteousness and holiness, with dominion over the creatures. See, what the Westminster Divines were noting is that whenever the New Testament talks about regeneration, it points us back to what's being accomplished in our hearts. What does regeneration look like? Paul tells the Colossians That they are being recreated in the image of God with the knowledge of God. In Colossians three ten, the new man that we put on is being renewed in knowledge after the image of our Creator. You see, the fall in the garden shattered that image of God in us At one point, Adam didn't need someone to go between. God directly revealed himself to Adam, and they enjoyed face-to-face fellowship. Because sin had an inner picture. And so Adam could relate to God. He had knowledge of God that was pure. Adam had no need for someone to mediate between he and a holy God because sin had an enter the picture. And so in holiness, Adam was able to relate with his creator. In righteousness God told Adam to rule, have dominion over all of the created matter in righteousness as a king. You may be thinking to yourself, ah yeah, Jesus, your name is glorious, my prophet, my priest, my king. Because Christ came to reverse the effects of the curse that sin brought on you and me. He came to reveal the Father to be our prophet perfectly. He said, if you've seen me, you've seen God. He came to mediate our sin problem. He came to intercede and to shed his blood and to give himself as a ransom for the many. So that you and I could relate to God once again, and we are called holy and blameless before the Lord. He came so that you and I could then Fulfill this mandate to reign with him, to rule. The righteousness that is ours is not righteousness that comes from the law, but righteousness that which is by faith. And we will reign with him on high forever and ever and ever. Amen. See, see, Jesus Christ is the only hope for the reverse. Of that curse. And he has done that. And so Paul says, You need and I need to see him as that. You know, you only give your children guidelines, rules, commands for their good And that's what God has here for us. A command that says, imitate God. Mimic God. Now, this is where I need to clear these things up. It's the difference between God's incommunicable attributes and God's communicable attributes. Those are big words, but we know what they mean. To communicate something is to convey something to somebody else, right? To incommunicate something is not to And when we talk of God's incommunicable attributes, we're referring to the omnis, that he is omnipotent, all-powerful, that he is omniscient, all-knowing, that he is omnipresent, that he is everywhere, everywhere. And everywhere that he is, he has not diminished one aspect of his being. These belong to God alone. Amen? His eternality, that he has no beginning, that he have no end, that his name is above all names. All these things are are attributes of God that we can't mimic, we can't share in. Now, lest you think I'm just up here uh pumping something that um you've never run into, I was in a meeting once It was in Georgia. We were seated in little circles, little Bible study circles, with a bunch of pastors, and most of them were from another denomination, and I won't mention that And the passage that was opened up for us from the group leader with Matthew 8, where Jesus is asleep in the boat, the storm comes on the On the lake, and the disciples wake the Lord and say, Lord, we perish. And he wakes up and he rebukes the wind and the waves. Everything gets calm. And then he says, Oh, you of little faith, why did you doubt? And the question was posed to us, this 35-person strong group here, why was Jesus rebuking them? Brothers and sisters, I sat there shocked and amazed that almost without exception, the people in my little circle Said, it's obvious, Jesus was mad and upset that they didn't calm the wind and the wave themselves Have you ever heard of such a thing? And yet a lot of times we can confuse these commands. I believe that what Paul wants us to see is to imitate those communicable attributes of God, that is, his wrath, his anger at sin, his hatred of sin, his justice, his love of justice. His love of the oppressed to see them lifted up, his tenderness, his kind-heartedness, his mercy, his compassion, his grace. Yea, his love. And that's why Paul couches it the way he does. Listen, be kind to one another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as God in Christ has forgiven you. Therefore, be imitators of God. And walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. You see, he didn't say, Go out there and create a world. It's not possible for us. What is possible for us though is right here to love one another as Christ has loved us And you say, but Tim, I failed the quiz. And I say, I know. And so did I. And because you failed the quiz, you are now eligible To receive by grace the strength that you need and I need to love one another. You need, well, I need, and I hope you do too. You need to see Jesus Christ. He alone is God. And listen, it's not just that the image of God is being restored. And the communicable versus incommunicable. But it's that we are imitators of God, if you will, out of C to your outline if you're doing that. as dearly loved children, as beloved children, he says, this is how you are to imitate God. Think of the number of times that you've stood with your sons, fathers or mothers, and you've showed them how to get that snap at the end of their pitch. Or the times that you have sat with your daughter and showed her, the keys on the keyboard are here. Type like this, and she goes right to it and mimics you It's a natural thing for children to imitate a father, a mother, a loving parent So Paul calls us to that idea. Think on that. Put it away. We'll get right back to that. Because John tells us in 1 John that this love is significant love. This love is Transforming love. This love is powerful, enabling love. It's the only kind of real love that there is And John in his first epistle refers us to it in chapter four of 1 John, beloved Let us love one another, for love is from God. And whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this the love of God was made manifest, was seen clearly among us, that God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. In this love, in this is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. And no one has ever seen God if we love one another. God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us. Don't lose sight of that word, that twenty-five cent word or whatever you want to call it, propitiation, that he has become our propitiation. We who were estranged from our Creator, we who were at enmity with God, we who were his enemies, and actually enjoying that position, we liked to be God's enemies. Original sin in our hearts works out that we hate God and we hate one another. The scripture is very clear on that. And John says, no, see him as the propitiation, the one who has gone between a wrathful, holy deity and settled the score. And made the payment and provided away. See Christ as your propitiation. Start using that word around and tell people what it means. God's wrath was to be fully poured out on me as a sinner, and Jesus has become my propitiation. And they want his propitiation. Explain it to them. Because then you know it. Then you learn it. Then you start to revel in it as well. So real love in view. Real love in view. This is in Ephesians 4 and Ephesians 5. This word used right here. To walk in love as Christ loved us, it's that Greek word agape. It means other-centered love. It means a love that sacrifices self. To demonstrate what true love is. You've gone right to the top of the class. Agape And Paul says, this is the kind of love that was demonstrated to you. And the kind of love then that enables you to demonstrate that love to others. And studying this passage and looking at commentaries, you always mess yourself up when you look at commentaries. I had a kind of scheme and a way I was going, and I read James Montgomery voice, and I couldn't think up three better words than what he used And so it just got stuck in me that I'm just going to go ahead and give James Montgomery Boyce credit for these three words, and then I'm just going to preach what I'd already wanted to preach anyway. So that's why this little notation with appreciation for James M. Boyce, um, the late James Montgomery Boyce, former pastor of um Tenth Street Presbyterian in Philadelphia. Anyway, voice notes three things, and I see them too, and I hope you do before the end of this message It's a forgiving love. The kind of love we're called to imitate is a forgiving love. But only first if you've tasted that forgiveness and if you rejoice in having your sins forgiven. First, can you forgive others? I think of the number of times that married couples have come to see me. in my counseling uh capacity or whatever. Well I have a couch in my office. And they come for the most part because one spouse has their sin in view. And I begin to pray, even before we begin to talk, that both spouses can see their sinfulness, that both spouses can see the great debt that they have been forgiven in Christ, because only in that view of the world. Can they begin this process of forgiving one another? It can't happen any other way. In fact, I remember one particular example, one particular couple where Forgiveness had been offered and the spouse was still really miserable and still really bringing it all back up. And I challenged that spouse to think about this very thing, Ephesians 4. 32. Have you tasted the forgiveness of God in Christ? Very important phrase. The forgiveness of God the Father in Jesus Christ. And as they begin to work through that, forgiveness began to be actually shared back and forth in that relationship. It's a forgiving love. It is, praise God, a giving love There's a second blank there of giving love. God wants us to see again this amazing quality of His love for us. John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he gave us His only begotten Son. Romans 5. 8. But God demonstrates his own love for us in this, that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us Galatians 2. 20, I've been crucified with Christ, and I no longer live, but nevertheless, Christ lives in me. In this life I live in the flesh, I do so by faith in the Son of God, the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Wow. Greater love hath no man in this, than he lay down his life for a friend. The amazing thing to consider about this giving love is that the one who gives The one who gives himself is Jesus Christ. Holy God. And He gave Himself for you and me. See that. See that. It's a forgiving love. It is a giving love. And it is a living love, and that's what brings us to our point You know, in Alan's uh Song of Song series, he made a very clear point to point out that this presentation of married love and and and the gift of our sexuality and the uh the enjoyment of said gift is uh is in that entire book is without a command. And I think that's appropriate. I think that that book is is structured the way it is because the Holy Spirit inspired it such way But make no mistake, there are commands having to do with this precious gift, this gift that is volatile when misused And Paul gives it to us. It says, this living love that Christ gave Himself for us, we need to walk in that. We need to see real love. And that's why the writer of Hebrews admonishes us to fix our eyes on Jesus, the perfecter, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Fix our eyes on him to see that for the joy set before him, he endured the cross for you and for me. And so that we when we enter into a time where our unloving heart shows up, we can by faith step into loving And the strength that Christ provides. I want to illustrate this a year ago tomorrow, last year, tomorrow's date Um I traveled home from our West Virginia missions trip. And uh for the sake of time I won't go into all the details, but I was greeted by my children who ran and gave me a big hug and, you know, swung around and did all that stuff. And I was greeted by my wife. with kind of a kind of a cold shoulder, kind of a stiff embrace. And uh like, oh man Okay, what'd I do? Alright, I'm sure I did something, but we'll figure it out. So go in, have dinner. Later on, we're upstairs in my office And um it's really eating away at me. Hey you know Dana, I was really like, you know, we could have like homecoming and everything, like you know, I don't really feel even appreciated And it comes out that uh, you know, Tim, I appreciate the fact that you called home every day I this is all condensed. It was about a five hour thing. Appreciate the fact that you uh called home every day from West Virginia, sometimes twice a day. I'm sure you and Rick Bellivo and Paul Childress were talking about how loving you were to your wives. She didn't say that, I just thought that. As we called home. And she said, but you know, um you asked us how we were doing, but I never got the sense that you cared how we were doing, because Y you never followed through with that question. I knew what happened on the roof that day in West Virginia. I knew what happened at the camp that night in West Virginia. I knew what happened at the Campfire that night in West Virginia, but you never knew what was going on here. And she had had a uncle pass away and she had had a family situation And uh she was right, but my flesh was not willing to admit that. And so I was faced with a series of options Option one, I could defend myself and my flesh was definitely geared for that. No no no. Ha ha you don't understand. I was leading this crew at twenty flo Six people. Man, it was hot down there and we had rain the first day and man I mean Jamie Duncan was on the team and you can't I mean, come on, it was tough. Yeah, see I could defend myself I could shift blame. Or I could step out in faith and I could say, Dana, you know what? You're right. You're right. My sins have been forgiven, and my sin of not loving you as a husband should has been forgiven on the cross. And so by faith I can actually receive that forgiveness. And the righteousness that is mine in Christ, I don't have to try to establish by putting forth my good record of calling home every night and asking a question. Are you okay? Because that's a puny kind of righteousness. Resting in the righteousness of Christ, I was able to acknowledge what she was saying as true To simply confess it and then stepping out in faith and the strength that He provides, love her She still had the issues of losing her uncle that week. She still had the issues of uh the family uh difficulty. She needed a husband But she needed a husband strengthened by Christ's love to love her. She didn't need a husband who was trying to establish his own record before her. You see how that works? I hope so. Because that's what it means to live by faith. I'm running out of time. That's what the real picture looks like. That's what the real thing is, right? Steve Green gave me a commemorative Coke bottle a couple of weeks ago, about three weeks ago. And uh I love Coca-Cola. I don't like Pepsi Cola. I don't like Kmart Cola. I don't like Coca-Cola. They call it the real thing for a reason. It is the real thing. And so Steve gave me this bottle and I bring Cokes with me and I stick them in the refrigerator and and sometimes I I don't keep track of how many are gone and and I'm without Coke And I was without Coke one day last week. And there's this commemorative bottle. And so knowing how to pop the top without bending it, I did, and I drank that Coke So then the real thing is gone and there's an empty bottle sitting on my desk, this commemorative NASCAR eraser Coke bottle. And I thought to myself, you know 'Cause Steve kept asking me, I haven't drunk mine yet yet either, you know, and all this stuff. So it was like this thing, you know. And uh so I was like, Well I could pour brown water in there, put the lid back, and then it's like, Hey Steve, I didn't drank mine yet either. Um But it'd be this horribly disgusting cheap imitation of the real thing. Do you get the point? God knows what's best for us, and so he commands us He says, listen, walk in love, but don't even hint about the cheap imitation of what love looks like. Come on, brothers and sisters, don't even give credence to it. Don't wink at it. It says, let Sexual immorality, all impurity, or covetousness, that must not even be named among you. Once you've tasted the real thing, you don't want the cheap imitation. And Paul knows what's best. Inspired by the Holy Spirit, God says, Look, don't run after the world. Oh man, I love this song. Anne Waring, what a great thing. She says, the waters. of the earth have failed, and I am thirsty still. Doo doo doo doom do right. Man See, Paul says, listen, if Peter hadn't stolen my second sermon, you'd have all this too. But the thing is that Paul is saying, don't even hint at it. Because it's destructive in your life. The real thing. Man, I was gonna give you all this, Kobe Bryant's press conference Committed adultery? Admitting that? In the same sentence, but I'm innocent. There used to be a time where we considered adultery a sin to be confessed But he's innocent of brutally forcing himself on this individual is what he's claiming Up the street today, St. Timothy's Episcopal Church in Catensville has taken a stand because of the uh the election of the uh openly homosexual bishop in New Hampshire. Um Robinson, Gene Robinson. And St. Timothy's has called us, and I talked with um Monica Alt's father yesterday and Friday They're asking us to pray for them because the stand they're taking for the gospel and for truth is probably going to get them expelled from their denomination. Probably gonna get their pastor, their rector, uh no more salary. But Paul says Don't even let it be named among you, this cheap imitation. Brothers and sisters, uh we run to the cheap imitation We um we entertain it, we pipe it in through our computers, through our TVs, through our music, through our jokes. And Paul says, no, no, come on. You want to know what's going on? Come on, love as Christ loved, with real love. Real love. So he says, mimic him. How to mimic repeated saturation of object of imitation. Right? Okay, write that down somewhere. That's a good one. Repeated saturation of the object of your imitation. I need to know Christ. I need to see him in every venue that's possible. If there's a cell group meeting, I want to be a part of that. If there's a small group or a cell group meeting, I want to be a part of that setting. They're going to talk about Jesus. If there's a message being preached on the Lord's Day, I want to be in the pew or the green uh portable chair to hear that message. I get it. Yeah, there's a sanctuary going on. Because I want repeated saturation of the object of my imitation. I was we just got a new computer. This is my last illustration, I promise And I was sitting at the new computer working on some stuff yesterday. And Kevin was sitting at the old computer. We're not really into computer games yet, but uh we have noted that General Mill Serial has free CD games. And he's gotten into this baseball game that we got off of Coco Puff's box. So he's sitting there playing and I'm sitting there playing and all of a sudden I hear beside me from the computer, I really, really messed up. And then from my son I hear, I really, really messed up. And I look over. And then a little bit later I hear from the computer Baseball been betty betty good to me. And then from my son I hear baseball been betty betty good to me. And I'm thinking, what Kevin, what's going on? He's sounding exactly like the computer. Why? Because ever since we opened up that Cocoa Puff box, that boy has probably paid That game at least once a day for the last two weeks, if not twice a day for the last two weeks. You see what I'm saying? Repeated exposure What did I say? That was good. Yeah, the object here. Repeated saturation for the object of our imitation Turn your eyes upon Jesus and look full in his wonderful face, and the things of this world will grow strangely dim in the light of his glory and his grace. Let's pray together. Father, we so desperately need you to work this in us. The waters of this earth have failed us, and they will continue to fail us because they are not life-giving, they are death-giving. And Lord save us, we pray. In the name of Jesus Christ, we request it of you humbly. Amen.