Well it's been over four months since I last preached from Ephesians And if you're new to CPC, you may be looking in the bulletin board there, the sermon outline, and see that it says number 85, and think that couldn't possibly mean this is the 85th message. Oh yeah? It does. Uh listen, I was um I was encouraged since the last time I preached on Ephesians I came across an article in the Journal of Biblical Counseling by David Pallison, who I consider one of the wisest contemporary Christian counselors and writers, and uh he says uh to Christian counselors that if you are feeling overwhelmed With your caseload and you're wondering where you can go to try to integrate uh something that will help you to deal with things biblically, he says the answer is the book of Ephesians Everything you want to know about counseling and the human condition is right here in Paul's little letter of only 155 verses. Now he's not saying you throw the rest of your Bible away. In fact he says that Ephesians is kind of like a bunch of hyperlinks where you can just you go to a verse and then that connects you. to other verses to fill out what the gospel is about. But he says the Ephesians is the best of practical theology. So there it is. That's why we're spending all this time in Ephesians. And uh You know, so that if you're new and uh don't want to feel like you've just kind of come into the middle of a movie and you don't know what it's all about I thought that uh before we go on to the next section, starting now the last chapter of Ephesians chapter 6, that before we go on to uh that Last chapter, it'd be good to take a week of review and overview. So what I'm going to do this morning, which For some of you will be review and you may be able to focus in on a few things. For others of you, it could be a little overwhelming because I want to cover in the next half hour the whole book of Ephesians. kind of giving you an overview and some handles to grasp it. Uh so this can be pretty pretty rapid pace and I hope that you will be able to benefit from it. But I think it's important for you to see it Because, you know, it'd be kind of good if we could get the whole book in a scope. And since we deal with it bit by bit, verse by verse, we've got to keep the big picture in mind. So I'm going to lay once again that foundation. So let me read chapter 6, verses 1 to 4, which is the section that we're beginning on, and then try to give you a sense of the context of those verses. Ephesians chapter 6, beginning in verse 1. Children, obey your parents in the Lord. For this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise, that it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth. Fathers, do not exasperate your children. Instead, bring them up in the training and the instruction of the Lord. If you just read that in isolation, it sounds like law You need to see it in context in order for it to be the gospel. Now, what is that context? Well, one of the things I've been trying to point out again and again, and it may be a window to get into this, is that Ephesians seeks to make two points. That many of us as Christians, maybe we've walked with the Lord for many years, still find it hard to grasp. And the first point is, you see it in your bullet and mount line, first point is that change is from the inside out, not from the outside in. Let me try to illustrate that by looking at last week's message again. Remember last week's message was on what? Green. Hey, boy. I won't say why he came up with that so quick, but but you know there it is. Now that's maybe it's just because he's a trustee, you see. Next week we're going to be taking up a special offering. You like that way I got you off the hook, though. Next week we're going to take up a special offering for the Early Debt Retirement Fund. And uh the idea is so that we can pay off the bonds in this facility Six months early, make a double payment, 300 people, give $144 on the average, then we're able to do it So because that's coming up next week, I use the opportunity for us to think, what's the Bible say about greed? So we took a look at that, what Jesus says in a particular passage. And as you heard that, your response to that could have been something like this. You might have thought Greed. Okay. Not what I would choose to listen to. Probably means that I ought to be given more money, ought to be more generous. Okay, so I'll just do it. I mean, you know, isn't that the way the gospel works? You make the right choice, you make the right decision, you do the right thing, and if you do the right thing long enough Eventually it kind of works into your heart. So if I give enough, after a while, maybe I'll start to enjoy giving. Who knows? Hey, give it a try, you know? I mean, the alternative is guilt, so why not give it a shot? All right? And so, you know, the idea is that behavior changes your heart. Right? That is not Christianity. See? That's the law. And yet that is the way we often operate, and the way we operate as parents with our kids, isn't it? Do the right thing. If I make them do the right thing long enough, maybe eventually it'll change their hearts. You see. Now, the second point is By the way, let me let me uh quote to you. You know, every once in a while I get these gray slips that um comments on my message and uh You know, it just kind of makes my weak. This one really made my week. Uh and uh I'm not gonna tell you who wrote it because I don't want to encourage theological commentary in the hopes that somebody will think I'll quote them and give them credit for good points, you know. But this grace that came in from last Sunday said, isn't the antidote degreed not a matter of absolving ourselves by giving, but by submitting to God's changing our hearts? I couldn't have said it better myself. I don't even know if Paul could have said it any better. See, you know, it's not the matter that we do the giving so that we become generous. But rather that God needs to change your heart. Behavior meaning change is from the inside out. Now, that leads to the second point. How do you change? You change by believing the gospel, not by simply disciplining yourself to change. Again, let's go back to greed. I'm kind of hung up on greed here. You know, you heard the message last week and you say, okay, I admit it I'm greedy. It helped when he said we're all greedy, because it, you know, I was first feeling like, well, who are the greedy people here he's talking to? And then he said, We're all greedy, so okay. I guess I can admit that I'm greedy too. Back to Harris said he's greedy, so all right. So we're all greedy. All right. Well, the gospel is I'm forgiven for my greediness. Thank you, Lord, that's really great. Now, I simply need to decide to give more. It feels terrible to start, but at least it avoids the guilt of just going on feeling like I'm stingy and self-protective, so I will give And then as I give, as I try to do that, do the right thing, then the change will come, all right? Now Ephesians approaches this totally differently. And let me show you how it does as a way of looking at the overview. If you look at chapter 4, verse 28, Paul talks about that exact issue. And this is what he says. He who has been stealing must steal no order, but must work doing something useful with his own hands that he may have something to share with those in need. You remember when we looked at that verse, we talked about the fact that the world is divided basically into two categories of people, takers and givers. Some people look at the world in terms of what can I get Other people look at the world, it's not that simple, but there is that basic orientation of what can I give? Paul saying you must stop being a taker Because if you're a taker, you're eventually going to steal one way or the other. You know, you're going to rationalize and all the rest. But you're going to need to get what you believe you deserve, that you've got to get one way or another And Paul says, stop doing that, but rather earn so that you are able to have something not just for your own needs, but to share and give. Whether it is for the need of another individual or it is the need of the body so that we can expand a base of operation, our ministry center, worship center, you know, and the education center and all the rest of those things The fact is that Paul says, move from being a taker to a giver. How do you do that? It's in the context of the rest of Ephesians. So at this point, you need to notice that the book of Ephesians is divided into two halves, chapters 1 to 3 and chapters 4 to 6. Chapters 1 to 3 give you the gospel. That is, it tells you what God has done for you and in you through Christ and by His Spirit. Now, chapters four to six talk about how to live out of the gospel day by day. Chapters 1 to 3, the Gospel. Chapter 4 to 6, how to live out of the Gospel. You do that in each case, receiving the gospel, living out of the gospel by faith. So all the practical changes, use the first blanks for those of you that make sure fill in those blanks. But all the practical changes of Ephesians 4 to 6 are based upon The truths of the gospel in chapters 1 to 3, possessed by faith. Alright? All the practical changes, Ephesians 4, 5, and 6 is just all this practical how to live. Those are all based upon the truths of the gospel. We could take every single command from chapters 4, 5, and 6. And related to some statement of truth about the gospel, about your life in Christ, your new life in Christ, in chapters 1, 2, and 3. So we've talked about Ephesians as giving us what we call the four postures of the Christian life. You become a mature Christian in the same way that you became a Christian in the very first place. First, by sitting in Christ. Remember chapter 1, verse 20 Paul says that Christ was raised from the dead and was seated in the heavenly places, far above all rules, authority, power, and dominion, the rest of that. Jesus Christ, when he finished his work, Sat down because he rested from that work. Chapter 2, verse 6, God says that you who were dead in sin, I dead in sin God raised up to new life and what did he do? Seated you with Christ. In the heavenly realms. So now, in the gospel, I'm seated with Christ. That is, I'm resting from my works. All the things that you've done in your life that fill you with shame, the things that you wish you could change, if only I could have a chance to live that over. All the things that you've done that you know are inexcusable. The gospel says that Jesus Christ took those things upon himself. And he died for the curse you deserve, and that he gave you his record A new record, so that you don't do anything to achieve God's favor. You rest, you sit in Jesus Christ. Have you come to that place yet in your life? Where you know that you're no longer striving Working so that your good outweighs your bad, but rather that you can simply sit in the finished work of Christ in his life and in his death for your sin. There's just no other place to begin. That's the beginning of the gospel, I think. If you haven't come there, I urge you to come to that place of admitting your need of Christ and seeing his finished work. As your only but sufficient way of being right with God. Now, having done that, and I pray that all of you have done that, or will do it today. He says you go on because you can't just once for all absorb that and that's it. So the second posture is kneeling. And in kneeling, chapter 3, verse 14. Paul says, I kneel before the Father, of whom all the family of heaven and earth is named, and what do I do? He says, I ask for two things. I ask to know his power available for me and his love for me. To know his power and his love, the inexhaustible, limitless power and love of Jesus Christ, to in a daily experience Understand that, to know it. And so we talked about sitting on the edge of your bed when you get up in the morning, Lord, I'm sitting in the righteousness of Christ this day. Kneel by that bed. Lord, I pray that this day you will give me the experience of your love and of your power in my as I walk through this day to be aware of you But it's not just a matter of contemplating. You'll just sit on the bed and kneel by the bed. You've got to get up, you've got to work, you've got to do stuff, you know. So the next thing is, third posture, is walking. Seven times in the book of Ephesians, Paul talks and five of those seven are in chapters four to six. He says walk. Now new NIV generally translates it live, but it's walk. Why walk? It's not jumping, it's not flying, it's not leaping, you know, it's one step after the other. Living out of the gospel, learning how to walk in Christ. It's an obedience. It's not passive. You are doing it. But you are doing it by the power of the Spirit, living out of the gospel. So, walk is a very helpful image that's used again and again in the Bible of living the Christian life. But as you walk, you're going to meet opposition. Satan can't stand a life that is dedicated to Jesus Christ to glorify and honor Him. He will seek to distract you, to tempt you, to discourage you, to dissuade you, get you off track, whatever. And so Paul says the fourth posture is to stand. Taking a stand, chapter 6, verses 10 to 14, four times, he uses the word stand. Stand firm, stand in the power of Jesus Christ against your enemy. Take your stand. And so the Christian life is learning how to sit, how to kneel, how to walk, and how to stand. Those four postures. Chapters 1 to 3, Gospel reality. The facts of your new life in Jesus Christ. Chapters 4, 5, and 6. Living out of the gospel on a daily basis. Now, when we went through all this stuff over these first 84 messages, What did we say was the key verse of the book of Ephesians? Anyone remember? We can't leave this room until we get it's got 155 verses, so just start guessing and eventually we'll The one verse we said the key verse of Ephesians puts it all together. Anybody remember the link? Come on now, first service did it. You guys can come through here and 4-1! 4-1! Yes, very good. There you go. 4-1. Get that one. 4-1! All right Chapter 4, verse 1, where Paul says, as a prisoner for the Lord then. This is the link, you see, between 1, 3 and 4, 6. As a present before the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. Now you remember when we looked at that, we saw that that word worthy is not the most helpful translation. The word worthy there is the Greek word axios, which means to bring a scale into equilibrium. The word live that he uses there is the word walk. So I think a a more precise vivid translation of chapter Ephesians 4. 1 If you want to write this in your margin or something, or write it between the lines, you know, it's up to you. But as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to walk in balance with your calling. Now, have to understand what he's saying there. He is saying that life is like a scale. Picture me as a scale, okay? Here's the vertical of the scale, and here's the two balances of the scale. Alright, chapters one to three, chapter four, five, and six. Chapter one to three, let's suppose you were to take a 10 pound weight, you put it on this side of the scale. The scale goes bing like that. Alright? Got 10 pounds there, nothing on here. Gradually you pour sugar onto this side, and when you reach 10 pounds of sugar, the scale is axiose. The scale is in equilibrium The scale is in what Paul says in Ephesians 4. 1, balance. Walk in balance. What's he saying? He's saying, think about the gospel, your new life in Christ. As you think about that, Paul says, live out of that so that on a daily basis your life is being brought into equilibrium. In other words, you are holy in Christ, therefore be holy. You are righteous in Christ, therefore be righteous. You are pure in Christ, therefore be pure. In fact, it's interesting that the book of Ephesians Has two kinds of grammar. Chapter 1 to 3 are facts, what in grammar we call indicatives. Basically just says this is reality. This is what life is in Christ. Almost no commands in chapters 1 to 3. Chapter 4, 5, and 6 is almost all commands. It has a number of statements of fact, but they're really by way of review and reference. And in Ephesians, the commands are based on the facts. Everything you are told to do, you do not in your strength By your decision, your behavior, hoping your heart will change, but rather it is living out of the gospel. As you believe the gospel and live out of the gospel, that's what changes. And so we say at CPC, the one statement that we um have uh everybody in Discoverers class memorize is uh the statement you see there, the Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in my experience by faith that which is already true of me in Christ. In fact, come on, you've all done it if you've been through Discover's class. Let's do it together. And we'll do it and you can look at the page and then we'll do it again. Try not to look at the page. Right? But let's say it together and you can look at the page if you need to. The Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in my experience. By faith, that which is already true of me in Christ. Some Christians say Christian life is more than that. You know, you got the gospel, then you have to add something to that, some second blessing, some other experience, something else for victory. Some Christians say there's less than that. Well, you have the new life in Christ, but don't expect that you're going to be able to live out of that. You live some of it, you've got an occasional victory here or there. But basically it's not till heaven that you really ever experience anything of the fullness of that. We say, no, no, no, no. The Christian life is nothing more, but it's nothing less. The making true in my experience, I save. That which is already true of me. That I read in chapters 1, 2, and 3 in Christ. So let's say it again. The Christian life is nothing more or less than making true in my experience by faith that which is already true of me in Christ. That's powerful, isn't it? I mean, you know? Think about that. Kind of gets you excited. Even Presbyterians can get excited thinking about something like that, you know So the gospel is based, I mean the commands are based on facts. And the order in which he proceeds through chapters 4, 5, and 6 is very important. He doesn't start after chapter 4, verse 1. I urge you that you will walk in balance with the calling you've received by talking about your devotional life and talking about the commands you ought to keep. What he talks about is body life. Chapter 2, verses 2 to 4 verses 2 to 16 is all about body life, living in community. And so he talks about the church. He talks about the unity of all we have in common. He talks about the diversity of your distinctive gifts and my gifts How I need you and you need me. We need to live in community in order to build and encourage one another so that we grow up in our convictions, our affections, and our character. That's chapter four verse thirteen. And how do we do that? Speaking the truth and love to one another. So that's body life. That's living in community. That's why we say at Columbia Presbyterian that our basic distinctive as a church, if you boil it all down It's the power of the gospel through the structure of cells. Because that's just taking those two parts, you see. It's saying the power of the gospel, living out of the gospel. Through the structure of cells, living in community to enable each other to do that. Right? Now some of you at that point are frankly cheating yourselves. And you're not only cheating yourselves, you're cheating us. And if that's not bad enough, you're not only cheating yourselves and cheating us, you're cheating God, because you are living on the periphery of that. You're saying I'll come here and attend from time to time, but I'm not going to live as part of the community. I like my independence. I want my freedom. I don't want people to know me too well. And Paul says, you can't live In the victory and the experiencing living out the gospel, unless you do it in community. So if you're trying to live a holy Christian life and you're trying to walk with the Lord and know Him and yet you put off the community and you say, I'm not going to be part of a group of Christians. who are going to help me to grow and that I can help and commit myself to them. I just gotta be honest with you, you're kidding yourself. It's not gonna work And I urge you to think about that. Now I'm not saying that if you're real new to Christian to CPC, you just gotta plunge right into a group. But some of you have been coming for a long time. And you still want to stay on the periphery. And Paul says you can't do that and experience the fullness of the gospel Now, after living in community, he then begins to talk about the particulars, and that's the second section, holy life. That's chapter 4, verse 17 to chapter 5, verse 21. There he's talking about the fact that in chapter 4 verse 17 he says, I tell you this and I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer live as the Gentiles or the unbelievers do in the futility of their thinking. You simply can't. Why? Well, it's the application of what we talk about on Easter. You see, you've not only died in Christ, you have been raised with Christ in new life. And if you are joined to Jesus Christ, chapter 2, verse 6, raised up with Christ and seated in the heavenlies, Then you have died to sin's power, which he defeated in his resurrection. Amen? Amen. Now you see, that's living out of the gospel. What is the gospel? Let me boil the gospel down in three succinct statements. Christ died, Christ rose, Christ will come again. And those deal with three very practical things in your life. Christ died, you are delivered from the penalty of sin Christ rose. You are being delivered from the power of sin. Its power has been broken in your life. Christ will come again, you will be delivered from the presence of sin. That's your hope. So when I say that change is from the inside out by believing the gospel, that's what I'm talking about. I'm saying that as you lay hold of the truth that your sin has been forgiven, it's no longer held against you, that as you are raised in Christ, you are no longer in its bondage and under its power. And you have the hope that one day you will be delivered from sin completely, then you realize that as you live out of that, there is a new freedom In obeying what Jesus Christ says. Paul says, put off the old life, put on the new life in verses 22 to 24. And so before I gave you the illustration of that, you remember this? There it is. Same one, my good old t-shirt. You know, I uh just save this to wear on special occasions. Uh y you know, it's it's still the same one, but you know The problem with this t-shirt, I gotta remind you again, even though it's a little grungy and it's kind of hard to hold up here, it really isn't bad enough to represent our old nature. Uh Paul says, put off your old nature, which is like this old t-shirt, because you see, to really be like our old nature, I'd have had to rub it in the garbage and a compost pile. and um clean up the cat litter box and you know a few other things we don't have to get into But you know, it should have some maggots hanging off of it and some other stuff, because that's really what our hearts are like apart from Christ. And Paul says, if you have died and risen with Christ You can put that off. Completely, perfectly? No. But you can put off day by day living out of the gospel As you read what the Bible says it means to follow Christ, Paul says you can put that off and experience new victory in ways that you've not experienced. By faith. You put this off, but that's not it. You can't just put it off and then you've got a void. You put this off and then he says, you put on the new life, you see. There it is Fresh in the bag, haven't even been opened up or brought out, you know. Brand new t-shirts, pull it out, the new life of Christ, totally spotless, pure That's the gospel. By faith you put off the old life. By faith, you put on the new life of Christ. Now, it's in that light you come back to chapter 4, verse 28. And you read, He that has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work doing something useful with his own hands, and he may have something to share with those in need. What's he saying? He's saying if you're united to Christ by faith, then greed no longer enslaves you. You don't have to be a taker. In fact, if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are guaranteed to be as generous as Jesus Christ. He gave everything that he had. And your heart is guaranteed by the gospel to be absolutely 100% as generous as Jesus When he comes again. But Christian life is nothing more or less. Don't diminish that. Oh well, so I can be greedy and you know none need anything. No By the Spirit of God, who he says in chapter 1 is giving you the first fruits of that, you are experiencing now that new life. Therefore, Paul is saying, you can put off the greediness. I don't have to be self-protective, have to provide for myself, can't trust God to provide for me. Don't have a heavenly father to take care of me. have to find these idols to give me pleasure because I can't really find it in my relationship with Jesus. All those things, you say, put that off, he says, put on the new life That is available to you in Jesus Christ so that you, out of freedom and gratitude, become a giver. So that you can become someone who trusts God to take care of your needs. Now, this is succinctly put, in a book by uh in just a little section here from uh book that I consider one of the very best ones in Christian life, it's by Richard Loveless called Dynamics of Spiritual Life. It's written back in the 70s. And there's still, in fact, I use this as a text at Westminster in a course I teach there. It's an excellent book. But he says in one section of that book That we need to realize all the things I've just been talking to you about, that walking in Christ by faith, the same way that you receive Christ He says, because we have died with Christ and have been raised up together with him in newness of life. Now listen, therefore We are not to set the estimates of our power to conquer sin according to past experiences of our willpower. but are to fix our attention on Christ and the power of his risen life. In which we participate, for we have died, and our life is hidden with Christ through God. When you think about the sin in your life that seems to enslave you. And you say, yeah, okay, this week I'm going to change. I want to see the power of that sin broken. What do you do? You look back, don't you, and you say, Well, what about the last 50 times I determined that? And what are you doing? You're measuring what will happen based on your experience and your power. And of course you're going to fail. The only way for you and I to have success, and that success is not complete and perfect, but it is substantial I deal with the same sins now I dealt with 30 years ago, but I don't deal with them on the same level. Praise God. And it is only as the power of the gospel comes, and my focus is on the power of the risen Christ, what he is able to do. That the change takes place. Do you make sense? And so Paul then goes on, seven ways he describes that, sums it up by the power of the Spirit, be not drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. That's the climax of it, the Spirit coming, taking control of your mind and your heart, applying and filling you with the gospel. So that you are speaking the psalms and hymns, spiritual songs to one another, singing to the Lord grace in your heart. Giving thanks for all things and all circumstances in Christ and submitting to one another out of the fear of Christ. And then he impels right on to three basic relationships in life. Marriage, parenting, work. And that's what brings us up to where we are now. So let me conclude by asking you, and by the way, marriage is the one area where, believe me, if there's anything that shows you you cannot love apart from the gospel. It is living with another sinner for years and years and years and determined that you're going to do it for the rest of your life, right? And so that is why in May 1819 we're going to have the seminar, Marriage by Grace, in which we're going to explore this whole thing. So if you're saying I don't know. I think there's something here, but boy, it's sort of jammed my circuits. I'm sort of overloaded. I need some help to think about work. Come to the marriage seminary, particularly if you're married. It's not it's not closed to only those who are married But we're going to apply it specifically in that relationship for you to explore more specifically by two people who are excellent and articulate at exploring this and very honest and open about their sin. It's not going to be, let me tell you about how perfect our marriage is. They're going to talk about all the ways that they struggle as husband and wife, but how they live out of the gospel And so May 1819. Make sure you don't miss that. We've got uh uh eighty or ninety people signed up for it so far, but uh don't miss out on that thing. You'll hear a little bit more about that in just a minute. But let me ask you in conclusion, where is it in your life That you need to apply the principles we've just talked about. Is it the area of greed? The area of gossip and criticism Well maybe it's the area of uh your self-protection. Maybe for you it's the area of sexual purity and lust. What is the area? That as you think about this, you think, nothing else has worked. I've been trying by my behavior to change and change and change. Maybe God is showing me now there's a different way. Living out of the gospel makes all the difference. And some of you have been experiencing that from gospel in the heart, from your cells and the curriculum you've gone through and that. And you're beginning to see in your lives this dynamic at work. You're beginning to see the Spirit change you and bring new life and change into your heart and into your attitudes. Now, if you're one of those people who's begun to see that change, say amen. Now, if you are not somebody who said amen Look at the people who said amen close to you and talk to them afterwards about how they do that, okay? Ask them about. Praise God, there are more people, more of us just discovering, just beginning to get a glimpse. of what it means to live out of the gospel like this. Let's pray about that for our own lives. Lord Jesus, I I just want to offer up to you these people. Lord, I I know that I feel like I'm still in the kindergarten of this. But Lord, we we ask you to reveal to us in our own hearts those areas where we have just been trying to change, and we've been trying so hard. And we do good things, but Lord, our hearts are far from you, and we fail so miserably. And so, Lord, we pray that you would help us to bring that area to you right now, that we would be able this week to learn what it means to live out of the gospel. That you would give us power to grasp the gospel, and by your Spirit to apply that to this particular area of our lives. We're so sick of the defeat. It doesn't glorify you, and it's miserable for us. So, Lord, we ask that you would show us Christ. Let us see Jesus. Who died and is risen again in all his resurrected power to know that we are seated with him. We are joined with him in that new life. That sin can no longer control us. We ask you to show us what that means in Jesus' name. Amen.