I was uh just reflecting on how it is that I um am here to preach today, uh in the middle of uh Alan's uh series on the family and then it then I remembered I'm the youth and family's pastor. I I actually knew that. Um Alan and I had talked earlier in the year, um, January, February, sometime, uh about the series. From Ephesians six, uh coming up, fathers and mothers and families and children and their responsibility and uh he asked uh uh you know, do you want to have a part? And uh so we preferly considered what that part might be. And uh today I would like to preach from Deuteronomy 6, looking forward to the next three messages from Alan from Ephesians 6. As kind of a foundation, the background, how we find ourselves, where we find ourselves. As God's people. And if you have uh the outline from the bulletin you'll see that little chorus there. Um some of you probably familiar with this. We've sung it ad nauseum uh growing up. I did anyway, and uh Father Abraham, right, and many sons. Many sons had Father Abraham, and I am one of them, and so are you So let's just praise the Lord, right? And then we go. Right, you know. This maniacal way that we sing it and and youth workers and Vacation Bible School directors all across the country having heart palpitations. Um But I wonder if in the fun of that song if we if we miss sometimes the beauty of what God uh reveals to us through that simple course. Father Abraham had many sons, as many as the grains of sand on the seashore, as many as the stars in the heavens were promised to him. And I am one of them, and so are you. So, what should be our response? Let's just praise the Lord then. Let's proclaim him. Let us rejoice that the God who made covenant with Abraham is the God who kept covenant with Abraham, and because of his faithfulness we can benefit. Praise be to God. So that's what I'd like to do. Preach to us from Deuteronomy 6 and take a look at some points that I think God might want to direct us to today. Beginning of Deuteronomy 6, then all of ye who are the seed of Abraham, according to Galatians 5, as Paul tells us, you become heirs according to the promise. So, children of Abraham, listen to the word of the Lord. Now, this is the commandment, and these are the statutes and the judgments which the Lord your God has commanded to teach you. That you may observe them in the land which you are crossing over to possess. That you may fear the Lord your God, to keep all his statutes. And his commandments, which I command you, you and your son, and your grandson, all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged. Therefore hear, O Israel, and be careful to observe it, that it may be well with you, and that you may multiply greatly, as the Lord God of your fathers has promised you, a land flowing with milk and honey. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord with your God with your heart. With all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. And you shall teach them diligently to your children, and you shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes, and you shall write them on the doorpost of your house and on your gates I better set the timer I want to direct our attention to a couple of C's. You know, we go through seminary, you work on alliteration. I think there I had one whole class on alliteration. So today I'd like to look at the context. of this statement that's made to the seed of Abraham. The content of that statement, the concept in implementing this statement And then I believe the confession that should accompany any time that we are directed to hear this statement. And so the context. The context of the statement today is a covenant. It's a covenant. Now a covenant is like a contract, only different, if I could You see there's a box, I think it's in there. Yes, it made it to the final printing. A covenant and a contract, there are similarities, and yes, there are distinctions, and we need to draw the distinctions, but the similarities are such that is a binding agreement. There are rewards for keeping that agreement. There are threats of punishment for disobedience for not keeping that agreement. And what we have here is a picture, in fact, a presentation of God Himself as a covenant maker. This is um there's no mistake here, and there's no getting around the fact that this resembles the suzerain vassal treaties of the uh ancient Near East. It's a treaty that took place between a sovereign and a servant, between one who was the conquering king and one who had been conquered. His people, though those in subjection to him. And God assumes that role in presenting this covenant. He presents the covenant to the people. What different parts of the covenant are in view here? In Deuteronomy 5 we hear a rehearsal of the Ten Commandments. The Lord pronounces who the sovereign is. The description of the two parties, I and the Lord your God who has brought you out of bondage, describing for those in subjection why they should be loyal to the sovereign. And then pronounces what the agreement is, the binding agreement, what's responsible on both parties. You will do this, I will do that. And then it is usually ratified in blood. This is the picture of the covenant that God gave to Abraham in Genesis fifteen, where God called Abraham to bring three um animals to split them in half, to separate the pieces opposite one another, and then God Himself passed through As a symbol of that God was the one who was making the covenant and that God was the one who was going to keep the covenant. Praise be to him And so that's what we have here. It's similar to a contract, I say, in this regard. If let's say we were to contract together that I was to re-roof your house. I have experience in that, so you know, it might be likely. However, let me draw the line There's no need for that. The church has been very generous, very gracious to us. We appreciate the salary, the compensation, the benefits. But for hypothetical purposes and illustration here, let's say I um were to re-roof your house and we were to enter into negotiations for that There's a sum of money, there's an agreement. You pay me this amount of money, I'll tear off your old roof, I'll put a new roof on, I'll take the debris away to the landfill. You know. And there are rewards for keeping that, right If I do it, you will pay. If I don't do it, sue me. Right? Because we know how long that'll take. There are rewards for keeping the agreement, and there are threats of punishment for disobeying or not keeping the agreement. But that's where the different the similarities between contract and covenant um kind of fall away. Because a covenant is a binding agreement that is permanent. And that's what God has entered into with us. In fact, also in a covenant Uh within a contract we would negotiate a price. You know, you want it done for fifty dollars and I want a little bit more. Or I just want to do the garage and nothing else and you want the whole house But in a covenant there is no negotiation. The sovereign declares that this will occur, and those in subjection Fall in line or don't. But there is no negotiation. Also, there are not equal parties There is the conqueror and the conquered. Our hearts don't like those two distinctions. Our hearts are sinful. We like to negotiate, don't we? We cry, that's not fair Our sinful hearts yearn for the ability to negotiate. It's perfectly just. It wouldn't be if uh we were negotiating the roof on your house. But it's perfectly just here, for there to be no negotiation between the sovereign God of all creation. And he has established his covenant. We don't like a series of obligations imposed on us, and we sure don't like a series of punishments that are threatened for our disobedience. We say, that's not fair. However, our preferences aside, he has made covenant with us, with all of its so-called impositions on us And wishing things were different doesn't change reality. In fact, I would submit to you, wishing things were different is the wrong way to approach the covenant that God has made with man. Investigating what it is that he has done, rather, is the way to approach the covenant that God has made with man. With Abraham, with Isaac, with Jacob. When we sing that song, Father Abraham in our house, I want my children to know That they are part of that covenant. The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob is your God, Kevin. Is your God, Emma? Your God, Leah, your God, Anna. I want them to know that, to know him, and to love him. So we see then that the context of the statement is a covenant, a binding agreement, one in which God has made, and one we will see in a little bit, in which God has kept. And then we see the content of this statement. The content is a command. Moses elaborates on the reason here in verse 2. There's a command that I'm going to give, and there's a reason for the command. It's twofold. The reason is so that you might fear the Lord. This is a good thing to fear the Lord. And then in the remainder of part two, so in verse two, so that you may live long, so that you may prosper. But your days may be prolonged. There's a reason for the commands that God gives to us. He's not capricious deciding what to do on a whim He knows what's best. And so he is commanded. He gives a reason, the fear of the Lord. Now, I didn't take the time to do a transparency, but what I'd like to do is read several passages. And see this promise, what's entailed in the fear of the Lord. I can give you the scripture references later. I'd rather just you Allow this word to wash over you. Let me read. The fear of the Lord is pure, enduring forever. The ordinances of the Lord are sure and altogether righteous. The fear of the Lord, it's the beginning of wisdom, and all who follow his precepts have good understanding. To him belongs eternal praise. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But fools despise wisdom, and fools despise discipline. My son, if you accept my words and you store up my commands within you, and you turn your ear to wisdom And you apply your heart to understand. And if you call out for insight, and if you cry aloud for understanding, and if you look for it as for silver And search for it as for hidden treasure, listen, then you will understand the fear of the Lord, and you will find the knowledge of God. I could go on and on and on. I've cited all these scripture references. But listen to this through the prophet Isaiah. Our covenant keeper describes Our Messiah this way. A shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse. From his roots a branch will bear fruit The Spirit of the Lord will rest on him, the Spirit of wisdom, the Spirit of understanding, the Spirit of counsel, the Spirit of power, the Spirit of knowledge, and listen, and the fear of the Lord. A further reason to desire and seek after the fear of the Lord, to submit to the commands of God, is because Jesus delighted in the fear of the Lord. Listen to Isaiah, he continues. And he will delight in the fear of the Lord. That's where Jesus found his passion. Your word, O Lord, is pure, it's good, it's right. And then Isaiah goes on twenty or so chapters later, He will be the sure foundation of your times, a rich store of salvation and wisdom and knowledge, for the fear of the Lord is the key to this treasure. That's how we obtain it. We don't see this purpose diminished in the New Covenant administration at all. In fact, in Acts 9, Luke records for us that the church throughout Judea and Galilee and Samaria enjoy the time of peace. It was strengthened and encouraged by the Holy Spirit. It grew in numbers, living in the fear of the Lord. And so we see the purpose for the command here. It's good for us to fear the Lord, to teach that to our children. God gives us the purpose, and then he wants to remind us of who exactly is making this covenant. And he says Hear, O Israel, one God. The Lord your God is Lord. He is one I think that this is an implied warning against the idolatry that they were to run to soon. The id the idols that they uh would so soon leave God and run toward and cling to and long for and not want to give up. In Israel we see ourselves here, don't we? God redeems us. He grows us. He cleanses us. He bathes us in his word. He brings us to a fellowship where we can be nurtured and instructed. And we want to run to the idol. We want to run to that thing that is right there, calling, perfumed, lovely to look at. Run away with me. And this is a warning. But it's also the implication here as God says, the Lord your God is one. I am sufficient. You need no other gods. So God reminds us of the purpose for his command. He tells us who it is that is making this covenant, and then he makes the proclamation. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul and with all your strength. It's funny, isn't it? As I was looking at this, think about this How many times do we hear of an earthly king, a human king, decreeing to those who are in subjection to him, you will love me? We don't hear that a lot. We hear you will obey me, you will serve me, you will bring your money to me, or whatever. But here it is, God in his wisdom, describing for us what we are soon to learn as we grow with him, that he is the best. Set your affections on me. You will love the Lord your God. That's the command. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. Love the king? And yet it makes perfect sense. He is the best. To be drawn to love him is the best for us as well. If um you've hung around our church for any last couple of months or so, or if you know um past uh Elder John McCurley, then you've heard of Pastor Pastor John Piper. Get my words out here in a second. But Piper has a book called Desiring God. And uh one of my seminary uh fellow students gave it to me uh back in I think it was ninety-six. And uh I poured through that book and one of the things that one of my favorite quotes that I pulled from that Um I shared in the sermon in the first service. And McCurley came to me afterwards and said, hey man, that's my favorite quote too. And I was going to share it when I preached in July and 29th I said, well go ahead, because it's a good one. But here it is. John Piper in his book Desiring God describes the difference between love and duty And he likens it to uh the occasion of his wedding anniversary, bringing a dozen roses to his wife. And he paints this picture of him presenting the roses and then her Oh, Johnny and putting his her arms around his neck and then he says, No, no, no what at that point I were to back her up and say, No, no, no, don't mention it. It's my duty. is your husband. She laughs and snickers in the first in the in the second crowd. The first crowd, a hush fell over the crowd. What is he doing? It's my duty, honey, to be your husband. Piper goes on to say, listen to this. Dutiful roses are a contradiction in terms. He quotes here, if I am not moved by a spontaneous affection for her as a person, the roses do not honor her. In fact they belittle her. They are the very thin covering for the fact that she does not have the worth or the beauty in my eyes to kindle that kind of affection, and all I can muster is a calculated expression of marital duty. You see, the proper expression of our love for God comes from hearts that are filled with the knowledge of God, and they burn with a white hot passion. For God. This is what we just talked about in the high school group today. We were looking at uh Revelation in chapter 3 And how Jesus, in speaking to the church at Ephesus, he says, What has happened to you? My rebuke I hold against you is this you have forsaken your first love That first love that was a a love and humility that said, I don't deserve a bridegroom like this. I don't deserve to be with you First love, love is a white hot, passionate love, is a hungry love. I want to be with you. I long to be in your presence. I long to be on whatever road you're on. I want to walk with you because you are my lover of you're the lover of my soul. I long to be with you. And Jesus rebukes the church and he says, What has happened? You have forsaken your first love. You don't hunger after me And you're not humble when you approach me. You're presumptuous. You assume you should be my people. Why? Because of what you've done So the rebuke comes strong. So the love that we're called to here is a love that comes from within, a love that is birthed in time. spent dwelling and delighting in God, for who God is and for what He's done. We understand that we can only love because we've first been loved, right? That's what John says. And then we see this love demonstrated. Act it out. Because God is not content to stand in the heavens and say, I love you. People, God demonstrates his love. Husbands, take note, right? God demonstrates his own love for us in this, that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. He died for you and for me, for all the sins that we have committed, for all the sins that we will commit, for all the sins we commit today. Because of his love. And that's a demonstration of an incredible love. And so we seek to follow him and to answer that love with a responding love that knows what he's done and responds in kind. I want to follow you. I want to obey you. I want to serve because I love. So God gives this command to us, Israel. Love me with all your heart and all your soul and all your strength. See he knows what's best, doesn't he? That's why he didn't say obey me. He says it in other parts. That's why he didn't say serve me. He says that in other places too. But he says love me. I think there's two emphases found here to this command. And I didn't have the heart to take the ninth version of my handout upstairs and give to Kathy Law as our office manager. But if you would, change the informal to inward and change the formal to outward, because I believe that that's a better presentation of what's found in this text. God says in verse six, this command is to be on your heart, in your heart He says this, and these words which I command to you today shall be in your heart. It's a meditation of the heart. It's got to have an inward focus before it ever has an outward expression. You see that? I hope you see that because what I'm afraid I'm guilty of, and I don't know if you are or not, but we're guilty of swapping duties. Oh, if I can just go to this Bible study and attend this cell and teach this Sunday school class and nurture these kids in vacation Bible school July June twenty-fifth through the twenty-ninth, as a family aid, which positions are still available. If I can do all these things If I can do all these things, then somehow I can swap out that duty for meditation with God on God. And see, but God doesn't put us in that order. He says, the command I give to you today, Israel, is to be in your heart. It must be inward before it's outward We must be thrilled with God before we can share God with others. I think that's what 1 Corinthians 13 is all about. You guys do a lot of stuff, Paul says, but listen, if you have not love, love for God, love for others, it's like a big clanging gong, clashing symbol That's not good. Jesus said, out of the overflow of the heart the mouth speaks. I'm always uh disturbed by this image that pastors have used of the uh container and whatever's inside the container when you're jostled, when it's jostled, whatever's inside comes out. That's scary of me. You know, uh, you know, you get the coffee cup and you got the laptop case over here and you reach down to pick up the paper and laptop case is you know, and coffee's all over your arm, burning your skin and messing up your pants and all that stuff Whatever's in that container, when it's jostled, it'll come out, right? And I think this is a good picture of our hearts. Whatever we're filled with, whatever we are enthralled with, whatever is filling us up. When we're jostled by providence, as it were, that's what's going to come spilling out. It's scary to think what gets jostled out of me on a given day. Anger, anxiety, arrogance, My um my family has four kids right now. We've just discovered recently that uh the Lord has been pleased to bring another one our way in November And we're looking forward to that. Number five. Right now we have three girls and one boy, uh, Kevin. And uh so we've got to stick together, you know, he and I. And uh You know, we even have a nickname that Emma gave us. I'm Hank, he's Hank, I'm Big Hank, he's little Hank, you know, no you Hank, you Hank, you know, and so and sometimes, corny as it sounds, we even dress alike. Because we're the guys, you know. We've got to do that. And I recall a time when um we still lived in Georgia and there was a lady noticing Kevin and I together on one of our errands Lady in line with us at the grocery store who commented, Isn't that neat? Oh, isn't that just neat? He wants to be just like you. And I thought to my you know, you had the pleasant, you know, like and inside I'm thinking, you know that's a terrifying thought Lady, that that's scary. Because I know what my heart's capable of. I know what my hands are capable of I know what my eyes are capable of. And that's a scary thing. That what's jostled by Providence comes spilling out on my life. Somebody said one time that more is caught than is taught in our homes. Makes it even more scary. I love start to say it again. I love all my children dearly. I uh said that in the first service and then I thought I'd better correct myself. I love my offspring. I don't like the soap opera I have nothing to get the soap proper, I just haven't seen it. I love all my children dearly. Praise God. But uh I recognize that I need Christ. to love them through me. Because I don't love them the way he does. He loves them perfectly. And he wants to use me as a resource in their lives, and that's what I need to do And so that's why this command has got to be inward for me first before it's outward. Because if I go to the teaching and if I go to the catechizing, if I go to the family worship time and all the things, if it's not in here Then I'm a big clanging gong sitting in my house, taking up space. And God is sovereign But I am responsible. So that's why he wants us to fill our minds with him. So it has an inward application. The meditation of our hearts, I also believe it has an outward application. The outward application here Wow, it's uh twenty-four seven. Now I think permitted in here is time for sleep and things like that But it's all day every day. It's when you rise up, it's when you lie down, it's when you walk by the way, it's when you go with them. It's when yeah, we're responsible And it's not just for I think there is implication here for the offspring particular to our households, but I think there's implication here for everybody we have contact with For the kids you teach in Sunday school, for the kids that you will lead in vacation Bible school, for the kids in your neighborhood that you want to proclaim Christ to Wherever you go, as you go, by the way, when you rise up, when you lie down. It's a 24-7, it's an all-day everything. It's an outward. He says, teach them diligently. That we'd be about this business with all of our energy, with all of our efforts. That's another reason why the inward's gotta come first. Because if we try to put the outward first and muster up the energy to do it We're dead in the water. Oh sure, we could probably keep it up for a little while. But we'll soon find out that our strength is puny And his strength is made perfect in our weakness. It is the work of God's Spirit. You see, left to our natural selves, our flesh, which hates God, our sinful nature, which has at which is at war with the Spirit of God dwelling within us. Would keep us from this. We don't come by this naturally. And I want you to hear this, please. I don't want to become some, you know, focus on the family poster family or something. Don't be like me. Follow Christ. Because in our natural selves, we're self-centered, we're self-absorbed, and we won't come by this naturally Illustration again with uh Hank and Hank out in the woods. Um last fall I took it upon myself to start to date my kids. And we have four right now. I don't know what's gonna happen with the fifth one, but on On my day off, on Monday, my day off, by the way, just as a personal aside, I truly appreciate the fact that you are a congregation that helps the pastoral staff preserve their days off. On behalf of Alan and Steve and Evan, I thank you for limiting the contact that we have on those days off. We appreciate the time of refreshment where we can just withdraw for a time. And so Monday is my day off. And I've taken the first Monday to spend with the first child, you know, Emma. And we do a daddy date, and sometimes we're over at the mall and we're you know, getting our nails done and you know, having our hair put up and and stuff like that. And and the third and fourth, I'm usually at the mall again, but we're riding the carousel sell and do all kinds of goods that we usually stop off at Annie Anne's for a pretzel which is small workout for me. But on the second Monday of the month I get to spend with Kevin And uh frequently we do things like shoot the bone arrow and we do meet stuff. And one Monday back in the late winter, we were out at the McKeldon area of Potasco State Park. We were out there to hike. Deer watch, you know, uh skipstones, fit, you know, things like that. And um The thought hit me riding out there. Uh uh you know, I need to spend this time, I need to be like teaching diligently. I need to be, you know, doing things, I need to be doing something for God here with Kevin. You know I I really gotta start, you know, trying to figure out how to I can do things for God with Kevin right now. And then the thought hit me. I'm sitting here trying to figure out how to do things for God with Kevin right now. That was ridiculous. And so it drove me to prayer. This weak father went to the strong father, and I said, God, please, today uh um Help me to relax. Help me not to presume anything, but Lord, if you'd be so pleased as to strike up something between Kevin and myself concerning you, I would be pleased and honored to uh step up to that task. And I left it with him. And I want to tell you something. Uh about an hour or so later, now Kevin didn't know I'd prayed. We were still skipping rocks and watching deers and you know, the other things guys do in the woods. All of a sudden a question hit me. It rolled off my tongue. Hey Kevin Do you ever think about God like, you know, when mommy and daddy aren't around or anything? And he answers. And we talk. And after it was finished, I mean, you know, we didn't cover superlapseanism or, you know, anything like that, but after that was finished, I rejoiced. And God taught me an important lesson that day that I hope I remember until the day I die. That this command to teach diligently our children, when we walk by the way, when we rise up, when we lie down, has got to be done in recognition of Him and reliance on Him. The inward first, the outward second, in recognition on God and in reliance upon Him I think there's also an implication here for family worship, for our family worship time. And it's important for us to see that God calls us to that realm. 24-7, every day, all day. We're responsible, responsible for those in our household. But I think to remember and to recall that Christ is the one who is sovereign. Remember that covenant he made with us? He's the sovereign covenant maker. And Galatians 5 is very clear, Christ is the sovereign covenant keeper. You see, when we view the covenant, we see I can't do that. I cannot meet that standard. There is no way I am undone And God says that's precisely what you're supposed to see. Now will you repent of who you are and all that you try to do? And now will you rest in all that I have done That's what he calls us to do, to believe, to rest. It is so sweet to trust in Jesus, isn't it? Just to take him at his word, just to rest upon his promise, just to know, thus saith the Lord. Praise be to God. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, we praise you, we worship you. Strong and mighty Father, we acknowledge that you are the one Who loves our families, you love our his church kids, you love our neighbors, you love our spouses, much more than we could ever dream of loving them This command is good. It's right. It has good purpose. Lord, it's sound. Help us to submit to you as sovereign. Lord, encourage our hearts today with the truth that you are the one equipping us as we go, that you are the one enabling us to fulfill your commands. And God help us, please, to rely on you in all things. In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we pray these things. Amen.