Okay, may I have your attention, please? This is not the welcome and opening prayer, but this is the children's choir. We um We're glad that you're here with us tonight. And um welcome to Columbia Presbyterian Church. Merry Christmas. And we hope that uh this evening is uh uh a delight. Hope that you have a good time while you're here. Uh and we plead your patience uh right up front. Uh we don't have a technical stage crew or anything like that, so we're gonna be trying to transition quickly and promptly and all that stuff. But you'll bear with us, I'm sure. And um afterwards we'll all enjoy uh A whole bunch of uh food and fellowship and that'll be good. So this is our children's choir and Miss Debbie Fesh. Very good. Thank you. Good job. Thank you. Thank you very much. They work hard all they have a very limited um practice time. They meet between Sunday uh between the um Sunday school. And the second service, which is a 15 minute break, which really means about maybe nine minutes, and um, because it's CPC fifteen minutes And uh so we appreciate that. I hope that everyone was able to pick up one of these. It's got uh order or suggested order for tonight. And um If your name is listed in there and you're presenting something, I just want to ask you also to be ready to go when uh when your time comes. How about that for a church statement? Be ready to go when your time comes. And um and Merry Christmas. But uh see, we we don't take ourselves seriously here. We do take very seriously the Lord Jesus Christ and his finished work on the cross, but ourselves No, not at all. And you'll probably see some more of that as we go. But anyway, let me um uh again welcome you. I'm glad that you're here. Hope that you have one of these. If you're in the program, please be in the program. If you're not, please Please enjoy and uh there's some goodies and snacks afterwards. Hope you can stay for that. If you know, unless you gotta get to work tomorrow morning, um who knows how long This thing is going to go. So, with that in mind, let me pray and ask the Lord's blessing on all of us. Our Father in heaven, we do praise you. We thank you. You are a wonderful God. And you do great things, and you have done the greatest of all by giving your son to live and die in our place. Lord, I pray that tonight as the we We um gather around this truth of Christmas through song and and uh scripture reading and some dramatic presentations that You would be pleased to glorify yourself through us. We pray for the people who are presenting tonight that you would If there's any nervousness, Lord, let it be only from the perspective that they present something for you. And we ask that you would bless now, and we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I wonder as I wonder how under the sky How Jesus, the Savior, did come for to die. For poor people like you and like God. I wonder as I wonder how dunsk In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God In him was life, and that life was the light of men, and the word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. When Mary Bert Jesus was in a castor With wise men and farmers and shepherds and dog But high from God's heaven, a star's life is all And look from his combat, it tended to recon The people of darkness have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined, for unto us the child is born. Unto us the Son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders. If Jesus had wanted for any week A star in the sky, or a bird on the way. Or all of God's angels in a heaven to sing He surely could have had it because he was not curious. And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. So Oh I have a bell, she had a bell, all she just say, Crown and the Wake, raised with the ear, bringing the cheer, here we have the gold, team and the bowl. Oh how they come rain for the town Oh coming down rain in the sun, or can it hill fell in the day? May we may rain while we will Arkham the bell, sweet of the bell, falling to face, bell and the rest, Christmas, bringing the cheeks, too, and old teeth and the ball. Oh, coming out great. God and angel bring him on the name. In my shall come to thee, oh Israel. Before the tiny child, before him in a manger, so peaceful and so mild. Not bless the light which guided death to the holy child divine Oh come on, you can't get a lot of money. And ransom captain In my new will shall come to thee. All is right Yeah, those things. All the earthly joy, all the earthly joy in life. And darkness tries to hide, And trembles at his voice, And trembles at his voice. How grey is our God. And always be how great. And it's to wait his Dance and time is in his hand, beginning and the end. Beginning and the end. The God has free in one Father, Spirit, Son, the light. And the lamb, the lion and the lamb. How bright is dark God? Bear with me, how bright is God. Oh my heart will sing. Oh let us adore him oh come let us adore him oh come let us Adore him Christ. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks by night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them But the angel said to them Do not be afraid I bring you good great news of great joy that will be for all the people. Today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is Christ the Lord. This is this will be assigned to you. You will find a baby wrapped in cloths and lying in the manger. Suddenly a great company of the heavenly hosts appeared and and with The angel praising God and saying Glory to God in the highest on and on earth peace to men on whom his favor rests When the angels had left and gone into heaven, the shepherds said to one another Let's go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has told us about And we would like you to join us on the fourth verse, please. It'll be on the PowerPoint. You can go ahead and start. All is calm, all is bright Round virgin, mother and child Shirt has the sight Glory stream from heaven of God. Heavenly haunting A Lelunia Christus, Savior, is bor Crime Sal Holy night, Son love God, pure light. And feel from thy holy faith. With the tongue of redeeming grace Jesus thy Jesus Lord thy birth Wildren store With the angel let us see The show the only weakest above Cause how many kings just come from their throne? How many lords ever been in their homes? How many greats have become believed? And how many gods have poured out their hearts to omend the world that is torn all apart How many fathers gave up their sons for me? Go for his honor and sprinking sense, for his pleasure and murder the cross till the birthday. Is this who we wedded for? How many kings step down from their throne? How many lords have abandoned their homes? How many greats have become the lead from me? And how many gods have poured out their hearts To romance a world that is torn all apart How many fathers gave up their sons to me? Only one did that for me. Off me. How many kings stepped down from their throne? How many lords have abandoned their home? How many greats have become the leaves And how many gods have poured out their hearts To romance a world that is torn all apart? How many far Others gave up their sons for me. Only one did that for me. All for me, all for you. Exactly. Joey, tell me what you like about Christmas. Tell me everything you love about Christmas. Do you love the lights shining on the tree? And how about the gifts from your family? Tell me what you love, and we'll see if we agree. Come and share the secrets of your heart with me. Yeah, yeah, here's what I like about Christmas. I'll tell you all the things I love about Christmas. I love the popcorn we put on a string I love to listen to the choir sing. I love the presence that my family brings. And I love my Jesus more than Zoe, what do you know about Jesus? Can you tell me what you know about Jesus It's Christmas more than candy canes and gingerbread, more than the children playing on their sled More than the pretty Christmas cards I've read, and the long list of worries dancing in my head Well, I'll tell you what I know about Christmas. It's a story of the very first Christmas. Long, long ago in a town far away Shepherds gathered round, a baby in the hay. That was the very first Christmas day when Jesus came to carry all our Zoe, you know the story of Christmas. And I love the true story of Christmas Father, we thank you for your precious Son. Jesus, we thank you for the victory one. Spirit, we thank you for the work you've done. Pray the Thanksgiving to the three in one. And we wish you a very Merry Christmas A true and a thankful Christmas. You know the Savior who has died for you. Maybe you know the gospel story of So true. May you and your family be born. Oh Merry Merry Christmas. Yes, a very Merry Christmas Merry, Merry Christmas to you Angels and men rejoice. Into the ton of light Singlay, single. Oh, it's a Let there be peace on each That he is in the danger Singlay, sing all. Lift up your voice and see Born is our Lord and Savior sing Hallelujah. Sing Aluia I am Born is thou sided. Good evening. We're gonna do two songs. The first is in your program. It's called Matthew's Begats. And I just ask that you pay attention to the words. They go kind of fast. And uh it's the lineage of Jesus. And they're hard to pronounce. So I think I'll do okay though. Abraham had Isaac, Isaac he had Jacob, Jacob he had Judah and his kin. Then Perez and Zara came from Judah's woman Tabor. Perez he brought Hazen up and then came Arab then Aminadab then Nashan who was then the dad of Salman who with Rahab fathered Boaz Ruth and married Boaz who had a David, he had Solomon by dead Uriah's wife. Solomon, well, you all know him. He had an array of home, followed by Abijah, who had Asa. Asa had Jehoshaphat. Had Joram had Uzziah, who had Joseph men, Ahaz and Hezekiah, followed by Manasseh, who had Amon, who was amen, twist father of a good boy named Josiah. To grandfather Jehoiakim, who caused the Babylonian captivity because he was a liar Then he had Shiel Kiaw, who begat the Rababal, who had a bead, who had Eliakim, Eliakim had Azor, who had Zadak, who had achieved, achim. was the father of Eliah then he had Eliezer who had Mason who had Jacob now listen very closely I don't wanna sing this twice Jacob was The father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, the mother of Christ. This one's not in your program, but we're gonna do our own little version of what child is this Sing along please if you want to. What child is there to lay to rest on berries laugh is sleeping Who majors greet with anthem? Sweet, while shepers watch are keeping. This, this is Christ the King, Who shepers guard an angel thing. Hey, hey, to bring him on the baby Son of Mary. Why not he in the Green it says where I can Christian fear for sinners here, the side and word is pleased. This is Christ a king who share with God and angels. The baby son of berry So bring him in for competent kingdom The king of king's salvation brings the loving heart of Lord Him. This is Christ. The king who shall guard an angel thing came to bring him on the baby son of Mary. Then Jesus Christ the king, who share with God and angels to bring him off the The baby son of berry, the baby son of berry, the baby son. Of memory. She lit a candle in the downtown cathedral. Quietly confessing, counting on a blessing, she looked as if she had nowhere to go. I could see her weeping hands together hoping you would heal It is the time of year. We hold our families near But God let us be a friend to the hurting. Always manual God with us Spirit reveal enough that we may be a home to the law Oh remedy well God to buy with the light to break the dark That we may show your heart to the world. Because I moved in closer just so I could see her face. Maybe she was mother, someone's only daughter. Whose silver hair shimmered like the snow. Christmas bells were ringing. Now beside her kneeling, I asked her name. She said This was the time of year. I had my family near, but they've all gone, and I have been so lonely. Oh, in that fellow God was us, we're revealing us That we make me a hull to the land Open Wells With the light to break the darkness, that we may show your hope to the world in heaven. So with my family that Christmas Day A girl of sixty years could laugh and play As we watched her dance, our eyes were full of tears Oh in Manuel God with us be re that we may be a heart of Emmanuel God divided break the darkness that we may show Reach your lovely, rejoice. Shall we have to Let's stand and let's be the final presentation. Uh the song is Joy to the World. Uh lyrics I believe will be projected behind us, uh behind me, in front of you. And uh let's sing and rejoice. The king has come. Amen. We uh hope that you are able to stay and uh fellowship for a little bit. There's some of the things that we're gonna do. Um tables being um doctored up in the back with um some goodies. Uh thank you to all who um brought food. Thank you to all who worked hard to prepare these presentations. We We appreciate those. And uh we if you're in town this Wednesday and and uh you want to come by seven o'clock and eight thirty, we have our Christmas Eve services here and uh if you're out of town or unavailable for that then uh let this be us wishing you Merry Christmas Where Christ is uh central to all that is said and done in your home. And uh and a very happy new year as well. Uh you're dismissed