How many Christmas cards have you received colorfully depicting an angel scene with some shepherds and or some wise men gathered around? And generally in these kinds of pictures, we see the little baby who is smiling In generally he appears to be about three to six months old. Mary has no hair out of place was perfectly rested. Uh never mind she's just walked uh seventy-five to eighty miles nine months pregnant and just delivered probably without the aid of a midwife in a stable. She looked like something rather from a woodward and makeup clinic, sitting peacefully and placidly by her new son in a spotless robe And Jesus, of course, is never crying. He's usually smiling and is usually some sort of a light radiating from his face and perhaps even from Mary's and Joseph's also. There's nothing smelly or dirty in the picture. It's usually very simple, but it's very serene and majestic, and also totally unrealistic. If you ever get a business card of choice that has the wise men at the main, you can rule that one right out of hand. You know that the wise men didn't arrive on the scene until probably a year or so later and saw Jesus in a house and not in a stable. But many of the other things that we often depict and like to think of as being part of the Christmas dream are very unrealistic You see, we like to make things to be what we want them to be, rather than the way they really were. Sort of like the ending to a beautiful love story where they live happily ever after. But even as Christians though we realize these things weren't really like that Nevertheless, there has been so much input to it through the years of these kinds of pictures, that kind of stories, that he's come to believe that this is perhaps a little bit of the way it was. And the Christmas story has begun to take on for us a rather close quality. A kind of quality that gives it a fairy tale otherworldliness And to do this is to look the very point of Christmas. That is that it happened But it happens in real, smelly, everyday human history. Christmas happens I'm beginning this morning another series. This series I project will run somewhere between 30 and 35 years. And it's part of four series that I'm beginning during the Christmas season. This one will be a verse-by-verse progress of examination of the Christian story in the accounts given to us by Matthew and Luke. Taking a look at Luke 1 and 2 and Matthew 1 and 2 in the chronological order for us to look at the Christian story and to investigate every aspect of it personally over these next several years. They'll probably go from one to three weeks to use. I want to begin then the first part of this series this morning at the very beginning, Luke's prologue. In Luke chapter 1, verses 1 to 4. And I'll be doing this in just this one week. Let's take a look then in the scripture at Luke chapter 1, verses 1 to 4 as the prologue to the Christian story, and then read also then chapter 2, verses 1 to 20. Let's see the Word of God. When it takes him to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us, just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, it seems good also to me to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Geophilus. So that you may know the certainty of the things that you have been taught. And part of that is this account of the birth of Jesus beginning in chapter 2, verse 1 In those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This is the first census that took place after Linnius was governor of Syria. And every one went to his own town to register. So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and the line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and to gave first to her firstborn a son. He wrapped them in strips of cloth and placed them in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all people. Though in the town of David a Savior has been born to you, he is Christ the Lord. This will be a sign to you. You will find a baby wrapped in sticks of cloth and lying in a manger. Shh! Suddenly a great company of the heavenly hosts appeared to the angel, praising God, and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to man on whom his favor rests. And when the angels had left them and ran into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let's go to Bethlehem and see these things happen, which the Lord has told us about. So they hurried off and found Mary and Joseph and the babies. He was lying in the manger. When they had seen him, they spread the word concerning what had been told them about this child. And all who heard it were amazed at what the shepherd said to them. But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. The suffers returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, which were just as they had been told. So far, God's word So I want for us to notice three things in this account about the historicity of Christmas. First of all, I want us to notice, following the bulletin outline, we've sold. Beginning, as I say, at the very beginning of Luke for this year, week one, one to four But I want us to notice in the context of that Luke's historical detail and his attention to it. And then thirdly, I want us to notice the historical background to Luke's account And I think in reference in reflection on this further, I would rather call that third point the simplicity of Luke's account. First of all, then the prologue. Luke 1, 1 to 4. It's important for us to see how Luke begins his gospel account, certain with his accurate and reliable history. With no speculations, legends, adornments, or additives. It's straightforward history. Norwegian is more is this more apparent than in the account of the birth of Jesus. Here are the three things that he says in his prologue about his history He first of all says that is based on eyewitnesses. Notice in verses 1 and 2. Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us. Just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. Which acknowledges here, you see, that there are other accounts, and many, in fact, besides the other three Gospels do we have record of, and most of them, of course, being very fanciful But this acknowledges that there are other accounts, but the other three Gospels in particular were all by disciples of Jesus. All by members of that inner band of the twelve who traveled around with him. Matthew and John, of course, you know, as the record indicates Mark, we know from very early tradition of Papius and other reliable evidence, that Mark was written by Peter. You can only read the Gospel of Mark, you're only reading Peter's eyewitness account of what happened in the life of Jesus. Luke alone then of these four Gospels was not written by one who traveled with Jesus during his ministry. Why then can we uh claim the kind of credibility that the other three claim? How can we claim that it's based on eyewitness accounts Well it's because of what he says in verse 3, and that's the second point, is because it's based on careful historical investigation of eyewitnesses You see there in verse 3, therefore, acknowledging that there are these eyewitness accounts, therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning It feels good also to me to write an orderly account to use my petrol and theophilus. Salut, we recall is a very highly trained physician A man very highly educated. The grief he uses in the gospel is impeccable. And it's very um complex. It's very colorful Greek. And Luke was a trained observer. So he's a man who's very educated and particularly a man who's trained in his observations. And he says two things about his account of Jesus life. He says first of all that it's a careful account, and then secondly, that it's a consecutive account. That word, therefore, careful is a word that means accurate and meticulous. You notice in the birth account, for instance, this account In case you hadn't noticed, is probably an account by Mary. If you notice beginning in verse 26 of Luke 1, 1 through chapter 2, the one person who is constant through all those scenes is Mary. He's the one person present in every scene, including the birth of John the Baptist. Because we see that he stayed up until the time that he was born with Elizabeth. The only exception, of course, to that is the s the angels coming to the shepherds in the field just uh after the birth of Jesus. And of course the shepherds immediately came to Mary and what would they have told her as soon as they arrived what had happened to them just a few minutes before. Before the one person that you relied upon in getting an eyewitness account of the birth of Jesus was Mary We see the birth of Jesus humanly speaking through Mary's eyes. And that's particularly meaningful when we realize that there's a couple of infinite details that only Mary could have known. Que in chapter 2, verse 19, who else but Mary could have told me that after the shepherds came and they were amazed at what they saw, the birth of this little baby, we read in verse 19. But Mary treasured up all these things and pondered them in her heart. See a picture, Luke, talking to Mary about what happened in that mysterious night And Mary reflecting back in what had happened then, or when God had told her that she was going to have the son, he was going to be the son of the highest He's going to reign over the throne of his father David. His father would be God himself. And Mary's reflecting back on the mist on the events of that night when she says And I pondered all those things. I was awestruck by them. I didn't know what was going on, but I pondered them again and again in my heart. But this is an eyewitness account in the very heart of Mary as we look at what happened in the circumstances of the birth of Jesus. A very careful and a very intimate account passed on to us by Luke. Yes, it's also a constructive account. That's a very important detail for us to notice. This says there in verse 3 that I gave to you, I wrote to you an orderly account. And that Greek word there for orderly can also be translated consecutive, as it's translated in a number of translations. But Luke is basically claiming here to give us an account that's in chronological order. Now that's very helpful for us to realize when it speaks in contrast to Matthew's account. Matthew's account is in topical order. Matthew groups souls of Jesus, his words in a group, with his words in a group. This is rather he gave us these things in chronological order. He's a precise historian. It's important for us to notice, but when we seem to find discrepancies of order between the Gospels, to realize that this looks order that is probably the chronological order Matthew, Mark, and John had other intentions, these ways that they placed the order of things in their gospel In passing, who is this fellow Theophilus? Well, frankly, nobody knows. Uh nobody has ever heard of Theophilus in any other accounts that we have It's been speculated that perhaps because the word theophilus means lover of God, that what it really is saying that Luke is dedicating this to everyone who loves God as dedicating it to you and me, who love God and Jesus Christ. Or it may be that it was a dedication to a particular fellow by the name of Theophilus, just like we would dedicate a book in the beginning this first page you dedicated to your mother, your father, your wife that helped you while you wrote it and all these kind of things. But this is simply a dedication. It's really not that significant But you notice thirdly what he claims about this writing, and that is that his purpose is certainty. Verse 4 So, my purpose is so that you may know, Yophilus, Mother of God, the certainty of the things that you've been taught. That word certainty there is a very interesting word. It's a word that means firmness or security. Certainly can act Chapter 5, verse 23, which uses this same word when he's describing the jail that was securely locked. In uh 2 Maccabees 322, the word is used referring to keeping something safe and sure. It's a legal term. It refers to legal security, legal certainty. It refers to truths that will stand up in court under cross-examination. First and use of the term in that way. In Acts chapter 21. Acts 21, remember Paul was in the midst of a riot. The people were clamoring and screaming all over. And we read in Acts 21 in verse 34, that uh verse 33 we read that the commander came up and arrested Paul and ordered them ordered him to be bound with two chains He's trying to get him out of this riot. And he asked me who he was and what he had done. Some of the crowd shouted one thing and some shouted another, and since the commander couldn't get it to truth because of the uproar, the others called to be taken into the barracks. The word there's three. If this same word used the list one for certainty. He couldn't get at anything substantial that would stand up in court. One person's making a charge and an allegation here and one there. They say I can't get at anything secure and substantial that I can stake my case on. The same word is used in the next chapter, 22, verse 30. After they tried to find out what's been going on here, then the next day, chapter twenty two verse thirty, thinks the commander wanting to find out exactly why Paul was being recused by the Jews, he released them in order to keep priests and the fans who didn't assemble. The words there exactly why is the same word in this one form, the certainty of it, the security of it, a truth that will stand up in court He wants to find out something substantial. What is exactly the truth here? I want to investigate it. And so he uses the same word that Lucas used before in his phone. Luke uses that same word a fourth time in chapter twenty-five, verse twenty-six. But he was called to present his case. He introduces this by saying to King Agrippa, who is going to have him uh he's going to have King Agrippa listen to this in Acts 25, verse 24 He says to King of Gippa, I'm bringing him here because I haven't found anything that's worthy of uh punishment, but he's appealed to Caesar, and so then he says in verse 26. But I have nothing definite to write his majesty about him. The word there nothing definite is the word framework in Luke 14 I don't have anything that's gonna stand up in court. I don't have any truth that's based on historical facts. Nothing that I can space my career on. I mean I can't just go around making uh irresponsible allegations enough. I've got to have something that can be proven, something that has little security and certainty. That's why I want Paul to present his own case before you. And you see a kind of background we need to bring, we need to list one. And Paul says the account that I'm going to give to you now is account So that you may know the certainty of the things that you've been taught. So that you might know the historical validity, so that you might know that this is a truth that can stand up in court This is something that you can stake your life on. And isn't that exactly what we do as Christians? And we say that Jesus was born Say to the world that God became flesh, lived among us, died, and rose again. That's a historical account in which I spoke my life that it happened It's absolutely vital for you and for me to realize that this is historical. A bitter May or may not contend that the historical facts concerning the life of the bitter were accurate or not. It doesn't matter. It seems speaking to count. A Muslim may or may not contend that Muhammad died or did or whatever he did or did not do in a particular place is ascribed to him or performed the miracles that he did or did that were or were not ascribed to him. It doesn't really matter. It's what Muhammad taught to tell. But no Christian can ever look at what Jesus did from his birth onwards and say that the historical details don't matter. Because our very eternity is extinct. He spoke our lives on the certainty and the legal valid security of Luke's account The fact that Luke was in fact a precise historian makes all the difference in the world to you and to me. So if I can't stake my life on what Luke has written here about this account of Jesus being born in Bethlehem and everything on Sunday, then I might as well throw the whole thing away Because I'm living alive. And I'm living in this world against this entire gifts and against everything that this world offers and purports to say. Because of Luke's account and the other gospel writings. Jesus came to have come, died, come in the flesh, and lived among us, and died to the payment for my sins For the punishment that I deserve so richly before God's justice. And this sees this claim to have risen again in history But he has risen and he has ascended, and he now rules, and has begun to reign in his kingdom, a kingdom that he will bring and consummate when he comes again. And his coming again will be in history, just as his first coming was in history. And every one of these things I stake my life on the fact that they're true. That they're true in history And if they're not, there's nothing left to Christianity. Why would I then find it incumbent upon us To see that Luke's claims are in fact verified. Now we can't prove them. But in the light of that, notice secondly, Luke's historical detail that he begins to work out for us. Some evidence for the fact that he is in fact giving us a precise historical account. Speaking with a claim to this prologue, let's see how he establishes this. Particularly to the purposes of our business this morning, in terms of the birth account. Much more than any other gospel writer is concerned to place faith in time Notice, as soon as he has given us this prologue, what's the very first thing that he says? Verse 5. In the time of Herod, king of Judea, there is a priest named Zacharias. Heard the king of Judea reign from 37 BC to 3 BC. He can state precisely his role in secular history And he just saw I want you to know where this sits. And so uh his name was um somewhere between four and three BC But we know that this is when Herod reigned. I'm gonna place the time for it. Once you know that this is in history You notice it says in verse 24, after he's talked about Elizabeth having a baby. He says in verse 24 that after this, his wife Elizabeth became pregnant for five months remained in seclusion. And then in verse 26 and in the sixth month of Elizabeth's pregnancy, God sent the angel Daniel And throughout this, you can determine relative signs together. So now you know that John the Baptist is six months older than Jesus. And then we come to that uh very well-known but controversial time passage in chapter two verse one. That passage which we all know so well, but few of us have ever stopped to think about what that really means. When was Jesus born? Well, it was in the days of Caesar Augustus. Okay, that pins it down a little bit. But look birth a little further. He said, now it's not just in the days of Caesar Augustus. When he issued a decree that the fences should be taken of the entire world. But this was also in the days when Quirinus was governor of Syria. Okay, now you have two things you can match him up. Can only be when those two things overlap And then he says it was uh offensive that was taken then. And but just in case you think that's still a little vague, he says not only was it offensive taken when Caesar Augustus was the emperor of the Roman Empire and Corinus was governor of Syria But it was the first census that Quirinius took when he was governor of Syria. Now that pinpoint it right down to the very news Of course the problem is nobody knows really when that was. You see, there are problems with this account. It is so precise And that when people have tried to pin it down, they find that there's all kinds of things that haven't yet quite fit. And There's been a lot of speculation about what this means. This uh in years uh gone by, a couple generations ago, people will look as a poor historian right out of hand. You see the problem is The Quarrinus didn't begin to rule as governor of Syria until 6 AD. And of course, Herod had been dead for ten years at that point. So those two things don't overlap. But how can you get this in the right time span? Well, for years scholars said uh Luke is just uh in inaccurate historian. He just has uh done his poor homework and he didn't know and Luke is wrong at this point. Well, Luke has been so verified and been shown and vindicated in so many other cases in his writings to be one of the most valid and the most reliable historians of the ancient world that we have So that other things are measured by Luke's account now to determine their validity. But even though the problem has not ultimately been settled People generally now say you need to find out the answer because it's probably Lucy's right and you're wrong It could be that uh as Tutonian has told us, it wasn't Corinius that was in his original text, but a fellow by the name of Saturninus and was changed. There's also some evidence that's come to light that shows that Corinius was governor of Syria twice. Because there's a text that's been discovered that says about Corinius that he was governor again of Syria. that he attained to this office again. It's not clear whether he just attained to the being a governor again or a governor of Syria again. And we can't go into all the details to try and solve the problem. But suffice it to say That Moot has been validated and vindicated as a historian in every detail that he has ever set down. No one claims that Moose is a poor historian Luke in fact has never been proven to be wrong. And that's more amazing when you realize how precise how many times loop goes out on a limb. To show you exactly when something took place. Exactly under what circumstances it took place. Well, suffice that for the historical detail. Let me pass on now briefly to the simplicity of Luke's account itself. Shh Here I want us to appreciate the background of the details that Luke gives us in the verse narrative. I noticed just a couple of them. First of all, you notice that the birth of Jesus took place in Bethlehem. Now Bethlehem is somewhere about 75 to 80 miles south of Nazareth, about six miles south of Jerusalem, almost a suburb of Jerusalem. And it was this walk that Joseph and Mary had to take with Mary's nine-month pregnancy. Can you imagine walking during a nine-month pregnant um nine months uh babies in womb for eighty miles, over roads that were very uneven, uh roads and without any shelter. Uh being exhausted along by others who could pass you much more quickly, to whom you were just a nuisance to get out of the way But this is what Mary and Joseph did coming down from Nazareth to Bethlehem, because Joseph had to go there and Mary to be enrolled, because The Linning was a David. The roots were in Bethlehem. What about the end that they came to? And they come to an inn and Luke just passes over this very briefly. He's the only one of the gospel accounts that mentions this. And he mentions it without explaining it What about that end? Usually there was only one in his town. And so it was the end of Bethlehem. Possibly it's the one that's been called the House of Shinhem, a a house, uh an inn that existed there for many centuries, perhaps the one that was there at that time, and a house that probably stood on the very ground. that once supported the house of Boaz, Jesse, and David a thousand years before. Before they come to this very spot of their ancestors When they come that night weary and very tired, they come having traveled all those miles in order to enroll But this inn is far different from that of the holiday variety that we see today. In fact, uh, it really is kind of a misnomer to call it an inn Uh the kind of shelter that they came to that night uh was called a con, K-H-A-N. And it was something that uh probably only had three sides to it, not even a full enclosure. It had a uh there's a square enclosure with a platform raised a foot or two above a courtyard out in front of it And the whole thing was simply one large room, with all the barest of any furniture. You brought your own mask. You had brought your own utensils You carried everything with you. And it was just one big room for everybody to lay down in and sleep communal class. Nothing private about it. And this was the end of Bethlehem. Adjoining this shelter is a cave. Now this is very common in the hills around Bethlehem. The limestone cliffs have a number of grottos or shallow caves in them It was very uh common for a shelter like this, with this raised platform, one large room for for those who uh are passing by, to take refuge in the inn. to have a good state next to it to put their animals in. They would often be traveling with a camel, with donkeys, with horses These animals would then be placed into caves. Sometimes it might even be cattle or sheep coming along with them. But the cave was just something carved out in order to give some shelter to the animals. Very crude, very rough. It might have had just a a a bearish little trough with some feeding there and some hay. It certainly wouldn't have been something that would have been kept kept very clean and sanitary Particularly at a time like this, when there was such an influx of people in an unusual rate because of this enrollment in Paul And so they come and all of the space in that shelter has been taken. And because of that, they're said that uh said that uh you can go find yourself a spot in a cave And out they go into the limestone cave, and there, with all the animals, with the cows, uh with the um Camels particularly and uh from what I understand I've never slept with a camel, but I understand that if he ever had he probably will never forget the experience Camels are not the most gracious or silent of animals. They're not the most uh docile of animals. And it was likely camels that were there as well as everything else And there they are, placed in that position when Mary's labor pains come upon us. Now it's very difficult to imagine anything on earth more devoid of any human comfort. Of any kind of decency in terms of the dampness, the smell, of the filthiness of the animals, the noise The publicity, no privacy in this, just an open cave where people are coming and going. Anything to rival that for absolute beggar misery. Place is for a crush or for a pattern. So for us to place nice clean straw in a little box and have the little baby Jesus there and these clean surroundings It's something else for us to realize what happened in history as Luke records it. To realize in fact what the circumstances were when Jesus was born. Like having your child in a garage where the dogs and the cat is. Would you like to have your child there? Let's not look at this as something quaint or cute. It's something that's the result of hard human sin because no one took compassion on a mother about to have a baby. It's something that we look at as a s is an indication of the very sin for which Jesus came to atone and to bear himself. And it's nothing less than that. But it gives us no great detail. In fact When we beg for more detail to satisfy our curiosity at Christmas time, he tells us it's enough that we know what he's given to us And in fact, it's this very simplicity itself, which is one of the greatest indications of the authenticity of his historical narrative. Why do I say that? I say that because Luke's account is in such stark contrast to the legends and to the stories of his time. Any Jews writing an account of the birth of the Messiah at the time that Luke lived would have never written an account so devoid of detail of flamboyance, of colorful miracles, of all kinds of imaginative descriptions, as Luke has given to us here. All the Jewish legends of that time were amazingly fanciful. There's always God vindicating himself against the heathen to have uh the Messiah come at the bidding uh to be in Bethlehem at the bidding of a Roman emperor uh was just a uh an unspeakable offense to the Jewish mind To think of the way that this not only contrasts the Jewish legend in the way it's written, but in the way that it contrasts all expectations of the Messiah. Is to us an indication that if this was something written by a Jew, seeking to present to us a persuasive And a somewhat credible account of the birth of the Messiah was either done by somebody blundering in a very clumsy way Designing to in fact present an account that would be a major hurdle for Jews to get over. An account that would be incredible to them. An account that would be a very offense to them. And therefore done in a very blundering and clumsy manner. For it can be only accounted for by the fact that it's history, straight and true. No one would have ever made up a story like this. No one would have ever told it with a simple, straightforward presentation that Luke has given it to us at that time. And so, when you and I read these skim, uh these uh scant details about the fact that it was due to a Roman census And that it was in a rotten and smelly stable, a cave, next to an open con, that the Savior of the world was born, is to us profound evidence. That it happened. That it's true. And you and I can rejoice with the certainty that Luke tells us in chapter 1, verse 4. The security That these things in fact did happen among us. I think sometimes we don't realize The historicity of it and come to grips with the reality of what happened at Christmas because we haven't understood and we haven't begun to deal With a stupendous statement that God became man at that time. And therefore, we allow ourselves to begin to move into the fanciful, the quaint, and the surrealistic. Rather than to realize that this is an account of how God took on flesh. How do we apply that in our lives? Well Very briefly, first of all, in the application I would ask you. I would uh urge you to not let Christmas Do not allow that story to become a quaint story to you, and therefore to miss the point. Now the point, of course, is that we needed a historical incarnation In order to have a historical redemption, because we who lived in 1979 need salvation. And a salvation that affects all of us as time-space creatures. The salvation of our souls and of our bodies, of all of us. And this is what Jesus came to accomplish. Have you experienced that salvation this morning? Have you experienced the salvation of the Jesus who came in history? To live and to die on a cross in history, to take in history the punishment that you and I deserved. To be raised again, as a vindication of all that he accomplished to rule and to reign in history, to make of us a new humanity in history right now To rule his kingdom and to await his coming in history, Jesus could come again, as he came the first time in history, only this time in great glory and splendor. Before Christmas. It could be tomorrow. Wouldn't it be wonderful if he came on Christmas Eve? Or what about on Christmas? Maybe perhaps by next week This may be the last time that you and I will meet together here on earth to worship the Lord. He's coming again in history. And we wait and we long for that coming. The second thing to notice is that we can be secure in the certainty of the things that we've been taught. And that security, that security. certainty ought to be something that encourages us greatly at this time. Realize that these things did in fact happen. And because they happen, our faith is not in vain. Because they happened to And everything that Paul writes to us about we can rush our faith in. Because it happened, there's things in the Old Testament that we don't understand. There's things that may appear to be discrepancies, those problems we have in the scriptures, those things that just disturb us, are all things that we can be secure about. Because we know it's a reliable and a perfect history that's given to us. The security and the certainty of the historical biblical record is something that we need to rejoice in in the midst of a culture where there isn't uncertainty. And no one knows that anybody has ever spoken with any final authority. We can rejoice in that. And probably the last thing when the baptism is this morning and in the next couple of days that we praise God. But this evening in our under-shepherd groups together, that we praise Him, and that we rejoice, and that we celebrates with such a genuine salvation, so much in contrast to a simply fundamental spirit of Christians. That Jesus has come. And that this is every day doing that issue of breaking those is good news. It relates to everything that you do. We're never the same again with that night that Jesus was born. Because at that point God entered human history And he's made a new race of a new people who are his luck. Fellow our God, we respond to you specifically in light of the word that you have given to us by praising you and thanking you for the salvation that you've accomplished. Lord help us if you not allow Christmas to become some quaint surrealistic fantasies. uh to somehow dismiss the historical reality of it and to be somehow captured by the Christmas card mentality as a pageants in the crush all of the things that surround us to tell us uh this is what it was like. And somehow it becomes removed from what really happened. And somehow we purge this historical accuracy. Help us to find a security and a certainty. And the fact that Jesus came, Jesus made, God come in the flesh. And died for us. We have cast ourselves upon him to be moved. And to be coming again Oh come quickly, Lord Jesus. Come again and indeed be in hasty to take us to be with me and come soon Help the Father that everyone here might be gathered up with you when you come and none of the few be left out. For Jesus' sake. Amen.