Good evening. Merry Christmas to all of you as we've gathered here tonight. It's great to see so many here who've traveled a long way to be with family. It is truly a blessing that we can be gathered here together tonight. To worship together and to consider God's word together, and to be led into wonder and worship of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Will you pray with me? Father, we thank you this evening because we've already sung so many wonderful truths. We've heard, declared from your word. Great and powerful things, wondrous things. And so now, Lord, I pray that each of us, young and old, we ask you that you would enable us by your Spirit. To believe. Though we have not seen the Lord Jesus Christ, we are called to believe. This is a mighty calling, a difficult one. And so we pray that you would open our hearts and our minds to receive the mighty God, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Wonderful pastor, writer, theologian Diedrich Bonhoeffer said almost 85 years ago while preaching in a Lutheran church in Cuba, he said the following things about Christmas. Because he was preaching it. On this date, we all come with different personal feelings to the Christmas festival. One comes with pure joy as he looks forward to this day of rejoicing and of friendships renewed. and of love. Others look for a moment of peace under the Christmas tree, peace with the pressures Freedom, rather, peace and freedom from the pressures of daily work. Others again approach Christmas with great apprehension. It will be no festival of joy to them. Because often there is personal sorrow and pain, especially on this day, for those whose loneliness is deepened at Christmas time. And despite it all, Christmas comes Whether we wish it or not, whether we are sure about it or not. And so he asks that congregation, as I ask you tonight. Are you ready for God? Are you ready for God that is declared by what we have already read this evening? And I'll read it briefly again from Isaiah chapter 9. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful counselor, mighty God. Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. And of the increase of his government and of the peace there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness, from this time forth and forevermore, the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. What this promise is about is that this Savior would come, the Son of the Living God, and he would be called mighty God. Are you ready to receive the mighty God? What is required of us? Though we have not seen him, we are called to believe. No, we have not experienced him with our own eyes or even touched him with our own hands. We are called to believe and to receive and to trust in him alone. What does that look like? Is there any example of it in the world that is around us? I'm thankful for the great 20th century Indian missionary, Sundar Singh. Who himself grew up as one who hated Christianity with all that he had. In fact, his hatred for Christianity grew to such a degree that during his teenage years He actually took a gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and he burned it in public. Shortly after the burning of that gospel, however, he would be plunged into a deep spiritual crisis. out of which he came to know the Lord Jesus Christ and professed him as his Savior. He would then be a great A great missionary for the Lord Jesus Christ in his own country, and Tibet, and Nepal. His death we have no record of But he did die somewhere on one of his missionary journeys. He wrote many things while following Jesus Christ, and he was known for his parables I wanted to share with you tonight one of those parables because I think he shows us precisely what we are called to do to receive this mighty God that is promised to us in Isaiah. Here's this. Parable that he gives. Once as I was wandering in the mountains, I came upon an outcropping of rocks. And as I sat on the highest rock to rest and look out over the valley, I saw a nest in the branches of a tree. The young birds in the nest were crying noisily. Then I saw how the mother bird returned with food for her young ones. When they heard the sound of her wings and felt her presence nearby, they cried all the more loudly and opened their beaks wide. But after the mother bird fed them and flew away again, they were quiet. Climbing down to look more closely, I saw that the newly hatched birds had not yet opened their eyes. Without even being able to see their mother, they opened their beaks and begged for nourishment whenever she approached These tiny birds did not reason to themselves. Well, we will not open our beaks until we can see our mother clearly. And also, we need to see what kind of food she offers. Perhaps it is not our mother at all, but instead some dangerous enemy. And who knows if it is a proper nourishment or some kind of poison that is being fed to us. If they had reasoned thus, they would never have discovered the truth. Before they were even strong enough to open their eyes, they would have starved to death. But they held no such doubts about the about the presence and love of their mother. And so often, and so after a few days, they opened their eyes and rejoiced to see her with their eyes. Day by day they grew stronger and developed into the form and likeness of the mother, and soon they were able to soar up into the freedom of the skies. Sundar Singh then asked these questions. We humans often think ourselves as the greatest of living beings. But do we not have something to learn from these common birds? We often question the reality and strength and loving nature of God. But the master has said, Blessed are those who have not seen yet believe. Whenever we open our hearts to God, we receive spiritual nourishment and grow more and more into the likeness of our God until we reach spiritual maturity. And once we open our spiritual eyes and see God's presence, we find indescribable and unending bliss. We are called at Christmas to receive nourishment from our Heavenly Father. And like those birds, are we reasoning in our heads, is God really good? Or are we willing to take the nourishment whether we can see him or not? Perhaps we need to discern that nourishment. Consider what it means to say that Jesus, who was born to the Virgin Mary, is called mighty God. Do you know that is to be for you and me nourishment? What do I mean? Because in this one, the Lord Jesus Christ, the mighty God, here is what God's word says. All of God's promises are fulfilled in Him. This is what the Lord says for all the promises of God find their yes. in him. And that is why it is through him that we utter our amen to God for his glory. And it is God who establishes us in Christ. and has anointed us, who has also put his seal on us, and has given us his spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. That is 2 Corinthians chapter 1. All of God's power finds its fulfillment in Jesus Christ, for God's word says. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come. Nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Romans chapter eight. All of God's mercy finds its expression in Jesus Christ, for God's word tells us. But God being rich in mercy. Because of the great love which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses and sins, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. All of God's love finds its pentacle in the hands and feet of the Lord Jesus Christ, for God's word tells us, for God so loved the world. That he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved. Through Him. All the grace of God finds its animation It's beauty in Jesus, for as God's word tells us. Now may the Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father who loved us And gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace. Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good work and deed. Finally, all of God's truth finds its revelation In this Jesus. For as we just heard read, and the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, the glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. Are we ready for a God who stands In all the glory and all the beauty and majesty of heaven itself, and who by the word of his power called everything into existence and even created us before one of our days came to be, he says to us. Through this mighty one, that all of his promises, all of his power, all of his mercy, all of his love, all of his grace And the sweetness of his truth finds its fulfillment in this mighty one. Why do we worship on Christmas Eve You can have the routines. You can have the traditions. Because it all comes down to this. Every single gift that each of us will unwrap tomorrow morning is but a pale reflection. Of the beautiful without comparison gift of this mighty God Let us not miss it, that all of this might would come to us In a miraculous birth and conception of this infant child, to grow like us, to walk like us, to suffer like us. But to obey for us, to love for us, to trust his Father for us. And now we, we are simply called To receive and believe that this is the Christ, the Son of the living God, the mighty one. Who came to save us from our sins and to give us eternal life We must then be willing to be surprised. Because I will assure you Joseph and Mary were surprised The wise men were surprised, so are we called to be surprised. If this is what God did By sending his son as an infant child to grow up before us and then to go to a cross and then to die for us and to be raised on the third day, do we think that God has done surprising us? Oh, let us be reminded, as Paul Miller says, we must be on the lookout for strange gifts Because God loves to surprise us with babies in swaddling clothes lying in mangers. May God, by his Holy Spirit By the beauty and power of His Word, pierce every part of our lives that we might receive this mighty God. Let's pray. Father, help us now to receive the truth which you have declared to us. This truth is not just bare Doctrine. These are promises that are to be for us food. Lord, for the hungry, fill our stomachs to the full. Lord, for the thirsty, quench our thirst. Lord, for the lonely, give them fellowship. Lord, for the broken, bring healing. Lord, for the sinner, bring grace. Lord, I pray, if birds awaiting their mother, who has not seen them, can receive from her good things. How much more then can we, as your creation, not be ready to receive these good gifts? But Lord, by your Spirit, enable us to be children again to receive this gift from you, our Heavenly Father Who has given us this mighty God? In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.