Continuing once again in the series on 2 Corinthians chapter 5, beginning this morning with verse 11, reading to the end of the chapter. Since then we know what it is to fear the Lord. We try to persuade men. What we are is plain to God, and I hope it is also plain to your conscience. We're not trying to commend ourselves to you again, but are giving you an opportunity to take pride in us so that you can answer those who take pride in what is seen. rather than what is in the heart. If we are out of our mind, it is for the sake of God. If we are in our right mind, it is for you. For Christ's love compels us, because we're convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. And he died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised again. And so from now on we regard no one from a worldly point of view. Though we once regarded Christ in this way, we do so no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old is gone, the new has come. All this is from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. But God was reconciling the world to himself in Christ, not counting men's sins against them. And he has committed to us the message of reconciliation. We are therefore Christ's ambassadors, as though God were making his appeal through us. Return on Christ's behalf. Be reconciled to God. God made him who had in sin to be sin for us. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. What is it? that controls my thinking, that consumes my emotions, that compels my actions It's the love of Christ. That's what Paul says. Now, as we see what it is, often it's important for us to notice and helpful in your Bible study. To notice what something therefore is not. And when Paul says here that it is the love of Christ that compels my actions, what he's saying is, it is not others. That is, it is not how others treat you that controls your actions, but rather, it is the love of Christ that controls those actions. I remember reading a little story in Reader's High just many years ago, that for some reason or other has stuck with me all through these years. Of a man that used to take the same route every day on his way to work. And in doing this, he would pass by a newsboy. One day a friend of his was accompanying him. And as he went up to this corner as he usually did, he called out in a cheery greeting, Good morning there. And the only response he received was a kind of a curled lip, and the boy didn't look him in the eye, but just thrust out the paper. And he gave him the money for it and then said, Song, have a good day. And his friend said to him, Well, you must be having a bad day today. But he said that particularly, he's always like that. He said, yes. He said, well why do you keep saying hi to him the way you do and speaking to him as if he's a friend And the man said, Should I let his responses to me control what I want to do and what I think is right? And yet, how often is it that you and I are controlled by others' responses to us? But if it's another's response to you that controls you, then you are a bondage to them. But Paul says it is the love of Christ that controls me. What I consider his love That's what determines how I treat people. That's what determines how I act. When I consider the love of Christ. But now then, how is that love seen in order to affect my actions? Well, whenever the Bible reduces the love of Christ to its irreducible minimum, to a simple phrase. It is always seen in terms of his death. The love of Christ most pointedly throughout the scriptures Is seen, demonstrated, communicated by his death. And so Paul says, verse 14, for Christ's love compels us. Because we are convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. When Paul says Christ's love compels me, how does he see that love? He says, because I'm convinced, remember last week we saw the word means, I consider and I judge I examine and I'm convinced I've decided that it's because I have seen that that one has died for all. His love is seen in his death Well now to help us to understand something of the richness of that phrase, one died for all. You see there in verse 14. To understand something of the richness of that phrase as it communicates the love of Christ to us, I want us to be able to look at that simple little proposition for. In Greek, prepositions are often very significant, and they are rich and manifold in their meaning. And this one little Greek preposition, for includes at least three different shades of meaning. That will help us to understand the death of Christ on our behalf. One died for all could be translated three different ways. Three different ways you could translate the little Greek preposition, which is translated here for, the simple little English word for. So I'd like to look at these three different shades of meaning with you this morning. The first way that you could translate that would be to show that the word for communicates reason or account of it. One died on account of all. Or Jesus demonstrates his love for us and then died on account of you. For instance, the word is used in Ephesians of chapter 6, where Paul's talking about the call to put on the armor of God. He says in Ephesians 6, verse 19, Pray for me. That when I open my mouth, words will be given me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in chains. That first word in verse 24, which I am an ambassador, is the same little preposition put there. It means on account of which. Paul says, I'm an ambassador in chains because of the gospel. The reason I'm in chains is not because of any misdoing on my own, it's because of the gospel. That's the reason. And he uses this little preposition. In Philippians 1 29, Paul says This be granted to you on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him, to suffer on account of him. Why are these Christians in Philippi suffering? Well, it's because of Christ, not because of something they had done wrong, because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They are suffering on account of their identification with him. So, what does that tell us? It tells us that when you ask, why did Jesus have to die? Why did Jesus have to die a cursed death on the cross? And the answer is that it wasn't on account of anything that he did. It was only on account of us. It was on account of your sin. And on account of my sin that he gave his life. But then there's the second use of this word, and it's the shaded meaning that has to do with benefit. It's the way you could translate it for the sake of. You could say here in verse 14, Christ's love compels us because we're convinced that one died for the sake of all. For the sake of all, Jesus demonstrated this love for us in that he died for your sake. That is for your benefit. Now that same passage I just read to you from Ephesians chapter 6, the first word in verse 20 was Peter, for which I'm an ambassador in change, but if you uh uh notice there that the word for appears also in verse nineteen, and it's used in a different shade of view Remember, he had said, pray also for me. When I open my mouth, words will be given, so that I'll feel as we make known the mystery of the gospel. Pray for me. Also there at the beginning, at the end of verse 18, will this in mind be alert and pray for all the saints? It doesn't mean be praying on their account. It means be praying for their benefit. It's a different, distinctively different idea that's communicated here. And that's the same word, you see, that's used with a different shade of meaning. Pray for their benefit. Why did Jesus die? Not for his own benefit, but for your benefit and my benefit. In Colossians 1. 7, it's even clearer. Where Paul there is talking, uh Colossians 1. 7 Derived from Epacras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on our behalf. who has also told us of your love in the Spirit. Now the words there on our behalf are simply this little proposition again. And it's simply saying that Frank that Epathras was a faithful minister of Christ for our benefit He wasn't doing it for his own benefit. He was doing it for our benefit. We must not mistake the fact that Jesus, in his resurrection, Was transcended into glory, to think that that's why he died and rose. And Jesus did not become Lord because he died and rose again. Jesus from all eternity was Lord. He gained nothing in stature By coming to earth and dying and rising again. Nothing could be added to his glory. Jesus died for our benefit. He died for our sake, not in any way for his own. It is true that he was called Lord and made the Messiah. Through that work that he did. But that in no way added to the glory of his stature, a second person of the Trinity. Jesus died for our benefit, not for his own benefit. And that leads us to the third use of this little preposition. That's in use that communicates the idea of substitution. You see that on the back of your outline. The idea of substitution. The translation could be then in the place of or instead of. You could translate verse 14 like this, for Christ's God compels us because we're convinced That one died in the place of all, or one died instead of the all. Jesus' love was demonstrated for us in that he died in your place He substituted himself vicariously, as Glenn pointed out earlier, to take the curse that you deserve. But this use of the word is illustrated, for instance, in Philemon, in verse 13, where Paul, in writing to Philemon, says, I would have liked to keep Philemon. I keep an estimist with me, so that he could take your place in helping me while I'm in chains for the gospel. writing to Faynini. And Paul Bear is using this same little preposition translated here to take your place. He's saying by Limit, Onassimus is in your place. He is here for you. To serve me. And the word that he uses is the same word follow. It means to take the place of another one, to substitute for them Onesimus is here in your place instead of you, Philemon, and when I look at Onesimus here I say that's Philemon serving me by giving to me Onesimus in his place In Hebrews two we read that Christ tasted death for every man. Same word there, for. is used. In 1 Timothy 2. 6, it's used as a ransom. Christ died as a ransom for us. The same word used there. It's significant that on the night in which he was betrayed, the Lord Jesus, when he took the bread I gave it to his disciples. And in Matthew 26, 28, we read that Jesus said, This is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out For many, for the forgiveness of sins. Now the word for there is the same word used in 2 Corinthians 5:14. My blood of the covenant which is shed in the place of their blood. Your blood and my blood was required for our sin. And Jesus said, I am now going to give my blood in place of your blood. And that's the use of this word for that he has. It's the same idea that Isaiah had 700 years before when he prophesied that there would come that one who was pierced for our transgressions. Crush for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. We all like sheep were brought astray, and each of us has turned to his own way. And the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. One, died, bold, All. Jesus died for you. He was in your place instead of you. Now, how can we understand that? How can we enter into that? Perhaps for some of us we have heard that Jesus has died for us so many times. But it's hard for us to enter grip in any new way to a deep feeling of the meaning of that. Words lose their meaning as they try to convey the truth of Christ died for us. Perhaps one way of getting at it is to try to communicate by the means of a real-life example. Something of what's going on here. In 1960, the Belgian Congo became the Independent Republic of Congo, later to become the nation of Zaire. In those years that followed, there was turmoil and rebellion, and in particular the Simra uprising. Now in that land there was a Christian medical center that had been established by British missionaries some years before. And those were tense years in that medical center because of the booting and because of the threats and the harm that they lived under constantly the violence that was always threatening by the Sigglers who were coming in from the jungles with their raids. And in around 1964-65, a new national army was raised up. in order to flush out and stamp out the Simba uprising. But as a result of that, there were thousands of refugees who came out of the jungles and who needed a place to stay while these while the civil war was going on As a result of that, there was one man who was a medical assistant at that medical center, a man by the name of John Magadima. He was an African who had come to know and love Jesus Christ through the work of those missionaries. He was aspiring to be adopted, a brilliant man, and a man with a deep love for Jesus Christ. In those early months of 1965 in the independent Republic of Congo, John Dang Linhima, along with some others, took from his time uh and of his own resources, um, money and time to help to build a dormitory for certain students who are fleeing from the cymbals uh in order that the National Army could uh wipe them out in the jungles. And these students came and they lived there in this dormitory. For five months This John Mangandema, as well as the others, missionaries there, fed and cared for these students, took care of all of their needs while they were there. And then after about five months, there was a new surge of booting and destruction. Everything that the missionaries had was destroyed, stolen, taken, their books. their personal belongings, everything of beauty, everything that they had that was of either personal value. Of nostalgic value, of personal engagement, everything was destroyed and taken. And they discovered that it was the very students that they had harbored through these five months that were the leaders of the leaders. Who had taken their own drawers and their own suitcases to pack the stolen goods in and then took off from the mission center, off to their homes 300 miles away. They didn't get very far before the National Army heard of it and they caught up with him. They caught up with him and they arrested them along the road and they asked them to open their suitcases. It turned out that the colonel who discovered them saw that one of the students was his own nephew. There was a tense moment on the road as the colonel called for them to open up their suitcases, a tense silence as the students halted and refused the order. And then again it came, open up. And I'll give you the account, as Helen Rosavier tells it in her book, He Gave Us a Valley. At that precise moment, John circled up. This is John Manganilla, driven by some inner sense of urgency. And took one at a glance the whole affair. The six students would be shot, including Samuel Yosa, the colonel's nephew. There was no favoritism, no tribal link now, which could save those who used rebel tactics. They would be absolutely wiped down. John stepped straight through the group and stood before Colonel Yosef. Sarah, who spoke with quiet respect and yet with fearless authority. I am responsible for these young men. Let me die in their place. A stunned silence. All eyes seemed riveted on John. And then moved slowly to Colonel Yosem. The latter hardly knew John, nor all that was represented in the drama before his eyes, and he turned to his local adjutant for advice. This man is our doctor. He's utterly trustworthy, amazingly capable, the medical director of the local hospital. These are students from their training school. His voice failed away. The situation was absolutely beyond it. What could he advise? He had never heard of anyone offering his life for others. He and most brothers were maddened by the criminal act of the students, especially after the way that John had cared for them through the previous months. So far as he was concerned, they deserved death. But John, it was impossible to comprehend. Colonel gazed steadily at John and Martin. Vesa was a godly man, and he deeply admired the quiet courage and devotion of this young man before him. Take them away, he said to John. And do them with them as you see fit, and don't let them come near here again. John took them back to the calm down, gave them two days' rations, and freed them to go back to their homes. And they left bitter and angry that they had been caught with not a word of gratitude. That he was willing to die in their place. If you and I look And an incredible example of love like that. Of a man who had every right to walk up and say, kill them all, be doing greats. All that we gave them, and this is the way they've returned, all that we've given. But instead he said Let me die in their place. And you and I are those students. You and I are those beings who have stolen from God his own glory by our soft-centered living. And Jesus came forward. And Jesus said to the Father before the blow is about to fall, Father Let me die in his place and in her place. Let me take the execution. And the Father made it it out to him. But thou wished your response Is your response to come in humble confession and say, Oh Lord, Lord, forgive me for what I've done? Lord, forgive me for how I've lived self-centered ignorance of your ways, robbing you of your glory. How desperately I need the death of Jesus for me. Or are you simply mad that you've been caught? And it was simply insulted and say, Who, me, a sinner? What right have you to say that I need someone to die in my place? I don't deserve to have God's wrath. Well, let God be the judge of that. But right now, the gospel is the good news to tell you. That while deserving that wrath, Jesus died for you. He died on account of you. He died for your benefit. Amazing, so incomprehensible, he has died. In your place. Will you receive that death? Will you refuse it And for you who are Christians, brothers and sisters in Jesus Christ, what is it that will control your actions this week? The way others treat you? The way your husband treats you, the way your wife treats you, the way your best friend treats you, the way they love you. Or don't love you? Or will it be the love of Christ that will control your actions It's any other person. You're in bondage to that person. The only day we come free of that bondage. Is to consider, to be convinced, verse 14, of the love of Christ. To consider that love And then consider that one died in your place to be controlled, consumed. And compelled by that thought. Let's pray. Yeah, it's not because Lord, I Find it difficult to comprehend what would have compelled John Manganima To return the ungrateful fevery of those whom he had cared for so unselfishly. And who has stolen everything from him and his friends. To return all of that By offering to die in their place. I just can't enter into that, Lord. I can't imagine doing that. Lord, how much more? For us to consider Jesus, to come before you, before those of us who have so richly deserved your wrath. Who are thieves of the first degree by our self-centeredness and our selfishness robbing you of your glory and your rightful place in our lives? For Jesus in his holiness and purity and innocence to come and say, Let me die in your place. Oh Lord, may that love control us. May we examine our hearts right now what it is. That is controlling us more than your life, Lord Jesus. And to lay that before you, help us to do that right at this point. Lift up our eyes, Lord, that we would see the love of Christ in us. That that love would move us. Consume us and control us. And then we are in bondage to you who set us free. Rather than to others, and how they treat us, whether they love us or slight us, whether they use or abuse us. Whether we say it is impossible to love that person, Lord, we confess before you, yes. It is impossible to love some people if we let them control us. But Lord, we confess that by your Spirit it is never impossible to love anyone when the love of Christ controls us. Maybe this day, enter Brother, teaching the insight and the control of your spirit into a new understanding of what it means. For the love of Christ to control us. We pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. Now with that property, we are the basic and