Good evening Good evening and welcome. This thing on? Yeah On behalf of the uh the uh session, the staff of Columbia Presbyterian Church, I want to warmly welcome you to our candle candlelight. Christmas Eve service. We have one purpose in mind tonight to seek Jesus Christ high and lifted up The one who took on flesh for sinners like you and like me. We have um several scriptures that are going to be read, and in between the scriptures we're going to sing Uh hopefully what is a familiar Christmas carol tune. Some of the carols we've added some lyrics from other hymns. And uh we hope that you'll be able to uh benefit from that as well. Uh near the end of the uh service We'll have a time where we uh light candles from this center candle uh from our advent brief And uh then we'll sing at the close the song Silent Night with our candles lit and all the other lights in the uh building out So that's what we have planned tonight. With that in mind, let me offer a prayer and ask the Lord's blessing and his presence among us here tonight. Heavenly Father, we thank you and we praise you that you are ever present, Lord And we recognize that your promise of your word is uh true tonight, where two or three are gathered in your name. There you are, in the midst of them. We pray, Lord God, that tonight would be a um a A blessing to those who have attended, but Lord, that you would receive honor and glory through what is said, through what is sung. who the way in which we fellowship afterward that Lord Jesus you would be made known to our hearts and our minds We pray for your presence among us, Lord, that your spirit would have free reign in our hearts, that you would teach and instruct, that you would draw us close. And that, Lord, this season, this Christmas season, we would see again, anew, in a fuller way, what it means for God to Take on flesh and live among us. Emmanuel, God with us. We thank you for hearing our prayer now. Lord, we offer these things in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended. That her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill made low. The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Let's stand together, singing, God rest ye, Mary gentlemen. A pressing very wrong in vain, make them work more than the. Whatever more my hell in your beach, and make my help or ever my loving way, for my Amen. Amen. Please be seated. For to us a child is born To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father. Prince of peace, of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. In those days, a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Quirinius was governor of Syria, and all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth, to Judea To the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. To be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth. And she gave birth to her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger. Because there was no place for them in the inn. Let's stand again and sing of the baby born to die. Why need not mean a thing where being good? We don't know what it means, we shall go to Rejoice we see. In the same region, there were shepherds out in the field Keeping watch over their flock by night. And an angel of the Lord appeared to them And the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were filled with fear. And the angel said to them, Fear not. For behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be assigned to you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths. And lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host. Praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom He is pleased. Amen. Let's stand and we'll join our voices with those angels. Glory to God in the highest. The Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold, the Virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And shall call his name Emmanuel Now, the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, She was found to be with child by the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph. Son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which means God with us Familiar story, but glorious every time. We're gonna sing a familiar tune and uh just Just follow the screen for the for the lyrics as they change. It's kind of a dialogue, if you will, between us and the Lord Jesus. Lay down his sweetheart. Look down where he lay To God in the great things he has done, so long he knows that he gave us back. We'll have like that I brought that fortune and brought them all life gate that we may go in. Open creation the Persian of blood to everything we but the promise. And the card the violence of fender who truly be rolling from Jesus for given a free. Close by me forever and love me, I pray, bless all the dear children in thy tender care. And bear us for heather to death with even The soul that all Jesus has seen for him, I will not, I will not. Give her to get God that all the wall hell should endeavour to shake. I'll never know, never No never born. Amen. When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them. No will magnify the Lord I rejoice than God, my neighbor, in the under. For he had done great things for me. He was my mother token every H. Come back to growing up in the giving of the time for he In remembering with mercy, my soul will magnify the world. For a great thought through every generation the proud heath gather. The hardware and the harm with that portion of our trailer. I rejoice than God my Savior in the wonder of his favor. I want to uh invite uh Pastor Green to come forward and while he's coming forward I want to invite he's asked me to invite all the kids if you want to to come join him in this really Cold looking living room over here with the orange floor and the fish. Come join Pastor Green up front. I've already heard some very smart children here telling me that the adults deserve the chair I like your children. Okay, I have a couple questions that I'm going to ask, and I want you all to be able to answer them, okay? How many of you guys have been looking forward to Christmas for a long time? All right. What is it you're looking forward to with Christmas? Getting presents and celebrating Jesus' birthday. We covered all the bases right there. What are you looking for? Cool. We we got a car and a helicopter And that Jesus was born on Christmas. What were you looking forward to? Giving presents to everybody at Christmas. Did you have your hand up? Okay. How about you Keeping secrets. What was that? You were born on Christmas, so you're looking forward to your birthday too How about you? What are you looking forward to? He's looking forward to every Christmas so he can go up to heaven. How about you? Oh, we have another birthday. How about you? What are you looking forward to? I can't quite hear it to me to get out her. Yeah. Okay. Anybody okay, we have some money in the back Rap rapping, did you say? Ooh, we have a craft person here. They like to wrap the presents. Anybody else? Anything else you're looking forward to for Christmas? Get to travel to see grandparents. So spending time with family. Okay, what about you? Go into grandma's house. Yeah Ooh. He wants a rubber band gun. He's looking forward to a rubber band gun. I think I should grow a beard. Put on a little hat. And you want what else? A red lifesaver. Okay. I think I should move on to my next question so that you guys will have an opportunity to get home and and uh have Christmas. Who can tell me what we celebrate at Christmas? What is it we have Christmas for? Jesus' birthday. Now how many of you guys have birthdays? That's a true question because all of you have birthdays. Every one of us has birthdays. Do we celebrate this birthday the same way we celebrate your birthday? No? Kind of. Okay. You do because it's your birthday. Okay. Well that's kind of unfair. It's not really on Christmas? Okay. Ooh. All of us have a birthday, but we celebrate this birthday differently. Why do we celebrate this birthday differently? Who hasn't had a turn yet? I think all of you guys have had a turn. Okay, how about you? I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you Why do we celebrate this birthday differently? We we have a Christmas tree and we don't have a cake. That's how we celebrate it differently, but does anybody know why we celebrate it differently? Okay. I'll help you guys out. We celebrate this birthday differently because it's a different person. This this is not just one human being, like all of us are human beings. This is God who became man. And so the songs that we just sang, how many of you guys are familiar with the carols that we just sang? Some of them, okay. Okay. Do you remember? Do you remember in one of the songs we sang um The first song that we sang, God rest you, Mary Gentlemen, part of the end of the first verse talks about um That this person who was born on Christmas Day came to save us all from Satan's power. And there's other things in the songs that we sang. When we sing about what child is this? Hey guys, come on back down this way, okay? Let's all stay down here on the ground together. Thank you I just don't want anybody to fall off and get hurt. Okay. Yeah. W one of the one of the okay, let's hit let's focus on hit here for a minute. Okay. One of the songs that we just sang for birthday Talked about nails and spear piercing. Talked about what what this baby came to do. So let me ask this question for you real quick. This is the last question and then I'll I'll do a couple of things and we'll be all done. Okay. Um what happens after Christmas? Jesus dies on the cross. You just preached my whole sermon. Thank you. That that that's really a great answer. Thank you very much. I didn't mean that honestly. That that that is the right answer. What else happens after Christmas? How about you, Sarah? You have to put away your Christmas tree. That's a great answer. That's a very profound answer. Okay, how about you? New Year's. Okay, that's true too. Life goes on. Do do you ever have to help your mom pick up all the wrapping paper that's strewn all over the floor? Uh-huh. And and and do you have to go back to school? If you have any school. That's true. Some of you guys are a little young for school yet. But your mom and your dad, they have to go back to work. As a matter of fact, mom mom probably never stops working. Yeah. Okay. Oh, okay. So one of the things that I want to say to the parents, so if you guys will just be quiet for a second so I can talk to the parents. Christmas has a lot of promise. It has tremendous promise. And we look forward to it each year. We want to celebrate it. We want to enjoy it. It has a tremendous promise of hope. But Christmas in itself can't satisfy. So I want to ask you guys, who knows what this is? It's a guitar. It it's an electric guitar. What is it? It's a guitar hero guitar. Ooh, he even knows the game system. Xbox 360. Okay. So if I wanted to play guitar here oh, could I play it just with this? Could can we play guitar here right now? Just just I need a TV. Okay, what else do I need? I need the game. What else do I need? I need the strap over me because it keeps falling down and getting broken. I need the Xbox three sixty. How about cable? Do I need the cables for the for the and and and do do I need do I need the electric power Okay. The disc is inside the game, that's right. Okay, hold on one second, it's my turn. Okay, guys, stay back. Stay back. It's not gonna turn on because there's no power to it. Sh no, it's broken. It's got the red circle of death. Okay. Shh. Shh Shhh. In a lot of ways, Christmas is just like this guitar. Because Christmas is part of what God does, it's not the whole thing. Jesus had to come and he had to come as a man and as God in order to be able to do what he had to do, but Jesus came not just to come, he came to do something. And so Christmas without Good Friday is pointless. And Christmas without Easter is pointless. Thank you. But even even Easter isn't enough because we live now in the time after Easter. God has more there's more to the game system for God than simply Christmas, Easter, and Good Friday. God intends to take us home. And Jesus had to come so that he could live a perfect life, so that he could die, so that he could rise from the dead, and so that he could take us home. And so as you guys celebrate Christmas tomorrow, I want you to also not only be thinking about Christmas, I want you to think about Easter, and I want you to think about heaven, because Jesus came because he loves you, and he wants you to come home to heaven with him. Let me close this in prayer, okay guys? Jesus, we do thank you that you came, that you are Emmanuel, God with us. That you are the one who has come to say that you did come, that you lived the perfect life, that you died, and that you're preparing us for heaven. Lord, even as we sang These songs that we enjoy so much at Christmas, they point us to Easter. And Easter points us to home. So, Jesus, help us to remember that you are our hope, you are our Savior. You are the one who makes us fit for heaven. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you guys. You've been really good. Okay now you need to go back to your moms and dads. And grandparents and aunts and uncles and and grandma and grandpa, that's right, yeah. hear the final scriptures read for the night and uh as those scriptures are being read there'll be uh some people working their way uh through the congregation to light uh your candle that you got when you uh when you came in. And uh what we want to do, I'm just uh Here to let you know this is uh part of uh the tradition. We don't find this in scripture, but uh Yeah, we see uh from the Christ candle and the Advent wreath how the the light of the gospel goes forth and how once it is uh you know all throughout the room the the light that it will illuminate us with. I want to uh give you two just words, quick words of safety as um We want you to not dip the lighted candle but um the unlit candle, dip that to get the flame. And then after the Conclusion of the song, uh, we're gonna ask moms and dads to help us with this so that all the candles are extinguished before you leave your seat. Uh we've had some difficulty with that over the years. Okay. Have seen a great light to those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness On them has the light shined. In the beginning Was the Word. And the Word was with God. And the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. And without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life. And that life was the light of men. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light We have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. And to cleanse us from all unrighteousness Let's stand together. Ramanaly of the Nanchra When is God read ye great Jesus Amen. We uh wish you a Merry Christmas that um this season you take the message. Christ with you, and that the uh the manger of Jesus finds its full meaning in the cross of Christ at Calvary. Merry Christmas, everyone. Good night. Actually I'm now trying to leave a reaction. And you look around now, you can't make a change here.