It's a privilege to be here with you. It's a delight for us. And uh want to say as well, thank you. Thank you for praying for us. Uh thank you for your encouragement, uh for your letters, your emails, um your support. The Lord has been good to us, and no doubt He's expressed that goodness uh through you as a congregation. Thank you so much. If you haven't already done so, please turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter seven. Hebrews chapter seven. We'll be considering the verses 23 through 25, which have already been read to you, so I won't read them again. I'll make reference to them as we go through that portion of Scripture. I trust that many of you will be able to stay afterwards for the luncheon. I'd love to be able to talk with you and you can ask me all sorts of questions about Spain. And just so that you and I we we hope to be back uh January 14th. So to continue the uh church planting ministry there. As we begin, let's pray together Our Father, as we come to you this morning, we ask that you would search our hearts. That you would quiet us, Lord, that we would draw closer into your presence, that you would draw us closer by your spirit and by your truth, and that we would hear you speak this morning. Lord, I might have many things to say, but it's only your word and your truth that will abide in the hearts of your people. And so I pray, O God, that you would take your word. And by the power of your spirit, bring it to the minds and heart of your people. That you would teach them, that you would instruct them, that you would cause them to see Jesus more clearly. To love Jesus more deeply. Lord, encourage us, challenge us, rebuke us if necessary. But speak to us. For your word is living, and you speak to us through this word. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen As I've said, we are greatly encouraged by the fact that you pray for us. And when you go through difficult times, no doubt you're encouraged when other people come around you and say, listen, I'm praying for you. And when we go back to Spain, one of the things we're looking for is people that will pray for us. And we know one thing, that it's very difficult to make that kind of commitment. And it's difficult to pray But that's what we're looking for and that's what you look for, especially when you undergo difficult times. And I'm encouraged by the fact that people have come up to us and said, Yeah, I'm gonna pray for you. And not only am I gonna give, I'm gonna pray. And I said, Will you do that for real? But you know There's a greater encouragement, is there not? As we look at this passage to see that greater consolation that Jesus Prays for us. You know, we'll fail one another, and we sometimes don't know how to pray, but Jesus will never fail in his praying for us and interceding for us. He always knows how to pray for us. And on so as I consider this, it's great consolation. It's great comfort to me. And I imagine it's a great comfort to you because we are needy people, are we not? We need people to pray for us. We need the Lord Jesus to pray for us. Because we find ourselves in life pressed by all manner of circumstances and tests and trials. And sometimes we feel like we just can't go on anymore. We want off this thing called life And we look at our own hearts and we see how we've been struggling with that same sin time and time and year after year, and it seems like we never gain the victory. There's this besetting sin that just plagues us, and we wonder, Lord, when is this going to go away? And we look at the world about us, and it seems to have such allure and attraction, and sometimes it's much more attractive than the things of God. And sometimes it's so much easier to deny the Lord than we ever would have imagined And I think of those times, whether tempted and tried by sin around us, by the world, or even by circumstances, therein I find great consolation to know that the Lord Jesus. Praise for me. He prays for me so that I will not be lost. He prays for you. He prays for his church. That his church might see his Father's glory. And so this morning, let's consider this passage as we consider Jesus our high priest. But particularly later on as we'll get into his intercession. First of all, let's look at the context of this passage so we can understand these verses and their context. Now, the epistle, it seems to me, was written to Jewish believers. Jews who had come to faith in Christ, and it was uncertain whether they were residing in Italy, Rome perhaps, or Jerusalem, or whatever the case, they had undergone persecution. hardship and perhaps we're in the midst of suffering hardship maybe from the Roman government or maybe from fellow from Jews who are ridiculing them And in the midst of this temptation and this trial and difficulty, there seems to be a temptation on their part to revert to some compromise with Judaism to kind of go back into the old way of doing things and ultimately the fall away from Christ. Now why do I say that? Because Now consider that the epistle was written before 70 A. D. 70 A. D. is when the temple was destroyed. So the temple is still standing. Temple is still standing, they're still functioning, the Levitical priesthood is still functioning. And so there's this temptation on this part of these Jewish believers to go to these Levitical priests, these priests that are there perhaps, so they can see that they can hear about And to trust these people to represent them before God. And we look at our own lives and we say, well that's not too far fetched, because when we're in difficult times we want to latch on to what we can see. Don't talk to me about Jesus is far away. I can't see him. Give me somebody that I can hold on to And so there's a real temptation. And so as we come to chapter seven, the author of Hebrews He develops this contrast to show how Christ is superior, how the priesthood of Jesus is far better than the priesthood of the Levites and of Aaron. And he says in chapter 7 that what he does, he points out the imperfection of the litigation priesthood and shows that Jesus comes From the order of Melchizedek, this this figure that appears in Genesis 14 kind of appears and disappears. And he says that Jesus is far more superior Not like these Levitical priests with their imperfections. There's many things that we could talk about here in terms of how the author contrasts the priesthood of the Levites and the priesthood of Jesus being of the order of Melchizedek. But let me just say this. See Melchizedek was said to be without father and mother, without descent. having neither beginning of days nor end of life. Because if you look at the scriptures, he just appears, doesn't have a beginning of days, and didn't have an end of life. And he didn't talk about him dying or anything. And so the comparison with Jesus, it says, well, Christ likewise was without father according to his human nature, and without mother according to his divine nature, without descent, without beginning, without end. But there's more to that, and this is where we get to chapter to verses 23 and 24. Because what what the author does is he argues his point. He says, look, you remain with Jesus. Don't be tempted to go to these others. Because Jesus is superior. His priesthood, in what he says in verse 23 and 24, His priesthood, the priesthood of Jesus, is permanent. Right. Let me see that. Let's look in those verses. If you have your Bibles, please read those along with me. Now the There have been many of those priests, since death prevented them from continuing office, but because Jesus lives forever, he has a permanent priesthood. See So there was a need, and I believe this passage speaks not just to priests in general in the Old Testament, but rather to high priests. And there was a need for many high priests in the Levitical Iranic order of things. And simply because they died. I mean that's simple enough. They died. And so you need to have more high priests. Now, death not only prevented that high priest from continuing on in office But Death also pointed out that there was a problem in this priestly system. And the problem was that they couldn't overcome death. They had no power against death and its consequences. And so we find that death seizes the high priest, they have no power against it. Another, he would die, another one would come and take his place. So what happens when a priest dies? Before I answer that question, let me take you back, just as a parenthetical thought, to the book of Leviticus. Because it's difficult for us to understand sometimes to talk about succession of priests. I mean, not most of us don't deal with Levitical priests day to day. We don't have to deal with the sacrifices associated with the old covenant. So let me just take us back for a few moments to give us a framework so that we might understand this more clearly. Now if you look in the book of Leviticus, the book that is about Levites, Leviticus meaning about Levites. So uh discusses much of this the role of the Levites, their priesthood, and and that's crucial it seems to me for an understanding of the book of Hebrews. And if you were to summarize the book of Leviticus, you could simply say, well, God is holy. You see this refrain, you shall be holy because I am holy. So there's the holiness of God that's front and center in the book of Leviticus. So here's the situation. God is dwelling with his people in Israel. And he's dwelling, this holy God is dwelling in a pent or tabernacle. And there's an outer court And then separating the outer court from the holy place is this this veil, this curtain, and then you go through that and there's the most holy place, the holy of holies And that's where God is. That's what God manifests his presence, his glorious presence over the Ark of the Covenant. Now, the problem was that here's a holy God calling his people to live a holy life, and his people fail miserably. They fail to live up to God's holy and righteous requirements. They're sinful people. And so what does God do? God in his mercy doesn't wipe them out. God in his mercy, in grace, provides a means of atonement. A means of wiping away that sin, that unholiness, a means of pardoning them, so that he might relate and be there with his people. And this is where the priestly system is significant. We see that they're responsible for this means of atonement, which comes by way of sacrifice. So they have to administer the sacrifices that are offered that God has established. as a as a means of picturing forgiveness of sins. Because what we really find out is all those are just massive And bloody time at times, pictures pointing to Christ and to what Christ was going to do and what Christ has done. And so here you are, you sin against God Place yourself in the book of Leviticus. You're living amongst God's people. You sin against God, and depending on that sin, you have to offer a particular sacrifice. So that your sin could be pardoned. And see, God wants you to see that He's holy and that your sin is costly, and that you just can't simply say, Well, God forgive me and move on. No, you you have to offer a sacrifice. Let's say you commit a sin and it's requires a sin offering as it's described in Leviticus chapter 4. What do you have to do? Well according to Leviticus chapter 4, you have to go and get a young bull. I mean imagine this, would you? We don't do this in our world. And so here you are, you're a Jew, you go and get a bull. You have to either buy a bull, you have to get one out of your herd, and you have to somehow take this bull You carry it, you wrestle with it, you pull it by rope, I don't know how you do it, and you bring it to the tabernacle. But by the time you get to the tabernacle where you where it has to be slaughtered, you're tired And you go, man, this is really tossing. And you're reminded it's because you sin. And there you are, you finally get there, and by that time everybody's been watching And you know, it's the reality, you can't hide the fact that you sinned against God. Here it is. It's a sin that's worth a ball. It's not just a little one. You can't hide it like we so often do in our world, do we not? But there everyone can see here so and so has sinned. And look at it was a big one. It required a bull. And so you take this bull and you're tired perhaps and and you have to do something. I'm not sure how it's done, but you try I mean I've been around in Spain and I've seen young bulls and young bulls are something to be You know, they don't take uh just a little trip of the legs and you knock them down. I mean, it requires some work And somehow you as an offer had to take and kill this bull. And you plunged the knife into that bull, and no doubt that blood's gonna splurt everywhere And you're reminded again, ah, this is dirty. This stuff is sin. And then after the bull is dead, the priest comes, takes that bull, cuts it into pieces, and offers it on the altar. And the priest takes the blood of the bull and he sprinkles it before the Lord's presence upon that veil that separates the courtyard from the holy place. And you get a picture of what the priest does. Now, Leviticus 16 talks about the high priests. Once a year, the high priest had to sacrifice a bull and a goat for his sins and the sins of his people. And after sacrificing those animals, he would go into, pass through the courtyard, go into the Holy of Holies. With that blood and sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat, on the Ark of the Covenant, where God was present Only once a year, and only the high priest could do this. Now, having said all that, the question is, what happens now when the high priest dies? Who's gonna represent you before God? Dare you go before the holy presence of God yourself No. Are you good enough to go before God without a mediator? No. Can you plead your own case before a holy and righteous God? No Remember that high priest was ri do two things to sacrifice And to pray for his people. Because once that high priest went into the Holy of Holies and sprinkled blood, he would also do something amazing. He would offer incense. And here in the most holy place, this incense was being offered, and you look at other portions of Scripture, and it seems to coincide and point to prayer and intercession. He would sacrifice and he would pray for God's people. And so if the high priest dies, could you ever live at peace? Would you know that God would just not come upon you in his wrath? As one theologian put it years ago. And it is evident what it ruined it would be to the church. to be without a high priest one moment. Who would venture surprise us unto his own soul in such a condition? Could anyone enjoy moments peace if he supposed that in his extremity, his old age, the high priest might die? So living perhaps on the edge. And now we can understand why the author of Hebrew says, no, don't go back to these Levites. Don't go back to that system. No, you remain with Christ, you believe on Christ, his priesthood is not gonna end, he's not gonna die. He has a permanent priesthood To trust in the Levi, to trust in anything else that's fraught with weakness, you're risking your soul, your life. Before a holy God. So I know of Christ, his priesthood is unchangeable. It's permanent. See, he's not a priest in the tribe of Levi. And verse 16 of this chapter says, no, he's a priest according to the power of an endless life. An endless life. He continues as our high priest forever because he lives forever. He abides forever. He's not going to die. And yes, he did die at the cross, did he not? But that didn't put an end to his priestly role and duty, but rather it was part of his high priestly work. He offered his own life a sacrifice for sins and then overcomes death. See, unlike the other uh those high priests of the Levites and Aaron. And he ascends into heaven, into the very presence of God, into the holy place, the true tabernacle, and there he is interceding. For his people. And so we find that he is the one that we ought to depend on. With Christ, there is no risk of ever being without an advocate before a holy and righteous God. His priesthood is permanent. But we find in second place his priesthood secures our eternal salvation. Look in verse 25. Therefore, he is able to save completely those who come to God through him because he always lives to intercede for them. Jesus saves us to the uttermost, completely, forever, eternally saved. What he has done in his sacrifice of the Calvary, what he has done in his exaltation, being at the right hand of God interceding for us, secures our salvation comprehensively. It's comprehensive in its scope. So we've been saved from sin. We've been saved from the curse of the law. We've been saved from the guilt of sin, from the wrath of a holy God. He ensures that. You see, he saves to the uttermost, he saves completely, because he has all the power to do that. Right. It says he's able to save. He is able to save completely. He has the ability. Was he not the only one that brought you near to God and reconciled you to God through his own blood? And will he be not the only one to keep you near to God and bring you into the very face and presence of God? He will do that. You see, the Levitical priests they offered sacrifices for sins, but those sacrifices really didn't take away sin. And one thing that really strikes me is these priests weren't able to free God's people from sin's power. They weren't able to empower God's people to live holy and righteous lives because they were men, weak men. But not so with Christ. Not only does he completely forgive, but he frees us from the bondage and slavery of sin. And he empowers you and me to love his word and to love the law and to live holy lives. Naturally, we don't want to live holy lives. But he works that in us as the high priest. Now I'm reminded of family members. You have family members who don't believe in Christ. I have a nation of nearly 40 million people in Spain. 40 million people dead in the trespasses and sins. Spiritually dead. Neighbors that I've come to cherish and love. You have neighbors. You have family members. And with all these people, I would love to change them. I would love to take those eyes and cause them to see, cause those blind eyes to see. I would like to unsap those deaf ears so that they hear the gospel. I would like to take those dry bones and give them life, but I'm not able. You're not able, but Christ is able And therein is our confidence that the high priest has done it all. And he will take his people, those who belong to him, he will bring them to himself, for he died for them. And he prays for them. Now, all this to talk about high priests or Levites and you know we're not tempted to go and and seek out Levitical priests. That's not our temptation doesn't lie there Our temptation is a little different when we're pressed on all sides, when we feel the weight of our sin. When we find ourselves in difficult circumstances, our temptation is not to go to the Levites, but rather to go perhaps to ourselves. To depend not immediately upon Christ, but to depend on our own resources, to depend on perhaps our ability. No. Many of you are gifted. Many of you have tremendous ability, tremendous Bible knowledge. And perhaps there's a temptation to believe and to trust in that, to trust in your Bible knowledge, to trust in your spirituality. to trust in your gifts, to trust in another person, although they be religious and very spiritual. Therein is our temptation. That doesn't mean we don't go to other people when we're hurting and we're having difficulties. But it does mean that we ought to go to Christ first and foremost. And depend on him, and through him others might minister to us. And I dare say, if you don't think much of Jesus as your high priest, Is it because you think too highly of yourself? If you say, well, this stuff about an intercessor, this stuff about Jesus being my high priest, well, okay, that's a nice theological construct, fine. No, it's very practical. We need him every day. To not even consider Christ as a high priest and not cling to him is to say that we don't see the holiness of God too clearly and that we don't esteem. We think too glibly of it And so it causes us to reflect on how we view God and His character, causes us to reflect on how we view our own sin. And perhaps if we had to wrestle a young bull, every time we sin, we would stop and think about it Don't go to anyone else. You know, I see people in Spain do that all the time. They have their host of saints. They have all the different Marys that they go to. And I don't know what you're tempted to go to. But I plead with you, go to Jesus. No one else. Who else has done for you what he has done? Who else had taken away your sin? Who else has taken upon himself the wrath of God? Who else has died and suffered on the cross for you? Who else has reconciled you to God? Who has given you grace and mercy and patience day in and day out? No one else has. Only Christ. And dare we go to anyone else? Brethren, to no one else. Till no one else. The Lord Jesus, his priesthood for you and for me is perpetual, enduring. And because of that, he saves us completely to the very end. But we find he does so. He accomplishes this not only through his death, but also through his intercession. See, the last part of verse 25, it says, Because he always lives to intercede for them. Christ offered himself a sacrifice for sin, and we can never glory in that enough. The glory of the cross, as Paul said. But we can't stop there. The Christian life ought not to stop with the death of Christ. But we must press on to what the glorious good news is in all its fullness. See, the fog with one of our faith is not in the crucified Jesus. But in Christ the Lord, who died for our sins, rose to life for our justification, and ever lives at the right hand of God, interceding for us. See, that's the Jesus that we follow and when we believe. And consider this That Jesus lives a life in heaven for you. For you. For his church He's limited for us. And he applies all that salvation, all that he's accomplished, to us through his intercession. Now let me spend the balance of our time together considering what intersection means. I don't know what comes to your mind. There's some people when you talk to them about the intercession of the Lord Jesus, you have this picture, you're given this picture somehow that Jesus is kneeling before the Father in heaven. And somehow crying and pleading, trying to extract some goodness out of his father, some mercy, as if he were reluctant to shower blessings upon his people. You know, and they look at Hebrews chapter five, verse seven, where it says that Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with vehement cries and tears, and they kind of imagine Jesus doing the same thing in glory. And I I don't think so. I think there's a big difference between the way that Jesus prayed some of his prayers while he was on earth and the way he prays for us in heaven. Why do I say this? Because the intercession of Jesus is the intercession of our Lord who is at the right hand of God That means that Christ is in the position of all authority and honor and power. And he rules and reigns sovereignly over all creation and all creatures. So the fact that he's exalted and ruling and reigning over all creation seems to me there's got to be a difference in the way he prays. So keep that in mind as you think of his intercession. Also keep in mind that the intercession of the Lord is the intercession of the one and only beloved Son of the Father. The father loves the son, and the son loves the father. It's not as if the son were trying to extract something from a father who was greedy. No. All that the son asks, the father willingly grants. The father says to the son, ask of me and I will give to you. Will the father be reluctant? No. One other thing to consider. That the intersection of Jesus is in complete harmony In complete unity with the purpose of the Godhead, so that we don't find that somehow the Father is doing one thing, Jesus the Son is doing another thing, and the Holy Spirit's doing a third thing that's different. But no, it's all they're doing one. They have one purpose. They're united in one purpose, one redemptive purpose. So you think of intercession, keep those things in mind. One other thing to keep in mind, perhaps to help us distinguish or understand this a little more clearly. We can understand, well, distinguish this. On the one hand, we have the content, what the Lord prays for, his intercession. What does his prayers consist of? On the other hand, I'm going to call his demonstration. Is appearance. So we can look at the intercession of Christ from two perspectives. One the content, the other the demonstration. And the dem what I mean by demonstration is simply the visible manifestation, the appearance of Jesus. Before God the Father in heaven. Here's the slain lamb appearing before his father in heaven. And he's there with his glorified body, with wounds yet visible in his hand and his side and his feet, and that's all that's needed For the Father to grant the Son everything that he requests until all spiritual blessings, all covenant promises are fulfilled and given to the church. Just the fact that the Lamb is there. So from one perspective, that's intercession. But from another perspective, we see and understand rightly the intercession is the offering up to God of the desires and will of Jesus for his church. And now I think it's very instructive to go to John chapter 17. And you this afternoon I would encourage you to read through John seventeen and see how Jesus prays. This is what's been called his high priestly prayer. Look at how he prays for us. He prays that we would be kept in the Father's name. He prays that we would be one as the Father and the Son are one. He prays that we would be kept from evil. He prays for our sanctification and truth, that we would know that God loves us as He loves even Jesus. That we He prays that we would see Him. See his glory, and that the love of God would be in us. Can you imagine someone praying for that and to know that Jesus' prayers are always heard? It will be accomplished. Another portion of Scripture, for example, Luke 22, there Jesus, we find Jesus praying for Peter. Satan wants to sift Peter as wheat, and Peter is is tempted. And Jesus prays for him that his faith would not fail until we find that he defends us against the accusations of the devil. You know, and we can understand why the Apostle Paul he says, Who shall lay any charge against God's people, against God's elect? Why? Why can't he say that? Why does he begin in chapter 8 that there's no more condemnation? Why? Because Jesus is in heaven pleading for his people, and there he is with his glorified wounded body And that's all that's needed, and plus his his offering up of his will. And he's essentially saying, look, Father, I've done all. I justified. They're justified because of what I've done Do you see that? He says, the law, I fulfilled the law on their behalf. I'm paying for the sin. Look at the wounds. Look at my suffering. That's why there's no more condemnation. There's no accusation against you, people of God. Now that is good news. And that's why we can't go to anyone else. And so, do you see this stuff about Jesus being a high priest? It's not just abstract. Oh, it's so real. It meets us where we are day in and day out. Let me ask you this. Is it difficult for you to pray at times? Maybe for some of you. And we think, oh, how difficult it is for us to pray. Because of sin that remains in us, because of our weakness and our ignorance, we don't know how to pray. We pray with wrong motives. We come to worship and and our and our hearts are far from the Lord. We worship with wrong motives. We we do things with little faith. Or no love? And what confidence have we that the Lord accepts our worship? What confidence have we that the Lord hears our prayers? It's not. The confidence is not in ourselves and how we present it. Is not in using the right formula, but no, our confidence is in Jesus, the one who intercedes for us, our mediator. As my professor of theology would say, Jesus would He would take He takes all our prayers, all our worship, all our good works, and He passes them through His wounds so that the wash is clean. In the fourth century, there was a preacher by the name of Chris Chrysostom. And he tells of an illustration of a boy who loved his father. A whole lot. And the father was away on on a trip and he the boy goes to his mom and says, Mom, I'd like to give Dad a present when he comes home until the mom sends him out into the garden to pick a bouquet of flowers. And so the boy goes to the garden and he picks the flowers, but like you would imagine he picks weeds as well. And so he brings back to mom the flowers and the weeds and The day the father arrives, the boy gives this wonderful gift to his ad. He's excited. Of course, you know, that bouquet of flowers is only flowers, beautifully arranged, no weeds in it. Why? Because the mother had taken out the weeds. In the same way, our Lord takes our bouquet of flowers. The worship that we offer him, the prayers. the works that we offer him, and he removes through his intercessory work the weeds of impure motives, the weeds of unbelief, the weeds of no love, and presents to the Father in heaven that which is acceptable to him. That which Christ would say, yes, this is my own. And that's why we read that passage in Hebrews 4. That's why we can approach the throne of grace. With confidence. Therein lies our confidence. Because we pray, we worship in Jesus' name through Jesus. See, not in and of ourselves. Oh, there's so much more that I could say. Let me end with this His intercession is one of love and great compassion. He's not so distant as you might imagine them to be. And some of us might say, well I wish wish he were here and then he could understand. He could sympathize. No, my friend, he He's been tempted in all ways as we have been yet without sin. He knows our trials. He knows you who are struggling, whether in the workplace or at home. You are a housewife and you have young children. You go I'm not sure how I'm going to make it to the end of the day. The Lord Jesus knows. And he prays for you. And you're single, you want a spouse. The Lord Jesus knows. He prays for you. And you're a widow, a widower. The Lord knows your pain. He knows your loneliness. He knows your depression. He's not far, but he's acquainted with our grief. And he intercedes for us. You keep your eyes on Jesus There's going to be temptations to depend on yourself, to depend on other people, to depend on other resources, but don't do it. Don't do it. Keep your eyes on Jesus, the author and finisher of your faith. He who began a good work in you will complete it to the day he returns. Amen. Let's pray.