And if you ever have the opportunity, not that you're looking for something to read, but if you are, you can read about this story in the book of 1 and 2 Kings or in the prophets of Isaiah. And Jeremiah and Ezekiel. And we come to the end of 2 Kings, which also finds its parallel in the book of Jeremiah. Where we see that the promise seems to be at an end. All seems to be done. Because what happens at the end of 2 Kings is pretty devastating. There had been a promise to David. We read of that promise earlier, that that promise that his Throne shall not see an end, for the throne of David shall be established forever. Really? Really, God? Because at the end of 2 Kings, here's what happens. The nation of Israel is no longer unified. After the reign of King Solomon, who Solomon seemed to be after God's will, seeking God's wisdom, he would fall in love with many women, and he would disobey God. And after the reign of Solomon the nation of Israel be split in two, a northern kingdom called Israel, and the southern kingdom called Judah. And there in the southern kingdom would be the national capital of Jerusalem, the city of peace, Jerusalem. The nation of Israel was overtaken by Israel's enemies because they disobeyed God. That's the story we read about in much of the Kings and much of 2 Kings. But at the end of 2 Kings, all that remains is the nation of Judah. All that remains is the city of Jerusalem. But it would seem that Jerusalem would also know disobedience. It would not seek God. King after king after king. Some would obey God and some would disobey God. But at the end of 2 Kings, the promise of God that David's throne would be established forever seems to be done. Why? Because we read These words that every king would disobey God and what would happen are these words at the end of 2 Kings We read these verses, chapter verse 25 of chapter 25. In the seventh month, however, Ishmael, son of Nasiah, the son of Ishmael. Son was born was a royal son of royal blood, came with ten men and assassinated Gedaliah. This was the last king of Judah. Under the reigning power of Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon, who was ready to overtake all of Judah. And also the men with Gedaliah, men of Judah, and the Babylonians who were with him at Mispah. At this, all the people From the least to the greatest, together with the army of officers, fled to Egypt for fear of the Babylonians. So a thousand years nearly after God would take his people out of Egypt, freeing them from slavery, bringing them to a land that was their own. Now we see that the lights are about to go out. Nearly a thousand years after being freed from Egypt All the remaining remnant under the control of Nebuchadnezzar, who was threatening to take down the walls of Jerusalem, they now flee Jerusalem to go back to where? Egypt. And when they would flee to Egypt, this is what would happen. Nebuchadnezzar would march into Jerusalem. The walls will be torn down, all of the treasure stolen out of the temple that was built by Solomon, and it was utterly destroyed. It seems that the lights would go out in Jerusalem. What about the promise of God? It seems fairly devastating. And unless we understand this backstory, I will tell you everything we've read tonight would make no sense. Why is it that Simeon Begged that he would be able to stay alive until he could see the Lord's anointed, the Messiah. Why? Because they were longing for an answer. Because, as one commentator says this, at the end of 2 Kings, things seem things seem so devastating because once again God proves Himself to be something other than the nice Easygoing, just wanting to get along with everybody sort of God that seems to be so popular in the world today. Once again, God Himself would prove to be truly God, and that He is not someone to be taken lightly. Because this God is our God. In fact, we would fool ourselves if we think that frolicking with evil, sending our devotion elsewhere, giving him just a part of ourselves doesn't matter to him. Indeed it does. Because Israel, who came out of the house of slavery, out of Egypt, when they abandoned him He, the Lord, would send them back. Our God is a God who judges his people. Yes, Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon would take over Judah and take over the northern kingdom of Israel. It would seem that that would happen at the hands of Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon. But indeed, what we see is that the one who is behind it all is the Lord God Himself. God judged his very people because they disobeyed him. Because they gave their devotion to someone else other than him. And on one level, as Nebuchadnezzar and his armies would storm into Jerusalem, burning down the temple. Taking away all the treasures that belong to the people of God, it seems that God was simply going to the wall by the door, flipping the light switch, and saying, lights out, Jerusalem. We're done. But that is not the end of the story. Because that promise that God would be a God to his people, that the kingdom of David would not see an end, that the throne of David would be established forever, would be kept But we'd be kept in the most odd of ways, because the end of 2 Kings does not end with the lights going out in Jerusalem. And here, on this Christmas Eve, perhaps you've never heard this read, I'm going to read it to you. Here we go. In the thirty-seventh year of the exile, that is now thirty-seven years after All of God's people leave Judah and go into exile. Jehoiakim, king of Judah. In the year of Amel Marduk, he became king of Babylon. He released Jehoiakim. From prison on the twenty-seventh day of the twelfth month, he spoke kindly to him and gave him a seat of honor higher than those of the other kings who were with him in Babylon. Sir Jehoiakim put aside his prison clothes for the rest of his life. Ate regularly at the king's table. Day by day, the king gave Jehoiakim a regular allowance as long as he lived. That's an odd way to end the book of 2 Kings. Because Jehoiakim Had been a king in Judah. He became king at 18 years old. Three months he would become king. Only three months. And just a few weeks after becoming king, he would disobey God just like his forefathers and would disobey God and run the other way. And God would remove him from the throne by way of Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar would take Jehoiakim back into Babylon and put him in prison. But then 37 years later, Nebuchadnezzar was no longer king of Babylon. A new king would come. And he would take Jehoiakim, it seems, the last living king of Judah, out of prison, give him a prominent place as his table, give him an allowance for his pockets for the rest of his days. Now, why is that important? It's because the last word we would hear about Jehoiakim is not the fact that he was giving a spending allowance at the end of 2 Kings chapter 25. It's because that name would come back to us in Matthew chapter 21. Rather, Matthew 1. Hear now, God's word, Matthew chapter 1, verse 12. Hold with me, this is going somewhere. After the exile to Babylon Jekoniah was the father of Sheeltiel. Sheeltiel, the father of Zerubbabel. Zerubbabel, the father of Abuad. And Abayud, the father of Eliakim, Eliakim, the father of Azor, the Azor, the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Achim, Achim, the father of Eliud, Elayud the father of Iazar Eliezer, the father of Matan, Matan the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Joseph. The husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. Thus there were fourteen generations from Abraham to David, Fourteen generations from David to the exile to Babylon, and fourteen from exile to Christ. Because you see, if you have a study Bible, and most of your Bibles will contain this, that when it says after the exile to Babylon, Jechaniah, the father of Sieltiel, Jechaniah. happens to be that king, Jehoiakim. You see, Jehoiakim had two names. That second name was Jechaniah So this king who had disobeyed God as king, by God, was overseen, taken out of prison. And was allowed to live. And he would have children. And they would have children. And they would have children on the 14 generations until Joseph, who we read about tonight. Now, he would not be the natural father to Christ, but what we know is he would be the father to Jesus. He would be the one who would give him the name Jesus. And that name Jesus says that he will save his people from their sins. Very important reality: that Jesus would be born King of kings and Lord of Lords. You see, God would establish the throne of David. But not through the promise of human beings, not through the promise of a man, not even through the seed of a man would Jesus come, but would come through the Holy Spirit. And his father would be Joseph. And Jesus would be wrapped in clothes. Clothes that were the clothes of a common child. But he would grow to become. A prophet. He would grow to become a king, was crucified on a cross. He would grow to become a king, was crucified on a cross, and laid to be buried with other common sinners. And will be raised on the third day to become the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. Victor victorious Over sin and death. And that resurrection would be the promise kept when God would say, He shall crush your head, but you shall bruise his heel. Jesus would be raised from the dead. God's promise is kept. Not through any imaginable way that we could ever think But as one New Testament scholar said, God in Christmas and the Incarnation is on the ultimate divine rescue mission. God would remember his people. And now he would return them from exile. Exile not from a nation, but exile from sin. And give them salvation and free them from the bondage of sin and its curse, which is death. And what we celebrate tonight is what Simeon had hoped to see. That indeed what we read, again, it is important to hear the words of what he said When Simeon he would say, Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. That you have prepared in the presence of all peoples a light for the revelation to the Gentiles and for the glory of your people Israel. Finally, Israel would be returned from exile, an exile that is spiritual because of sin. And a light would go out to the Gentiles. And the Gentiles, we who hear the word of God preached, of Christ being born, God being made flesh, Emmanuel, God with us. are given the offer to be freed from exile and slavery to sin, not of our own doing. Not being freed by our own strength or by our own will, but by God who became like us and would be a king. Born under the threat of death, would grow up and receive death and be raised to life from death so that we might have life abundantly and eternally. A promise kept, a gift given. The question is, are you ready to receive this gift If you have not received the gift of salvation, may the Lord this night by his Holy Spirit show you your need of salvation and forgiveness. Of our giving our devotion, which is due to the Lord, and giving it to ourselves and giving it to everything but God. God invites you to give your devotion to Him because He devoted Himself to the point of death for you. You see, Jesus. Jehoiakim, all he had to do was give up his clothes that were prison clothes to take on the clothes of a king. Jesus would give up the clothes of his glory so that he might become a child. So that you might know his grace, the grace of forgiveness, the mercy of his love. I heard this week as I was reading with my family a reflection. God's word tells us in the New Testament that through Jesus we learn all things were made that have been made through him. Jesus. Jesus was, by God's appointment, the creator of all things. And that the creator of all things would be made a child and would have no place to lay his head. Think about that. The creator of every beautiful place in the world, the creator of the universe, would have no place to lay his head. The creator of the universe would grow up like you and me, yet be without sin. The creator of the universe would give up his glory and be counted a carpenter. The creator of everything would be the one willing to take on God's wrath for our sin. God not only keeps his promise, he blows our mind in how he answers it. God is good to us. And to you, I want to say to you who are members and family of Columbia Presbyterian Church, and whether you're visitors or not, may God awaken us afresh tonight. Beyond Christmas presents, beyond the clamor of traffic and malls and ads. And a political year, the noise of the internet, the noise of our hearts. May God awaken us afresh by his spirit to see. That the greatest promise we never knew existed has been kept in ways we could never imagine. That the Lord has been good to us and has given us this day and this night to sing him praise and glory. May we receive this gift. And if you don't have a church, we invite you to come this coming Sunday morning to worship with us. We would love to have you with us. If you are not a believer, that's okay. I remember what it was like not to believe. And maybe you haven't heard anything I've said tonight or hoping that I would finish soon, and indeed I'm just about finished. But if you are not a believer, we want you to come Because I remember what it was like to come to a church, again, not as a Christian. If you're not, we want you to know this is a place for sinners and not for righteous people. This is a place where we come because we know we need forgiveness and mercy. Will you come as our honored guest again to worship with us? To hear this coming Sunday morning of the new covenant, God's promise to us that He would send His Son to redeem us. We invite you to come. And we invite you to believe on the Lord Jesus. As we who believe would say to you, we're just beginning to get what the gospel is about. May the Lord enable us all tonight to rejoice in the good news of Jesus Christ. Will you pray with me Heavenly Father, now we ask that you would fill us with joy, knowing that you are a God who is good, who has given us a promise. A promise of redemption, a promise of grace, a promise of forgiveness. And oh Lord, how you have kept that promise. And we confess to you, O Lord, that we don't even understand the promise because we confess to you, we don't even like to admit to you that we are sinners. We don't like to admit to one another that we are sinners, but the gift that we so long for is to be known, to be known as who we really are, and yet to be loved To be sinners and to be free to say we are sinners, and yet to know that we have a godly Father who does not turn his back on our sin, but has met us in it through Jesus Christ. Love has walked among us. Oh Lord, help us to rejoice in this. And will you, O Lord, by your spirit? Help us, because we need it, to rejoice, for unto us a child has been born Unto us a king is come. Unto us the promise over victory over sin and death. Has been made real. Help us now to believe and help us in our unbelief. And may you receive all our devotion and all the glory that is due to your name In Jesus' name that is above every name, that every tongue on earth shall proclaim that Jesus Christ is Lord, we give you thanks. Amen. Let's stand together this night and sing our final song. Silent night, holy night. Let's sing together.