Now, brothers, I want to remind you of the gospel that I preach to you, which you received and on which you've taken your stand. By this gospel you are saved if you hold firmly to the word that I preach to you. Otherwise you've believed in vain. For what I received I passed on to you as of first importance, that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, that he was raised on the third day, according to the scriptures. That he appeared to Peter, and then to the twelve. After that he appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers at the same time, most of whom are still living, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James and then to the apostles. Last of all he appeared to me also as one abnormally born. For I am the least of the apostles, and do not even deserve to be called an apostle Because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace to me was not without effect. No, I worked harder than all of them. Yet not I, but the grace of God that was with me. Whether then it was I or they This is what we preach, and this is what you believed. But if it is preached that Christ has been raised from the dead, how can some of you say there is no resurrection of the dead? If there's no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. If Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless. And so is your faith. More than that, we're then found to be false witnesses about God. God, for we have testified about God that He raised Christ from the dead. But He did not raise Him, if in fact the dead are not raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile. Still in your sins. And then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. If only for this life we have hope in Christ. We are to be pitied more than all men. But Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ will all be made alive. But each in his own turn, Christ the first fruits, and then when he comes, those who belong to him Then the end will come when he hands over the kingdom of God to God the Father after he has destroyed all dominion, authority, and power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. For he has put everything, but the fact that he has put everything under his feet, when he says everything has been put under him, it is clear that this does not include God Himself, who put everything under. Christ. When he has done this, and then the Son Himself will be made subject to Him who put everything under Him, so that God may be all and in all. Let's ask the Lord to give us understanding. Father, we come to your word now, and on this Easter morning we want to understand something more about the resurrection of Jesus. What that means to us. Give us attentive ears, open hearts, minds that understand your truth. Holy Spirit, we depend upon you to teach us in Jesus. Amen. Cut the way in this part of Paul's familiar argument Concerning the necessity of Jesus' bodily resurrection, for any foundation or hope of Christianity is a fascinating insight into the nature of Christ's resurrection and its relationship to the believer. Christ in his resurrection is called here the first fruits of those who have died. You see in verse twenty To twenty three, Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ. Christ, all will be made alive, but each in his own turn. Christ, the first fruits, and then when he comes, those who belong to him Now, why is Jesus called the first fruits in his resurrection? What are first fruits? What should you and I understand about first fruits in order for us to more deeply appreciate this Easter morning? What the significance of the resurrection of Jesus means. Well, first fruits were the first grapes The first figs of the first grain, the first vegetables, the first crops of the harvest These were the first things to become ripe. The first thing that the farmer went out and picked. And God commanded that these first fruits in the references you see listed in your bulletin outline there. In Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, God commanded that these first fruits be not consumed by the owner. But rather that they be offered up to God in the tabernacle, in worship. For instance, in Deuteronomy chapter twenty six, we read how this should go And God says there, when you have entered the land, the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance and have taken possession of it and settled in it. And take some of the first fruits of all that you produce from the soil of the land that the Lord your God is giving you, and put them in a basket Then go to the place that the Lord your God will choose as a dwelling for his name and say to the priest in office at the time, I declare today to the Lord your to the Lord your God that I have come into the land that the Lord swore to our fathers to give us. The priest then shall take the basket from your hands and he'll set it down in front of the altar of the Lord your God, and then you shall declare before the Lord your God My father was a wandering Aramean, and he went down into Egypt with a few people, and lived there and became a great nation, powerful and numerous. But the Egyptians mistreated us and made us suffer, putting us to hard labor. Then we cried out to the Lord, the God of our fathers, and the Lord heard our voice, and he saw our misery, toil, and oppression And so the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, with great terror, with miraculous signs and wonders. He brought us to this place, and he gave us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey. And now I bring the first fruits of the soil that you, O Lord, have given me. Then place the basket before the Lord your God and bow down before him. And you and the Levites and the aliens among you shall rejoice in all the good things that the Lord your God has given you and your household. Now that's a picture of the offering of the first fruits. It's done in thanksgiving, and it's done to honor the Lord. We read in Proverbs three verse nine that we're to honor the Lord with all your wealth and with the first fruits. of your crops, that your barns will be filled with overflowing and your vats brim over with new wine. Now get the picture of what's going on here. You're a farmer Now the harvest has just begun to come ripe. The first succulent grapes are ready. The first figs are now ready to pick. The first grain is ready. And so you go out to that and you take that and you don't Don't eat it. But rather you put it in a big basket and you take it to the Lord, and by doing that, you're telling him three things. First of all, you're saying, Lord, you've given me all that I have. This crop, this whole harvest is from you. You've provided the whole thing. Four times In that passage I just read from Deuteronomy twenty six, four times over it is stated that the Lord has given you all these things. Notice in verse eleven and you and the Levites and the alien among you shall rejoice in all the good things the Lord your God has given to you. That's what you're saying. When you take those first fruits to him. The second thing that you're saying to the Lord is that this whole crop therefore belongs to you Really, it's not my crop. It's not my harvest. Lord, it belongs to you. This crop is yours. This portion, these first fruits, represent all the rest of the crop. Represents my whole harvest. And that whole harvest is yours. It's like the tithe, you see. When we tithe of our money to give to the Lord, it's not that we say, I'll give this ten percent to the Lord, and then I can go do with the ninety percent whatever I please. We're saying the whole thing, Lord, Belongs to you. I'm a steward of it. And I give you this as a representation of the fact that I'm a steward of the whole thing which belongs to you. The third thing that you're saying to the Lord when you give them the first briefs is simply, Lord, I love you. Love you. There's something personal about the interaction of taking that which is precious to you. There's nothing like the first fruits you see, that first ripe tomato, that first bit of the crop. You then, instead of taking and consuming yourself, you give it to the Lord and you say, Lord, I love you, and I want you to have this. You're so precious to me, Lord, that I want you to have the first in my life. I can test it. So some of the effect of this in fact true. Last spring, we uh when we moved, uh we had moved to Columbia the year before, didn't get to put in a garden, and so last spring I got to put in my first garden down here. And uh it was so good to be able to work in the soil again. And you know what it's like when you put the seeds in. The first thing that comes up and is ready to eat is what? The lettuce. Good old leaf lettuce. If for no other reason that you should should ever plant a garden you should plant lettuce because it comes up so quick. It's a very immediate kind of reward. And there are those nice straight rows were all these leaves of lettuce just beginning to come up. And we went out the Heather and Julie and myself I went out that uh early, beautiful spring morning and I remember we saw there they are, they're ready. It's time we can take them and uh you know, you look at a hunk of lettuce laying on a sandwich and don't think much of it if you buy it from a store, but I'll tell you if you grow it It's tender. You look at that lettuce, it's it's not like any other lettuce, you know. It's your lettuce. It came from a sea. It's so tender, it's almost sweet, and you just like to eat the lettuce with nothing else. You just stick the lettuce in your mouth. We went out there and we got the lettuce and I remembered This this ordinance of the Lord, of the first fruits. I thought it'd be good for us to experience that. So rather than take the lettuce, Julie just about had it in her mouth, and just instead of doing that, we decide, no, we're going to experience what the Lord meant when he talked about giving first fruits. fruits. And so I said, no, let's take this and instead of eating it, let's pray together. And let's offer this to the Lord. And so we prayed and they was wondering what's going on here. And I said, okay, let's just pray now and we're going to tell the Lord that we love him. It's his crop that he's given to us. Belongs to him. And so now in token of that, we're going to forego eating these first leaves ourselves. And then we're going to just take them and we just laid them in the rose garden. And we said, Now Lord, we're just going to give these to you. No tabernacle, you see. So we just laid them in the rose garden. And we said, Lord, we want to experience the uh the opportunity to just tell you we love you in this. And also it heightened our anticipation of the rest of the harvest, I'll tell you. You know, you let that part go. And it was something about doing that that caused me to realize again, Lord, I love you in doing this. It just helped me to understand what it means to give to the Lord. Now of course the next morning the lettuce was gone and Julie was absolutely sure that the Lord had reached down and taken that lettuce as an offering. We had to assure her that while that was entirely possible, it was rather more likely that some neighborhood Rabbit had helped himself. But the experience you see of foregoing that, of giving the first fruits, is something that the Lord used as a picture for his people, to paint for them this idea of giving to the Lord that part of the harvest. Now, what has that got to do with Jesus' resurrection? Jesus is called the first fruits in his resurrection. What is it about first fruits that we're to understand that will help us to appreciate the resurrection? Resurrection more deeply. Well, there's three things about first fruits that are important to teach us that will help us to know how Jesus and his resurrection relate to the rest of us. First of all, You see there in the outline. First of all, as first fruits, Jesus is temporally first. Temporally first. The most obvious thing about first fruits is that they're first. They're the first thing to come in the harvest. When we read in Romans chapter 16, this word is used, the same word, first fruits. In Romans 16, 5, Paul in his greetings says, My dear friend Epenetus, who was the first convert to Christ in the province of Asia. The word there translated the first convert, those two words. Literally that word is the same word in First Corinthians fifteen twenty. and twenty-three that appentics was the first fruits in Asia. The first person to receive Jesus Christ in Asia. And Paul was saying by that, he's the first one of a whole harvest that's going to come in Asia. The people that are going to turn to Jesus Christ. In First Corinthians sixteen, just the next chapter after the one that we're in now. In verse fifteen, Paul said, You know the household of Stephanus were the first converts in Achaea. The word there again is this word first fruit. They were the first ones, the first of the harvest. And so Jesus Paul says about Jesus in 1 Corinthians 15, 23, that Jesus is the first fruits, each in his own turn, you see. Christ the first fruits first, and then sometime after that, when he comes, those who belong to him. Do you understand what he's saying there? Paul's saying that you and I are part of a harvest. And in the beginning of the new age of the Spirit, Jesus Christ rose as the first fruits of that. And now the whole harvest is just ripening. It's just bursting at the seams, the tomatoes are ready to burst through. Through the seams of the skin. Everything's just ready to overflow. And God is waiting for the fullness of the harvest to gather it all in. And now when's that harvest going to be ready? Could be this week. Maybe Wednesday, in the middle of this week, before another Sabbath comes, the harvest will be complete, and all of the harvest will be gathered in with Jesus. When he comes, the harvest will be gathered in. And we don't know when he's coming. But he's coming soon. And it could be very soon. We could be right at the very eve of the ingathering of the harvest. But Jesus was first. And then the harvest is about to come. One day it will be here, and it will come very quickly. Notice what he says in verse fifty-one. Listen, I tell you a mystery. We will not all sleep, but we'll all be changed in a flash, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. The trumpet will sound and the dead will be raised imperishable and we will be changed. It's going to come just like that. When Jesus comes, He's been first. The harvest is about to come in. Secondly, we see by firstfruits that Jesus is the representative of the whole. The first fruits were representative of the whole crop. The Israelite farmer, when he took that bushel of his crops, the first fruits, and took that to the tabernacle, what he was saying was, Lord, my whole harvest is represented in this basket. I'm giving to you this basket, but in giving to you this basket, in my heart I'm giving to you my whole crop. The whole thing belongs to you, Lord, and this particular offering is being sanctified, set apart to you. In which all the rest is being given to you. Now you see the picture of Jesus in that. Jesus is the first fruits. He belonged to the Father in a unique way. And when Jesus rose from the dead to go. back to the Father so that Jesus in a unique way was sanctified to the Father, we were in him. He represented us. And being represented in Jesus Christ, you and I have been raised to the Father. You see, this is what he's talking about in verse 22 and 23. He says, There, as in Adam, all died. Adam was the representative of the human race, and we have all died in Adam, in his act of rebellion, so in Christ all will be made alive. He said in verse twenty one Because death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also comes through a man. Death came through a representative, Adam. The resurrection comes through a representative of the harvest, the first fruits, Jesus. Now you notice the diagram that I put there in order for us to understand this a little more. You see the two uh ovals, uh one there that the larger one saying in Adam. That refers to the whole human race. one of us are in Adam. If you're a human being this morning, then you're in Adam. And if you're not Then I think you came to the wrong service. But if you're a human being in Adam, you come here as part of the human race. If you are in Jesus, you come in the new humanity. Now it's important for us to realize that not everybody who In Adam is in Jesus. You see what he says there in verse 21 and 22. Since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead comes also through a man. For as an Adam all die, everybody who's in Adam dies. Again, if you're an Adam, you are not a good thing. Adam this morning, you're gonna die. Unless the Lord comes before that time. For as in Adam all die, we're all under death, so in Christ all will be made alive. He's not saying everybody will be made alive. He's saying those who are in Christ. Christ will be made alive. Notice verse 23, how he explains that. It's those who belong to him. Those are the ones who are in Christ. Those who belong to him. What Paul is saying here is the summary of his statement in Romans chapter five that there are two humanities the one in Adam and death came to that humanity because of Adam's disobedience. Then he's saying there's a new humanity. And the representative of that new humanity was obedient to God's law. And because of his obedience, life has come in the resurrection through his obedience. Obedience. Therefore, because of that, because of the certain ones in the new humanity that belong to Jesus, who are raised in Jesus, we read Paul's response to that in Second Corinthians chapter five. For there he says, looking back on this, on what Jesus has done, he says in verse 14 and 15, For Christ's love compels us Because we're convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. And he died for all that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died and was raised again. Jesus died for us. Jesus was raised again for us. The representative of those who are in Christ. That crop of the new humanity in Jesus. And if we are in him, Then he says we are living the life that belongs to him. It's his life. And therefore we belong to him in the resurrection life. The third thing that we see about the first fruits is not only in that is Jesus the representative of the whole, but we see also that Jesus is a part of the whole. He's also a part of the whole. The first fruit you see is the initial portion of the harvest. And it's that initial portion of the harvest only insofar as it's part of that harvest. You take the grain, uh the tomatoes, the grapes, the figs, and they're not part of that year's harvest, then they're not the first fruits of that. And they have to be part of that particular harvest that I'm giving to the Lord in order to be its first fruits. So first fruits expresses, you see, an organic connection between the first fruits itself and the rest of the harvest. It's inseparable from it. It's exactly the same as the rest of the harvest. The only difference is its first. That's what gives the sacrifice its significance, is that this is exactly the same as what's coming. And because of that I'm giving this as a as an identical representation of the whole harvest. To the Lord. Now, because of that, you see, Paul says in verse 20, describing this to us, he says, Christ has indeed been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who Who died. He's looking at the whole human race and he's saying, Every person has died. Now Jesus has come out of that harvest as one who died. You see what he's saying there? Jesus literally died. The Son of God came and gave his life. Jesus was dead in the tomb. He was not in a swoon. He did not appear to be dead. Jesus was dead. Part of that harvest. Part of the crop. Of dead people. And when Jesus actually tasted of death, he then became the first fruit of one who was dead and raised to life. Jesus is the first person ever went. Resurrected, not simply made alive again as Lazarus, but resurrected to never die. Jesus is the first fruit of the resurrection. You see this idea of identity expressed. When the same word is used in Romans chapter eleven in verse six, Paul uses this word first fruits. He's talking about a lump of dough. And he says if you take one part of that dough and it's holy, then the whole rest of the lump's holy because it's all the same thing. It's all bound there together. And so he's saying, it's identical with that dough. Jesus in his resurrection body is identical to you and me in the way that we will be raised. Have you realized that this morning? There's one heart. Therefore, Jesus' resurrection guarantees that our resurrection will come. Because not only has he representatives, but his resurrection and our resurrection are really resurrected. Simply two episodes of the same event. You and I have been raised with Jesus. And we will be raised in that last day. See there's two parts to that. The Bible teaches that spiritually the Christian has already been raised with Christ. Romans chapter 6, he talks about that. In verses 1 to 14. You notice this comes right after that section in chapter 5 where he's talked about Adam representing those who died, Jesus representing those who've been made alive. Then in chapter 6, he goes on to talk about our being raised with him. And notice what he says in verse 3: Don't you know that all of us who were baptized into Christ Jesus Baptized into his death. We were therefore baptized with him through baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, we too may live a new life. Now, if we have been united with him, In his death, we will certainly also be united with him in his resurrection. For we know that our old self was crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be rendered powerless, that we should no longer be slaves to sin. Sin, because anyone who has died has been freed from sin. You see what he's saying there? You and I, as believers in Jesus Christ, are right now alive from the dead. Right now, you and I live a resurrection life. Do you know what the Bible says is the evidence of that? That you and I have the first fruits of the Spirit. In Romans chapter 8, verse 23, the same word is used. Only now it's not that Jesus is the first fruits of the dead, but rather that believers have the first fruits of the Spirit. In other words, you and I have been given the Holy Spirit of God. As the very first fruits of the whole harvest of the Spirit that we'll enjoy when we go to be with Jesus. When you and I come to meet with God on that day that the Lord Jesus takes us to Himself. There's going to be a harvest of the Spirit like you can't imagine now. A harvest of his fruit of righteousness, joy, and peace. As we meet together with each other in that great new humanity that is filled with the Spirit. And we have the first fruits of that right now because we're alive from the dead. Because we're part of that harvest. We're part of the crop of those who will be raised with Jesus Himself. Not only do we have that now, But Paul says here, we look forward to a physical resurrection in the future. We have the spiritual resurrection already. The physical resurrection, we have the spiritual, the physical we look forward to not yet, still to come. That's still our hope. We await that fullness of the harvest. At that time when he says, Christ the first fruits, and then when he comes, those who belong to him will be raised physically and gathered from this. Well notice something important from this. Do you see that what Paul is saying here is that when you look that uh the Jesus resurrection being part of the whole tells us That his resurrection body was exactly the same as yours will be I talk to Christians and sometimes get the idea that we think that uh heaven is going to be living as a bunch of ghosts sitting on clouds playing harps. Somehow we're going to be ethereal spirits, you know, and we just sort of sit around with one sort of uh grand eternal hymn sing, and we sort of waft along in some sort of uh super-spiritual existence. That Jesus Christ, when he came back, when he walked with the disciples, when he ate with them, when he had them feel him and touch him, when he demonstrated the capacity to live in a society, When he was still recognizable, when he still had a form to him, he had a personality. All these things are the first fruits of what you and I look forward to See, he's part of the same crop. Jesus' body is just like yours and mine's going to be. So if you want to say, if you want to ask yourself, if I as a Christian, one that follows and believes in Jesus Christ, what is it going to be like when Jesus comes back, look at Jesus. That's what you're going to be like. You'll be just like him. The Bible says that. You'll be like him for you'll see him as he is. Won't it be wonderful to realize that God has put together the combination there of where you and I retain that part of our identity which we enjoy, which God has intended for us uniquely? But it's all purged away from all the sin, from all the ugliness, all the aging and the sickness and the pain and all those things. will be taken away. And our bodies will be like his. Because he's the first fruits. He's the first fruits. Something about that this Easter morning ought to just make us want to sing and say, Lord, I can't wait. I can't wait for that harvest to come in. We celebrate now the first fruits of that And sometime, maybe this week, maybe next month, maybe before the end of this year, the harvest is going to be brought in. The harvest of the resurrection. Only in applying this to ourselves, we need to examine each one of us What that means for us. As I said before, verse twenty-two tells us that we're all in Adam. As in Adam, all die. Read through history. No matter who it is you read about, they have a birth date, and if they've lived sometime in the past before this century, there's also a date that they died. Everyone in Adam dies. Now we have a kind of a strange phenomena here, you see, because we only die once. We've never experienced death. There's not a person in this room who's experienced death yet. And so somehow you say, well yes, others have died, but I can't relate to that, you see, because I haven't died yet. But there's coming a time when every one of us will die. Unless for the Christian, Jesus comes before that time But as in Adam all die, nevertheless, within that set of humanity. There are some who are in Jesus as the first fruits of a new humanity, a new crop, a new harvest to God. The question for you and for me. Is while you are in Adam, are you in Jesus? Are you one of those who are in Christ? Who will be raised in the harvest with him on that day? How can you be in Jesus Christ? First of all, by recognizing that he's made you Just like that crop, that harvest, he's made you for himself. You belong to him, and he has an absolute claim upon your life. Secondly, you need to realize from that that you've renounced that claim. You've turned from that claim. Now you've acted as if you made yourself, as if you had a right to live your life apart from his claim and control. Having done that then you need to realise that you're guilty for having turned your back upon God. Having lived your life as if he didn't matter. And then you need to see God's provision through the death and the resurrection of Jesus in taking the penalty due to you for your guilt. Taking that payment and making it in In full, the sacrifice of his death being paid for the curse that you and I deserve for having gone our own way. And then the resurrection that he experienced as the vindication of that. Payment, the demonstration that God had accepted it, paid in full. Therefore that everybody who is in Jesus by faith will be raised with him. What do I mean by faith? I mean that once having recognized that there is absolute nothing that you can do to please God, to make that payment yourself, and that Jesus payment alone is necessary and sufficient for you, that you confess that to God, and that by faith you ask God to save you for Jesus' sake and not for you. After anything that you've done, and to place you in Jesus Christ under the protection of his sacrifice, to make you one of his, to give your life to him, because he Is alone the provision for your guilt. If you've never done that, what better time than on Easter Sunday to recognize God I'm in Adam? But Lord, I don't know that I'm in Jesus. I'm not really sure of that. And because I'm not really sure of that, I wonder if I'm really part of that harvest of the resurrection. Jesus is the first fruit. But Lord, if I haven't died in him, when that resurrection is gathered in, the Lord says it's like the grain that's going to be stored away, but the chaff is going to be burned with a fire unquenchable. Lord, how do I face you? You need to settle that today before the Lord. And if you want to talk to any of us, as leaders in this church, please see us to determine that most important of all decisions. What a pity to go through a beautiful spring day on Easter, to enjoy God's creation, to enjoy the good things that He's given to us, but to be able to talk about the resurrection without any experience of what it means to be part of the harvest. What a pity. For those of us who are in Jesus, we need to realize again that right now we are alive from the dead. I need to remind you again, brothers and sisters, in Jesus' Christ, that you and I have died with Jesus Christ. Our sin nature was crucified. It's been judged. It's inevitable that anyone who is in Adam will die in their sin. But unlike the person without Jesus Christ who still awaits that judgment, we have already been judged. We've already died. Because of that, we've already been raised again. As Paul said in Romans chapter 6, we therefore were buried with him through his baptism into death, in order that just as Jesus Jesus was raised from the dead through the glory to the Father, we also may live in a new life. We also have been raised with him. And so he calls upon us to live up as though. who are alive from the dead. Now let's suppose that we could understand here as a whole room that for some reason or other, every one of us were going to be executed at 1 p. m. They have uh less than an hour to live. And at 1 p. m. , this entire room, everybody in this room is going to be executed. And we wait, the minutes tick away, and we find the very last minutes of our lives. Live, uh ebbing very quickly, down to forty minutes and thirty minutes, twenty minutes, fifteen minutes, ten minutes, five minutes. Then the execution comes. Every one of us lose our lives. Every one of us are destroyed at one PM today. But then at three PM you find you're alive again. Uh somehow at three PM you find that uh You're not just uh uh dragged back into some existence again, but you're fully alive. You're more alive than you've ever been before. And at three PM you find that the reason that you're alive is that you are not now living your life. You have someone else's life. And it's been given to you. Now, would you and I at that point begin to quibble about the rights that we have in that life? Would you and I begin to quibble about the fact that the person who is given us that life may not be inclined to run it that the way we would. Who cares? It's not your life. You've already died. You're living on borrowed time. It's a life that's been given to you. And could you or I dare to question the person who has given to us his life and say that he will not do what's best for us in the life that he's given to us? It's his life. Exactly the picture that God paints for us that we have as Christians in Jesus. We've died, and the life that we now live is his life. A life that's given to us. And so Paul says in Romans chapter six. In the same way then, count yourselves dead to sin, but alive to God in Jesus Christ. Therefore don't let sin reign in your mortal body so that you obey its evil desires. Don't offer the parts of your body to sin as instruments of wickedness, but rather offer yourselves to God. As those who have been brought from death to life, and offer the parts of your body to Him as instruments of righteousness. For death is no longer your master, but you are alive to God. You and I need to realize this week as we live that we live a supernatural life. It's a resurrection life. We're part of the harvest. And therefore, whatever the problem is that you're facing, whatever it is that's the Struggle in your life now, you can't say, I can't, unless you add to that, but God can. The life that I live is a life that's supernatural. I'm alive from the dead. And if Jesus has conquered death in my life, there's nothing that he can't do through me. Not only is it a supernatural resurrection life, but it's a consecrated life. It's not your life. It's his life. Remember that this year, this week, and the things that you're doing, and the priorities you set, the values that you determine. Lord, it's not my life I'm living. Jesus is the first fruits of the harvest. And he's raised to God. Belong to him. My life is yours. And finally, the last thing we need to remember is to look with an expectant longing to the full harvest of the resurrection that's coming when Jesus returns. You ever look on a dead body? Whether it's the body of a person that you loved, or a body of someone that you didn't know, or even the body of an animal. And there's something ugly about seeing that. death of that body that was so alive a day, a week, a month before. You look at that body and say, There it is. You could do anything to it now, you could kick it, you could destroy it. It's decaying, it's wasting away. There's been an ugly separation of what God never intended to be separated. Death is ugly, but death is also abnormal. And Jesus is the first fruits of The resurrection The resurrection that will come where there will be no more death ever again, where death in its abnormality will be abolished, and you and I will have a body like Jesus. Be like him, and on that day there will be no more death. Now you and I need to be excited and anticipating that that day is coming, and all of that will be done away. Because of that. We can rejoice today. Jesus is the first fruits. The harvest is coming. Let's anticipate it and sing to God our praise and our joy. Because Jesus is the first fruit. From the dead, the first fruits are those who have fallen asleep. And since death came by a man, the resurrection of the dead also comes through a man. For as in Adam all dies, so in Christ will all be made alive. Each in his own turn. Christ, the first fruits. And then when he comes again, all those who belong to him. Let's pray. Our Lord our God, we come before you this morning to rejoice and to stand in awe the fact that Jesus, who has Life itself had no reason to come and taste of death, except that he loved us. And by tasting of death, because death had come through a man, a resurrection Had to come through a man. And so Jesus had to become a man. And you, Lord Jesus, came and became a creature. And you yourself. Tasted the ugliness, the horror of death. And not a death that was quick and swift and painless, but death on a cross. The slow, agonizing death rending your body, or your spirit being rent in the loneliness apart from any human companionship or comfort, separated even from your father and cursed by him. For those of us who were in death. And because of that, our sins, which so loud did cry in glory, have withered up and died. Because Jesus is raised from the dead. The Lord Jesus, you're the first fruits of we who are in death. And because of that we've been raised with you. Because of that we live a resurrection life. Because of that we await the fullness of the harvest to come in. Perhaps so very soon. In which we and those that we've loved who have died in Christ will be raised from the dead. Our Lord our God, what a comfort that is to us who believe you. We pray that that comfort we extend to everyone who's here on this. room. That none here would be here simply because of the Easter tradition and go out from here not knowing anything of being part of the harvest of the resurrection. We pray, Father, that all of us While we're in Adam, you would make every one of us here, Father, to be also in Jesus, so that we would be part of that resurrection, rejoicing and singing your praise as though. Alive from the dead. Give us the thirst and that anticipation of that which is to come through Jesus Christ. Amen. Don Elson will lead us now in the opportunity.