We come again to God's Word, and this week we continue in this Advent series of Christ as light coming into the darkness. And it is according to the Gospel of John that Christ came as light into the darkness, but the darkness did not understand it, or the darkness did not overcome it. And we've looked at over the last number of weeks the kinds of darkness that Christ's light comes to address. The first week we were together, I mentioned that we would look at the darkness of fear, but in fact, because of the way I designed it, we only were able to deal with the darkness of depression. And oftentimes fear and anxiety is at the root of depression itself, but darkness and anxiety Plagues so many people. And so we come to God's Word and we want to see the ways in which the coming of Jesus Christ in his incarnation Brings light and hope, truth and grace to fear. That we would be released from this fear In fact, God's word tells us that perfect love casts out all fear. It is God's desire that we know His love that is indeed perfect. So let's hear from God's Word first. This morning we'll be looking specifically at Matthew chapter 6, verses 25 to 34. Then we'll be looking at the ways in which the Apostle Paul applies what Jesus gives us in narrative form, how he applies it post-resurrection. To our lives in Romans chapter eight. Hear now God's wonderful, eternal, life-giving word. Matthew chapter six Therefore, I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat or drink, or about your body, what you will wear. Is your is not life more important than food, and the body more important than clothes? Look at the birds of the air. They do not sow or reap or store away in barns, and yet your heavenly father feeds them. Are you not much more valuable than they? Who of you, by worrying, can add a single hour to his life? And why do you worry about clothes? See how the lilies of the field grow. They do not labor or spin, yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all of his splendor was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field which are here today and tomorrow thrown into the fire, will He not much more clothe you? O you of little faith? So do not worry saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the pagans run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. But seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well. Therefore do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will worry about itself. Each day has enough trouble of its own And now from the book of Romans, chapter 8, beginning in verse 31. What then shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Who will bring any charge against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. Who is he that condemns Christ Jesus, who died more than that, who was raised to life, is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, For your sake we face death all day long. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Please pray with me Lord, it is with heavy hearts that we come to your word this morning Because it seems as though there are threats that cause us to fear every day. And Father, this morning particularly, we cannot imagine the grief and loss of those families who live in Newtown, Connecticut must be feeling this morning. Or the fear of the children who are in that school. Lord, it is beyond our comprehension. But Lord, we would ask. That you would pour out your mercy and your grace on these families and on that entire community Lord, we pray according to the promise that is in your word Where it says, where sin abounds, grace superabounds. We would ask in the name of Jesus Christ That your grace would superabound in that community. May the gospel of Jesus Christ work its way. May you bring comfort and healing. Father, we would pray not only for Newtown, but we would pray for our entire country. Have mercy, O Lord. Would you please come again? How long, O Lord, how long will you bring, we pray, justice and righteousness And may you restore all things to new. But Lord, until that time, will you give us grace? To trust in you and not fear. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. What do you fear this morning? Death, financial loss, injustice, evil, poverty. Sickness, the future, slander, loneliness Every one of us here knows what fear is like. But it is particularly to this reality of fear. Having everyday very common fears to which Jesus would devote a portion of what is the first recorded sermon that we have of Jesus Christ. And it is to this particular point that Jesus wants to bring the light of his truth, the light of his grace, to address. So this morning we're going to look at this these two passages to look at the settled conviction That Jesus wants to drive these hearers to and us to drive us to a settled conviction that He is a God who provides. But also to a defiant hope that is defiant in the face of troubles and threats. That would lead us not to arrogance or dismissiveness, but to humble trust And so let's look together at this passage as we look at this first point, settled conviction, where I believe he wants to drive these hearers to. A subtle conviction that it is God who provides. He does this by first confronting their fear. Secondly, he exposes their real need. And so let's look at these two things together by which he wants to drive them to this conviction. He confronts their fear. As I read, Jesus confronts their fear in a very unconventional way. I say unconventional because he's not preaching to a group of people who've had years of sermon tapes to draw on. They are by and large very unfamiliar with who Jesus is and what he was going to teach. We know that they were largely a Jewish group. And so he's speaking to a group of people who were undergoing a great deal of suffering and difficulty because of the Roman Empire and its oppression. But he seeks to address them in a way that you would think would drive them away. Let's look at that together. He confronts their fear by drawing attention to the shallowness of their fear. He does this when he says these words. He says, look at the birds of the year. They don't sow or reap or store away in barns. So he does at one level, he draws on a very common-day observation, but he's doing it to confront them. And he says, you can observe the birds. You don't see them with their feet worrying about where they're going to get the next day's meal. You can't find their storehouses. And he says, if they aren't doing this, then why do you worry about such things? Then he looks at them and he says, And why do you worry about clothes? Again, he draws on an everyday observation. He draws on the flowers of the field. And then he says this. He says, Yet I tell you that not even Solomon in all of his splendor was dressed like one of these. So what Jesus does is he takes an everyday observation like a flower, considers what many of his hearers would have considered it to be a very simple beauty. In fact, a beauty perhaps that is below them. And then he takes that everyday observation, knowing what they are thinking. He then brings to their minds the high watermark of Israel's national glory, of Solomon. In all of his blessed wisdom and wealth, the temple itself, and then Solomon arrayed in all of his finery because of God's blessing. So he takes an everyday observation, a beauty that would seem simple, even below them He then takes a beauty for which they would have had the greatest respect and even longing to be returned to that. Now, I want you to feel the tension for a moment. They're under Roman foreign oppression as the nation of Israel Jesus hearkens back to its high point. And you can imagine as he would say it that they were thinking, now that That's beautiful. And he takes them and he completely inverts them And he says the beauty that essentially, the beauty that you believe is below you and is every day is by far and away so much more than Solomon could ever imagine. Jesus, ladies and gentlemen, is trying to confront them in the most straightforward way. And he's saying Why in the world do you worry about such things? He confronts their fear by confronting them. Why in the world would anyone remain standing there? Why would they stay there? We know that they did, because at the end of this whole section, we read this. When Jesus had finished saying these things, referring to the sermon that we've just read through its entirety, beginning in fact chapter 5. When Jesus had finished saying these things, the crowds were amazed at his teaching because he taught as one who had authority. And not as their teachers of the law. So they knew intuitively that he was just not a purveyor of doctrinal truth He taught as one who knew it and who could do something about it. So here's Jesus confronting them. Why don't they run? Why do they stand amazed? Why would they allow Jesus to call them up short in the shallowness of their concerns and worries and anxiety? It is because they knew intuitively that he knew their need Because here in this passage, he exposes their need. In driving them to the conviction that it is God who provides, he wants to expose their need. Now, if we look at these examples, he uses them to point out, again, the absurdity or the shallowness of their worry. But he does it in a way that they know he cares for them. Consider what he says. After referring to the birds of the air, And he says, Do you see them storing away, and yet your heavenly father feeds them? Are you not much more valuable than they? So in the process of confronting them and showing the shallness of their fears, he does it in a way who says God takes care and will provide for the shallow things because He knows you are valuable. He goes on. And he in questioning them about what they fear and what they will eat or what they will drink. He says, For the pagans, or in some translations, the Gentiles, run after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. So not just does Jesus tell them that God will provide, he says that God knows what exactly they need. But what we need to remember is that Jesus is teaching on this idea about worry and anxiety and fear just after he's taught on the issue. of money. And he talks about in fact that money cannot satisfy So both in the teaching about money and the teaching of confronting fear, Jesus is trying to alert them that that which they are afraid of, that which the places where their anxiety is inflamed needs to be a road sign for them to see that is where their hope is. In other words What you often worry about is what you hope will be provided because you believe it will save you to some degree or other. And that which you hope in, you will inevitably worship. That is what Jesus is hinting at When he's talking to this Jewish body and he's referring to those Gentiles who do not believe, when he says the phrase, do not the pagans run after all these things. So that idea of running is the idea of pursuit. And what he's pointing out is that what you fear That is not going to be provided, that which you put your hope in, if you don't have it, you're going to not know what to do. You need to know that that should be a warning sign to you that you are worshiping and pursuing something that will not satisfy. Let me be clear. That Jesus doesn't mind one whit that this group of people are needy. He minds that they don't see the depth of their need. So while at the same moment that he points out the absurdity or the shallowness of their fears and their concerns about all these things, if you go back and look at the passage, you see how all these things repeat itself. He doesn't say that it's bad to need those things. He's saying if that's what's erupting in your heart, the worst form of anxiety and fear and so forth, the problem is You don't know your true need. And if you knew your true need, there you would truly, truly, truly fear. And so he desires for them to understand. And I think they knew this intuitively. I think there's a reason why they didn't run. I think there's a reason why they responded with amazement. is because they knew that Jesus, while confronting them, also was expressing the love of God to them. He knew, and I think they knew that he knew them to the very bottom. He knew their deepest need. And it is true that worry is a byproduct of what we fear. And what we fear is what we're trying to put our trust in. And Jesus wants to expose that. Because he means to not leave us there. He means to drive us. To a much deeper understanding of what our real need is. And he does it right here in this passage. And I will argue that it is Jesus who then points out to them what their need is, and their need is Him. Notice what he says. He says, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be given to you as well. Now oftentimes when we hear the word kingdom, it's as though it he's been going along and we're following with you, Jesus. Okay, I get it. All right. So the birds don't, you know, reap and they're just they're not storing up and okay, uh the the the flowers certainly are not trying to sew for themselves new clothes. I got that. God knows my need. God will provide for all these things. But what's up with the whole kingdom thing? See, for us, when we hear the word kingdom, we tend to think, not everyone, we tend to think spatially about a country. A literal place. But remember, he's speaking to a group of people who are Jewish who would not have understood it in that way. You see, whether it is in Hebrew or whether it is in Aramaic or whether it is in Greek, the idea of kingdom or the word kingdom has in itself a very common strand, and it is one that means this. Kingdom means kingship. It means sovereignty. The English Dictionary, the Oxford English Dictionary, actually quotes a famous 17th-century philosopher who wrote this. That he defined a kingdom as a form of government which a king limits by law and is called a kingdom. If he did it by his own whim, it would be called a tyranny. Kingdom, thus, is viewed as the lawful exercise of royal power. Over against tyranny and the unjust use of such authority. So taking that idea Of whether it is in Hebrew or Aramaic or in Greek, there's a biblical understanding of the idea of kingdom that was first and foremost not spatial. It was personal. It was tied to a king. And from the Old Testament going into the New, the idea that when God was referred to as King and His kingdom, it was always connected with His salvific or redemptive purposes. That when God would bring forth his kingship, make known his kingdom, it would be for the purpose of redeeming a group of people. from their sins, from their rebellion, and drawing them to himself in his sovereign kingship. Governed by his righteousness, his laws, according to his purposes. Now Jesus is saying That what you ought to seek is his kingdom, his righteousness What Jesus is saying that your deepest need is one of salvation. More than food, more than clothes, more than drink. You need to know the king The one who is sovereign, the one who is righteous, the one who pours out his grace Now, what's interesting is that Jesus would say at the beginning of his ministry, in fact, just a few chapters before this very idea, Jesus says these words. Repent. For that time on, Jesus began to preach this phrase: repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near. And increasingly, here in very seed form, and then as Jesus' ministry would grow, people would understand, and Jesus would continually unfold that his incarnation of coming into the world would be a very strong. was to usher in the beginning of the visible kingdom of God in Jesus Christ. And that when Jesus says, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near, he's saying, repent, confess. Ask forgiveness. Turn from your shallow fears. Turn from your shallow hopes that are based in things that can be easily destroyed or stolen. And invest it in the King who brings salvation and a righteousness That is not dependent on you. But as Jesus would continually unfold. It would be a righteousness that would be dependent upon God in Jesus Christ. Jesus is wanting his hearers to know. That while their fears and their neediness feel so palpable, he wants them to see that they're not deep enough And that if they truly understood their need because of sin, they would tremble in fear. But yet Jesus doesn't rub their faces in it. He comes to them with his face. He comes and he says, Seek first his kingdom, his righteousness. Seek me. I think this is why they were so amazed. Because he wasn't just teaching doctrinal truths. He was the doctrinal truth. He wasn't just preaching about God's kingdom. He is the evidence of God's kingdom. He's just not referring to God will come and restore. He is the restoration. They were amazed at this. Because they knew that he loved them and he knew them, and he knows your need to the bottom He knows your need. He knows your fears. And yes, he knows the shallowness of them But he invites you to experience his kingdom His provision at the very deepest place of reconciling us to God with the forgiveness of sins. And if we know that he meets he meets that need, then we have the settled conviction upon which we can say, Lord, I can trust you for all these things. He means to tell them, You are not sovereign. God is And I love you, and I know you. I had the great opportunity of hearing the testimony of a man this week. Who was living out this very thing. He's near retirement. He'd been a president of a bank for twelve years. Towards the end of his career, doing well, he's taking care of a mother, he's got his own children, providing for them. But his bank was bought by another bank. They then walked in and they told him, thank you, but you're relieved. He lost his job. And he said to me, He had seen so many men his age and in the same situation. Who had been planning and hoping and working towards these things, and then all of a sudden everything was taken out from under them. He said, I'd seen it. I'd seen them run for the bottle. I'd seen them run for their basements. I'd seen them try to find something to do in their garage to try to figure out now what And he said, instead of just being an observer of those kinds of situations, he was now living it. And he said, So I just began to pray. Two things. Why, Lord? Why now? Why? But Lord, how are you going to provide? You are sovereign, he told me. Lord, you are sovereign. What are you doing? Please show me. Well, at that same time, unbeknownst to him, a gentleman in his very congregation, he had never met in before. was also praying because he had a need. And that need was one of a he needed an employee to help him develop his business. But he had no idea where to turn or how to find the person. These two men met in the foyer of their church. They exchanged words for maybe five minutes, changed business cards. And so he found out about this person, this employ this guy's need, and he said, Well, I'm going to apply. So he applied. And he said, So I went in for the interview. The interview was four hours long. And he said, you know what we did for four hours? We witnessed to one another Because we realized that what seemed random to us was by God's design He wasn't just providing an employee. He wasn't just providing a job. He was demonstrating that he is sovereign and that he knows your need. He wants to free you from the clutches of anxiety and fear. And he wants to show you the freedom that comes to the human soul, that comes to the settled conviction that he Is God of your soul and a God who is provided by His Son through Jesus Christ to restore you, to redeem you, to reconcile you to Himself. How much more then will he not also provide you all things? Isn't that how he taught us to pray? Just one A couple paragraphs over from what we're just reading. Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. Do you hear the order Jesus calls us, even in our prayers, to recognize the kingship, the authority, the sovereignty, the one who knows our deepest need as the proper order where we begin. And once we recognize and are at a settled place with that, we can then say, Lord, give me this day my daily bread. And forgive me my debts, as I forgive my debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory. Amen But he leads us from a settled conviction to a defiant hope. And this defiant hope, and I I realize I've written two sermons, so there you go. But I believe what Jesus gives us in narrative form, Paul finishes. With the post-resurrection, looking back at all that Jesus taught, and his death on the cross and his resurrection from the dead. And he wants to write to this group of Christians who themselves are facing difficulty and trial and threats. And he writes these words to them To remind them why they too can be free from this fear and anxiety. For he says, What then shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Do you hear the all things repeated? Who will bring a charge against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. Who is it that he condemns? Christ Jesus, who died more than that, who was raised to life, is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall hardship, trouble, persecution, famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword? Jesus, when he's teaching this group of people about the daily troubles that they will face today, are already enough That tomorrow has enough troubles of its own, today has its full. He still is calling them because of God's righteousness, God's kingship, and this settled conviction that they can have a hope that is defiant in the face of it. But what is so beautiful about the gospel, and here's what's so different about Christianity: it is not about us working our way towards God, it is about God coming to us. And he doesn't promise us positive think. He doesn't say that with Christ there won't be any more nakedness or poverty or sword or trial or difficulty. He doesn't say that. What does he say? Paul tells us. He says these things will not remove us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Why, Paul? It is because it is Jesus who faced these things It was Jesus who would face the sword. It was Jesus who would face hardship. It was Jesus who would face hunger and nakedness and danger. And yet he was without sin, and he was raised to life. And if God who did not spare his own son, that we might be reconciled to him, how would he not also give us all things? Does it mean that we won't have trouble today? No. But that we won't lose our jobs? No. But it means that the Lord does promise to be with us. He knows us, and he loves us. Which is why I can say With all the authority of heaven and of God's eternal word, I say these words to you from the Gospel of Luke. But seek his kingdom, and these things will be given to you as well. Do not be afraid, little flock. For your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. Let's pray By your Holy Spirit and your mighty word, Lord, confront and expose our fears. But will you show us our deepest need? Because of sin, Lord, you sent your Son to die for us, that we would know your love and its power. Because of that, O Lord, give us a settled conviction that confronts our anxieties and our fears And directs us to you. Thank you, O Lord. In Jesus' name. Amen.