Over the last years, we've at times taken the perspective of a particular character in the Christmas story. I find that very helpful. I don't know about you When you read the Christmas story to maybe for that season or at least that week, to try to identify with one particular character And feel what that character would have felt, what it would have been like to experience what they went through, to go through that story. Over the years we've done that with Zachariah, Elizabeth, Mary, the shepherds. But all the years that I've been here, we've never done that with Joseph. There's a good reason for that. We've gone through the Gospel of Luke And Luke identifies with Mary. Matthew, as we saw from the genealogies last week, identifies with Joseph. That's the different perspective. Is does this buzzing bother any of you guys or is that just coming back to me? You hear a buzzing? You do hear a buzzing. Anything we can do about the buzzing? I don't think it's bees. No buzz nothing we can do. Just buzz on and It's from from up there, huh? So it's either the buzz or darkness. Have any vote for the forget it We've never looked at Joseph. And yet it's interesting that Joseph, while he's one of the more shadowy characters of the Christmas story, You realize of all the characters I mentioned so far, Joseph is the only one for whom there's not a word recorded of anything he said? Joseph never speaks. That is, we don't have the record of what he said. Presumably he spoke. But we don't have anything that he said. All we know is what he did. And yet I would suggest that Joseph is for us a model. Of a man of faithfulness. There is a great deal to be gained for you and for me to look at the Christmas story, as we'll do now, from the perspective of Joseph. To see that he was tested in three ways, and that he was a model for you and for me as a disciple, as a follower of Jesus, in those same three ways. Whether you're a man or a woman, he is a model for you in his role as a believer, as a father, and as a husband, or as a believer, husband, and father in that order. Whether you're a man or a woman. Let's look at this now. In order to see what we can gain this Christmas Eve morning from the life of Joseph, first of all, see that he was tested in his faith, in his role as a believer. Matthew chapter 1, verse 18. This is how the birth of Jesus Christ came about. His mother Mary was pledged to be married to Joseph. But before they came together, she was found to be with child through the Holy Spirit, pledged to be married. That word Which we sometimes think of as engagement is a word which really means betrothal, and it's much stronger than engagement. It means that Mary and Joseph had pledged each other to one another in a way that was so binding that only divorce could separate them. They were absolutely pledged to be man and wife. They simply had not yet moved in together or had the ceremony to consummate that. Now remember that these were two godly teenagers that were pledged to one another. You think of last week when we had the Christmas program last Saturday night. And who did we have for Mary and Joseph? Ron and Tricia Emmons. Trisha has since delivered her baby. Not a boy, but a girl. Nevertheless, when you look at Ron and Trish, you gotta realize they don't quite hack it. They're too old. What you need to think of when you think of Joseph and Mary is more like Gordy Calvert or Nate Luhman, you know, somebody like this. You need to think of Sabrina Apperson or Lauren Billmeyer or Callie Duncan. This is the age we're talking about of Mary and Joseph. Now, these two teenagers that were in love had pledged themselves to keep from any physical intimacy before their marriage. They knew that sex was sacred. And that it was reserved for the sanctity of marriage, and they were pledged to that. We know that from Scripture. That they were godly with integrity and that they valued each other's integrity. And it was in that context, though they were tempted, resisting that temptation, that you read in verse 18 that Mary was found To be with child through the Holy Spirit. The word there was found is a word which could also be translated, found herself. I don't believe myself, a little bit of speculation, I don't believe that Mary was discovered when she began to show three months or so. That it was then that Joseph realized that she was pregnant. I believe she probably told him very soon after the announcement and the angel Gabriel or Perhaps after she began to feel her body change as a confirmation that she was really pregnant, that sometime in those very early stages She went and she shared, trembling with great fear, I'm sure, how would you feel trying to tell your fiance that though you're pregnant, you really are a virgin, and trying to convince him That you still love him, haven't been unfaithful, and to go to Joseph to describe this, I believe it was very early in the experience that she came. How would that have affected Joseph? I remember many years ago, before I knew or started dating Kathy, I was going with a girl who I thought a great deal of, and we had been dating for a few months when she confessed to me that she had sexual intercourse with a fella some time before we had met. My weight never varies. I'm always 165. In two days I lost ten pounds. Without even changing consciously anything in my diet. Imagine how Joseph would have been affected. By thinking that this woman, whose integrity he cherished, whom he loved, had been unfaithful. What a torment. We know that Joseph didn't believe her, because verse 19 says, Because Joseph, her husband, was a righteous man and did not want to expose her to public disgrace. He had in mind to divorce her quietly. What a torment that time must have been for him. Have you ever known someone that was very close to you, who at some point either betrayed you or changed in such a way that you felt that you really didn't know that person? You ever had that experience? It's disorienting, isn't it? You begin to think: wait a minute, here's a person who I thought that I knew, that I could trust. And now they have betrayed me. Joseph must have wondered: who is this fellow that she fornicated with? Do I know him? Is he a stranger? Who is this? And then not only is she unfaithful to me, not only is my whole world coming crashing down as I realize that this one that I loved and I thought that I could trust. Not only has she been unfaithful with me to some guy, but but she lies. No, no, she blasphemes. She blames it on God. Either she's the vilest of the vile or she's deranged. But in any case, I don't know this woman. This past year I read a book by a guy. It's about men. He has a chapter on there in that book about Joseph. And he says that Joseph is to us an example of self-righteous piety, a man of principle who blew it. A man who was self-righteous in his principles and didn't understand what God was doing. That book made me angry. That guy didn't understand what was going on It wasn't a question of whether Joseph was going to preserve his righteousness. All trust had been broken. He was now engaged, betrothed to a woman he didn't know. You've got to understand this in order to see what God is doing in this story. Because it's in that context that you read verse 20. After he considered this. Literally the Greek is while he was considering this. So he's still being tormented, still going through in his mind, what should I do? The only thing I can see to do is just To not publicly disgrace her. Because I care for her, I cherish her. But I'm tormented by all of this that's gone on. And while this is going through his mind, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, Joseph, son of David. Do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. Because he will save his people from their sins. Pertinent to what we're discussing right now, the angel here is saying two things to Joseph. Number one, he's saying, Joseph, it's okay. To take Mary as your wife. She really is a pregnant virgin. She has not been unfaithful to you, Joseph. She's telling you the truth. It's okay. And secondly, the angel is saying, and Joseph, you are to be the father. You are to adopt the Son of God as your stepson. And you are to raise him, to give him the name Jesus, and to take him into your home together. What did it take for Joseph to believe that? Do you see how Joseph is for you and for me? An example of faith? Do you notice that contrary to many other characters in Scripture, there is no question asked? Joseph doesn't say, but how, but how come but tell me explain nothing like Zechariah or many of the others? You simply read in verse twenty two. Well verse twenty-two goes on to describe how this is to fulfill scripture, and then verse twenty-four. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him. And he took Mary home as his wife As simple as that. God said it, he believed it, and he did it. Joseph as a model, I propose to you of faith and obedience for you and for me. His trust was based simply on the fact that God said it. And God says to you this morning through his word that there is only one Savior for your sin. The one that he says. In verse 23, the virgin shall give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. Excuse me, the verse 21. She will give birth to a son. And you are to give him the name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. Jesus alone. Can save you from your sins. The A there is to believe the gospel simply because God says it. If you do not believe that, you will die in your sins. And you will go to hell under the judgment of God. Because Jesus is absolutely necessary. You must believe the gospel. No matter to you if it doesn't make sense in how could God do this and I don't believe in virgin births and all the rest of this, what comes to you this morning is God's authority to simply say, it is an open universe, I did it. It's not a closed universe in which I cannot operate. God says to you, believe that I sent my Son, Jesus, to save sinners from their sins. If you believe that and you trust Jesus, confess your sins, receive Him as the one and only necessary Savior, you will have life. If not, you will die in your sins, a miserable death. Believe the gospel, because God says it. Not only are you and I to believe the gospel, no questions asked, as Joseph to receive it on God's authority, but there's also obedience involved in that. You also obey, that's point B, the gospel, because God commands it. With Joseph, it isn't simply, believe that I have done this, Joseph. That's the end of it. But it's believed this, and that has implications for you, Joseph. You now take Mary into your home as your wife and raise this son as your own. And so the gospel calls you and me to do things that are not natural to us. He calls us to do things beyond our own power to obey. For Joseph to obey that command meant that he was either to be publicly seen as a fool or a fornicator, to be disgraced. Imagine what his parents and Mary's parents said about this. That's not recorded. But I doubt very seriously that they believed it. When their son and their daughter comes and says, I know Mary's pregnant, but this really is of the Holy Spirit. She's going to have the Messiah. Yeah, right. And so there would be not only the sense of the outrage for the shame that they brought, but even upon them, the sense that these two are really deranged. And so there would have been the rejection. I'm sure that when Joseph heard there was a census going on down in Bethlehem, you know he could have gone alone? But he probably said to Mary, Mary, here's our chance. Let's get out of this small town where everybody's talking about us. Let's move on down to Bethlehem and try to create a new start. And so they went together. For Joseph, he turned his whole world upside down. Is there something that the Lord is calling you to do this holiday season that maybe is some difficult act of obedience and faith? Some relative that you need to talk to. You're dreading when the family gets together because you're going to see so-and-so. Maybe it's a spiritual question you need to raise. Maybe it's a relational question. Maybe it's just that there's that tension But as a believer, God's calling you in faithfulness to follow him and to trust him and to do what you know is the right thing to do. Maybe it's some temptation that's going to come in the next days. Maybe it's not just food either. You're going to have to resist that by the power of the Spirit. What's it going to be? Faith and obedience. Joseph is a model to us of both. Not only that, but secondly, notice that he's a model to us in his devotion. He was tested and was a model for us in his devotion and the role of a husband. If you read verse 24, that when Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him. And he took Mary home as his wife. You had this interesting little detail mentioned in verse 25. But he had no union with her until she gave birth to a son, and he gave him the name Jesus. Now, why do I call that an interesting little detail? Did it ever occur to you that the angel never forbid Joseph to have physical union with Mary? Simply says, take her into your home. Call the son Jesus. Raise this son. Doesn't say anything about forbidding physical union. Why is it that then Joseph decided to not have physical union with Mary until the birth of Jesus? Let me speculate two possibilities. Number one, it could have been because he had such reverence and awe for that holy thing that was in her womb. That he felt that to invade that sacred womb during those months would be wrong. And simply out of respect and reverence and awe for what God was doing. He decided, even though they are two healthy teenagers living together now in love That he resists and he keeps himself from physical union with Mary until after the birth, out of the awe and reverence for what God was doing. Such awe and such reverence is a rare thing today, but it's the stuff out of which great saints are made. The second possibility is that Joseph and Mary both knew that this child was not the product of their union. But just so they would be able to say under oath, and that all history could record that they had had no sexual union until the birth with no qualifications. Well, we did, but you know, we know it really wasn't because of that. You know, it was really there wasn't that much time. No qualifications. Under oath, they could simply say, we had no physical union until the birth of Jesus. They decided together that they would restrain themselves Simply for the honor of God in declaring that. Do you see what Joseph is doing here? He is taking the initiative in going beyond his rights. out of devotion to God. Now while how's that a model for you and for me? Elizabeth Elliott once wrote, That it's no big thing when we obey God's commands. That is our duty. That is simply what is right. But then she goes on to say, but the deeper way of expressing my devotion to God is through the sacrifice of something to which I am entitled. Some right that is mine, in order that I might express my love to God and be more useful to Him by the giving up of that right. Giving up some TV so that I can spend more time reading Scripture and getting to know Jesus First Corinthians seven. Sexual fasting for a spiritual purpose temporarily Or giving up a right to marriage, to remain single for a short time or a long time or lifelong for usefulness to my Savior. Giving up a right. Watch Mini gives an example of this kind of thing in his little book, Sit, Walk, Stand, and because it'd be actually more succinct is to quote him, I'll do that. He speaks of a brother in South China who had a rice field in the middle of his hill. In a time of drought, he used a water wheel worked by a treadmill to lift the water from the irrigation stream into his field. His neighbor had two fields below his, and one night he made a breach in a dividing bank and drained off all of his water. When the brother, this Christian, repaired the breach and then pumped in more water, his neighbor did the same thing again. This was repeated three or four times. So he consulted the brothers in his local church. Brothers, what am I going to do? I've tried to be patient and not retaliate. But is it right? After they had prayed together about it, one of them replied, if we only try to do the right thing, surely we are very poor Christians. We have to do something more than what is right. The brother was much impressed. And so the next morning he pumped water for the two fields below, and then in the afternoon pumped water for his own field. After that, the water stayed in his field. His neighbor was so amazed at that action, he began to inquire about the reason. And in course of time, became a Christian. I don't know about you, but that really convicts me. How many times do I ask, but what's right? Need to teach this person a lesson, you know? Joseph went beyond what was right out of a devotion to his God to be more useful to him. And in that I would suggest that he is a model for you and for me. What is some action that you could take this holiday in the days ahead that goes beyond your rights? simply as an expression of love and to be more useful to your Jesus as an act of devotion Thirdly, I see in Joseph a person who is tested and is a model to me of humility. A model of humility in his role as a father. You read in verse 20. After he considered this, the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary home as your wife. Because what is conceived of her is of the Holy Spirit. And she will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. You see, that implies you are to act as his father, because he will save his people from their sins. And then verse 24. When Joseph woke up, he did what the angel of the Lord had commanded him, and he took Mary home as his wife. Joseph here is choosing to be shamed along with Mary, and then to raise Jesus his stepson as his own son. And he's going to do this without any of the privileges or the recognition of his own son. The angel is saying, Joseph, choose this shame. Raise this one, Jesus, as your very own. Think of what Joseph is hearing in these statements. Joseph, you know, really, Mary is telling you the truth. She is a pregnant virgin, sure. Now, Joseph, go take her as your wife, and in Joseph's mind there's the implication that I really believe that I should live with her for the next few months without any sexual union. And then for us simply to be going off to Bethlehem to start a new life in whatever way we can. Great. And then this child that I'm going to raise is never really going to be my child. I'll have all the duties, all the responsibilities of a father. But can you imagine what it's like to raise a perfect child? I mean, I know, yeah, right. Well almost, but I mean Jesus was never wrong. You know, the two of them ever get into a conflict. Guess who's the one that's got to apologize? Doesn't mean Jesus didn't learn things. He no doubt did. But it wasn't an easy thing to raise the Son of God, especially when you're a simple carpenter, as Phil's saying. And so he has all the responsibilities, but none of the privileges. In fact, apparently Joseph dies. Before Jesus ever even enters his public ministry. In Mark chapter 6, verse 3, at the beginning of Jesus' public ministry, you have Jesus identified as the son of Mary with his brothers and his sisters. Joseph is not even mentioned. When Jesus dies on the cross, he arranges for Mary to live with John. Joseph has apparently died, but in such a humble unrecognized way that his death is not even recorded in Scripture. He's a man always behind the scenes, simply doing his duty faithfully, to honor God in the simple way that he knows how. Joseph is unrecognized, a shadowy figure. But we salute you, Joseph, because you're a model to us. In a world that denies any sense of sacrifice or delayed gratification, that protects our rights and says, what is in this for me and what do I get out of this? You're a model to us. Of faith, of trusting obedience, of devotion that goes beyond what is my right, and is able to do your duty without recognition or credit. And so, what is God calling you to do? If Joseph were here, he'd be able to say to you, What are you willing to experience of shame? Because you follow Jesus. I experienced shame in following him. What are you willing to experience? Are you willing to be identified and not be ashamed of the gospel at the Christmas party? among your neighbors and your friends in the holiday gatherings to show that you celebrate Christmas in a way that's distinctive. Because you believe it really happened as opposed to some shadowy make-believe ex uh excuse for drinking and eating and exchanging presents What is God calling you to do? In a way that you'll be able to do it, not worried about the recognition or the credit you'll get. But simply like Joseph, being able to say, I did it because it was what God told me to do, and I was glad to do it for him. Whether it's changing diapers or unending carpooling or setting up and taking down the chairs here or working in the nursery Or some other more extensive ministry that's behind the scenes and doesn't get the applause and the recognition of the rest of your brothers and sisters, day in and day out. Joseph. is an example for you. Joseph is an encouragement for you. But beyond all of that, Joseph points us to Jesus. Because in what he did, Joseph showed that he was simply the foretaste of what Jesus was to do. For Jesus was the ultimate model of our faith and of our obedience. Jesus, who trusted his Father, even to the point of going in obedience to the death of a cross. Jesus, who in his devotion was able in Gethsemane to say, Father, not my will, but yours be done. And Jesus, who in his humility came as God to enter into the confines of human existence For your sake and for mine. Praise God for Christmas. Praise Him for the incarnation, for the word made flesh. I will not sing of shepherds watching flocks on frosty night or angel choristers. I will not sing of stable bear in Bethlehem or lowing oxen. wise men trailing distant star with gold and frankincense and mirror. Tonight I will sing praise to the Father Who stood on heaven's threshold and said farewell to his son as he stepped across the stars to Bethlehem and Jerusalem? And I will sing praise to the infinite eternal son, who became most finite, a baby who would one day be executed for my crimes. Praise him in the heavens. Praise him in the stable. Praise him in my heart. Let's pray. Lord, on this Christmas Eve morning, when we all have numbers of things that are on our minds We want to place aside those things which are so fleeting, which days or weeks from now will not make any difference whether they got done or didn't get done. To think about our relationship to you. To recognize that what you call us to this morning is to believe the gospel. To like Joseph, take you at your word, and to believe that Jesus alone is necessary and sufficient to take care of our sins and our crimes against you. To believe that Jesus alone was the Savior that we need Lord, if there's any of us here who have never bowed the knee to confess I am a sinner and I need Jesus. Lord, how appropriate on this Christmas time to believe the gospel And to enter into the joy of one who knows that Jesus' death was for me and for my sin. Lord, for whatever act of obedience that you're calling any of us to, we pray, give grace and strength. Use the example of Joseph of the worthwhileness of obeying you without question. Give strength, I pray, for any of those who have heard this word and have been thinking of a specific thing that's going to be difficult for them to do. I pray for each one of them right now. Grant them that strength. Lord, we pray that you would grant to us also that devotion to you that goes beyond simply our rights, what is minimally necessary. That we might find ways of expressing to you our love. Lord, I know that speaks to me. What I can do beyond my rights and requirements. What we can do beyond what we'll get credit for or recognition. And like Joseph, we would serve you because you are so worthy to be served. How we thank you for Jesus. And we thank you for the example of Joseph this morning. Give grace for us to heed what you're saying. Amen.