Thank you, Wendy, Jeff. All your debts were cast on him, and you shall go free. This week I came across these words, probably the closest thing to hell That you and I can experience is when someone that we are sure loves us abandons and betrays us. Last week I talked about Jesus, the Good Shepherd, laying down his life for us and how that involved great suffering. We often think of that suffering. Particularly in terms of mostly in terms of the physical torment, but I pointed out that that's not nearly the depth of his suffering. That his suffering in its depths was a spiritual suffering of being forsaken. Forsaken by all on earth, when he was arrested, Mark tells us that the disciples all deserted him, ran, fled Even John Mark tried to stay, but one of the soldiers grabs him and in a moment of panic he leaves to protect himself. Jesus is totally alone. Forsaken, abandoned by all his disciples, his friends. And then Peter, who had made a point of saying, If everybody else leaves you, I will never leave you, I will die with you if that's necessary. And Peter curses and swears and dissociates himself with Jesus as if he had never known him. And I told you I thought of the book The Kite Runner, where you have that picture of Hassan in a back alley Brutalized, attacked by thugs, and sees his friend Amir look and then leave and run to save himself. He's tortured, abused, and his heart is broken with the betrayal But even that was not the deepest part of Jesus' suffering. The deepest part of his suffering Was that he was forsaken by all in heaven, even the Father, who had loved him from eternity. Mark tells us in chapter 15, in verse 33, that when Jesus was on the cross, at about noon, that is the sixth hour, darkness. A supernatural darkness came over the whole land until the ninth hour, about three o'clock in the afternoon. And at the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, Eloy! Eloy! Lamasabhakhani! Which means, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Who can understand that cry? How much has been written, how much has been preached on those words through the centuries? And yet I must admit that as I have read and listened to many of the expositions on it, I have felt like so much has missed Really the central thrust of its meaning. Now it's certainly one of those statements, that cry of anguish. Oftentimes people say this was an expression of Jesus' doubt or despair. He was questioning why would God forsake him. He was disoriented and the rest of that. And perhaps there's something to the disorientation. But I think that while it is certainly true that no one can fully understand that, it's the kind of statement that you and I would better lie prostrate before than try to explain. Nevertheless, I can't resist trying to help Clarify at least a couple of points of what I think its true meaning is about. I believe that what we see in this cry. Is not only that it's a cry from Jesus' heart, but it's a cry from Scripture. He's quoting Psalm 22. That is, he is saying this, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Not only because that's how he felt And by the way, that's a good thing to do if you are disoriented in pain and anguish to use the words of Scripture, particularly the Psalms, to give expression to that. It helps to form in words that Scripture conveys and bring perspective to it to use the words of Scripture. But it's not just that Jesus is doing that. It's not he's just just saying that because that's how he felt, it's because that is also what is happening Jesus is pointing himself and you and me to Psalm 22 because he is fulfilling it in a most profound way. You see, even in his anguish, this statement of forsakenness is a statement of faith. Jesus knows that he is fulfilling Psalm 22, and he knows how Psalm 22 ends. And it's a statement of faith in that. It's also an expression of love. Because I believe that Jesus in this cry is directing your attention and my attention to Psalm 22. So that we can see that he is fulfilling Scripture and that we can see the hope that is at the end of that psalm And know that the pattern for all of your despair and my despair is always to read to the end of Scripture to see the hope that is expressed in the conclusion. So let's try to understand Jesus' cry in the light of Psalm 22 this morning. Tim read it earlier. I want to call attention to several of the verses. To see the amazing statement of prophecy and its fulfillment that we have here. And let me urge you to read it on your own this afternoon. A fella came to me at the end of the first service who's not a Christian. And I asked him, had he ever seen this? Had he ever seen This psalm and the connection and its fulfillment of prophecy. And he said he had never seen that. When I showed the fulfillment of that, I said, How could you not give yourself? To that Savior. And he said, I can't think of any reason. So may God speak to you also As we see this amazing connection between this psalm and Jesus' words Of course, the Psalm begins with that statement, that question that Jesus had asked on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It's a rhetorical question. It's an expression of the grief, the sense of forsakenness that David is at that point feeling. And he goes on in verses, the end of verse 1 and verse 2 to continue the struggle that he's having. Why are you so far from saving me? So far from the words of my groaning? Oh my God, I cry out by day, but you do not answer By night, and I'm not silent. I continue to cry day and night. He's struggling with God's for God's absence. He feels forsaken And then he does what you and I need to do in that kind of a situation. He reminds himself of God's faithfulness in the past. So verse 3 begins, yet. Yet, you are enthroned as the Holy One. You are the praise of Israel. In you our fathers put their trust. They trusted, and you delivered them. They cried to you and were saved. In you they trusted and were not disappointed. You were faithful to them. They cried to you in similar circumstances. You showed your faithfulness. And then in the verses following, David goes back and forth and back and forth. You seem like you were faithful in the past, but I don't feel any relief In fact, it's worse than that. I mocked for my faith. It's just a self-delusion. It's a pathetic crutch. Well, on the other hand, you have been faithful. You've shown your power. But I don't see that now. Back and forth and back and forth. For instance, look at verse 6. But I'm a worm and not a man, scorned by man, despised by the people. All who see me mock me. They hurl insult, shaking their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let the Lord rescue him. Let him deliver him, since he delights in him. Sound familiar? You realize those are the exact words of the Jewish leaders in Matthew 27, 43 to Jesus on the cross? The exact words. That's exactly what Jesus heard. They hurled insults at him, they scorned him, they despised him, they mocked him. You see the fulfillment in precision. And yet, verse 9, and then back again, verse 12, forsaken of wild animals, on and on, back and forth he goes. And then you see more and more precisely amazing descriptions. of crucifixion. Now remember as you look at these that this psalm was written a thousand years before Jesus' crucifixion It was written eight or nine centuries before the invention by the Romans of the torture of crucifixion as a means of execution. Now that's somewhat like somebody in the 12th century writing a precise description of death by electrocution. It didn't exist back then. And so look at the amazing precision of what David writes of in Psalm 22. In verse 14, I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. When a person was crucified, they were nailed to the cross as it laid flat on the ground. A hole was dug. Then the cross was lifted up with ropes and it was dropped into that hole. And when the cross was dropped into the hole, the person nailed to the cross transfixed to it, had their bones wrenched and all their joints, sometimes dislocated, by the violence of the dropping of the cross into the ground. He says, My bones are out of joint. My heart was turned to wax. It is melted away within me. My strength is dried up like a potchard, like a piece of Dried clay, my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You lay me in the dust of death. Men crucified sometimes lasted two or three days in the hot eastern sun. And if they did not die by asphyxiation, they died by dehydration, literally baked in the sun. David's describing that experience of dehydration where your tongue is swollen and it sticks to the roof of your mouth. And you are dehydrated, your brain is crying for water, your body is screaming in thirst The suffering of dehydration. Then Verse 16, dogs have surrounded me. A band of evil men has encircled me. They have pierced my hands and my feet. Why would David write that? They didn't pierce his hands and his feet. He's using poetic language. And yet, by the Holy Spirit, amazing. He's describing a thousand years before. The experience of crucifixion with the piercing of the hands and the feet with nails. And then it even gets more explicit. Verses 17 and 18, I can count on my bones. People stare and gloat over me. The idea of the cross was that it was shame. You were lifted up so people would look at you. gloat on you, and you were crucified naked, not a stitch of clothing to add to the shame and the humiliation. They stare at me, they gloat over me. Indicating they've taken my garments, they divide them among them, and they cast lots for my clothing. Of course, John chapter 19 describes precisely that the Roman soldiers, when they crucified Jesus, decided that rather than to rip his robe, they would take it and they would cast lots for it. Is that coincidence? Or all these things just it just happens to have turned out in that way? Do you see that what Jesus is doing is directing our attention to see that he is fulfilling The experience of Psalm 22. Consider Jesus. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Remember Isaiah 52, verse 14, said the part of the sufferings of Messiah. was that he would be disfigured, and the Hebrew has the idea he would be disfigured beyond human recognition. It's a rather startling phrase in the Hebrew Disfigured beyond human recognition. What does that mean? And you think that that at this point The area has been in darkness for three hours. What would it be like to look upon the face of Jesus at that point? He's been beaten by Roman soldiers. So he's black and blue. His face is swollen. He's had a crown of thorns jammed down upon his head. The blood's trickling down. And Jesus is now experiencing hell. What would it be like to look on the face of a man experiencing hell? Is it not a mercy that God brought gloom and darkness so that people could not look upon a face that is disfigured beyond human recognition? Contrast Adam. Adam, sin, and God calls after Adam Him, Jesus, the second Adam, calls after God, and there's silence, there's abandonment. Do you remember when Jesus was at Lazarus' tomb, when he prayed, he said, Father, I thank you that you always hear me. And that comes back to mock him now, for there is nothing but silence as he cries out to God. Whom have I in heaven but you, David had written. And there is none on earth that I desire besides you. Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing Jesus cries out, and there is nothing to answer. He is abandoned It's worse than being abandoned, for it's not simply the absence of God's presence, but there is also the presence of the demons. God at this point has uncaged all the demonic hosts that they may come and worse Then the brutes of Afghanistan against Hassan, they come to brutalize him and have their way with him. Satan himself in all his fiendish delight, in the richest imagination of his exquisite torments, has his way with the Son of God He now can torture him to his pleasure. And that's not the worst of it. For at this point Jesus bears upon himself the weight of the world's sins, the very wrath of God against all perversions and crimes and arrogance. It is all heaped upon him. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? No one to this point in history had ever been totally abandoned by God. People feel abandoned by God. Perhaps there have been times in your life when you have felt Abandoned by God. Or you've read the story of someone in truth or in fiction who's felt totally abandoned by God. No one. No one Had ever been truly, totally abandoned by God until this moment against Jesus on the cross. Who could enter into understanding what that meant? In order to understand that, you would have had to have experienced heaven. And then you would have to experience hell. To begin to enter into the meaning of Jesus' words, my God. My God. Why have you forsaken me? And why does he do it? Why does he do it? Very interesting. At this point you come in the psalm to a prayer David now prays in verse 19, But you, O Lord, be not far off. O my strength, come quickly to help me. Deliver my life from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dogs. Rescue me from the mouths of the lions, save me from the horns of the wild oxen. You see, David is saying But I have you to call call to. Lord, don't forsake me. Deliver me. Hear me. Now what's very interesting is that the last word in verse twenty one is generally not accurately translated by my most translations. Check in a Hebrew Bible or one that gives you literal translations. The last word as you see up here of Psalm 22 Literally it is from the horns of the wild oxen, then one Hebrew word, you have answered me. Not save me, answer me, you have answered me. And i as you read it along in the Hebrew it's like it has three exclamation marks after it You see, it's it's all these things deliver my life from the sword, deliver me from the power of the dogs, rescue me from the mouth of the lions that want to tear me to pieces, from the horns of the wild oxen. You have answered me. Now what does that mean? I think it's exactly what Isaiah is talking about when after in chapter 53 he has described how the Lord was pleased to crush him. How he was taking your sin and my sin upon himself. And then it says, after his death, verse 11, Isaiah 53, after the suffering of his soul, he will see the light of life and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant will justify many, and he will bear their iniquities. Therefore, Isaiah says, I will give him a portion among the great, and he will divide the spoils with the strong. What's that talking about? Go back to Psalm 22 and you read at the end the unfolding of what this means. You read now that this one who has been in this abject suffering is lifted up and made among the great. And there's the description of a feast and the fulfilling of vows. What's that all about? Well, back in the Old Testament times, if you were a Jew and you were in deep despair and trouble The law said that you would cry to God for deliverance and you would make a vow. And it would go something like this. You would say, God, here I am. I see no hope around me No way of being delivered from this. God, I'm asking you as my only hope. Would you deliver me? And if you do, I vow that I will give a thank offering in the temple. And when I make that thank offering to the priest, the priest will get some of it to eat, and then I get the rest of that bowl. And I'm going to have a big barbecue roost. And I invite all my friends because the law says I've got to eat the rest of that bull that day. So I might as well invite all my friends. We're going to have this big roast. And at that roast, I'm going to give a testimony that says, God is faithful. He has delivered me. In Psalm 22, you have a description of that feast. It says, the people all gather And they come to eat. And I fulfill my vows in declaring the faithfulness of God. For instance, look at verse twenty seven. All the ends of the earth will remember, and they will turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations will bow down before him. In fact, it says that the poor who are not able to satisfy themselves who are not able to e come to the feast, and at this feast he feeds them. At this feast, at this great celebration, the one who has cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? comes to feed the nations. And what is the feast? The feast is himself. We come to feast upon Jesus last white Friday when we come to the tenebre service in order to re remember what happened on Good Friday. You and I will have the Lord's Supper, and in that Lord's Supper We are symbolically feasting upon Jesus Christ who has given himself for us. That's what Psalm 22 is about. It's about the nations coming to the feet of Jesus in order to celebrate. The fact that because he was forsaken, they never will be Because Jesus was forsaken. Brother and sister, if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you Will never be forsaken. Hebrews chapter twelve We read in verse 2, let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and the perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him Jesus on the cross is preaching Psalm 22 to himself, reminding himself of the joy set before him. endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the throne of God, so that at that point he is dividing the portions and he is ruling the nations. And he is drawing you to himself, so that you'll never be forsaken. And so Hebrews 13. goes on to say, keep your lives free from the love of money and be content with what you have, because God has said, never will I leave you. Never will I forsake you. So we say with confidence, the Lord is my helper. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? You are given Jesus at the feast. So in your despair, at the time in your life when you feel like God has abandoned you When the pieces of the puzzle don't make sense. You read the end of Psalm 22, and you read that because Jesus was forsaken. There's a feast waiting for you. And at that feast, the one who is the head of the feast, the king of the nations. Is also the bridegroom who comes down at that feast and he wraps you in his arms. And he says, Come to me, my beloved. You will never be forsaken again. I died. I laid down my life for you so that you would be mine forever Who could not respond to such a savior? Who could not be compelled by such a prophecy, so perfectly fulfilled? In the heart of one who loved you so, so deeply. Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you would turn our eyes and open our minds now to see Jesus. Oh, Lord, how can we hear of such a Savior and not want to abandon ourselves to you? Not one to trust you, to love you. How can we question? How can we wonder? When you have even in your utter forsakenness pointed us to the prophecy so perfectly fulfilled with a hope so exquisitely described. The hope of the Jesus dead and risen, who is the fullness of our hope So, Lord, help us now to see Him. As our eyes are closed and our minds are focused, Lord, help us to see Your great love and your great sacrifice. Taking our sin, taking our unbelief. Taking our abandoning you for all the idols of our lives, the constructs that we make to fill the voids. And to see at this moment our great need. Our great need of a Savior who is able to take our sin Who was willing to take our sin, and who suffered the torments of hell, the wrath of God. So that we would never be forsaken. Lord Jesus, we give ourselves to you at this moment. We give ourselves to you in a response of faith and love. Holy Spirit, cause that to be true. I cannot do that. I can only speak from my heart. Would you cause The cry of the abandonment to Jesus to be in the heart of every person here. For you died for that How could we not respond? As the fellow after the first service said, there is no good reason So hear us and receive us in Jesus' name. Amen.