Thanks to the Father, who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints in life. So you delivered us from the domain of practice and transferred us to the truth. And the people of itself, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sin. And peace is the image of the invisible God the firstborn of all creation. For in him all things were created, both in the heavens and on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or rulers or authorities, all things had been created. created through him and for him. He is before all things. And in him all things hold together. He's also the head of the body, the church. But he is of the death, the firstborn from the dead. So that he himself might come to have first place. And if you take a look at this card, you see in virtual 15 grade two, some of the most clear and abroad language login and testament concerning the ways of the street. And I want to examine that. But just briefly to place it in a context, you notice it in verses nine Paul is telling about what his prayer is for the Colossal system. In verse 9 he says that his prayer is that they be filled with all wisdom and knowledge of God and his will for them. And then in verse 10, we see there that he says us to say walk worthy. That's the word that we considered in the book of Ephesians a couple months ago Axiom, that they walk toward it, that they bring their experience into equilibrium with their status, where they're position. Jesus Christ. So that you may walk in a manner in which your experience is in equilibrium with your standing in the Lord to please him in all this stuff. That's his command. And you get on the verse twelve. find a statement across here that it's based upon. Because he's the Father who has qualified us to share in the inheritance of the saints and life. Now how's he qualified us? Well verse 13 tells us He's redeemed it. He's delivered it. Verse 14, we have redemption in him. The same thing we looked at again in Ephesians 27, back in September. We have redemption in women. Jesus sent the one who's revealed us. But now what's the character of this one who is our Savior? What's the character of our revealer? Because we move on in verses 15 to 18. talk about Jesus as Lord. So I want us for us to notice two things from these verses 15 to 18 concerning the Lordship of Christ. Notice first in your bulletin outline there Notice first the nature of Jesus. We notice first the nature of Jesus. The Jesus is Lord by creation. and by redemption. And then secondly, notice the purpose of Jesus. The purpose of Jesus to have first place an action Okay. So first of all he's making, so he's Lord by creation. So we see that in verses 15 to 17. And then secondly he's Lord by redemption in verse uh eight to truth and then his purpose. One of our things to have first place in everything. First sense, the nature of peace. We're going back to nature. But 16 11 to 17 tells us that all created reality is subject to Jesus as laws because of five reasons. Five reasons. The first reason that Paul gives there is that he's the first board of creation. He's the first creation going off creation a very difficult place for many people. Clearly the place Jesus is part of creation. This is part of creation, that means he's created therefore God, right? Very simple. Because we need to understand what Paul means here by verse 4 of creation. Clearly, we're not even understanding this phrase. You can see that he is not including Jesus as part of the solution by the statement with the beginning of that verse, so why are the King Jesus? Because there that Jesus is the enemy of the indivisible God Now there are two words in the Greek for image. The one word means a step or a gender likeness. The other word for inage is a word which means an exact replica. And that's the word that you need here in Colossians 1. 15. Jesus is a visible, exact replica of the invisible God. And since only God could fully image God, it would make no sense to say that Jesus, as a creature with all the limitations of a creature, could do the exact replica of God. In fact, it's clear that he doesn't mean that because he says in verse 19 that it was the Father's good pleasure for all of the fullness of dwelling wheat. All of the fullness of what Well, chapter two, verse nine. Tell me clearly what that is. We read in chapter two, verse nine, for in him all the wholeness of beauty dwelt in bottom for I suggest that's the commentary on it. Jesus is the only in which all the formula could do while invisible bodily form. And it's that replica of the Father, of God in all of his glory. He's the firstborn of creation then, who is the image of the invisible God. Therefore this idea of the first point of creation is not in grammar, the follow grammar of the law, is not a genetic of identity, but rather of reference. I may say to you that he is the firstborn of seven sons. And when I say that to you, I'm including that person among seven sons And I'm saying he's the firstborn among those seven. He's part of the seven sons, he's the first born of us. But there's another way that we use the word us. Just this week I was reading Henry Whiteworth Longfellow's Little Classic or Indian summit, very appropriate. And if you've ever read that, he has a precious little line there where he considered a mendicant quirrel. He says he's the absolute monarch of swerve requires I suggest you that logically that Longfellow did not use the implied that that squirrel was an acorn. He's saying that the squirrel was a monarch of those acorns. Then it looks like to the acorn. He heard that And that was the way Paul is the firstborn of creating this. Jesus, as the women to the invisible God, is his firstborn. The firstborn in that culture was the representation of Of the Father, the one who inherited his estate and ruled it for him with all of the authority of the Father. And Jesus and the Paul here saying that Jesus is the first Lord, the rule it, the one who had the faith, and rules it with absolute authority because he was the first born. And what does the first born of? What is the rule the creation. So he is the first boy who in place of the father, the representative rulers the creation. Oh why did you make that point? What Paul Sang says here is that when the invisible God made a visible creation, he did not leave its rule to someone who was totally invisible. But the visible, invisible God is Why he came to rule in the place of the Father, for the Father, under the Father, with the Father, who was In fact, God man. And Jesus, when he became Lamp Paul Xavier, did not give up the prerogative of all that the firstborn had. He was in fact Lord of that estate. The estate of the Now why is the Lord be a Lord of the infinite rather? They want to talk about the particular relationship that the infant has to him. That's why he's an old. That's why he's the first one of creation. Because you see that the relationship of the creation, we made second through the fifth reason, or that the creation is made for him, the creation is made for him. creation was made after him and the whole creation hangs together in him. So first of all the creation was made by him or through him in verse 15. all things were created. All things have been made through him. You see, God one tells us that nothing was made without Jesus. All things were made through Jesus in it. And therefore because of that, usually is the rule of all that. In particular, Paul notices all things of a client. You know the surprise and he makes it. Is there a visible and invisible? What is thrown, dominions, rules, or size? Those things you could be no positive faces. You say Jesus is to reinvolve himself. Because none of them were made without him. He is the source of them. And then the third reason. Although remains women, and serving all things were made for them. You see in one sense we could say that the universe was a life yet for the father to the son. All things were made for the Son and represented it as yet to the son, that's the firstborn, God's only begotten. Although the name for the name after Jesus in verse 17 Again, we do see the unification here, but he is separate from philosophers. Because all of the atoms is made off of Jesus, therefore he's not part. in his own identity. In the beginning was the word. And the word was his God and the word was God. Because he's certainly independent from truly. He doesn't need that He was perfectly complete with the Father and with the Spirit. You and I are supercolous to that. He made us quickly out of his life. All things were made infinitely long, obviously, and incomplete. But then finally the system. But all things hold together. Not only do we make all things, not only all things made through them and for them and also this completely can for them. But all things are the same He is the convincing power that holds together the universe. So that has that everything would fly apart and there would be nothing but the integrated realize. is the cohesive element in all of the universe. Moment by moment, the universe is the power of my will to hold it together. We see that on those settings here. But consider for a moment the power that's involved in doing this. We think of the power that is involved in humanity results. So how big is that? Well, it doesn't look hard, that's pretty small. But if you were to compare the sun with the earth, you would find that in fact you could take one million, three hundred thousandth of these little balls. But the twin five or five still have an overlap. You can say that we all can have a five or other, but the twenty five or five can't have a five. In fact, there are some stars that are less than no in the size. And so that in comparison with the earth. There are some stars that are sized lighters and high. the clock. Well how hard it's the test? Well the product so fast if you were to take one thing as a few and do this for the purpose of the cloud, it will feel you at a difference of a hundred miles. That's the legal energy of the fight, and there are other sides, five of the five high is light. of this universe of this universe. What's the market for a moment with this room with our solar system? Let's say the great water sunny is the sun in the middle of the solar system. And there is a Mercury revolving around it and here's the Earth and said because of the sun is something or maybe about like a five of a small marble, then uh here's the Earth wouldn't exist. It's nothing to meet a five time, it's now you've got a couple of doctrines The most we're asking all the land of pile on the scrolling which this will represent our whole solar system, over the air, and each and photo and all those happens for the bricks. But when that scroll, how far is we what the nearest star would be if we would do things to that, which maybe to know more than only this one. But that star, the newest star popular control would be a Well that's supposed to be survival in this little universe. And that's supposed to leave our imagination survival. My light is the day low, traffic would speak and approximately 186,000 miles per second. And let's suppose it's initially graphically today at that seat But that seems we passed the moon in two seconds. We passed the sun in about eight minutes. Did you know how long it takes us to get to the very nearest five? Over four years. We live in a galaxy. That galaxy is called the Milky Way. The Milky Way system has galaxies. Really fill this back by this ocean. Roll the wall, floor the ceiling with range of heat. As more drains of heat and holding your hands with the cutter in that box. And There are more strong than our galaxy then in a hundred car space. To go from one end of that galaxy to the other, it's a real object that we can We take it over a hundred thousand years traveling. We are ready on that, and there are other bodies. You don't have any other galaxies. But it's classes of brilliance of thoughts. The latest thought is that there are somewhere up close to one hundred billion galaxies The furthest out today is how it color flatteries right hold out to 12 million light years away. So then as much as we know now, there are a hundred billion times, a hundred billion stars to this unit. And these are the part of the place And do you understand? You can take a football work. Take a look, the call a hundred and forty seven. Very four. Petal 147, verse 4. We have this favor. You uh decommodus only at work. He felt the number of the cloud. He could know to all That's almost a universe that we live in that universe for. You think of galaxy upon galaxy, billions upon billions of stars or boggle the imagination so that it's studying the more He knows the political composition, he knows the hyperties. He gives names to all of us. That's the size of anyone. And all those things that he with another name. For those of you who are teachers and maybe have 30 or 45 authority, you're going to conclude them. Get another God calling all the stars of the heavens are named. It was the effect of this on us. Every day says, therefore stand before him in all the voice processes. But the About God in the verse concluded as following it says, He heals the broken heart. He binds up the broken heart And verse 6. Who is the point? We have witnessed. He's living in Kenya just like peace to the heart of the belief. For those of you who are outside of peace of Christ and don't have peace believed, who he saw us Which real guilt is not opposed for in the light of that life And it's power, it's always for the person before before him is yet. But for the believers. For the one who knows him and loves him. To consider the Lord It's with that tendon that he has to accept Jesus is the Lord of all the boundaries that we talk about. You and I stand in the father. I think maybe it's too big for this. We can put it a look at a mic And once we are stopping, hopefully to stop it, hopefully, feel long. Whatever resources we have to do, see them in the water. Ladies of seconds, uh Jesus with the Lord. One other thing I want to say about the preparation Because I think we also have the view also. Yes, therefore, because he is so powerful at all. I will take unfortunate with my time, with my money, with those things that he demands from me and Lord. We can arrive here with all thy jobs It's going to take it all away from me. And I feel the Lord. Something that's very terrific because I think that in fact if I really totally yield my life You know, that's my friend. Who imagine my daughter Heather coming to me one day and she says, Dad I just wanted to come to tell you that I've been thinking about you and I I really love you. I wanted to thank you for all the things that you've been doing for me. Just wanted to express my gratitude for that regard I just want to know is the only thing that I could do for my head. I've been waiting for you for that. Into the closet. Let's water for a month. And you're not going to come out until I tell you. Because you finally realize this boss around here. Did that you know yourself? And you don't have any difficulty for me to say, I'm ready to do what you want, you're able to stop. That's gonna be the end of all my friends. And to see that as something which accepts us rather than be. But as Lord, he is our Lord as a keep us besides. Therefore, look at all of the independent things of the word of Allah. As I said before, he's also worried about the dentist. Not only is all created reality subject to us, but in particular all the reviewed curse is subject to an ignorance. It's subject to him is Lord because of three reasons we see here in verse 17. First of all, because he's the head of the body, the first. He is Jesus who is the captain of our salvation, who purchased the church, who renewed it, that means brought it back He's the one who's also. He's the source of it. And therefore the several reason he can do is that he's the beginning. He said, How does it choose because he is its beginning? He is the one who bought it. He's the source of every blessing associated with salvation. It's his body that was the substitutionary sacrifice. It's the basis of the truth. And if you've never trusted in Christ, you don't have the very beginning of the understanding of his very truth. Not only is he the beginning, The Pagan goes right back to that same word again in the same reason. He says, He's the first one from the death. It's the same word as in verse 15. He said, Yeah, he's the first one. born of all creation. Now he says he's the firstborn in terms of redemption from the death. This is a word that is linked with the word dead by a different word. There we found that he was the firstborn of creation, with reference to creation in his rule. In verse 17, verse 18, we use it He's the firstborn from the dead, out of the dead, from among the dead. Jesus pursued that. And Jesus conquered that as Lord His sacrifice was accepted before the Father. That's the meaning of the word particulated. He instead appears the Father's life. The Father accepted And therefore Jesus rose from the dead. And if the first born from the dead, he's the first proof of the resurrection. He could guarantee that if you and I rest in the righteousness, We too will have that right. Because we'll we sacrifice with accepted for our faith. That brings me my second place. The purpose of reasons. The purpose of reasons is to have both places never passed. To have first place in everything who there is number two. Romans 14, 9 tells us that for this purpose Jesus lived We just die, rose, and lives again that we might be lawyers of the dead in the living. That's only 14 miles. Then I have seven weapons that go under the road to the first, cut those out, the week, when moving the file time, we're already check out those weapons. Do you see the various parts of these Just to have space, you know, to be more. A little boy made a travel. You took groups, keeping the words, audio, moving it together, counting your colours, finding later together. You took it out on a The big boys belonging out of the cutter, and that's the wind took it. He took it out to the pond further than he could go and off it went down is he was lost. He's going with lost. Then about a week later, he's going downtown past the forest. And then He ran into the portfolio operator and he says, uh, drop my board in the window, give it to me. My boat now. And if you want that boat, you're going to have to pay twenty dollars today. Finally, we had all the money together. We got to that 44 operator. I took it out of the window, it's like here. And if the boy took the the little boat out of the pointer, he was going to say, Where are you finding? I believe it. This one. Because we know that But because he's lovely. And that's what Paul is talking about. Because you might have heard something everything. Because he made it. And because he thought it. And yet you and I realize that we never make people the Lord of our lives. To come under the Lordship of Christ is we are simply to get in touch with reality. Because you have always God's public purpose is when you have those places with everything. What place do we have a year? What place does previous rule and a fairness have a year on it? Realizing this easy being this angel and taking the back corner of your life where it is real? is the little thought totally five to the surface of the new clock. Well if you believe in custody I think that we're spoken And you trust you women's answer to us. Okay, consider there's three questions here, for application. Three questions. Number one, am I yet convinced That no one can have easy to say and yet consistently received it as Lord. So what difference does that make to me? What about you? Because you practice Jesus Christ as you. Are you practice? And not your pocket version of it? Be comforted as the Lord and Saviour, and not simply the God of the dirty. Do you believe? Have you bowed the parents in worship? What about your relative to your friends? Is there somebody that you really care about. Because we know that that's not their view of Jesus, the Lord that we've been talking about this morning. But they have rather a weak status quo American country down and record you of Jesus as the problem side. That one do we go to when we're down. That one who is Jesus who's the kindly, unthreatening suffered. Are those possibles used as a firing for its policy with no regard to avoid this? Have you warned them? Have you passed them? about the greatest tradition of the world. We would do that. We will take this Lordship seats and go with them over to the gospel and what it means to have Jesus the Savior and Lord. I think working for people that we can be doing that way. One second. What am I not trusting when we are because my reality is not together. Is it your money? You feel prizing your money to give to God. Because you can't even make anything And you say, well, there's just no way you can see it comes to the setting there and give it to the Lord. How three is your view of Jesus There are people that you say, Well, I really should be involved with this thing. Labour Somebody that is going to take time. But that time's very sufficiently. And I'm afraid if I really said that, you're really the Lord of my time. Tell me what you want me to do with it without holding back. I really want my time to be used the way you want. If it's going to compart that alignment time, if it's a bad thing, it would be bad. I do have you. Don't find it. What do you want with matters? Am I not hearing fear control? Because my hearing is what this is not too much. Some secret areas you have You know, it's good in the screen life, in your life. Money, science, good in it, classics. Certain things that we're always in dealing with you about. because this is humble you involve it. He wants to be used. He wants to read it up. At least they won't know about that. And what I think about is that we must be messed because we see it more. We've got a custom. Stop fighting against the word. Yes here. Bow before this. Give our right to him. He awards. But we need to do that.