Good evening. Welcome. Welcome to our Christmas Eve Candlelight Service. What might turn out to be our intimate Christmas Eve candlelight service. Maybe the uh the temperature outside. We had uh a full house at 7 o'clock. And so hopefully you've been able to uh to get a candle at the back as you come in We'll be using those a little bit later in our time together. Our main purpose, our only purpose, the reason for which we were born, in fact. is to bring glory to God, to to worship him tonight, to see we pray more clearly, more fully the message, the meaning of Christmas. That God Himself would take on flesh, become one of us, and do so to save his people. So that's what we've come to do. There'll be some scripture read, some familiar passages probably, but nonetheless, all glorious. In their presentation of God's rescue mission of us. We'll hear from the Old Testament, we'll hear from the New Testament. And interspersed between the scriptures, we're going to sing familiar Christmas carols. Some of the carols, the tunes are there, and we've inserted some other verses from other hymns in order to give a fuller expression of Christ. Birth and his uh death on the cross for his people. So that's why we've come. We're Glad that you've been able to come and be with us tonight. Let me offer a prayer then and ask the Lord to make his presence known to us. Heavenly Father, we praise you, we thank you that you have provided all that was necessary, Lord, for life and for godliness, that you have provided Christ That you've given to us the greatest gift ever given. And Lord, we gather tonight to worship, to adore. We gather, Lord, in the name of Jesus Christ, the one who a virgin was told that she would give birth to a son. The one who did great things. The greatest of all was to lay down his life. As a service to God, keeping completely the covenant that you had made. Lord, we praise you for these truths. We pray that they would become to us more dear uh as we uh enter into this time together, and that as we leave tonight, that you will have been pleased to meet us personally and as a group, Lord, with the message, the meaning of Christmas. We offer this prayer and these requests to you, Lord, in the name that makes it possible. Even Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Comfort, comfort my people, says your God Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended. That her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord and double for all her sins. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill made low. The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plane And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken Amen. Let's stand together. I'm going to sing, God rest ye, Mary gentlemen. The last two verses are from Psalm 23. But ready, very gentlemen, and nothing you can say remember Christ has been one more unwritten day. Lord, my shepherd I'm not one yeah new eye It pastures free me and me the quiet water I know me on my life and in the council. Please be seated. For to us a child is born To us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulder And his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God. Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace Of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness. From this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. In those days, a decree went out from Caesar Augustus that all the world should be registered. This was the first registration when Quyrinius was governor of Syria. And all went to be registered, each to his own town. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, from the town of Nazareth. To Judea, to the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and lineage of David. To be registered with Mary, his betrothed, who was with child. And while they were there, the time came for her to give birth. And she gave birth to her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling cloths. And laid him in a manger because there was no place for them in the inn. Let's stand and sing of the child who was born to die What shall we? To rest on Mary's bag and three Wage with the tree was I do estate where I feel the truth can be reported. For me, for you Hello Make Blash the Vantana. So bring him in the gold and murder comparison came to all. The key of legal brings a lovely dart in front of you. New word shall come to the holes right. And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field. keeping watch over their flock by night. And an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the l the Lord shone round about them, and they were filled with fear, and the angel said to them Fear not. For behold, I bring you good news of great joy That will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David. A Savior who is Christ the Lord And this will be a sign for you. You will find the baby wrapped in swaddling cloths. And lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host Prais God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. Amen. Let's stand and we'll join our voices with those angel voices. Glory to God in the highest. Amen. Please be seated. Glory to God in the highest. The Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold The virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Now, the birth of Jesus Christ took place in this way. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph Before they came together, she was found to be with child from the Holy Spirit. And her husband Joseph, being a just man and unwilling to put her to shame, resolved to divorce her quietly. But as he considered these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife For that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. She will bear a son. And you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel. Which means God with us Remain seated. We're gonna sing a familiar tune and the um the lyrics are gonna alternate back and forth and you'll see I think as the song progresses. Alway in a major grammar. The little Lord Jesus laid down his sweet hand, the stars in the bright sky, look down where he lay. A letter sheeta asleep on the hand To God be the glory, great things he has done, so was he the world that he gave us. All perfectly tension the virtue of my town. Every we have a promise of God, the I will find her who truly I ask thee to stay close by me forever and love me, I pray, bless all the dear children. In thy tender care and fit us for heaven to live with thee then. The soul that on Jesus has before imposed, I will not, I will not seizure to Endeavour to shake. I'll never know, never, know, never. When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told them. My soul will neglect. I rejoice that God I saved. In the one mother, for he had one great thing for me. He was my colour. It will magnipine the Lord for his grace to those who hear through every generation. Be joint that God might go in the land. Thank you. It reminds me that in case you're wondering, you will hear the second part of the Mary Song that we didn't get to do last Sunday We'll do it on this Sunday. I look like there's this big gap between me and you Well, um here I am in my 51-year-old mother-hand-knit Christmas sweater, so it must be Christmas Eve. You know there's different ways I could interpret that applause, but I'll I'll just take it in the best way. It's Christmas Eve. Um you know, and you're here for uh a number of reasons. Uh you may be here if you're a Christian because you want to see more of Jesus on Christmas Eve. Or you may be here as one who does not believe in Jesus, but you're here because of family, or you're here for various reasons, or looking for a spiritual experience on Christmas Eve. And that leads me to wonder sometimes. Christmas Eve is not an easy message to prepare. It's not going through a regular series, and you wonder. What is it that you should do? So a couple of years ago, I asked one of the women in our congregation who I highly esteem what she was looking for in a Christmas Eve message. Let me quote to you a portion of her response. She said, I took your question seriously about Christmas Eve, and what sort of meditation would one want to engage in? To begin with, as a woman, any serious thought or bitted worship has got myriad distractions to contend with. What still must be done to make the morning smooth and everyone happy and the food a success? Double check the grocery list as though anything still could be picked up. Double check the wrapped gifts to make sure and on and on and on. We just look like we're looking at you Exhaustion, emotions, in upheaval, perhaps deep inner angst that wants to surface itself at Christmas, but must be kept down at all costs, etc. Hush now. If I have made my way to Christmas Eve service, I need a lot of help and clear direction to worship a Savior who became a human like me. Unbelievable. Help me to believe. Wonder at His majesty and helplessness in combination. Hope that all this is really real and his promise to come back for us is as true as he is. And then to have that joy that results from the shine of hope. Joy. Gospel joy. Not the I got everything that I want or I am getting through this next morning. With a modicum of peace and the family still intact and nobody fighting, kind of joy, I mean real gospel joy. For joy is at the very heart of the Christmas story. You saw it as Sandy read it from the message of the angels to the shepherds in Luke chapter 2 Again, from verse 11, verses 8 to 11. And there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. Today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you. He is Christ, Messiah, the Lord. The words familiar tend to blur together, but I want to highlight and call out one word. As we think this Christmas Eve about that story, the word joy. Joy. I bring you good news of great joy. Joy, not merriness or happiness, not jollity or gladness, joy What's different about joy? What is unique about joy? Well, perhaps there are a few things we could think of, but one of the things I particularly think is unique to joy. Is that joy is getting what you so long for, but thought it was impossible to get. Isn't that true? Joy is when you really long for something You thought it was impossible, and there it is. Perhaps we could share a number of Christmas stories. Of joys, of things that we thought we would never be able to get on Christmas morning, and there they were. I can recall 1949. My parents, um, my mother was driving a car, it was early December, and uh this guy ran a light cloud right into the side of our car. Now, back in those days you didn't have to have auto insurance. And my parents didn't carry any auto insurance, and the guy fled the scene. So they were left with a wrecked car. And it was for sure there wasn't going to be much for Christmas. And when I saw the presents, just like usual, I was amazed. Joy at the unexpected. It was a couple years later that I started getting into trains and my father had a train set and I wanted so much this Lionel O-Gauge passenger train. Now, as a kid, you don't think that's too expensive. You don't ask for that. You just ask for it. My mother actually went out and got a part-time job to be able to purchase that train for me. Perhaps the thing that stands out most in my mind of joy was back in Christmas of 1956. I had gotten into collecting scale model cars and I had a fair collection. One of the things that frustrated me was these cars, whenever the new models would come out, the models wouldn't come out until the following March. So it'd be halfway through the model year and they finally get the models of the real cars. 1957 models had come out and those were a big deal. They were really different. Chrysler called it the forward look. They skipped three years in their designs and these were big deals. And I remember looking at those and thinking, boy, those would be really neat. But of course there wasn't any hope of getting any such thing for Christmas. I still don't know how my mother did it. But somehow, even though my parents never owned anything but a Ford She went to a Chrysler dealer, persuaded the salesman to break the case of the model Plymouth that they had, and gave me for that Christmas a brand new 1957 Plymouth Dolvider. I still have it. In fact, there it is. That's over fifty years ago. What joy? Something totally unexpected. I think that's an element of joy. It's what's unexpected. You know, it's great when your team is ahead through the whole game and then you nail the win. Joy is when your team is behind the whole game. It's 21-18 with a two-minute warning, and the other team has the ball. But they fumble it. You grab it, and then go down and kick successfully a 35-yard field goal. Now it's tie. You go into overtime, you get the touchdown, and you win. That is joy. Unexpected. Not simply the gladness, the victory. It's joy. Joy is unexpected. And joy is connected at Christmas with grace, because grace is always unexpected. Grace is, by definition, never deserved. And so the announcement of the angels about the birth of God was to shepherds. To highlight the joy of something totally unexpected. They didn't announce his birth to the priests. To the scribes, to the intelligentsia, to the decent good people. They announced birth to shepherds, Shepherds, to us, we think of David the Shepherd, Psalm 23, that we sang part of. We think of shepherds as good people. The shepherds were the low-life rascals of the first century. In fact, shepherds were assumed to be cheats and liars, so much so that the rabbis forbade you from buying a kid or mutton or even goat's milk directly from a shepherd because it was assumed it had been stolen. Shepherds could not give testimony in court because it was assumed they were liars. Isn't it interesting that they're the only people invited to the party of Jesus' birth? Because God loves sinners who know that they're sinners and need a Savior. I bring you good news of great joy which was to all people, including shepherds, including the outcast like you and me For unto you is born this day a Savior, who is Messiah the Lord. Undeserved, unexpected, total surprise, and therefore joy. One of my favorite uh cartoons through the years, and my son's dean, who's sitting over there with mom, was Calvin and Hobbes. We probably had every book published about Calvin and Hobbes. There's some pretty decent theology in Calvin and Hobbes from time to time. One strip I particularly remember was shortly before Christmas. Calvin is reflecting on Christmas with his friend, the stuffed tiger, Hobbes. And he says something like this. Does Santa really exist? You never see him. If he does, why all the mystery? And if not, why try to be good in order to earn all the presents Maybe it doesn't work. But why take the chance? I've always gotten tons of loot, so I better not risk not believing. But then he comes to a crisis. He wants desperately to throw a huge slush ball in Susie's face. And he figures if he resists that temptation, that should count much more than some wimpy kid who would never be tempted to do such a thing. In fact, by his calculation, resisting such temptation should outdo 11 months of rotten behavior. If he could simply resist ten times between now and Christmas doing something really nasty. He so wants to throw the slush ball because Susie deserves it. She's been mean and she told mom on him, but he finally decides that if he doesn't do it, he will deserve another ton of gifts. He would be glad if he got those gifts, but it wouldn't be joy, because he figured he deserved it. Joy is when I can't believe that God would become a human to sacrifice Himself for somebody like me whose whole entire record Come short. And the message to you is to the shepherds. I bring you good news of great joy. There is a Savior, a God who has come in the flesh to save sinners who don't deserve any of his grace. But because of Jesus, receive a ton of it. I bring you good news of great joy, which will be for all people. Who see their need for this Savior, a Savior who comes to rescue those who know I cannot rescue myself. When C. S. Lewis became a believer, he entitled his autobiography, Surprised by Joy. Grace produces joy. Christmas is profoundly about grace. The shepherds are a picture of joy because of grace. The people at Bethlehem were congratulating themselves that they were going to pay their taxes while they let a teenage woman having her first child Have it in a cave because she didn't deserve the kindness. The gospel is not about what we deserve. It is about what God has given because of his great love, his mercy, and his grace. Consuming fire takes fetal form into earth's mire, eternity born Blinding glory veiled in swaddling strips, bloodied newborn jailed by cloth limits. The king is cloaked. The Creator hides, omnipotence revoked in flesh divide, through a dark glass. A sign is given. Find cave, ox, sheep, ass. A baby is hidden The sign of the limit, the sign of the shroud, the sign of obscuring, the sign of the cloud. Till birth becomes death, swallowed body, dark cave, till spirit returns breath, bursts bonds of all graves. To Bethlehem stumble. By faith, grasp the sign of God in a bundle, rent veil, light shines For me. For you. So whatever else you're doing this evening and tomorrow, stop. Stop and taste the joy. The joy that comes to you by grace. And remember that what was impossible happened 2014 years ago. Because of God's limitless love and his desire for your joy. Let's pray. Father, open our eyes, we pray, that we might see once again the reality. Of your coming, who eternally were omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent. To confine yourself to a body. A body that would enable you to keep the law that we could never keep. To keep it on our behalf to die the death that we deserved, bearing the curses of that law. And Lord, more than anything else we have ever known, this would be unexpected And this gives to us great joy. May our hearts enter into that joy this evening and tomorrow. Because of what you have given in your Son, Jesus Christ. Thank you. Thank you. From the bottom of our hearts. Amen. And uh in just a moment we're going to um We'll hear our last scriptures read and uh ask uh three guys. They're gonna they're gonna come now. Um three guys have graciously agreed to uh to light the their candles off of the center candle and they're gonna pass through the congregation and hopefully you have a candle that you received when you came in Uh we're gonna all light, but I wanna just a couple of things is uh to make sure that you dip the unlit candle, not the lit ones, so we can save you from burning wax and things like that. Things like that. And then uh it's not as uh big of a reminder for this crowd, I think, than the seven o'clock crowd, but after the the fourth verse and we're Concluded after a closing word, um make sure that all the candles are extinguished before you leave your seats. Um Okay. Be good. Sandy cum and Andrew, Andrew and Jonathan. People who walked in darkness Have seen a great light. Those who dwelt in a land of deep darkness On them has the light shined In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. And without him was not made anything made that was made. In him was life. And that life was the light of men. This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. If we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light We have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus his son cleanses us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive our sins and cleanse us. From all unrighteousness Let's stand together. Sahman Shakespeare. Rise for Save your EPOR Amen. Our our prayer for you, for ourselves, is that the Meaning of the manger of Jesus would find its fullest expression in the cross of Christ at Calvary for you this Christmas. Christmas season. And um if I could steal from Charles Dickens Tiny Tim, then God bless us, everyone. Good night. Merry Christmas.