Lastly three versus elements of two Since then you have been raised with Christ, set your hearts on things above your Christ defeated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things above, not on earth and things, you die. And your life is now hidden with Christ from God. And thanks to Israel appears, then you also will appear with him in glory. Put it up, therefore, whatever belongs to your earthly nature, sexual immorality, security. lust, evil desires, and we're idolatry. Because of these the wrath of God is coming. You used to walk in these ways in the life you once lived. But now you must rid yourself of all such things. Handle, rage, malice, slander, control. Do not lie to each other. Think you have taken off your old property We'll put on the new thoughts, which is being removed in mind from the women of its creators. Here there is no group of view, circumcised or unperconciled Barbarians, Christians, slaves of fruits. The Christ is all and in all. Therefore, if God cleansed the people, hardly and given beloved, closely with compassion. Kindness, humility, generous, and patience. Bear with each other and forgive whatever regretties you may have against one another. Forgive us the Lord forgave you. And over all these virtues put on love which binds them all together in perfect unity. But the peace is Christ, you in your heart. In his members of one body, you will cause peace. And be down Christ. See there then verse 15. Let the peace of Christ rule in your heart, since as members of one body will call to peace and be thankful. Are you a thankful person? Is thankfulness a way of life to you? Or is it something that you come to at this time of the year and if you're ready to put on to the birds you can Uh just we ought to be more thankful around here. Ought to be more thankful in general. I feel like fun. But do you have a pain for example hiding these things actually? Being ventures pretty far down the list. And I hope I'll get to a thumbnail, but I got a lot more important things to work on now. I'm not so sure. You know, gratefulness is gratitude. Gratitude is recognizing as if someone has graciously given you something You know, uh he's a king who asks his slaves to bring him a supper. And the slaves comes and raised the supper out before the king, and if the king goes the slaves, or not usually Uh he's not generally bound to be feel committed or bound to thank the claim for having jobs in his supper. It's something the plane was commanded to do. He had no point, he had to do it. It doesn't really require time. So now let's suppose that the things what the slave has suffered. Let's suppose he laid out this lavish feast before the slave and the slave receives all these things. Uh-huh. that bowing and speaking would be then and the things would be up. Well spoke the things that he has given him all of these things. And you see it is with us as speakers made by our God So we don't have a right of training upon that according to the Jesus. In fact in the Bible those commons we suck a fundamental statement of ourselves as teachers recognizing our dependence upon The faithfulness in the scriptures is seen as a basic mark, a basic indication of belief. And unfaithfulness is a basic mark of as only beliefs. I want to place that in the three points that you see. So go into outline, the bulletin outline, if you follow along advanced First of all, to see that unfaithfulness is a sign of unbelief. Secondly, then to contrast that is to give us the captain of our faith as be faithful man And common Jesus as a model of thankfulness, and then thirdly, to see that we are called to be thankful in him First of all then the point in it in the scriptures is a sign of unbelief. Very basic sign of our passion towards the Lord. You see that same thing in Romans 121 So Paul describing the attitude of those who have rejected God and who reflects the truth and unrighteousness The whole world and their refusal to bow before God, how do they tell us that? Well in Romans 121, Paul says, For although they feel God They neither glorified or honored him with God, nor gave thanks to him. He is a basic characteristic of the unbelieving world There's two things you can say about them. They don't honor God and they don't thank God. Those two basic things. Well what are they not thanking God for? We see in basic studies He had just said that the creator, we think the creation of the world drives invisible qualities, we can solar power, divine nature, but clearly clearly we understand You see, God has given creation to us. He who is unclear, unclean, has made the creation And if we explain creation, we have all the creation from those ourselves. And the Jews can either give himself or in the free to give all that. Here's an example of this. A very fascinating book recently published by written by Robert Gaspell, one of the uh world leading astronomers. There is a book called God and the Astronomer. And in this book, I seek to demonstrate that three basic lines of evidence in recent astronomical studies have all the concerns be proven that the universe was created with a certain thing. That's very good. It's demonstrated very effectively. The universe was at one point in time created. And before that there was nothing. Now what's also fascinating about this book is that that's only part of that Never can be going to document by the astronomy reactions about the subject. Rather significant discovery in the field of power And also I think it's been fascinated to see how astronomers have reacted to this discovery and to the overwhelming evidence that's been kind of in for them. Well would you say this uh start to back up for me? What do you think would be the spot of a small thing? We're delighted to know this. Is it this terrific that we had not seen that that we're not just a a mass of protocols and floating on a sea of sand in an impersonal universe? The universe is created by one you made it. That's great. Let's let's find out who that was so that we can thank you for them. This circumstance here to me. Uh Arthur Eddington, the famous uh British astronomer, wrote, quote, the notion of the beginning is repugnant to me. I cannot believe it. Philip Morrison of MIT wrote in one of his books, I find it hard to accept, I would like to reject it. And uh I think that explains the first comparative maybe for adjectivity. But this is the idea to the whole Uh this is simply people emotionally reaction to something they're saying and said, but I don't like that. I don't like the things that they're doing with an absolute vigilance that the universe is demonstrated as something which is created. And why is it that Romans 121 tells us that. It tells us that although they knew God, they neither wanted to honor Him or give him thanks. And the scripture presents to us that there are two basic reasons why we don't like to hear faith. Two principles that apply not only to the person apart from Jesus Christ but also two ways of optimum law and ways of speech of those. And those two ways of principles, two reasons, we the uh the point that the uh outline that I have there Uh first of all, uh that unbelief is the result of pride, uh a pride we're keeping from wanting to give back, a pride which is rooted in self-confidence. In other words, I don't need to give that to someone else. The second basic reason is because of an unbelief that leads to complaining about God's will, but no confidence in Him. And therefore that that attitude says there's nothing to give thanks for. These these two basic reasons. There's no need to give thanks because I'm independent, confident in my Or on the other hand, uh, there's nothing to give back for, everything is pretty rotten, and I have no reason to give back. We see this uh illustrated more testing You see in Devon in chapter eight, an example of the first reason, or the soft confidence, the five, that means the in-gratitude So there God's saying to his people, if he's giving them final instructions before they go into the land, warns them that uh when you go into the land and you've eaten and are satisfied, good out of the son Now you praise the Lord your God, thank the Lord your God, for the good man is true. Now the person is praying. But you don't forget He's giving you this man Because you don't think uh that when you eat and you're satisfied and when you build your houses and settle down and when your furs and flocks go large and you become proud and you're gonna sweep out your eyes and all these things, if you don't forget the Lord your God. That you could love him. And if he then says, as he said in verse 17, he said to yourself, My power and explain that my hand has produced this work. You become fast. You become consistent. You become self-satisfied and self-confident. God says that'll drive out thy skin It'll drive out the proper understanding of where you got it in present verse eighteen the men of the Lord your God that it's peace to give you the ability to produce life And so he confirmed his covenant with before your forefathers in his life. I've owned the money to this group. I've provided with this food you put on the table. I'm a self-made man Nobody helped me to get the things that I've gotten. I've worked for them. I've got them to the sweat of my eyebrow and nobody's going to tell me that now I've got to balance strength and give some powerful acknowledgement to God with interest. That whole idea of autonomy, independence of a person who uses the bow that we knew before Jesus Christ But we can do a full or four of that, the two things are social. Uh base becomes a rate activity. That we just sort of good guys because, you know, what we do before we sit out and start eating. Sort of like laying down your mouth, you know, just sort of part of the process. But there comes from it a departure, a real sense of dependence that will use giving you the ability to produce the wealth of God You have provided for the things that we have to and I recognize my dependence. You could take this all around. So you have studied I think suffering with sea. So we give you those real items for family that we need to be grateful to because so you can be without the babies things that are happy. The Lord the Lord says in Second Timothy chapter three, and he's describing instead of the last days, he's talking about The characterization of the age that we live in, he talks about what it's like we like for and one of the things that he said in Second Timothy chapter three and verse two Because at those times people will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, gross of proud, abusive, disobedience to themselves, and ungrateful And bothness there is associated with being lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boastful and south. Self-confidence drives out thanksgiving. The root of an ungrateful heart is self-confidence. I don't need to be dangerous. The root of a thankful heart is that humble sense that I am not confident in myself. I am not independent. I do not provide for myself only. But does it suffer me? And that is the idea of no confidence We have to acknowledge that we are not self-confident and that we must depend on the Lord for the things he gives us. That's not the frequency as I thought Because there's also that no confidence in wind described from its latest view. For instance, you have an Exodus chapter 42. And God delivers the people out of Egypt He takes them out and uh the Lord has he's just humbled and blessed with Jesus, the mightiest nation on earth, Egypt. Uh Egypt, which was a superpower at that time, has now And believe it or not, given it's a booty to a bunch of slaves, totally powerless. And laid them down with all the riches that they can take away. So get out of here, we can't stand your God's power. Can't stand against them. God is too mighty for us. So we drive out these slaves and these slaves were winding off and come to the Red Sea. And as they come to the Red Sea they find that there's a bit of an obstacle here, you know? Take a whole group of a couple of million people or their belongings and their kids and everything and just they come across the tree. And if they look behind them they find that the whole Egyptian army is coming after them. And what's their response and not to approach people? Well here's another opportunity for you. Exodus 14, read there, same chapter 14, verse 10, the whole assembly talked about stolen Ephesus when it illustrates the Yeah. That's number Exodus chapter fourteen. In verse ten, as Pharaoh approached the Israelites looked up and there were the Egyptians marching after him. And they were terrified and shot after the Lord and said to Moses Aren't this person's no grave in Egypt if he brought us here to the desert today? What have you done to us by grinning us out of Egypt? Couldn't he save them in Egypt? Ah, leave us alone. Let us serve the Egyptians. Living Delashor served the Egyptians and die here in the desert. It was a complaining wave out the about giving. And their thoughts giving gave out any expectations of God's will. No trust, no conflict, only feel, therefore, nothing to be done for the bath. The battery no He responded to even to be conflowing even to their grumbling God that's raised. And he delivers them and he's part of the Red Sea Uh he's the C just open up and they walk across on dry land. In chapter fifteen is actually which they respond with a great humid thing's given. Say the Lord was a horse of the writing thrown into the sea, wiped across. They look till they sung that song in verse 22 Moses leads them into a wilderness and there's no water there for three days to come to some space where the water is bitter and what do they say? Ah Lord, here's another opportunity for you to spare your power. Lord, here you can demonstrate now How wonderful you are, they thank you for what you're going to do. Exodus 15. And verse um verse 24 and 25, the people grumbled against Moses. Oh really started birth in the dozen. And there's no confidence and therefore no doubt given. No little with expectation to what the Lord's done. You have three times that In the next three years is there? Three times we leave an extrus and a number. But the people found on water and the first thing they do is they rumble. Even the third time it's probably only the next. That's good. Come up against the problem to accumulate some culture in the same kinds of circumstances before that was no doubt to this With that confidence, you say, oh no, we're putting this near this situation. Why me in the Lord? Why do I have to suffer these things? Because no doubt given, there's no pain, there's no look into the Lord without suffering. and I keep he's living from us. They have then the people come to Titus Banu and the spies to wind. And they come back to report that the land is lost. They come back and tell the people and say, look at what Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's all placed like this when it does, yeah, everything just but the people adopted. They come back and they give them the report and the people say, Well they got it for four years Oh, here's a terrific opportunity God promised this land. Who cares how good the people are? Well, blender and the taken in God's name. The people cried all night, Oh, if we'd only buy them Egypt. Oh, if we'd only buy the desert, why the Lord bring us to this land and let us fall by the sword? Our wives will have children to be taken and slundered. Will it be better than about Egypt? What's their soul made if we see somebody else to take it back? That's the owner of it. The people of God. So God he was women. That's a humble woman and servants. But they have not trusted it. Their unbelief lies out thanksgiving. And their thanksgiving drives out of that expectation of the Lord's dissolvation. You know why the people again and again had such an attitude. Psalm 106 reflects on that. Verse 32 it says he called to people from God, the works of the Lord, and did not speak itself. And when you and I forget what the Lord has done for us, when we do not call ourselves to remember God's concepts, we don't do for thought about it How faithful he's been to. If he do not remember, he will not be both of it. He will simply know to the problem for the current situation, how hopeless our particular situation is right now. Because we think we have lessons and conferences. Some people, sometimes. The Bible calls us to remember what the Lord is saying To consider his faithfulness, so that we have confidence in him and that confidence that he's his faithfulness. Only conford Jesus When I desus comes as the patron of our faith and is the man of our spirits. Notice in these two particular kinds of situations how the nargesis is comes. It's particularly important to focus on the OT as a country to this science. I've never really considered this before, never really meditated on these as a comfortable principle. my example. Because you know when you think of God's living is a singularly inappropriate with Christ the God I mean, why should God be faithful? Uh God is totally self-dependent. He doesn't need anything from us. If I uh needed anything, I would not let you know. Well he said, I don't need anything for my teachers. And so God so God does giving is a foreign concept Barbie is not thoughtful because he doesn't he does not have to receive from anyone. Only we receive that which we cannot produce ourselves And when he became and became man at a point in history, the incarnation could be dependent He looks at that point in time becomes as a species became deep something. Think about that for a moment. He who never knew of anything out of his evidence was leaded for absolute dependence of the creatures, the thing is here means. How did Jesus defend it? Did he pay for that dependence? We see in the scriptures that Jesus can lead two kinds of situations, regarding self-confidence and providing confidence in the harvest, demonstrate for us a model of God's giving. We see him demonstrating this in his humility and his conscience. Notice how it works out. There are several times that the gospel tell us that Jesus goes through. Just here, four incidents that is recorded Jesus does that. The first of these is where he's humbly thanking the Father, recognizing that he did not have anything of himself. Again and again again, I do nothing of myself, I don't even speak anything of myself. Until in John chapter six, and these are seeds for five thousand When he takes the bread, we read in John chapter 6, in verse 10 and 11, that Jesus saves Christ. John 6 Verse 10. Jesus said how the people sit down. If so grasp my those and name sat down, I'd five thousand of them. Jesus then put them over and give thanks and distributed to those who receive the message they want it. You did the point of the church. This is the court of our friends, Matthew and Mark. But Jesus, before he was studying, he lay three times. The man is evil here, he was humbling himself to receive. The mind is to tumbling, even in receiving his barely breath. Did it ever strike me that Jesus of disappearance when he sees five thousand men plus their families stubbted with bread that's not even a voice? He received it on his own life so I would say now I'm going to show you what I have. Believe that he received that from a little boy. Some little fellow had brought along five layers and two pieces. And Jesus received those five layers and two pieces in humble dependence to what God survives. And he perspes and multiplied. And before it multiplies, it's he gives time. And we have here a picture of the humility of Jesus, and the one he receives and is grateful for what he receives Not the one who exhausts himself, because how he can live on his own, but the one who's glad to be dependent. We have this encounter who also come to it in not only his daily bread, but in the pastors of bread Matthew, Mark, and Luke all record that when Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper from that Passover meal, he did it first by giving them Take a look in Luke chapter 22. In Luke 22, at the end of the Passover, we read in verse 17 after taking the cup, Jesus Christ 10 He said, Take this and divide it among you. I tell you that I'll not get I'll not again drink of the feed of the vine. He said, kingdom of God's hand. And then he institutes the Lord's supper and he took bread and created the sand. Embrace it. Be able to complain, this is my body given to me. Remember to me. The same way after the cup, he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood that we poured after me Do you think he is even before he even is to speak for us with the elements of his own sacrifice? He is fine To the phase, what do we call the Lord Sai? The Eucharist. The word eucharist is from the Greek word uterus, which is the word user which means to accept The Eucharist means thank giving. And that is the very heart of what Jesus is using. You get the idea Because he is now improving the plantator elements in order to show us the uh significance of what he's doing, even in the very institution of that, acknowledge of his dependence. Depending on us. Remember, this isn't Jesus' home, it's the host providing us. In any Passover meal, the host is put down in his own home and he would provide that meal to himself. Jesus is clearly the home here. He did it in a borrowed room. He did it in a room that he didn't even own, but received because of his dependence and his humility Because Jesus who is to pass over himself has to humble himself and has to receive the place in which he has it, the elements provided for him. He acknowledged that he is dependent, that he is humbly refusing what the Father has provided for the pleasure. We have Jesus not only demonstrating humility and thanksgiving, but also the confidence necessary in thanksgiving. When he confidently thanks to Christ Jesus, of course, uh, David our friend, never grumbled, never complained. There's no record of irritation or grumbling in his whole life. Why is it? Because we looked sovereign No man ever had problems like Jesus had suffered. No one had disappointment and suffered like Jesus has suffered But why is it then he was able to be confident and to give those with respect? Because he just had the confidence that his father was in control of all these situations You had the things to believe that God was going to carry out his purposes in his life and ministry. Before you have Jesus constantly both in the Bible, speech speeches of creation, too incident. We'll have also described here to describe to bring out this one. Verse 1 in John chapter 11. In John chapter 11 we have Jesus thanking the Father that he healed his service. And Jesus thanks to Father, but he hears his prayer. What is he doing? Because it was the team of lies. Do you remember the incident when his son had lasted late son lies? about the Martha and Mary called Jesus to come and to uh be able to and then to heal Lazarus and find out that he's dead and he's weeping and he's warm and come to the grave and there's a morning party there and everybody's in despair and there's calm and screaming and wailing and mourning. Jesus comes up to that tomb and in the midst of all of that chaos that's going on, we read in John 11, verse 40. But Jesus then said, didn't I tell you that if you believe, if you are confident, if you see the glory of God He told his orders, they took away the stones. And Jesus looked up and he said, Now, remember he had told this and nothing has happened yet. Jesus looked up and he said, Father I thought it was hope that well I don't have a voice in the video. How do you call it that? You call it info. Father and son Lazarus is still taken away in the brains in here, hasn't moved the muscle. But Jesus is able to say in my fire confidence that all of the chaos there are in father I tell you if you told me. I need to always hear me. I said this for the benefit of the people following me, but don't know they need. There are the situations in your life, in my life, an environment of the brain seems like an entirely service. It seems like there's no hope for ever any kind of solution working out in this one. And we don't see that hopefully. Are you able in that kind of situation to handle the land for a fashion I thank you to pray. Father, I thank you in faith to hear me and the Bible. I thank you right now. So what you're going to be about. Because my conscience is in you, not in the purpose of my process. And these are the tomatoes I was given to us Able to say to the Father in all the circumstances he needs to deliver. Father, I don't think. And it left totally in your forehead, not in what I see. Second example of the year's time of Jesus' confidence in thanksgiving is when he confidently thanks the Father for his youth and grace. You see that in Matthew chapter 11 In Matthew chapter eleven, Jesus has just announced the role upon the Basel and Corinthians, his unrepenting cities who have turned against him and his ministry. And in Matthew chapter eleven, having said that, at that time we believe that Jesus has I thank you, Father, the Lord of heaven and earth, because you delivered these things from the wise and the line, and you revealed them to little things. Yes, Father, for this is little thing. Don't see the thing. You get the point. Here's Jesus he said about him, his ministry, there's a joke Include conventional by side of the television of the wise and important, the Pharisees, the religious leaders are rejected message of what you could do. So thank you, sorry, for that. I don't know about you for me, but if I see everything going down the cubes and the popularity of my ministry, I begin to see things my poem and these strategies that I think ought to be made in Columbia. My first desire would be to say, Father, I don't think so. But what did Jesus do that I don't think Jesus saw that God's way was the opposite of our way. God's way was to uh work in the humble The bad ways were to work and those who were count Christ and those who didn't exhaust themselves, those who themselves were able to be dependent and humble and to receive his food from Jesus Christ. I vote you to be wisdom in that. Father, I am going to your grace so for those who represent the lead for God. I have my ways that I think I with uh the Lord of the run Columbia Custom. I have my ways that I think that if the Lord was really doing things the way I think they ought to be done around here, I'm very often Well doesn't want it the way I've got it. Well doesn't do things in BC Columbia the way I'd want to do them We've got really quickly or in the same course sort of course of events that I might design for our recent this whole community for Jesus Christ. And what's my response to them? Lord, why aren't we able to see the facilities if we want to be able to mow down and get our skills of our worship Lord, why aren't you doing this or that other thing in the card of reasons? Lord, why aren't we reasoned out more effectively? And I say, Lord, I don't You caught things so the wise in the cloud in their own sights, and maybe you guys can see what a humble means We don't know that you want to keep me and keep our confidence, but you wouldn't know any other way. Father in faith and in confidence that you are embedded to our life, I thank you Right now to what you're doing will advance. We have that kind of confidence to produce it by giving our things. You see that Jesus not only is our example and cause of this kind of lifetime. But we're called to be grateful in him. And that means that you and I are called to be both humble and confident. Humble in a way that slips away our own self-confidence and confident in him with a limitless confidence in his aims, his beauty, and grace But if you are part of this because we see that we have a need to give thanks. But we don't rest at our own complaints and cycles. We see also that we have limitless reasons to give thank. Because of all the Lord has done and because of what we anticipate in faith that he gives us. So we're called to have thanks in the same four areas that we've just described in the first tooth that we just take it. Notice we're to have a humble gratitude in the same two things of Jesus with humble graceful care, first of all Our own food and coverage. Our own girl and blood. We see in First Timothy, Chapter 4. Paul and John just uh to uh concerning he says uh people that forgive uh certain ones to uh marry in order that they may obtain some certain foods. Uh this is wrong These feed that God created to be received without given by those who believe and know the truth. And we should receive these feeds without given. Why? For everything we say to vote for. Everything God created with good. And nothing needs to be rejected if it's to be if it is received with thanksgiving. Because something who mentions the food that we eat. He goes on in chapter six to talk about Our content in what he's given us. 1 Timothy 6 6. The godliness is content before us. We brought nothing into the world and we can take nothing out of it. But if we are food and frozen, we will be content with us. God has caused you to speak. And contentment is what produces God's given. Well you can't be thankful if you're covenant something. You can't be thankful if your attitude is if only I had, then I'd be happy. This is the way we see the beauty behind it, we see the cover, the windows are busy. We're complete. Because if you sit down with Thanksgiving to eat, be thankful for what God's given you in your family and the things that you have, not just things I'm thankful because Thanksgiving's the beginning of the Christmas season and I'm still looking forward to all that I'm gonna get on Christmas and that's what I'm thankful for. That does not produce Thanksgiving. It only produces an increasement of the Iron So given it a complaint with what God has put out. And we need to be content and grateful for what he said. Not only a daily breath, but also the bread of life. The sisters call it to be doubtful. Again, do you can achieve thanksgiving? And when we remember Jesus' death for us for us, our response is to be grateful for us. As Paul tells us we are to be grateful for his unspeakable gift in Jesus. Though he was rich, he came forth for the being our power, he may become rich with the blessings of the gift. Before we give God to Jesus, now that we need to Some of the ways to do this briefly has become more crap to you. Speak some time today and think about it and have an opportunity and I'll be separate, fellowship discussion. purpose of which is secure and of these things, but God is telling us about Himself, to which we can be valuable. One not only are we to be valuable and we're humble and But also in the confidence in Him God called us to be doubtful and Jesus Because it's to be thankful that we've not only heard Jesus' prayers, but that we've heard our prayers as well. The scripture says that we are in Philippians chapter 4 Today with thanksgiving. Philippians 4 6. We read that we should not be anxious about everything. But in everything, by praying to teaching, with thanksgiving. You don't see that. You know how big it's full of weak and fellow wavers. You don't have a whole lot of faith As you begin to pray and ask for God to do something that's very important to you, you don't bother to prevent him. All you do is plead. And if you plead and you sort of uh whine about her let's uh so terrible about what's not happening, you find that concerns decreases. You become more displayed. You become more full of soft pity. And pretty soon you're not able to try it off And Paul says that the adverse of that is to you and move to Christ, you is Christ given. But if we law our request before God, the good that we thank him didn't be healed by Christ. And we not only vote him to reuse our prayers in general, but we say, Lord, I vote you for that prayer last week. I voted for showing these last things to me in this way and that way. We begin to think of all the nose he's done in the face in it God increases our faith and our faith end to be built with things and the things that can turn and forth life. Psalm hundred and sixteen, And says we thank the Lord because he's played our faith, because he's done well and look at him, so pray to him as long as he lives. Filled with a confidence, to be so You're going to pray with those students. You want to ask the voice. That's confidence. But Lord, you pray by prayer that you ask for me. Be of us who calls itself so that we can watch and see how the Lord works. And many of us aren't able to thank the Lord because we don't notice what he works If you keep a record, some sort of a a record, a journal or something, then have you to see how the Lord has been, that'll encourage you to give thanks As the Lord's answers. I keep a little notebook. How many of you have seen it? You can do it on three by five cards. You can do it in any way with two few. Of what the Lord has done and thank him. So that you can like Jesus as the kingdom of lizards. When there's death all about you, you can say, I thank you, Father, that you hear me. Can we tell us pause and join the conflicting voice of praying that our teaching is thank you to be telling the members of the man of God Israel was much thankful because Psalm 106 calls us thankful God his work. Remember this and be thankful. Father the last thing is to be also give thanks for his wisdom and his glory. But we as believers include this. When we look at whatever circumstances we are, it's even five causes, in all things and in every circumstance give thanks. But we go to the beginning of this time together from Colossians 3. 13. Let the peace of Christ rule your hearts. And he thankful. We don't talk for the peace of God. He won't talk for the reason and the ways of God. He won't say that these ways are not our ways. You don't want to be saying if I can lift up the humble. And in whatever circumstance you're in, you'd be able to say, No, this is a circumstance humble. It's not something I'd see. Okay. So I'm working all of these things together through those who might call and the one who is part of my own, the laptop of my own And we lay before him and say confidence that he is waiting to hear his own. It is very sufficient when he needs to get The peace of Christ rules in our hearts in a prepare ourselves in feeling up that our promise will go from all eternity to be read in revelation for us. And when the middle pieces give glory, will give honor and thanks, and when he sits on the throne and who lives forever and ever And then the twenty-four elders fall down before him, he sits on the throne and worship him for him ever. Millions of pounds before the throne and say, Your glory is me, O Lord our God. Receive honor and glory and power. And you will be refused until you do. You can't be settled. In Revelation, that great song of the saints that will come, and we all stand before the throne and we say, Amen, praise and glory and wisdom and faith And honor, our powers, and friends. People are God forever and ever. And in his confidence in the Lord. See the wonders of these that confident and confident man the matter of our things And then we're able to examine ourselves. What is it in your life? What is it in your life today that is seeking you from a more faithful way of life? Is it alone self-conscious? So if you don't see the need to be a faith, or is it in fact a lot of confidence? So you don't see any reasons to be a confidence Lay it before the Lord. Blow your pride. Lay your blunders. You complain. Let's lay it before the Lord together. And we'll come to give us who he is and what he's done for us. So that I students becomes a very nice I don't do this. We want to give you thanks. We want to give you thanks because we recognize that we do not we are not independent and self-sufficient people. We give you thanks for the things which you have given to us, for our food and our caverns, for those things which you have abundantly supplied for us. We live before you are death because father is realized we've always had babies, and also Israel. When we got in all of our goods, when our hearts become sad, we settle them, so that we just find the earth being taken off of our gratitude. uh we don't look at ourselves as independent, but we act independent. By our lack of gratitude we somehow communicate that we really don't see equivalent God that we have. We have that spirit of arrogance in us and so far to our so thankful. Father, give us that heart of our sinus, that recognition of all that you've given to us. We pray, Father, that uh with that he'll come out of the thankfully for the name you have himself. That's what I said. Sukhita Babi. But if we don't be for ideally good, we'd also don't be for the good of heaven. You'd want you to be pained. And if humble even to just elect Father, we pray for any who are here who have never humbled themselves, determined. I thank you for that work of Jesus Christ. How do we tell the thing? The only point received what it means that you, the community, became the tender and successful So that when these dead people you even had to borrow a life and when you even instituted the elements to celebrate your own death, you had to borrow a room and to secure the elements themselves from others Financies is how we will to be in your humanity and in your preserving form. So I will follow us here and I do trust in you and I be grateful to you for that for the Help us ask our Father for thank you. For healing our prayer. For healing ask them for answering. For knowing Father that no matter what things may seem like from what we see. But in fact you do here are prayers. Maybe have that kind of confidence in you. Maybe have that confidence of that your words are superior to our wings. And no matter how the thing is going away, we would never see prophesied by faith and safety being away. So the circumstances we are in our own lives now. We would have used to lift up our eyes to see the mind the circumstances and the trees and of the replacement.