Back in March I received a gray slip that said the topic of homosexual marriage has been in the media recently. I would like to hear what a proper Christian response to this should be. This doesn't need to be a full sermon. A statement of a few sentences would be fine. I wish this was an hour discussion, you know, to do this in a half hour is quite a challenge, but uh I uh intended from back at that time and then with some other what I interpreted as promptings of the Holy Spirit, decided that um I would do two messages together, one on the 4th of July To show God as the ruler of the nations who was able to intervene to cause the North to win the battles of Gettysburg against all odds and expectations And to consider the sexual secularization and the moral decline of the nation in the past 150 years, going into the twenty-first century, um, and then to see this week a particular example of that in the issue of gay marriage and its acceptance um particularly that issue launched by four judges in the state of Massachusetts earlier this year. But then um in God's providence this whole issue began to accelerate So that uh turns out that this week the session of the Senate is um scheduled to vote on the issue of the federal marriage amendment So this Sunday has been called as a Sunday for churches to address this issue. So it's nice that all these other churches are joining us because I intended to address this issue months ago uh just happened to be on this Sunday and happens to be at a very opportune time. Now the last I heard, only forty-six out of a hundred senators are actually planning to vote for the inaugur uh initiating this process for the Federal Marriage Amendment. And that despite the fact that in a recent poll, sixty-seven percent of Americans polled favor a federal marriage amendment that defines marriage as being between a man and a woman. Fifty-seven percent of those polled strongly favor such an amendment. But unless there is a seismic shift within the Senate requires two-thirds to pass, only 46 planning to vote for it. then uh we are not going to see the initiation of this pro process. Now let me hasten to say, even if that is voted down this week, that's not the end of the issue. The issue will still be around and will resurge. uh at another time. Uh but unless God does something along the order of what he did in the Battle of Gettysburg, um this thing isn't going to go through this week. However, God did intervene in the Battle of Gettysburg. He intervened when Israel was up against 186,000 Assyrians, or up against far more than that, and God slew 186,000. Um you remember Jonathan, son of Saul, with his armor bearer, decided single-handedly to attack the Philistine garrison and said to his armor bearer, Let's go Perhaps God will act on our behalf. For, he said, nothing can hinder the Lord from saving, whether by many or by few. 1 Samuel 14, verse 6. Uh so God's able to do what looks very unlikely at this point, and I really believe he could turn that around. But the bigger question is how should a Christian look at this issue What should we be doing? How do we understand this? So what I want to do is look at Romans 1 and 2. I want to make three points. First a question, and the other two is our assertions. The first question, the main thing, is should Christians oppose gay marriage? That is the whole institution of it, or simply should we let that be their right? Now Before you too quickly say, well, of course we should oppose it, let me suggest there are a number of arguments that Christians are asserting to not make a deal out of opposing this. I've heard it argued that this is simply a civil matter and that is not some commitment better than no commitment. uh right now, uh homosexuals who want to make some sort of a committed have a committed relationship don't have any um support for that. So isn't some commitment better than promiscuity? It's the lesser of two evils, we should at least promote that. I've also heard it argued that if we restrict this, that simply turns their ire against us so that they blame us for their heart ache. If we remove ourselves so that they are able then to face themselves, we didn't don't don't blame us. You know, you you got it And you're still unhappy. It's still you're still not seeing that uh it's giving you peace, then that will be a a better opportunity for the gospel. Um I've also of course heard it uh asserted from the homosexuals who will say, hey, how does my marrying somebody that I love hurt your marriage? You can still get married. We're not doing anything to your marriage. All we're simply saying is we want the same recognition. So um there's some Christians that are saying, no, no, we're we're so known for what we're against, people just don't like us. Um a lot of polls that show that. So why don't we just kind of back off for once and do something positive rather than just being against it? But the ultimate question, of course, is what does God say about it? Not how do we feel about it. So uh I want to look at that. I want to look at Romans chapter one, the classic passage on this. And uh by the way, for those of you who like consistency and wish that I was continuing the favorite sermon series through the summer I did preach this passage back in 1994, so you can still insert that, although it was quite a different message. But it was the same passage back then. What I want to do is um look at um Scripture, Romans 1, and also look at six related practical considerations as to why we should oppose legalizing gay marriage and support a federal marriage amendment. First of all, and the reasons to oppose it, the primary thing is scripture. That's always absolutely foundational and primary. Now, as we look at Romans chapter 1, you notice that in verses 26 and 27, three times Paul refers to what is natural. He says the women exchanged natural relations for unnatural ones. The men abandoned natural relations. Now, natural there refers not to what was natural to them. He's referring to what is God's created order. He's referring back to Genesis chapter 2. Uh where God talks about the fact that He created man and woman, those both in His image, male and female, so that the man leaves his parents and joins to his wife and the two of them become one flesh. And wherever God speaks about marriage In scripture it is always in terms of a man and a woman. The only time he refers to uh men and women uniting together uh in that way. It is by way of condemnation. For instance in Leviticus eighteen, twenty-two, or Leviticus chapter twenty and verse thirteen, if a man lies with a man as one lies with a woman, both of them have done what is detestable. They must be put to death. Their blood will be on their own heads. So you see it's uh not simply saying it is forbidden, there's very strong sanctions, the death penalty Um, and I've talked to homosexuals who have said the Bible doesn't condemn this, um, but it's pretty hard to get around such passages. It also has the story of Lot in Genesis chapter 19, from which we get the word sodomy, what happened there in Sodom. that God condemned. Um and then you have what Paul says in the New Testament, and it's not only in Romans chapter one. He speaks to this in other places. For instance in First Corinthians chapter six, verses nine and ten. He gives a list of uh the kinds of people who will not enter the kingdom, uh adulterers and others, and among those are homosexuals First Timothy chapter one verse ten makes the same point that homosexuals come under God's judgment. Now it's important that we neither understate nor overstate what Paul's saying in those passages. That is, we cannot understate it and say Yeah, I know it's just one of the sins like any other, and just kind of no big deal. We're more enlightened now, and so let's not get all excited about this. Um, you know, we don't get all excited about slander and other things. Um but um, you know, we neither should we overstate it. It is linked with adulterers, with greedy people, drunkards, slanderers. So it's sin. But it's not an unforgivable sin. It's not a sin which which deserves greater condemnation in God's judgment. It's among other sins, but it's sin. Now Let's look in that context more closely to what Paul's actually saying in Romans chapter 1. In Romans chapter 1, you see as Tom read it that the foundational statements, chapter 1 and verse 18. Let's see that up there now. that the wrath of God, Paul says, is being revealed from heaven against all the ungodliness and un and the wickedness of men who suppress the truth by their wickedness. And that phrase suppress the truth is a critical phrase. It's it's saying that something is is under a great deal of pressure. And you're trying to keep that in. It's like, you know, if you kids blow up a balloon, you know, you blow up a big balloon and um what happens if you don't tie it? Well, you know, the air's all rushing out and you try to stick your finger in the balloon, you know, to hold it. and keep that air in. Well that's the idea there. It's the suppressing. It's trying to hold the air in the balloon that's just determined to escape. And that's what Paul's talking about. God's truth is simply there. You can't hold it down. You know, and he goes on to say that. Look at the next uh the the next slide. Although they knew God, they neither glorified him as God, two things, nor did they give thanks to him. They were, you know, it's just this Uh you know, I'm not going to admit that I am made by a creator. Uh I'm going to suppress that because if I admit that, then I'm accountable to him. And I should glorify him, because I'm owe my life to him and everything. I should be thankful to him, you see. And if I'm not willing to do that, then I'm going to suppress that truth That's what Paul's saying. That's a foundational observation. By the way, you notice that it says you and I have inside information that everybody knows God. The person who most determines he's an atheist, Carl Sagan. Anybody you know says, I don't believe this stuff, they still know in their hearts, the Bible says, that they're created. And they suppress that. They try to turn that around in all kinds of ways. So their thinking becomes futile and their foolish hearts are darkened. Now the result of that is that Paul says that normally, now he doesn't say this, but you've got to kind of have this as the background, normally In society, God restrains working out consistently our unchristian, non-Christian presuppositions. So you might have a neighbor He lives next door to you, and he says, I have no interest in Christianity. Um don't talk to me about the Bible. I don't believe any of that stuff, but he's he's a nice neighbor. He'll help you out if you have trouble Um you know, they're he's faithful to his wife, the the the family seems like it's reasonably intact. Uh and you say, you know, well how can that be? Well God's common grace is restraining the outworking of evil. But what Paul does for the sake of argument here for the gospel is he says, what happens if he doesn't? And so three times you have there in verses 24, 26, and 28 Paul says God gave them over. So he's saying, here's an instance. I want to look at the instances where God has allowed sin to work out its course consistently, where sin is given free reign to work out its natural progression. So you have in verse 24, therefore God gave them over in the sinful desires of their hearts to sexual impurity for the degrading of their bodies with one another. Verse 26, because of this God gave them over to shameful lusts, even their women, on and on. Verse twenty-eight. Furthermore, since they did not think it worthwhile to retain the knowledge of God, he gave them over to a depraved mind. What Paul is talking about here is what happens when God gives a people over to work out the consequences of their unbelief. So you have in verses 24 to 27, and notice in this whole passage from verses 18 to 32, there's only four verses that have to do with homosexuality. You know, we kind of get so focused on that, we think, uh, yeah, Romans 1, that's the ch that's the chapter that's about homosexuality. There's only four verses that even refer to it But in verses 24 to 27, Paul goes into this more specifically. And you notice that the emphasis is again on it being unnatural. The women exchanged what was natural for unnatural. The men abandoned natural relations. That's the focus. It's the rejection of the basic identity of how God made us. It's twisting our sexuality. It's cleaving after a sameness rather than rejoicing in the differences. It's a rejection of basic creation. However, That is not saying that such people are despicable. And here's where Christians can sometimes misinterpret the text. Let me put it this way. What if you knew the person sitting right next to you where you're sitting here now was a homosexual? What would be your response? How would you feel? What would you think? Would you think, you know, I'm gonna move my seat over, you know, and have that person get in here who let them in, you know Uh, you know, let me tell you that um on at least one occasion in Columbia Presbyterian, I've had a person come from right where you're sitting, member of Columbia Presbyterian, came to me in my office and said, I want you to know I'm a homosexual. And um I am struggling with that. I am seeking to repent and ask God to deliver me from that. We met together over a period of some months. This person was empowered and delivered by Jesus. uh to be able to change that and his desires is now happily married is long gone from our congregation but still heard just recently that the marriage is a good marriage, a solid marriage, and this person's going on with Christ. I have counseled homosexuals, I counseled a lesbian couple one time that were living together found Christ, came to me, we talked about that. God delivered both of them. In fact, of all the cases that I have been involved in, uh all the cases of those, it's not been that many Um but they have all been delivered by Jesus Christ to alter their desires and have been able, not sometimes easily but always under God's grace with his deliverance to see deliverance in Jesus Christ in that orientation. So I can personally testify that people can radically and permanently change in this. At least this is we go back many years in some of these cases. But It's important for us not to overreact and think that these people are in some separate category. One of our daughters in a job that she had had a boss, immediate supervisor, and then supervisor over him. The boss she had was an avowed homosexual. He was living openly with his partner and made no bones about it. Uh the boss over him was a woman who was a member of a solid evangelical church in the area and absolutely claimed to be a Christian. There was no question in my daughter's mind which of those had greater integrity. The one who was the woman known to be a Christian. Um my daughter was actually embarrassed that because her reputation was so bad in the company. Um she was known as somebody who would backstab, who uh you couldn't trust in many ways. Her boss, the homosexual, was a man she trusted, who a man who always was fair to her, was um was uh trustworthy and um she found him to be a much more loyal friend uh at all than the other person. So I think one of the things would help us would be to get to know people who say they are homosexuals so that we are able to see, all right, you know, people who are adulterers, liars, slanders, wrestlers uh and be able to get a perspective on its sin. But it's not a sin that makes the person untouchable. Now, Paul makes that point, you see, when he goes on after verse 27-28, the third time he says God gave them over. He begins to talk about sins that would make us maybe a little more uncomfortable because he talks about envy, strife, deceit, malice, gossips, slanderers, insolence. People who disobey parents, you know. I mean, we have any of those kind of people here? See, and Paul's saying this is what happens when God gives us over to the way our hearts are inclined. So, on the one hand it's sin. On the other hand and and the fact that it's sin, don't let any homosexual tell you that this really doesn't condemn sin. If it doesn't, if it's not repugnant to God, his whole argument breaks down. His whole point is that this is repugnant to God along with other things. Why does he single that out? Get back to that in a moment. Because there's a reason, I think, why Paul singles that out. Now, let me switch, before going on to point two, to give you just six very brief, again I wish we had more time on this, but six very brief uh reasons why. In conjunction with Scripture, the primary controlling thought, why we should support a federal marriage amendment and we should oppose gay marriage. You know, he seeing all the things in the balance I've tried to present. Uh six reasons, really quick. Number one, because a uh because same-sex marriage would lower the institution of marriage to simply legal matters only. It's really the first step of the death of marriage as an institution. In fact, currently the ACLU is suing in a number of states to rid the states of all marriage laws. That's the ultimate goal, to rid the society of all marriage laws. But you see, it's It's kind of like pantheism. People who want same-sex marriage say, you know, this is really to be able to give dignity to our relationship. Why do you begrudge us that? Uh but in fact it's like pantheism that says, you know, well we're all God, you see, and it just gives dignity to everything because it's all godlike But in fact the opposite is what takes place. It doesn't reduce us up to the dignity of God, it reduces God to a trivial religious idea. And so the same thing is true in marriage. It doesn't elevate their status in marriage. It trivializes marriage so that all marriage means is Legal benefits, benefits of access in hospitals, social security, those kinds of things. That's all it really does. And so it is the death of marriage as an institution of integrity. Secondly, it denies any essential creative difference to male and female. The whole argument is Male female differences are trivial. They are not uh important to preserve. And so uh the idea of sexual reassignment, you know, I'm really I'm a man but I got a woman inside that needs to get out and so I have uh surgery to make that uh you know make me different, you know, all this kind of thing. In fact, I think that given the current climate of our culture Even if we were to pass the federal marriage amendment, the next step will be you'll have two men coming to the court and s one says, I'm really a woman. And so let's get married, even under Federal Marriage Amendment. Because who's going to say, no, you're not a woman, you look like a man. Well you think I'm a man, but I'm really a woman. You see, because when you've lost the objective norms then you really can't control anything by law. There is always a way to get around it. Uh thirdly, the security of being raised in a home of a dad and a mom is denied to children in such homes. Marriage becomes simply an arrangement for the benefit of the adults, and kids do not need both a mom and a dad. Which is interesting at a time when the research is showing more and more that children are who have or do not have a dad or a mom suffer certain consequences from that And so um you know it's just just moving in the opposite direction from what we're knowing about kids and long-term effects. That and mom are seemed to be optional. They're not needed. And I'm reminded by this of uh an article by Maggie Gallagher. where she describes a plane ride that she had sitting next to a a fellow who was a college student. They got into a discussion about same-sex marriage and uh she asked him the question, Well don't you think that kids need both a mom and a dad? And his answer was, not really. I think kids can accept whatever family situation they have. Um my folks are divorced, I've adapted. Um you know, kids can adapt to whatever situation. Proceeded along and then she asked him this question. Okay, let me ask you, do you think that you will matter to your kids? And his answer? No, not really. Now, think about the consequences of that mindset In raising sons to take on the responsibility of sacrificing for a permanent relationship for the sake of their wives and their kids. We're producing guys who think they're optional. And this goes another step in confirming you really don't need a father and a mother. joined together for a family. And that is not only the death of marriage, that is a major blow to the stability of society. The fourth point, section structure in schools, must be placed in both, placed both options on the same level. That's almost the case right now, but this simply confirms it, nails it down, that there is nothing superior about a relationship between a man and a woman, or a man with a man, or a woman with a woman. And this being done in schools when kids are already confused about their identity, and so it becomes a small step from simply presenting a neutral position to advocacy for whatever you seek to promote. Fifthly, the cost to taxpayers will be astronomical for something that was never voted on. Taxes and insurance premiums, especially for a segment of the population that has a much lower life expectancy and more health problems because of AIDS Things like that. Canadian government did a study and realized that same-sex marriage benefits just in Social Security benefits would cost hundreds of millions of dollars. Now, should not such a radical redefinition of marriage be legalized through a legislature Through the voting process rather than simply through the courts. Federal marriage amendment seeks to take that route. Finally, the sixth thing, religious freedom in speaking to this issue will be denied. You think that's not the case? Again, Canada's always helpful to us because there are always a few further steps down the road. For instance, the Saskatchewan Human Rights Commission ruled that a newspaper It was an ad that simply listed biblical passages that oppose homosexuality. They listed that that was a human rights offense. The commission ordered the paper and Hugh Owens, the man who placed the ad, to pay $1,500 each to three gay men who objected to the ad. In another case, British Columbia Court upheld a one-month suspension without pay of a high school teacher who wrote letters to a local paper arguing that homosexuality is not a fixed orientation, but a condition that can and should be treated. The teacher was not accused of discrimination, simply of expressing thoughts that the state defined as improper. Specific target of this these laws, whether it is in Canada or in Sweden, is the clergy. And particularly sermons. Sermons like mine would soon be illegal. Um in Canada one of the gay senators uh denounced uh this particular clergyman who stood against homosexual marriage and he wrote, Quote, You people are sick. God should strike you dead And he was, of course, saying that the Christians were guilty of hate crimes. In nineteen ninety-eight the lesbian lawyer, Barbara Finlay of British Columbia, said the legal struggle for queer rights will one day be a struggle between freedom of religion versus sexual orientation. Right now in Sweden there is a Pentecostal pastor who is facing charges because of a sermon he preached that says homosexuality was sin. And he's been arrested and charged. So this, by the way, this is from U. S. News and World Report, not from some Christian website or something. So, what can we do? I would suggest that tomorrow we all commit ourselves to call and email our senators, Barbara McCulski, Paul Sarbanes. You see their phone numbers there and their email now and their websites. You know, it's really tempting to just do the email, but I've heard from Doug Stigler, Family Protection Lobby, that the phone calls are far more weighty. So it's probably worth taking the time and if the switchboards are jammed this week on this, that will send a strong message. It's probably worth the few tries it may take. And if it's a few tries, all the better. It means other people are doing it to make the calls. There's their numbers. You can also log on to the website for Center of Reclaiming America. And if you long log on to that long thing that you see there, I don't know how this even happened, but you'll see my name inviting you to join in signing that petition. They're seeking to uh send a half a million of those this week to c uh to the Senate. Um and again, I urge you to do it. You just fill out the information there and click and send that thing in it will be among the other petitions. However, saying all that, we should do that. That's I believe something that we do being salt and light as Christians, uh there is a bigger issue. Point two. The bigger problem is that no absolutes means that all lifestyles are equal and must be affirmed. That's really where we're at. That's what Paul's addressing. He's addressing a culture where truth is suppressed. And where that truth is suppressed and people refuse to acknowledge God, to glorify him, to thank him, God allows the outworking as he is doing in our culture, allowing, re-removing the restraints of the working out. of unbelief is is allowed to have more free course then, as Joel Bell said in an editorial in World Magazine, March twenty, two thousand four The issue is not w just wrong views about homosexuality, it is wrong views about where we get our views. Even if we were to pass this legislation, that doesn't change the whole mindset of a culture. that at this point is moving from private relativism, which we have gotten used to, to publicly enforced relativism. Not only does everybody have the right to act the way they want, but we must tolerate and approve of people to act however they want to. That's where we're moving. I remind you again of the Muslim critique of our culture last week from Dinesh D'Souza and he's really just quoting Muslim philosophers. who say you Americans are obsessed with freedoms and you have become clueless about virtue. Now we gotta think about whether that uh criticism sticks Because this is an example, I think, of exactly why they fear us and why they have cause. Much larger issue than federal marriage amendments. So it comes to the third point. What is to be the Christians' attitude toward those who promote this? We're tempted to be angry, to be depressed. I understand that. I have felt that. Um we're attempting to see those who are the leaders of gay rights movement to be enemies, to despise them, to get our blood pressure up when we hear them on the media uh to read their articles as I do, um and to realize that they also uh feel about us the same way Um, they feel that we are well actually uh from one group, uh well it's the indigo girls, case anybody knows, a lesbian group, they were saying that we're just rather a pathetic anachronism in our culture that we can be tolerated, but it's the fringe of us that are the haters that are the ones to be feared. So there's this mutual alienation and fear But I would suggest to you that such an attitude would entirely miss Paul's point in his argument. You see, most people miss why Paul mentions homosexuality in Romans chapter 1 The argument goes back to chapter 1, verse 16 and 17 that Tom read to you there in the beginning. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, because it's the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes. Jew first, Gentile. For in the gospel a righteousness from God is revealed. A righteousness is by faith. From first to last, just as it's written, the righteous will live by faith Now, why is it that righteousness and acceptance with God can only come by faith from God? Why is that righteousness only from Him? So he goes on to establish what the human heart is like Wrath of God revealed against all this suppressing of truth, this refusing to glorify, refusing to honor. And then he talks about the outworking and he uses homosexuality as an illustration. Why? Because homosexuality has gets a visceral response. Homosexuality gets a response of despising and self-righteousness. We look at that and we say, boy, I may be a sinner, but I'm not like that. I'm not like those sinners. So Paul, after verse 32, remember no chapter divisions in the New Testament, after verse 32, his very next statement is what? You, therefore, have no excuse. You who pass judgment on someone else, for at whatever point you judge the other, you're condemning yourself because you who pass judgment do the same things. Man, now he's really got me mad. I mean, not only is he saying here, whoo, why are you passing judgment? He's saying you're doing the same things. And you say, not me. I've never had a homosexual relationship. I've never been tempted by that. All the other things I've been tempted by. I've never been tempted by that. Don't tell me I do the same things But he says, wait a minute. Look at what I said between verse 27 and this verse. It's part and parcel of the human heart. Okay, you haven't murdered somebody. Does that say you don't have a heart that's like that? That's ever wished somebody was dead. He's saying that your heart and my heart is capable of every kind of sin. And that every time we self-righteously look down at somebody else, what we're saying is There's some righteousness in me to establish my own record. And Paul says, as soon as you do that, you're not going to look at a righteousness from God by faith. You're going to look at your own righteousness. So he goes on in chapter two to unfold that, to show how vain and self-centered and self-righteous is such condemnation. And then in chapter three, he comes right back to where we began in verse chapter one, verse sixteen and seventeen. The conclusion of it, you see, chapter 3, verse 22, is this righteousness from God comes through faith, yeah, just what he had said, in Jesus Christ to all who believe there is no difference. There's no basic difference in the human heart, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. You see, you know, you you you quote that verse a lot. How many times have you quoted that verse and thought, you know, a homosexual and I are justified in exactly the same way. We've all sinned, come short of God's glory, and are justified freely by His grace through the redemption that came by Jesus Christ. You know what we need here at Columbia Presbyterian? We need testimonies of people who will stand and say, you know, I was a homosexual, and somebody at Columbia Presbyterian got to know me And they put down the stereotypes and I didn't like them because they were an evangelical and we got to know each other and began to talk to me about Jesus. And I began to see that my gay lifestyle wasn't really very gay. And I began to see what I needed. And I saw that Jesus Christ was able to change my life. And now I'm a new person. And when we see that kind of thing begin to happen, those kind of people in our Ephesians 5:3 ministries and we begin to see people take compassion and want to get involved in an AIDS ministry and these kind of things. Then our speaking out against the same-sex marriage for the federal marriage amendment takes on a whole different context. Brothers and sisters, this is not about Allah. This is about the heart of our generation, and only the gospel can address that. But the God is the ruler of nations. Who turned around Gettysburg can turn around our culture. We believe that? Let's pray. Our Father. We come as a people who want to judge, we want to criticize, we want to feel superior. We'd love a cause of federal marriage amendment that we can feel so righteous about. And Lord, how we would miss Paul's whole point here, which is there is only a righteousness that comes from God, and it's by faith. Whether a homosexual or a slanderer or a gossip, it really doesn't make any difference. And so, Lord, we confess before you we need the righteousness of Jesus. We confess, even Lord, our sin of despising people for their sin because it's not the same sin that we struggle with. And we pray, Lord, that you would change our hearts, that you would give us hearts of compassion and love. We pray, Lord, for the Senate this week that you would do an amazing thing. And that you would in fact be pleased to bring about a positive two-thirds vote that seems impossible for that. Lord, even if that doesn't happen, we pray that It would at least rouse the nation to think not simply in terms of moralism, but in terms of where our heart is, and that you would produce genuine revival, heart change, and repentance within our nation. We cry out to you alone who can do that. In Jesus' name. Amen.