I think in our ten years as a congregation, that uh that hymn that we have just sung is our most sung hymn of any. Used to keep a record of how frequently we sang different ones just to make sure there was some we didn't miss and all that. And uh that that point was far and away, the most sung hymn of our congregation. Good to see Kim and Tito Padilla back. Welcome. Back from Studies at Reform Seminary. There's proof that Tito survived the exams. Back here for a visit in the state of Maryland and then going up to Boston. Good to have you with us. The first missionary that I remember ever getting to know was Jack Layman I was a brand new Christian, teenager. Jack was a seasoned missionary in Kenya. And I can still remember a conversation we had one day when Jack told me that uh many people felt sorry for him leaving the United States to go serve Christ in deepest, darkest Africa. And then he sort of chuckled and he said, but in fact, I kind of feel sorry for you guys. Because I love what I'm doing I really enjoy living in Africa. I enjoy the African people. I enjoy the lack of traffic. I enjoy serving the Lord there. I feel bad for you guys with all the hassles and tension and pressures you have here, fighting traffic and everything else. And he went on to talk about how much fun he was having serving Christ where he was. I remember going from that conversation thinking, there's something not right about this. This guy is supposed to be suffering as a missionary. He sounds like he's having more fun than I'm having. I'm not going to waste any more of my missionary sympathy on him. This guy has taken all the nobility out of missions I mean, you know, where is their nobility to missions if you're not suffering for Christ, sacrificing, giving up? And that made me begin to think. Because I also found something very appealing and very attractive, even enviable in Jack Layman. He was a guy who enjoyed serving Christ right down to the tips of his toes. You and I think of Mary. We talk about poor Mary and what she suffered. Here was a Galilean peasant, soon to be the wife of a rough, poor carpenter. Not much of a life to look forward to in Nazareth, you know. Oppressed by the Romans who had a garrison there, oppressed by Herod, their own king. Lots of difficulties. We know the things that she's going to face later on in her life. And we think, poor Mary. And yet, we read in that first stanza of her song, that stanza that we're considering this year, that Mary says, My soul glorifies the Lord. And my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. For he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will call me blessed. There's something there that you and I need to learn about. John Piper calls it Christian hedonism. And I want to consider with you then this morning, perhaps to shake us up a bit. by three observations about joy that we can learn from Mary concerning the Christian life. Three observations about joy from these first two lines, which make up the bulk of that first stanza of Mary's song. First observation: Do not separate worship from joy. Do not separate worship from joy. See this in your bulletin outline. Fill out the little blanks as you go along so you remember what the points were. See again, verses 46 and 47. My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. This is what scholars call Hebrew parallelism. Hebrew parallelism is the Hebrew custom in their poetry. Of having the second line restate the first line in slightly different terms so that some new thought or idea is added to the original thought in the first line. What is the new thought that Mary is giving in the restatement of my soul glorifies the Lord? I think she is adding the fact that worship must involve our affections. Biblical worship must involve the affections. That's the second blank. I didn't say that biblical worship simply can be emotional. I'm suggesting to you that biblical worship must be emotional. It must involve our affections. I'm afraid that many of us Presbyterian and Reformed types, when we come to worship, think That we are coming to do something that may not have anything to do with our emotions. We don't give any thought for how we will feel in the worship of God. It's simply our duty to sing to him, to praise him, to be there to hear the message. And when we have done that, that's enough. Feelings are irrelevant. And yet the Lord Jesus said, quoting from Isaiah, These people honor me with their lips But their hearts are far from me. In vain do they worship me The reference to the heart there isn't only to the affections, but it certainly involves the affections. And Jesus says, without your heart being involved in worship, your worship is in vain. It's not simply your duty to do it, but biblical worship must involve our affections. John Piper, in that book I've referred to before, Desiring God, Meditations of a Christian Hedonist, gives this illustration. He says my anniversary is on December the twenty-first. That's appropriate to now. And more appropriately, his wife's name is Noelle. You can guess when she was born. One of the things my wife always feels bad about is even though she was born on Christmas, she was never given a Christmas name. And his wife's name is Noel. And he says, now suppose I come on December the 31st with a dozen long-stem roses And I give them to my wife and she says, Oh Johnny, they're beautiful. And I say, That's okay. Think nothing of it. Simply my duty. He says, How do you think my wife would respond to that? Suppose I told her duty after all is a very noble virtue. Isn't duty a good thing? Aren't we as Christians called to our duty in our service of the Lord Jesus? Duty's a good thing. Don't demean my duty. When I say that I give them to you because I must, simply that it's my duty, that's really a compliment. You believe that? You husbands won't have very happy marriages. If you think that to honor a person is to simply do your duty, And rather that that is sufficient rather than joy, then I suggest you ask your husbands what your wives think of that, or maybe in order to avoid the the flying frying pans, ask somebody else what you think your wife may think of that. To do something for a person simply out of duty dishonors them. To do it out of joy honors them Mary says, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit involved in that rejoices in God, my Savior. And so John Piper, who has a very high regard for the Westminster Confession of Faith, would humbly suggest That the first question might be clarified in its original intent by changing one word That question you remember, what is the chief end of man? The chief end of man is to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. Piper says It perhaps would be clearer if we made that the chief end of man is to glorify God by enjoying him forever. Because Piper says the whole idea of the Christian life is to desire God as our chief delight. And when we have done that, we have in fact gotten a hold of what is the great command, what is the very heart of the message of Scripture And so if you come to worship saying, I have fulfilled my duty because I went, after all, God should be glad that I got up and that I went, and that I sat there and that I listened to that message. And that I sang, and that I read along, and that I gave my offering, despite the fact that there was no emotion involved in that I have completed my duty. I'd suggest to you you haven't gotten a hold not only of what Mary is saying, you haven't gotten a hold of what the Psalms are saying. You haven't gotten a hold of the very heart of the scriptural message. Search through the Psalms, that book of worship in Scripture. You won't find a single psalm that is simply cognitive. Every psalm involves the heart's feelings, affections, and emotions. You know, one of the great misunderstandings of the Puritans is to see them as unemotional people. The person who has written perhaps most definitively about the place of emotions and affections in the Christian life. is none less than Jonathan Edwards, who people kid about, saying that he read his sermons in a monologue from a manuscript. Little is Edwards, one of the great leaders of the first great awakening That wrote extensively on the necessity of our affections in our worship of our God in order to worship biblically. You and I need to be aware of whether in our worship our feelings are involved. And if you find that you've lost that somehow, you say, well, you know, used to feel that, but somehow I don't anymore, let me suggest that there are three stages back to that joy. Three steps to return to it. First of all, you see them in the outline there. First of all, be aware and disturbed by your lack of joy. The worst thing is to simply be insensitive and think that that's okay. But at least if you and I can begin to weep over our lack of joy in Jesus Christ. If we can at least be aware that something is wrong, that we don't feel affection toward Jesus Christ while calling ourselves Christians and be bothered by it, we've made a good beginning. So if you're not bothered by it, I pray the Holy Spirit will begin to bother you by that, even through this message. The second step, then, would be to thirst for that first joy that you had in Jesus Christ. I find it hard to imagine a person who has come into a genuine relationship with Jesus Christ Come into a genuine sense of their true need and their sin, and of that sin forgiven, and of eternal life given to them as a free gift, and having never felt any feelings about that That to me would be incomprehensible. Therefore, all of us at some time, if we have in fact ever truly placed our faith and trust in Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, have at that time at least felt profound sense of gratitude, of delight, and of joy in Jesus Christ. You may have lost a good deal of that, but at least then remember that Remember that and long for that to return. Long for the renewal of that in your own heart, your own spirit. You remember when we went through that series on the Song of Solomon, and we talked about how the bride praises her new husband on their honeymoon for his excellencies. And then there's that time when her heart is separated from him and she grows cold toward him and returns to him. How that second statement of her delight in him, sometime afterwards, down the road, is much more passionate than the first statement on the honeymoon. The passion and the delight has deepened. Well, brothers and sisters in Christ, let us never fall into the trap of thinking that as we mature as Christians, we get beyond such frivolous things. As delight and simple passion and joy in Jesus Christ. For that's not maturity, it's a jaded cynicism We need to long for that first fresh delight in Jesus to return. And then the third thing I would suggest is to step back would be to feast on Christ. As our joy. And the Bible speaks about worship and delight in the Lord as a feast in a number of places. In Psalm 37, it talks about delighting in the Lord And then in uh Psalm 36 talks about this as a feast, feasting on the river of his delights and drinking from that. Psalm 63 talks about worship as a feast. that is satisfied with the abundance of his goodness. And then of course all these things are brought together in that final statement in Revelation 19 where we are called on to worship, to be glad, and to rejoice, because the wedding feast of our great bridegroom is here. And that brings me to the second point, and that is do not look for this joy in yourself. Second main point. Do not look for this joy in yourself. First of all, don't separate worship from joy. Secondly, don't look for the joy in yourself. See, the opposite danger to the one I mentioned at first about coming to worship not caring how you feel, is to come to worship obsessed with how you feel. To come to worship with the one main question in your mind, how is this service going to make me feel? Are the songs going to make me happy? Will they make me feel better by singing them? Did the music make me feel good Did the sermon make me feel better somehow? Do I feel happier, more at peace because I was there? That intensive, self-centered introspection that says that the worth of the worship was simply measured by what I got out of it. That's a hopeless route to take. Because you see, feelings can't simply be manufactured. That is, the desire for Jesus Christ, the passion for him, can't simply be manufactured. True deep abiding feelings come from what we believe to be true, what we perceive about reality. Back in March 1974, when my mother called up, I took the call and she said, they found a growth in your dad's lungs. And I knew when she said that that was the beginning of the end for my dad. Within four months he was dead. Nobody had to tell me after that phone call that you ought to feel grief. You ought to try to work up some appropriate feelings of grief in response to the phone call. The grief was simply there, stunned, grief that gripped me because of what I knew to be reality. Were you kids? Christmas morning, if you in fact find that favoritist toy that you've been looking forward to for days or for weeks, hoping possibly it would be there. And you find it there on Christmas morning. Nobody has to say to you, now you ought to think about working up some appropriate emotions of happiness and gratitude for that. You see, it's silly because the feelings are simply there. They're there because of what you perceive to be reality. You don't somehow figure that you can get them into line. Feelings come. Feelings are there because of things that we believe to be true. Mary says, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices. Why? Because God is my Savior. Because she says in the second stanza, verse 49, the mighty one has done great things for me. Why can't why shouldn't I rejoice? I can't help but rejoicing. My heart simply rejoices because of who the Lord is and what he has done for me If you told me not to rejoice, I couldn't stop rejoicing. I rejoice because of reality. That's simply the way things are. You know, if you look through Luke's account, you find a number of statements about rejoicing when the eve of Messiah's coming. Do you remember back in verse 14 when Zechariah was in the temple? The angel Gabriel came to him and he said, You're going to have a son, Zechariah. You're going to call him John. And this fella is going to give you a lot of joy. And it's the same word that's used in verse 47. And then he says, Many will rejoice at his birth. Remember just a couple of verses before Mary's song here. Elizabeth, when Mary came to her, Elizabeth said in verse 44, As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. There's a little kid jumping up and down in there for joy because the Messiah has come. Mary says, My soul glorifies the Lord, my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. You see, the center and the source of all joy is Jesus. Mary doesn't say my source Spirit rejoices because I have worked up some feelings that uh you know I lifted my hands and I got some things going here and you know and I just figured that this was the appropriate religious thing to do. She says, my spirit rejoices in God, not in myself, but it's in him when I think of Jesus. And Luke and the rest of Scripture is very clear that the source and the center of our joy is Jesus. The Jews, Isaiah, back in Isaiah chapter 12. Wrote in anticipation of this joy. He gives a beautiful picture there in Isaiah 12, which he talks about the Jews with joy, he says, drawing From the wells of salvation. Drawing water from the wells of salvation. And then he goes on to talk about the singing and the dancing. And he uses the same word in the Septuagint translation there that we have here in verse 47, saying that with joy and rejoicing you're going to take from this water of life. Now, the Jews applied that passage to the Feast of Tabernacles or the Feast of Harvest. And so part of that feast was always at the end of the feast the drawing up of water, which was supposed to be the water of joy in the wellspring of salvation. And John 7 tells us that Jesus went to that feast and he saw these people doing that and they didn't have any joy. And so Jesus said at the end of that feast, do you remember, do you thirst for joy? Jesus says, Come to me. There's nowhere else you can go. Come to me. And out of your innermost being will flow springs of living water, water of joy. John tells us he was speaking about what the Holy Spirit would do to the person who comes to Jesus. Jesus, according to Luke 10, himself rejoiced. Because he saw Satan defeated. He had a reason for the joyous sea. He knew what was going to happen, what he was going to do in defeating Satan, and so he rejoiced Luke goes on in Acts in Acts the second chapter. He quotes from Psalm 16, and he talks uses the same word talking about The Christians are rejoicing in the resurrection and in the eternal pleasures forevermore given to them through Christ. It's the same word. See, there's a reason for their rejoicing. It centers on Christ. He talks later on in Acts about the Philippian jailer and all his household coming to Christ. Uses the same word. He says they all rejoiced because these things had been applied to them personally. Have you experienced it personally in your own life this morning, or do you hear about joy as a second-hand experience in Christ? Have you ever experienced that joy? Being able to say, my spirit rejoices in God. My Savior. Jesus is my savior. He's applied those things to me. And I can look forward as John uses that same word in Revelation 19 and verse 7, and he says, rejoice and be glad. Because the wedding feast of the Lamb has come, is here, and there is no more tears or crying, there is only the rejoicing and the joy. Those affections that are come to their full fruition now, in the expression of celebration and praise to Jesus, a celebration that can even make Presbyterians rejoice and be happy. See and that's yeah, somebody Amen. We need to feel that, brothers and sisters. We need to feel it. I'm not saying we need to feel it because it looks good. Because it attracts people. I'm saying we need to feel it because it's an expression of who we are in our praise to our Savior. Mary says, my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Amen. We rejoice in Him. Then the final thing to remember, third point, is do not separate joyful worship from sanctification. Do not separate joyful worship from sanctification. You see, while joy in our worship of our Lord Jesus, our spirits rejoicing in Him as our Savior. Is an end in itself. That's one of the points I've been trying to make in this. It's not something that leads to, can be manufactured by, has another end to itself. It simply is, because of the reality. of the fact that my sins are forgiven and all that Jesus has done, I simply must rejoice in him. Not out of duty. Out of delight, I rejoice in it. That's the essence of Christian hedonism, you see, that my chief delight is in the Lord Jesus Himself. As C. S. Lewis has said, it's not the problem that our uh delights or our wants are too powerful. He says they're far too weak because they are so easily satisfied by the tinsels and toys of this world. rather than the deep abiding thirst that can find its satisfaction only in Jesus Christ. You see? That's what I'm trying to say. Now not only is that an end in itself But you cannot separate it from that delightful service and obedience, the sanctification that sets us apart. The word sanctified simply means to set us apart unto the Lord. You can't separate our joy from our delighted obedience in our sanctified commitment to Jesus Christ. You notice again, Mary's song. My soul glorifies the Lord, my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. That follows her submission to the Lord back in verse 38. Remember after the angel Gabriel said what God had called her to do, Mary's response is, I am the Lord's servant. Mary answered, May it be to me, as you have said, that submission, that sanctification, that setting herself apart unto the Lord for his work. And the angel left her And so from that delightful obedience and submission comes the song. But now the opposite is also true. And the opposite is that submission without a song will be short-lived. If in fact you seek to submit yourself to Jesus Christ as your Lord in every area of your life, but there's no song in your heart that accompanies that. You will not delight in the Lord in sanctification. You will not, in fact, root the world out of your heart. It'll take deeper recesses in you, and you will substitute service for Jesus Christ by other things. I've listed four possibilities there on the outline. Sometimes they're in progression. These are four examples. The first one, Christian activism. Without a delight in Jesus Christ, that drives the world out of your heart. Which replaces the delight in the world with a delight in Jesus Christ, you will be involved in the world. Perhaps in Christian activism, that is, uh lots of meetings, lots of ministry, lots of things which are not a very important thing to do. Simply you think gives you no time for worldliness. The world, hey, how can I be involved in worldly activities? I don't have any time for that stuff. All I'm doing is involved in Christian activities and Christian service. I'm involved in a Christian subculture. Man, I you know, I I can't even get into that stuff. You know, I I just don't have any time for it. That's very deceptive. Because the world is not a matter of simply activities, where you go and what you do The world's a matter of your heart, what your affections are revolving around. And unless Jesus Christ and the delight in him replaces The delight in the things of this world and the things that you find that if I only had this and were that and all the rest of that would make me happy, then in fact you have simply sublimated the worldliness, you haven't really seen it be taken away. Because the only thing that will take it away is the delight in Jesus. Or a second possible way of substituting it would be through what I call Christian intellectualism, Christian activism, or Christian intellectualism. A delight in Bible study and the doctrines of grace, to grow in your understanding of what the gospel is about and all that the Bible teaches, becomes for some people an end in themselves. And there's no more delight in Christ, but there's rather a pride in all that I know about the Bible, about Christianity. I become a master at being able to pick holes in other people's thinking and arguments, but I find that my heart becomes sterile in it. I remember that as I uh had gone through seminary and graduated from that with all the tower of learning that I had gained from that, I was leading fewer people to Jesus Christ and delighting in it less. I was simply delighting all in what I knew rather than in the Lord Jesus in the simple way that I had before. I needed to, you see, find a delight in Christ. What I had learned was fine But it had to grow in a delight in Christ, not substituting simply what I knew for that delight. The third thing, third way we do this, is through what I call Christian Phariseaism Christian Phariseaism is that that idea that we have sometimes as Christians that I need to grow more distinctive as a Christian, my lifestyle, my patterns. have to become more distinctively Christian. And so I establish certain rules that make me very distinctive and sometimes rather obnoxious to my neighbors or family, particularly at Christmas time. If in fact Those are external rules, and there's no delight in Christ. Now there's no question that we as Christians should be distinctive. We probably ought to be a lot more distinctive than we are. We ought to be more radically distinctive. But you know the difference, don't you, between a person who's obnoxiously distinctive for the sake of being distinctive, and a person who's distinctive simply because they are caught up with such a love for Jesus Christ that he is the center of their existence. And all they want to do is please him. And because of that, they're different. And that difference may shame and convict and challenge you and me. But it's not a Phariseeistic distinctiveness. It's not a distinctiveness that's censorious and critical of other people who are not like them. But it's a delight which draws you to want to be like Jesus. Phariseaism is a Christian who wants to be distinctive, but who has lost a joy in Jesus. A person who says, I will be consistent, but they have forgotten, my soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. God forbid that that would ever come to characterize Columbia Presbyterian Church. The fourth distinctive is what I call Christian cynicism. It can come from any of the other three or it can simply flow along itself. The Christian cynicism is the Christian who after walking with the Lord some years and losing that sense of joy begins to whittle down the promises of the gospel, such as John 7 that I've talked about, the springs of living water. We begin to whittle down those promises so they fit our meager existence. And we make them fit by cutting off and lopping a promise or an aspect of a promise here and there. So that in some distorted way it fits a very meager, starving Christian existence that lacks joy. And so we don't come to expect that God would give to us joy and delight in serving Him. People like Jack Layman are kind of an anomaly, you know. Well that's just kind of the way that guy is. It must be his personality or something. But I don't find that, you see. I have become too experienced for such frivolities And what we have become in many cases is simply cynical. We've lost that delight in Jesus Christ that says that He can give to us a peace and a contentment that is above and beyond whatever circumstances. And that cynicism robs us of joy or even the expectation of it. We can't even relate to Mary when she says, My spirit rejoices in God my Savior. We say, oh, just wait, Mary. You haven't had Jesus yet. You haven't gone through the things you're going to go through yet. Boy, at the end of your life you're not going to say that. And it's a cynicism. It's rooted in our own hearts. If we have that, recognize it. And let's weep to God and ask Him to take that from us that we would not whittle down the promises Rather, what's the solution? The solution, happily, is very simple. And I really don't mean to be simplistic here. I really do believe that the solution is simple because the solution is simply the gospel. The solution, you see, is simply for us to return to our first love of Jesus. To return to your first love of Jesus, which is based. On a genuine heartfelt sense of sin and sense of grace. What is it that gave you joy in the first place It was when you saw how hopeless you were in yourself, how hopeless your flesh was, forever pleasing God. How you were overwhelmed with that sense of sin. You see, part of the reason the Christians lack so much joy is we don't believe that anymore. We believe we have something that we can offer to God And because we never quite can make it, we are frustrated with ourselves and we're always trying harder. When the gospel says despair of that self-effort. Despair of the fact that you're ever going to be good enough to please God in your efforts. But come back to that original repentance where you said, I can't do it. And I'm not even going to try to gain his acceptance through what I do. But I then see in fresh new ways the grace of Jesus Christ. That he has in fact pleased the Father perfectly. That he has in fact taken my place in bearing all of the Father's wrath. And because his righteousness is absolutely sufficient and perfect, I dare not ever try to add anything to that. But rather, I can rest in that, I can rejoice in that. I can say my spirit rejoices in Jesus because he is my sufficient Savior. And in doing that, I can find rest and peace and delight. Where would you put your Amen Where would you put yourself on that line of joy that you see there? Be honest with yourself. Do it sometime today. From zero to ten, no delight to rapture. And then I would ask you seriously to write out in your own words all these thoughts, you know, they may be all confused in your mind. Think about it, open up the scripture, and then write out how would you describe God's way of increased joy for you based on this message? What does the Holy Spirit have for you in response to this? God works in us enough. Who knows? God might even bring revival to Orthodox Presbyterians. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. Lord, I think of Times when I have thirsted for that joy and found so insufficient when I have uh been going along and thinking here I am miserable and thinking everything I do is inadequate. Lord, I thank you that at times you have broken through and you have shown me Jesus, so that my spirit could rejoice in him as my Savior. Lord, we pray for anyone here who's saying, I wish I could understand that, but that's so lacking in my life. I once knew it, and now I have become a cynical Pharisee. Lord, we pray that you would break through to that person's heart, that you would give to them that original sense of despair and their sin. And the original sense of grace and rejoicing in the finished work of Jesus. Lord, for any who have never experienced that, we pray that you would show yourself to them this morning in a way that they have never seen. That they would understand that Christianity is not something that you do or something you belong to, something that you achieve. But it's resting in the finished work of Jesus, and that he becomes then for each one of us our chief joy and delight. Do that working as we pray, even at this Christmas time, for Jesus' sake. Amen.