As you turn to your Bibles, uh just a couple of comments. I enjoy worshiping with other I I'm a guitarist, I'm a worship leader, and it's the purpose of worship leading worship is to get people to sing. You gotta sing. I just love hearing that. That you guys, this is the worst, it's a singing church. Singing comes that comes from the heart. The second thing I want to do before we read scriptures, just say that I am a I'm kinda we're in this kind of summer mode of helping but I am an outsider. This is an interesting passage we have today. There may be some things here that the session on some of the particulars might say, well that's not the way we take it here at So I'm because I'm gonna I'm gonna step out on a few things, you know, that uh I don't know I haven't talked to the session. They just told me to preach Right? So if that's a disclaimer, that's a disclaimer, okay? Whatever. Okay, you got you got a text here. Let's read 1 Timothy 3, 1 to 13 from the ESV translation The saying is trustworthy. If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Therefore, an overseer must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, sober-minded, self-controlled, respectable, hospitable able to teach, not a drunkard, not violent, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a lover of money. He must manage his own household well, with all dignity, keeping his children submissive. For if someone does not know how to manage his own household, how will he care for God's church? He must not be a recent convert or he may become puffed up with Conceit and fall into the condemnation of the devil. Moreover, he must be well thought of by outsiders, so that he may not fall into disgrace, into a snare of the devil Deacons, likewise, must be dignified, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for dishonest gain. They must hold the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience And let them also be tested first. Then let them serve as deacons if they prove themselves blameless. Their wives likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things. Let deacons each be the husband of one wife, managing their children and their households well. For those who serve well as deacons gain a good standing for themselves and also great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. Amen. Let's pray. So I love that hymn we just heard. He leadeth me. Lord, lead me as I proclaim your word. Lead us as we hear your word. May it not just be a human voice. May the Spirit of God speak to us. about the implications of what we might hear today. Have each of us take away something that we can use. In Jesus' name. Amen. Yesterday I had the privilege of being in the the the the at the graduation for the Metro Baltimore Seminary where I serve as one of the deans, the Dean of Urban Ministry there. It was over at Freedom Church in Rosedale And uh it it's it was great to see uh a seminary graduation. We didn't have it wasn't as big as our first one, but that's okay. Seminaries are struggling. I don't know if you know that. People aren't going to seminary. People aren't feeling called to ministry. Seminaries are losing money, some of them We're very thankful at Metro Baltimore that uh we're that we that God has even through COVID has these first few years has blessed us that we that we've had students that have continued and we have people that are applying to be part of that uh of our experience there. But the decline in seminaries is is symbolic of a crisis in the church. The crisis in the church is really a leadership crisis. It really is. Not just on the pastoral level, but a leadership crisis. Of course, we're we're very alert of the of the of the crisis, crisis of the Southern Baptists. uh have been walking through the last couple of years and now even recently in Maryland we have the report uh uh of the Roman Catholic Church. But w but it it it it it it's not just those other guys, is it? It's all of us. It's the church. We we're part of the church. Leaders in the church. What titles church leadership? Simple title. God's people are given the important responsibility of confirming. The call upon God's leaders. The people of God have the responsibility, the privilege, but the responsibility of confirming leaders that God is calling to be part of his church. In 1 Timothy, the Apostle Paul is charging his spiritual son Timothy. Timothy is the leader at Ephesus, the city of Ephesus. The church that was planted by Paul and Timothy and the team in Acts chapter 18 and 19. Timothy is charged to set things right, to some problems, to straighten things out. Some things have gotten a little out of order, as he promised, predicted would happen in Acts 20. The first couple chapters of 1 Timothy are very foundational review. Chapter 1, they need an accurate understanding of the gospel. So there's discussions about the nature of the gospel, the importance of the gospel, warning that heresy is never far away. Keep the gospel straight and live the gospel. And then in chapter 2, the need to worship accurately. So this few this this this guidelines and discussions about public worship and lifting up holy hands. And Paul reminds them that God calls men to step up and lead and worship. And he seems to ground that in creation, doesn't he? Not in a local, cultural, temporary context. This is important for us in our day, isn't it? When unfortunately men will gladly allow women to lead in the church, and where women eagerly seek to sometimes Usurp God's pattern of male leadership in the church. So we need to heed what Paul says in chapter 2. And and Pastor Craig a couple weeks ago dealt with that very well. Now, so chapter three, Christian leadership, particularly the qualifications. And the outline is in your bulletin, you see it there. We're going to talk on first one about just about this idea in general of the lists that are here and some things about the list. And then we're going to look at Verses 2 to 7, the qualifications for the office of elder, and then in 8 to 13, the qualifications for deacon. First, the saying is trustworthy. If anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. Aspiring or desiring It's not wrong. It's not wrong to want to be a leader. In fact, Paul says it's a noble thing, it's a noble task you're pursuing. That is still true in our day, isn't it? Though even in our culture, our current culture is certainly not seen as a noble responsibility, a noble thing. Pastors are often seen as suspect. And yet we are still public representatives of the true and living God and representing his authority and hopefully reflecting his character to a skeptical, unbelieving world. To aspire to the call to leadership is still a good, godly desire. No one is to serve by force though. No one's to serve because their mama thinks they make a good preacher or a good elder. Or their daddy. Or their Sunday school teacher. My Sunday school teacher's always thought that about me and I said, no, no, no, no, no, not me. Here I am. I don't know. Over many years of experience, I've seen many things, and I've seen the wisdom of Scripture that it's better to to not lay hands on anyone to lead rather than to lay hands on someone who's not qualified to lead I've learned that over the years in some of the hard ways. And yet aspiring, desiring to lead is not enough. The presence of this very list that we're going to look at in these chapters, it implies that feeling called and personally wanting to pursue the position of leadership is not enough. There's not just an internal affirmation. There has to be an external affirmation, you see. An external affirmation is needed. Remember, we're talking about confirming what God has done. That's the idea here. In the book of Acts, the first missionary journey, as as Paul and the team are ending that journey, going back towards Antioch, they reverse their steps. And it says in Acts chapter 14, verse 22 and 23, they were strengthening the souls of the disciples, encouraging them to continue in the faith Saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. And when they had appointed elders for them in every church with prayer and fasting, They committed them to the Lord in whom they believed. So Paul, Paul and the team, when they returned to these churches. They appointed elders. There was some some way some external way of affirming some people who thought they might be leaders. Yes, Paul and the leadership team said yes. We affirm, so maybe it was the list that we see in this chapter that was the criteria that Paul was using. We don't know. But the team clearly didn't just let anyone who wanted to lead take the lead. There was some confirmation. And then of course in 1 Timothy and 2 Timothy and the book of Titus, we have a real picture of what some of the essentials are for leadership in God's church. Therefore, their leaders are chosen by God, but confirmed by God's people. Let me say that again. Leaders are chosen by God. God's the one who makes a leader and anoints a leader and points, but confirmed by the people of God. In Acts chapter 20, where he's talking to the Ephesian elders, he uses the phrase that we see here in verse 1, overseer. the office of overseer. But in Acts chapter 20 we also see another phrase. Let me read Acts 20. Acts 20, 17. Now from Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called the elders of the church to come to him. And then in Acts 20 verse 28, Paul says, pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock. in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood, talking to the same Ephesian church, to the Ephesian elders, as he was about to leave them, this tearful um time that Paul had with them. And in that passage, he uses three words that are used for leaders in the church. The first word he uses is in verse 17, the word elders. Elders. We use that word in Presbyterianism, don't we? The word it's the Greek word preseras. Comes from the word elders. And then he talks about um Pay attention to yourselves and to all the flock. That's the word for sheep. It's the sheep of God. And that's the idea of feeding sheep, shepherding. And then he uses the word, he says, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseas. Overseers is the Greek word episcopas. Sound like Episcopalian, yeah, Episcopalius. It's bishops. It's those who are over a local congregation working in that congregation, but not part of that congregation. So those are three words that there's church systems that are that are kind of based on on different understandings of those three words. Now, we in the PCA, we in a PCA, I can say that right? Here's what you need to know. We believe that those are three functions of the same person. You get that? So that leader, that key leader in the church, and the elders in the church, they have the capacity, they have the responsibilities to have oversight. to shepherd and to be spiritual examples as elders. Presby Ross. So we don't we don't believe in that, we believe that's all Different denominations do it differently, but I want you to just understand why we do it that way and why we don't have why don't we have a bishop in the Presbyterian church? That's why. Okay Now, let me talk about the nature of the list though. The nature of these lists. Let's go a little more. How should we view these list this list? How should we view them? And when you see these qualifications, does a man have to be perfect? No. Otherwise, there's only one man qualifies, Jesus. Must the man be a sinner like all the rest of us? No, this qualifies everyone So how do you give this list? Now sadly, I I've heard people when discussing pastoral scandals that they appreciate a pastor who's just like us, who can identify us with our brokenness. Who can identify completely with our weaknesses? It's as if scandalous sin is part of the qualifications. No. No, no, no, no, no. Aren't all of us called to these qualities that are listed? Yes. All of us are called to these qualities I love the pr our presbytery has a this definition of a disciple in our documents. Here's what they call a disciple, not a leader, but a disciple A disciple is a Christ's follower captured by the grace of God, compelled to worship to the worship of God For obedience to the word of God, who prays after the kingdom of God, loves the people of God, and displays the unity of Christ's body, and is empowered by the Spirit of God to make disciples of all peoples. For the glory of God. That's a description not of a leader, but of a disciple. A disciple, one who's following Christ. So, yes, in fact There in some subtle way we we we can kind of think that that leaders have have a higher goal, a higher standard in some way. And that and that's particularly comes, I think about that in our teaching about spiritual gifts. Have you ever thought about this? You know, the gift of hospitality, the gift of giving, the gift of evangelism. Those gifts, if you have those gifts, praise God. If you don't have those gifts, it doesn't mean, oh God, that's good. I don't have to do with hospitality. I don't have to give. I don't have to do with VHS. That's not what it means. Just because you're not gifted in that area, doesn't mean you don't have some Christian responsibility to follow the Lord in that area. Those gifted are those that have a special anointing to do it with with more of a blessing and more of an influence that's edifying more people. But we're all called to the same thing, brothers and sisters. So we look at that that in an incorrect way. God calls leaders to the same standard as every other disciple. We're called to pursue holiness, to pursue godliness, to excel in good works. All of us are. And yet, yet, that being understood, there is a difference in another sense. Those qualities that we see in the list should be more evident in the lives of those we select for leadership. Because God's hand is upon them in a special way. And they it reflects a deeper communion, a deeper commitment, a deeper love for Christ, a deeper obedience to Him. And so the same standard, but but you're selecting those who have excelled in the standard that we all have. A leader is to be an example. An example to the flock. 1 Peter 5 says. The Hebrews passage said that. Paul said in 1 Corinthians, follow me as I follow Christ. Some say that won't that lead to arrogance? No. See, the truly godly person does not feel godly. In fact, the closer one gets to Christ, the more one feels their unworthiness, the more one sees their sinful heart. The sinful drives, sinful attitudes, the idols of your life. The closer you get to Christ The more like Paul, you cry out, wretched man that I am, who can deliver me from this body of death? The more you see your sin, the closer you get to him But the closer you get to him, you don't stop in Romans 7. You go to Romans 8, 1. There's therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. You know that. And you and you praise God for that. And that's why the truly godly man lives in 1 John 1 that says he desires to walk in the light as he is in the light. He desires to keep the commands of God and to walk in faithfulness, but he knows his heart. He knows that if he says he's without sin, he's deceiving himself and he's calling God a liar. 1 John 1 But he knows that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanth is here from all sin. That's the list. Let's move on to number the the second thing I want to talk about is the qualifications for elder. Verses 2 to 7. It begins with this Daunting phrase above reproach. Above reproach. This is an overarching characteristic. It's a general summary phrase. It means that those who know him have no cause to think of this person as a hypocrite. They say, yeah, he's consistent in his life It means he has to consistently he's consistently proven to be a man of high character and integrity. One of the first things listed there is uh in his relationship to his family. It He says uh the husband of one wife. Maybe you're f as maybe as you're familiar with what so many people call the Billy Graham rule. It's Bill Billy Graham early in his ministry decided that he had a conviction that he would not be be seen in the pres in presence with the with a w publicly with a woman other that was not his wife or family member. Because he he was so afraid of scandal in his life. And many think he was kind of paranoid about that. You know, elevator, if a woman comes in, he's gonna leave the elevator. He just had he always had men around him. And again, now many people laugh at him. In fact, I remember when when Vice President, former Vice President Pence kind of said that he had that Billy Graham rule, oh, the media scoffed. How ridiculous. This is becoming a boys' club, an old boys' network. How can you not have women be part of those conversations? Well Billy Graham had high standards. Mike Pence had high standards. And brothers and sisters, elders in the in the PCA, we need to have high standards. I'm sorry. Because The scriptures say that the man is to be the husband of one wife. Now, let me talk about various ways that's looked at. The Roman Catholics, of course, they would say that the wife, you'll be wedded to the church. We're Protestants, I I think, here, so. But this phrase, husband and woman, it does not demand that a man be married, no. I mean Jesus was not married. Paul was not married. At least we don't think he was when he wrote his letters. He may have been at some point. We don't know. There's ambiguity there. But clearly in 1 Corinthians 7, he says you didn't have a wife. Paul addresses the advantages, in fact, in Corinthians, of being single and being a single leader. He does that. It's a calling, he says, a special calling. Over at Abbott Memorial where the bomb teams have been helping the church during their during their um uh uh interim season We have just called Craig's brother Chris. Chris is a single man. He's been serving with RUF for years. And he's a pastor. We're very excited about that So no, we're not saying that that a man must have a wife. We're just saying it's we're just saying, here's what we're saying. A man can only have one wife This come this this comes in the context of a society, of culture where there was a lot of polygamy going on. It was very normal to have more than one for economic reasons even. And Paul's what Paul is doing is laying the groundwork for the church to go back to God's original design. And his ideal is that one man and one woman be married and there not be polygamy. Now notice He is not saying instantly the church, those of you who have more than one wife, you need to get rid of your other wife. He's not saying that. Can you imagine the conversations that will take place? Well, which one am I going to go on? No, no. Paul didn't do that. But what he said was, when you're looking for leaders, you want those who are examples. You only want men who are who have one wife. I believe that's the primary understanding of this phrase. Now, in our days of gender confusion, though, I must add that husband implies males. Wives implies women. And also, I believe that a man who has passions for men Cannot be a leader. If you have a passion for men rather than for women, I believe that disqualifies you. There's a lot of Discussion about that in our denomination. Can he be a member of the church? Well, absolutely. I think so. But an elder? I I would say no. I don't know again, I don't know where CPC is on those discussions, but uh I think we're in a day of incredible gender confusion And I think we need to know that Paul has a high view of marital fidelity, and we should as well. Now, I ascribe to the idea in our PCA that Paul is saying that a man must be simply totally committed to the wife that he has married. He's a one-woman man. In fact, that's a literal translation. I don't believe there are prohibitions against a divorced man being ordained as long as he has a more current history of faithfulness to the Lord and to his present wife if he's remarried. By the way, in 1 Timothy 5. 9, there's a phrase. The widows who qualified for the official lists in in 1 Timothy 5, it says they would have been the wife of one husband. Very similar phrase to what he said here in chapter 3. A man must be known as is committed to his life. This is a crazy story to kind of break the tension of such a tough a tough topic. Many, many years ago, Terry and I were um we were in uh PCA church. I was, I don't think I was a ruling elder yet. I was thinking I was serving with university here in Baltimore. I was not a real yellow yet, and we were pondering whether to stay in the PCA. We wanted we wanted to let's go let's find a better church. I Let's find another church. So we began to look around for churches. There was a church that we found that looked pretty good for the first time we visited, I guess. And uh Yeah, we like to people were sort of friendly and uh the music was kind of nice and uh the the work that they used the Bible. That's a good start, right? It was a little bit of emotion, but I I don't mind it a little bit of I don't want too much, but a little bit of emotion's okay, okay? You know what I'm saying? So After the sermon, they had what they call the pasture of the peace, you know, we kind of greet everybody. And I had to go to the restroom, long sermon. I had to go to the restroom. I said, Terry, I'll be back in a minute. I went to the restroom. I came back. Terry had this look on her face, a look of horror. She said, look at the pastor. He was greeting every young woman with a kiss, not necessarily on the cheek. Yeah. And I said and so I I knew why she had that look of fear. Is he gonna do that with a visitor? That's what she's thinking. So needless to say, as we processed our visit to that church, the next week we were back in the PCA church, and here we are. The husband of one wife. Family management is also part verses four and five, managing your family. Many look at this and say if an elder's children don't grow up to be in the reformed faith, then they are disqualified. I don't think that's true. I think it's a very narrow taking of this word. So the idea of children is particularly when they're young, in your home, under your control. Sadly, many of us know that when they leave home, you have less control. And say we're living in a day when when the culture is decipling our children more effectively than parents. And that's very sad. I know very few elders, pastors, deacons Who can clear gladly say that all of their children are walking with God? I do know some, but I know more that struggle and grieve over that. Unfortunately, Satan is very much alive and active. Even though if the children have walked away from the faith, how has that elder addressed it? Is there still some sense of respect for dad? Is it still an open door for conversation? Is he still loving but not compromising? Speaking the truth in love? These are the character skills needed, you see, to care for the flock of God. Wisdom and patience and compassion with clarity of message Must be seen in this life. Today's Mother's Day. Happy Mother's Day, mothers. I know that raising children is a bittersweet thing sometimes The greatest joys and the greatest sorrows of life can be raising children. And some of you are experiencing some of that today. I know that there's lots of wayward sons and daughters in our lives. My word is: trust God, don't beat yourself up about that. Encourage each other. Beating yourself up about I didn't I wasn't the perfect parent is from the evil one. None of us is a perfect parent Turn that energy into prayer for your children. That God would bring people into their lives, bring something that God might bring the word of God that you planted in them back to their hearts in that moment. We were at my my son's graduation yesterday and he had a eureka moment. I said that last night to in the little gathering. I said, his son, his goal was to win a grammy. He's a great musician. And then all of a sudden he said, I don't want to do that. He said, I'm going to go to the ministry. Now, there's a few things about his denomination that I have some problems with, but it was a eureka moment. Pray for God to have some eureka moments in the lives of your children. Do that because God is not finished with them and he's not finished with you and I either. Anyway, the passage moves on. Tell me about the general relationships. In verses 2 and 3, some of the qualities that are listed there of the righteousness and the integrity just there. He gets specific. Sober-minded. This is serious and clear thinking Able to make wise, clear decisions. Self-controlled. John Scott talks about self-mastery. Respectable. Carrying oneself with a certain level of dignity Hospitable, a lover of strangers, an open heart, an open home, open life, a people person. After giving a few positive attributes, poshis, Toto man should not be, what an elder should not be, not a drunkard, literally not given too much wine. And in this day, when we interview an elder, you better ask his thoughts about recreational marijuana as well. Weed is destroying many young minds in our day. John Scott says this. Paul did not require them to be total abstainers. Since Jesus himself changed water into wine and made wine the symbol of his blood, yet there's strong social arguments for total abstinence. Since much reckless, violent, and immoral behavior is due to excessive drinking. What Paul requires, however, is moderation as an example of the self-mastery already mentioned in the commentary. Not least because pastors are invited to many social functions at which wine flows freely. Not given too much wine. Elders should not be violent, but gentle. That meekness that Jesus talked about. You should not be quarrelsome, looking for a fight, looking for an argument, looking for looking for where you disagree with, but look for common ground. Peacemaker. Not a lover of money. In chapter 6, Paul's going to talk more about contentment. The importance of contentment. You don't have to have money to lust after money, by the way. Now he gets into the relationship to God's word and to God himself. Verse 2 says, able to teach. The elder must be able to teach. In the PCA, we have two types of elders Ruling elders and teaching elders. Both need to be able to handle the Word of God. Some will handle the Word of God with joy one-on-one only, maybe with a small group Maybe in a study school class, maybe in the congregation, but the teaching elder is the pastor, the pastoral with the ability and skills and the confirmation to teach to groups. To teach the word of God, to be able to handle the word of God. 1 Timothy 2, rightly handling the word of truth. But even if you're not a teaching elder, you'd be apt or able to teach God's word. And then he says in verse 6, dropping down, he must not be a novice. Again, this is your relationship to God. A novice, a new convert. Novice is, I guess, is the original translation. Not a recent convert, ESV says. This deals with spiritual maturity. And notice that he mentions uh uh uh the the idea of spiritual warfare is is the problem there. He may become puffed up with conceit and fall into the condemnation. Look, I was looking at looking at Jer uh the prophet Jeremiah. It says in chapter one of Jeremiah that he was consecrated to the office from his mother's womb. And yet Jeremiah struggled with his calling because he he was beaten up and uh he was became depressed and he became discouraged. Look, life is tough. And leadership is tougher. And the man must have a track record of godliness and many have started well, but but not endured through the trials of life and leadership. And Satan often attacks the young and vulnerable. Not a recent convert, someone who has shown some level of spiritual maturity. Now there's no magical age. A man may be in his twenties and yet mature. Because he's walked with God through his teenage years. That can happen. Another man may be 55, and yet still not stable in his walk. So not a recent convert is getting to the fact that we want men who are spiritually mature to leave God's church. And the next relationship is just relationship to outsiders, verse 7. Paul also here repeats the important reminder that the devil is out to weaken and discourage, even destroy God's leaders. Satan hates Jesus and hates all who will live for Jesus and will serve him. And our confidence is that some will fall, but the gates of hell will not prevail against the church. A man should have unbelievers in his life that know of his Christian faith. And is he silent? Or do they know it? Is he afraid to share his faith? Do unbelievers feel he's an obnoxious jerk about his face? You don't want that either. You want someone who has a healthy relationship with unbelievers. And unbelievers say, I may not agree with him, but I respect him, and he seems to respect me. Charles Eirman in a commentary says, Such then is the list of qualifications for the pastoral office enumerated by the Apostle Paul. It is not to be regarded as exhaustive. These qualifications demand moral rather than mental excellence. They refer more to temperament, tact, experience, and reputation than to intellectual gifts. The latter certainly are not to be regarded as unnecessary. Nevertheless, however exacting the conditions which the church at any time may impose upon candidates for the ministry, None will be more essential, more supremely important than that of a high Christian character. That's the qualification for elder. And then lastly Like, do I clock? Let me just oh I see. There it is. You can hardly see the clock for the light, by the way. Most of you have never stood here. You can't tell that. I'm just letting you know. The deacons, the qualification for deacons, verses 8 to 13. Okay? The nature of the responsibilities. Look at Acts chapter 6, where in the Church of Jerusalem there was a crisis of the leaders didn't know that the the Greek Jewish widows were getting left out of the goods that were being given to the widows. Maybe it was language, maybe it was location. We don't know. Doesn't go into details. But when it was a crisis, and out of that crisis, seven men are listed, and they're they're the picture of the first deacons. And it's important to know that they came to assist the elders. So that they can focus on the word of God in prayer. I think it's prayer of the word of God in that order, is what it says there. That's Acts chapter 6. So the nature of the deacon deacle is to help the the church in very practical ways. Now there's an interesting relationship between deacons and elders, and I don't know how some churches this is true, some churches is not, but I'm just going to read what what the Book of Church Order says here. This is the PCA Book of Church Order, which are churches. Or uh or it's a guideline for our churches. Uh chapter 7. The ordinary and perpetual classes of office in the church are elders and deacons. Yes, el ruling elder, teaching elder and deacons Within the class of elder are two orders of teaching elders and ruling elders. I just said that. The elders jointly have the government and spiritual oversight of the church, including teaching Only those elders who are especially gifted, called and trained by God to preach may serve as teaching elders. The office of deacon is one, it is not one of rule, but rather of service. both to the physical and spiritual needs of the people, but it leads them to physical. In accord with scripture, these offices are open to men only. Now, just my simple across the elders starts with the S, and Deacon starts with a B. Elders deal with the salvation of souls, the sanctification of souls, and the shepherding of the flock. Three S's. The deacons is three B's. Bodies, buildings, and books. Okay? Keep that in mind as you think about how what are these what's the difference in these these offices? Bodies, the physical needs of people Buildings, property maintenance, management, they oversee, they should oversee that. And bucks, finances, they don't have to do it, but they're the ones that that that that um um help those who do it in the in the church office, staff office Anyway, that those are a little bit about the do the distinction of the two offices. Now, you may think, so the deacons are to help the elders. Does that mean that they're lesser? That they're inferior? Be careful. In the New Testament, God is called a helper. In the Old Testament, rather. God is called a helper. In the New Testament Um w wives are called to help their husbands. Are they inferior? I hope you say no. So deacons helping elders does not imply inferiority. It's a distinction in function, okay? Just as we talk about distinction of function and marriage. Now there's several qualities in the list that are similar to the qualifications for elders. Not greedy of dishonest gain is the way it's stated here. The elder is just said not a lover of money. Deacon's gonna handle money. And and have decisions about money. Whether they give money, what d the Aquino needs, those kind of things. Not gre not not agree for dishonest game It says in verse 10, let them also be tested first. Again, now for elders is it not a novice here, so let them be tested first. That's important. We'll come back to that in a second. And similarly, there's this statements about managing the family in the deacon categories. And there are several qualities that are different from Elder Sell. Again, deacons are their primary emphasis is on service, not spiritual authority. Elders have spiritual authority. Verse 10, they should be tested. Not only written tests, but more importantly, by prior service. You ordain men who are serving already, not so that they might start serving. In fact, assistance to the deacons is encouraged. In fact, again, our book of church order, it says this. It is often expedient that the session of a church should select and appoint godly men and women of the congregation to assist the deacons in caring for the sick. the widows, the orphans, the prisoners, and others who may be in any distress or need. These assistants to the deacons are not officers of the church, and as such are not sub are are not subjects for ordination. So men and women can can assist the deacons, which gets us to the verse 11, which I'm not going to skip over that hard verse. ESV. Their wives likewise must be dignified, not slanderers, but sober-minded, faithful in all things. It's important to know that uh the ESV does a little bit of interpreting there. Literally, the word for wise is this is a Greek word. I'm not I don't I'm giving a lot of Greek words today. I usually don't do that, but It kind of helps this one. The Greek word for wives is actually women, and the Greek word is gyneikos. Gainekos. You hear a little bit of a guy that calls you there? Gaynakos. Because our word godsity comes from that same root. Okay? Um to me If I were translating this, I would keep it literally the women, not their wives. We'll walk to that in a second. Five interpretations of this. praise and this idea that that uh Paul has. That he's talking about the wives of elders and deacons. I don't think that that's what's going on. It it because it's only in this second paragraph which deals with deacons. If you would elders and deacons, you would have said something about women in the top one. About the their the the the wives I mean, are are are wives of elders not important? That doesn't make sense. The second interpretation, which I reject, is uh that it is it is women who are who are ordained, female deacons who are ordained. Um again, I I um Again, I can go into it. He says, husband of one wife for elder. If deacons were women also, he would have said spouse of one spouse. He didn't do that. Husband or wife. There's something going on in terms of gender state. I don't think that he's talking about the ordained females Third, it's a reminder that women in general who serve need have some level of qualifications. Well that's true, but why do we put it here? Why would he insert it right here? So in the PCA, there's two other interpretations, and I think they both flow in various churches. The first one is that he's simply talking about the wives of deacons. And that's the way it's translated, ESV. Because it's in the deacon paragraph, he's talking about the wives of deacons. But again, I say, why would he single out deacons but say nothing about the wives of elders? I don't understand that. But that but that's the way that's because that's the way that some in our denomination would take that might be your church's interpretation again. Talk to your elders, but don't call me a heretic. Here's what I believe is going on. It is women who are officially who officially serve as non-ordained deaconesses or deacons' assistants. just like men do. But you got, but there's a criteria for them. These are mature women, and they're an official list of women. And uh again, I base that on the fact that Paul inserts right here in verse, in this, this section, in So that that's my take on it. Uh that there and there's some churches that that that have come to do that, come to understand it that way. And there's an official list of of women who are proved to serve in a special way in the church. That's that's that's not my decision for this church. It's the elders and the future pastors' decision. I'm just telling you, that's what I see here. David Platt says that there are three things that are not on the list. Age. Older men should not automatically be elders and younger men should not automatically not be considered. It's about spiritual maturity, not age. He says, two, business success. Jesus warned about Gentile worldly leadership attitudes seeping in. He warned that humility, servanthood is most important, not the ability to be assertive. And so forth. And three, likability. Being popular. Being a good, pleasant guy, it might be helpful, but it's not listed as a requirement, a qualification to lead God's church. Remember that David was in the background. He wasn't seen as a very likely person. He was just out there in the wilderness. But he was the one that God had his hand upon. So John Stott says, looking back, it's clear that the qualifications for Presbyterian, presby elders, and the diaconate are very similar. There is a core of Christian qualities which all Christian leaders should exhibit. Putting the two lists together, we note that there are five main areas to be investigated. In regard to himself, the candidate must be self-controlled and mature, including the areas of drink, money, temper, and tongue. In regard to his family, both faithful to his wife and able to discipline his children. In regard to his relationships, hospitable and gentle. In regard to outsiders, highly esteemed. And in regard to his faith, strong in his hold on the truth, on its truth, and gifted in teaching it. My time is up. I'm going to quickly just give you a couple applications and we'll be done. Three applications. Just be alert that, as I said, the ultimate distinction between elder and deacon is not rank, it's giftedness. Be alert to that. Deacons are not inferior. And the diacon is not even a testing ground per se for the elders. We're just going to say more about that, but I won't. The second thing. All of us are called to godly character. All of us. Elders deacon to women who are designated with positions of leadership do so because they have obtained a certain level of consistency in their godliness And others see it, and others need to imitate it. It's not because they know the Bible more or better. Or they have money. Or prestige or popularity. It's because they walk with God, it seems to be evident. It's about spiritual ministries. God's call. And third, just pray for your search committee. I mean this again, we're the passage is about elders and deacons, but at this time in the life of CPC This says pray for your search committee as they make decisions, as they look at the criteria, as they listen to sermons, as they interview, as they look at references, whatever they're doing, we don't know what phase they're in Pray for your search committee because the decisions they make impacts your souls and the community, the greater community of Columbia. The church is the visible representative of Jesus Christ to the world. Jesus had three offices, prophet. Priest and king. And likewise the church has three offices: prophetic gifts through the teaching elders, kingly gifts through the ruling elders, priestly gifts through the deacons. Jesus in in Maeus Road, it says that he ministered powerfully through word and deed. A healthy church wants to minister powerfully to the community through word and through deed with healthy elders and healthy deacons. The local church is the visible body of Christ to an unbelieving world. Let's pray. Look, I pray you would use this portion of your word. Lord, I've been a little probably longer than I should have, but Lord, this is an important passage And I pray that that as as Columbia Press reflects on these things so you would give the great unity that only you can give. Lord, we've seen you do this in congregations throughout the throughout the years. Do do that thing, Lord, where where you where there's a a unity and and a discernment and an agreement about the p the next pastor. And and for even the selection of elders and deacons as that I'm sure there's men in in the wings. May this passage and may the thoughts of this this this this portion of your word just be in the forefront. Lord, thank you for for your goodness in Jesus' name. Amen.