Turn with me in your Bible to Philippians chapter 1, verse 27 through 30. This morning we um the children are invited to stay and join with us in this time. We we do offer children's worship. Uh for children ages four to second grade, um, but today on the fifth Sunday we don't uh we have them in together. If you are in need of more privacy, there is a quiet room in the back that you can access through the hallway. But I promise you your children's jitters and fidgets are much louder. to you than they are to us. So we welcome them to be here. In our series, we are in Philippians and we're looking at our joy in Christ. And we have seen Paul's emphasis so far in his his friendship and his fellowship that he has with the Christians at Philippi. And likewise we see Paul's singular pursuit of Jesus Christ, that he would work to the advancing of the gospel's reach and the gospel's depth. We're now moving into a place of transition from this kind of introductory hello and what's going on with me. to now let me tell you um how the gospel applies to what's going on with you. And today's passage really does begin kind of a middle section of the letter. that goes really through chapter 2 verse 18. So we're just going to look at the the very first few verses of this section of Paul's letter. And here Paul is calling the Philippian church. And thereby we believe that he's calling Christians, even today, to be unwavering and unified in the gospel of Christ. The particular verses here this morning are going to focus on a way to think of it as a compass. A compass that navigates the rest of the letter, or if you've been on a subway recently, the voice on the speaker telling you which station is ahead. He's giving us this thesis statement of what the rest of the letter is going to entail. So hear now God's word from Philippians chapter 1, verse 27 through 30. Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent I may hear of you that you are standing firm in one spirit, with one mind, striving side by side for the faith of the gospel, and not frightened in anything by your opponents. This is a clear sign to them of their destruction, but of your salvation and that from God. For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ, You should not only believe in him, but also suffer for his sake, engaged in the same conflict that you saw that I had and now hear that I still have. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, would you bless us in the reading of your word, but even more so help me to convey what your word means and for us by your Spirit to listen and respond of how we might live your truth. That we would be people who know and love your word, but who also follow and obey it. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. When I was younger, which is funny to say now that I'm forty, um I don't even know why I put quotes around that, because it's it's not even it's not fake, it's real. I'm I'm now forty. Um I had three big buckets that kind of comprised my life. I was actively engaged as a student, I was a mediocre athlete, and I was a Boy Scout I had the privilege of earning the rank of Eagle Scout, and the main requirements for that rank really was just kind of a continued knowledge and demonstration of the Scout oath. uh living out to the best of your ability to scout law and also to to earn merit badges. You had to earn at least 21 and you then to had to culminate with this big service project that you planned, helped lead, and implemented. Some of those may badges were fun, some of them not so much, but but towards the end of your time as a scout, they were particular badges that you you focused on and you had to get before you could earn the rank of eagle. And three of those were on citizenship. citiz citizenship in the community, citizenship in the nation, and citizenship in the world. And these merit badges um they focused upon you know history, uh various documents. the institutions in the public spaces, the institutions of our government, as well as thinking about the ways that we engage in public service in each of those three spheres. And citizenship, whether it's local or whether it's part of the broader world, is very important. Citizenship implies an understanding of who you are in relationship to other people within a given society. It assumes a shared public interest, a common good, a mutual responsibility to one another. It may involve embodying values and practicing customs of the people and the place in which you live, and it likely provides rights and entitless under law. Now, the Christians in Philippi didn't have merit badges, but they would have understood the concept of citizenship and the responsibilities of citizenship. You see, Philippi was in Macedonia, just north of Greece, northeast of Greece, and it was also a Roman colony. Being a Roman colony, it had the privileged status of Ius uh Italicum, which really is this fancy Latin term that bestowed status. And this status could be granted by the emperor. And it gave cities that were outside the geographical boundaries of Rome. the same legal realities and and also kind of assumed and expected the same social responsibilities as if you were living in Rome and on Roman soil itself. The people born in these um places that had this status were automatically made and and considered Roman citizens. And as citizens, people were able to buy and sell property. They were exempt from various taxes and experienced the privilege of entitlements under the protection of Roman law. For a city to have this status, it really did provide the highest liberty for a town or a province in the Roman Empire And it would have been very favorable in the eyes of one another or even those kind of outside even that Roman colony. Why am I telling you this? It's often what my wife asks me when I'm telling her something about history. Because Paul is using wordplay in this passage. And the wordplay that he's using would specifically challenge the Philippian church in their understanding of citizenship. You see, we even read it from other passages today. We sang it. Paul often talks about the life lived in Christ as walking. It is not just a faith or a religion that thinks or has kind of faith statements or propositions, but it's it's a faith and a religion to be lived and to be carried out in our lives. But here, Paul uses a different word than he normally does for walking. He uses a word that plays off the word citizenship. And so here, in challenging their understanding or reframing it, he's saying something to them, but he's certainly saying something to all Christians everywhere across the world. that Christians are to live in a manner that reflects the gospel of Christ. So we're going to unpack this just in two main sections today. First in verses 27 and 28, we're going to look at how Christians are to live in this manner that reflects the gospel of Christ. And they do that by standing firm. And then secondly in verse 29 and 30, we're looking at how Christians are able to live in a manner that reflects the gospel of Christ because it has been granted. So first, verses 27 and 28. Christians of all time and all places, we are to live in a manner that reflects the gospel of Christ by standing firm. The word play that I've mentioned is found there at the very beginning of verse 27. Only let your manner of life be worthy of the gospel of Christ. Now that's a lot of English words that really cap is captured in one single word in the original language. And here it's a verb, and in a few weeks' time we'll look at the noun in chapter 3, verse 20, where Paul says Our citizenship is in heaven. So that word in chapter 3 is similarly being played at here in verse 27. Paul is saying, act like a citizen. Conduct your life in a way that reflects you being a citizen. As you engage in the public square, as you engage in relationships, that this shared life and the mutual obligations being lived out as part of a community of fellow citizens. This concept would be very familiar to the Philippians as discussed earlier, but Paul, he's assuming the category, but he's saying so much more. He's saying, act like a citizen, but then the question is of what? Of what community? And he says, well, for you to at least ask, are we to act Like a citizen of Philippi, of Rome. No, he goes on to qualify what he means by this citizenship. He says, the manner of life that is according to the gospel Living a life worthy of the gospel of Christ. Christians are to live our lives with those around us that reflects the beautiful worth, the incredible value of the gospel. Paul goes on, and he describes an important aspect of this living as a citizen. Behaving, is acting as a citizen by standing firm. How? How are we to stand firm? Well, he tells us to stand firm. In one spirit. And to stand firm is a way of saying that that you're firmly committed in conviction and belief. It can be literally standing, but metaphorically it's that sense of having a firm, committed conviction. Metaphorically Think of like standing like a tree or standing like a wall. There's a strength to it that is not overcome by the forces that want to knock it over. And we are to be firm in one spirit. Now, just a comment about that phrase one spirit. Interpreters disagree if the spirit here is the Holy Spirit. Or more generically, like we might say something like standing with one heart. Now, there's grammatical reasons for both. But just to let you know my mind, I tend to think that Paul is referencing the Holy Spirit here. I think the one Spirit is really he's he's focusing on in a sense think about the location or or maybe even the source by which we stand firm. And then he moves into the next phrase, one mind, which that then builds on how we are to stand firm. So the source of our standing is in the Holy Spirit, and how we stand firm is with one mind. Either way, though, standing firm involves unity together. And certainly the Holy Spirit is involved in that unity together in the gospel. Now, Paul continues to build his his arguments here, and he gives us two ways that we must stand firm. So two ways. First, look at how he gives a positive way. He says, striving side by side. Paul uses the word which we get, how we might use the word athlete. That's the word he's using there. We stand firm by engaging in the struggle as in an athletic contest for the faith that is the gospel. That is the faith that is contained in the gospel. I like how the NIV uses the word contending, but I think the NIV then softens the togetherness that's implied. It's not just you contending for the faith, but we're contending for the faith together. Our striving is done in a way that we are unified with one another. The second way that we stand firm is from the perspective of the negative. He says to not be frightened in anything by your opponents. The picture here of struggling and striving together exists because it is often met with resistance and obstacle. The picture of being frightened really captures your mind of thinking of a horse getting spooked and kind of scattering and running about. Now, Paul, he doesn't say who these opponents are. He doesn't say specific ways that they that the Philippians are experiencing opposition, but we can make some assumptions. One assumption is that Paul speaks more harshly about this group of people compared to the group he mentioned earlier in chapter one. who, if you remember, they were proclaiming Christ, but out of impure motives. But nevertheless, Paul was rejoicing because they were still preaching Christ. Here their opposition is more of the proof of their judgment apart from Christ. Whereas standing firm In the body of Christ, standing firm is evidence of those experiencing God's salvation. Another way that we another assumption we can make is that Paul connects what they are experiencing as the similar conflict that they saw Paul himself engage. They're in Philippians, the way they hear about Paul's ministry throughout the region, and that they still know what he is enduring even in the present. This conflict is not with any who are fellow followers of Christ, but rather those who are more actively opposing the faith of the gospel. In my uh senior year of high school, uh, I had the privilege of playing on our football team, and I had the pleasure of winning uh the state championship that year. As we began to train the summer before, we we marked our goal. We had a goal, and it was something quite cryptic. It was 12499. And we put those numbers on t-shirts, we had signs on our practice field, and we painted them on our walls of our locker room. You see, 12499 was the date that the championship game would be played. And we set our mind on that goal. Our motto was whatever it takes. Now, part of the football experience, um I played offensive line and and we were a tough crowd. We were fast, uh we were we were quite strong, we were We also were pretty um much clowns as well. But but on the field we we had a mindset um to drive down the field and score every possession. That was just the way we thought. That's the way we we just carried ourselves. This was our desire. Now, we didn't score every time, but but we didn't care who the team was. We didn't care where we got the ball. We said, this is what we're doing. We're going to drive down the field. We were committed in our conviction, and we were unshaken by our opponents. We were conducting ourselves the way we saw ourselves. We were union high yellow jackets, and we were going to be state champions. Recently my my friend and who was the quarterback reflected upon our time um and he said this everybody wants to be the quarterback. Easy for him to say he was the quarterback. But But a strong offensive line is first priority. You know, that that made me feel good. A strong offensive line does the dirty work. To protect and move the team down the field. They are called the big nasties because they're willing to risk it all, give it all, and sacrifice it all just for a victory, not the fame. I've never seen a more supportive, tight-knit group. You want to see the heart of a champion talk to the offensive line and observe their camaraderie, their dedication, and their selflessness. You see, if our team lost focus in the vision, or if we lost heart for what we were doing as a team, or or if we just broke down how we played the game, then we would fail. Now we didn't have a perfect season and it wasn't without struggle, but we stood firm. We were contending side by side, working together as a team, and not frightened by our opponents. And it's so with the church. The followers of Christ live out the way of Christ before a watching world. Our mind is set upon the gospel of Christ, and we stand firm by that striving together for the faith of the gospel. Not being shaken, not being afraid of those who oppose us. Now, for you, Christian, or or even for us, Columbia Presbyterian Church, this certainly requires a few things. First, that it that we know the gospel of Christ, that we receive his life, his death, and his resurrection. For us, for the forgiveness of our sins, and that we are by faith grasping hold to God's salvation in Christ alone. And standing firm, having one mind is not created from our own imagination. It's not based in clever branding, it's or or or or catching slogans. This striving is not even mobilized by having a single leader, nor energized by our own strength and personality. We as Christians remain steadfast and unified as we follow Jesus. And we live by faith, relying on his grace and strength. The gospel of Christ must be our joy. It must be our guide as we face internal strife, or we may experience external pressures The gospel of Christ gives us the framework to discern the very purpose for which we strive, for which we stand. It gives us the guide to understand whose glory that we're seeking to be unified in, and even to what benefit, what gain is it to us if we endure? Another thing that it requires for us is that we understand our place in the broader church, that we that we embrace our historic confessions, that we study our catechisms, that we see our partnership alongside Christ Church throughout the world and across all nations. It's not just you contending for the faith. It's not just Columbia Presbyterian Church contending for the faith. It is Christ's church together unified in him who is the head of his church who is contending for the faith. As it was in the beginning, is now, and it will be. But along the way, we face many challenges. As Christianity's public power and social respectability seem to be eroding away, life feels unsteady. Relationships and our very institutions seem wobbly. And sometimes, to our shame, the church Is the reason, or Christians are the reason that we fall short of holding fast to the truth of God's word or fail to love with the love of Christ. Even if opponents aren't hostile to us. And so here Paul is commending the church to stand firm. We must live our lives in such a way that reflects the gospel of Christ. And when we do that, by standing firm in the Holy Spirit with one mind. But the passage goes on. How? How are we able to do that? The text tells us, verse 29 through 30. We see that Christians are able to live in a manner that reflects the gospel of Christ because it has been granted. Look at the end of verse 28, where it says it's it's from God, and then he moves on to verse 29, for it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ. What does he say? He says two things. Not only to believe in him, but also suffer for his sake. Paul is putting these two things together. Now we easily and comfortably want them to be separated. We want them compartmentalized in our life. At best, and we we want the one and we want to avoid the other most often. But we also can easily swing back and forth, just saying that one is more important than the other. But Paul is holding them together. You see, when he is challenging their understanding of citizenship, he's saying something counter-cultural to that time. of what they expected to receive as being a colony of Rome, to experience its benefits and its protections, its social respectability. See, if you start acting like a citizen of Christ's kingdom, you might find yourselves at odds with the earth's kingdom. The validity of Christianity is not demonstrated by truth of the gospel and a will to power, nor is it a demonstration by truth plus our success. But rather, this beautiful mystery of the gospel is to be believed and lived. in a way that brings suffering, that brings upon weakness, that shows our apparent failures. And Paul goes on to say this is a clear sign. It's a clear sign to them of destruction and a clear sign to you of salvation. And that again speaks to the opponents. He's speaking to God's place in what is righteous. declaring what is his. And those who are opposed to it, it is to their to to God's judgment and to to those who are finding salvation is to their um to their joy. Earlier this month, um you you may have heard this or or or seen it in in the prayer chain. Um we were grateful And we continue to be grateful year after year, but but this year we we're grateful for the opportunity that to distribute postcards at a local elementary school to advertise our winter uh basketball ministry. which we call Elevate. And one of the Elevate basketball staff received a phone call that was quite belligerent. And The caller felt very strongly that that such postcards were at best inappropriate, but at worst they should not be distributed because of the separation of church and state. The caller was very rude to our staff person and seemed hostile to all Christians in general, just kind of maligning Christians for all sorts of things. This is an experience of one person. We can see reports and accounts of how this plays out every day across the world. To various degrees of severity. Paul is holding together something that is granted. Do we see suffering as something that God grants? Now, he's not talking about in this passage, he's not talking about suffering in general. He's talking about suffering for Christ in particular. Christianity has a lot to say about suffering in general, but Paul here is talking about a specific type of suffering. And so how are we able to live that? How are we able to reflect the gospel of Christ in moments like those? What is the proper response when you experience it from a family member or or the pressures you may feel from a world that has different values or or um expecting you to to live a certain way. This isn't catastrophizing, I'm not an alarmist here. This is just a reality of what it means to live in the present. When you're living in two spaces. This is Paul's argument, being a citizen of heaven and being a citizen of Philippi. Being a citizen of heaven and being a citizen of Howard County or their surrounding region you may live. What is the proper response to such hostility? Well, to reflect the gospel of Christ, we must embrace that we are called to both believe Christ for his salvation for us in the world. but also that we're called to suffer for his sake. Jesus said in Matthew 5, verse 10 through 12, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Christianity doesn't say rejoice and be glad because it's pleasurable that you're suffering. Rejoice and be glad and count it as being worthy of the gospel. Christians will be misunderstood, we will be blamed, we will be attacked. Later in Matthew 5 verse 44, Jesus says, to love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Paul in Romans. Chapter 12 verse 14 says, Bless those who persecute you and bless and do not curse them Elsewhere in his second letter to the Corinthians, chapter 4, verse 7 through 12, Paul writes this: But we have this treasure in jars of clay. To show that the surpassing power belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed. Perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed Always carrying in the body the death of Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies For we who live are always being given over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. Brothers and sisters, this is so much of the crux of the gospel. The very love and grace to you from God through Jesus. is the very same gospel that empowers you by the Holy Spirit to enter into not only belief, but suffering. For his sake. And to live in a manner, to conduct your lives in a manner that reflects the citizenship that we have with God. It's both, we have kind of a citizenship responsibility to live it out, but we have to understand where we're rooted and we're anchored in that in how God is at work in granting it to us. And we don't do that alone, for we can't. We either succeed and we're puffed up. Or we fail and and we are overwhelmed. Not only was that uh staff person you know, the the brunt of that phone call. But then what does it look like for that call to go out and the elders to pray for her? For us to be praying for our community, for the even though where those postcards go out. to the other homes, how the very ministry of our church in our worship, but also in the very ways we live are embodying the gospel to a world that It's not easy peasy. The days are over that it's assumed that Christianity is a good thing. Perhaps we've been there for some time, and perhaps it we're we're there for some time longer. But we are to live in a way that is responding to God by faith and seeking to live by that same faith. Do we know how to act as citizens? in God's kingdom? Do we know how to understand how those things do overlap in good ways, in beautiful ways? And do we understand with discernment of how we must part ways? You see, and we'll talk about this more as we go along, because this is in the background of this letter. In Roman society, life and pleasure and public sphere and the marketplace, everything was around the cult of the emperor. How do you engage in the economic life of your community when you're saying, I can't do that anymore? My allegiances are over here now, not to Caesar, but to the Lord Jesus. That brings opposition. Jesus has told us so, and if you seek to follow Jesus, you probably have experienced it or you certainly will at some point. Today marks the 504th anniversary of Martin Luther posting his 95th theses. Which ended up lighting a flame of Reformation in the medieval church across Europe. That was a network of relationships that expanded beyond Europe as well. It's amazing how to read letters from Martin Luther being sent to the church in Ethiopia, communicating about what's happening, and you're seeing this flow of communication that's happening about reforming the church, seeking to call her to obedience in the in the doctrines of the church, but also seeking to understand how we appropriately live that out. Not for our merit. You see, like a Boy Scout, we don't live our lives gaining merit badges. And we hold our stash up to God and say, see, now you have to give me the rank of your son or your daughter. That's not how the gospel works. The gospel says, I am I am your God and I love you Be my son. Be my child. Be my daughter. And I know you can't in your own strength, but I make it possible through my son. Believe upon him. Follow him. Take up your cross. Find life. in a way that means to embody the gospel which is strange to the world, that what seems like taking on death for the benefit of another person's life is the very essence that has accomplished your salvation. And Jesus invites us into that same path. This gospel is the gospel that can pin the words from Luther's famous hymn. If we are to live this way, some of us might be able to do it better than others. But it's only the gospel of Christ that makes it that we're even capable of living in this manner. And though this world with devils filled should threaten to undo us, we will not fear, for God has willed his truth to triumph through us. The prince of darkness grim, we tremble not for him. His rage we can endure, for lo, his doom is sure. One Little word shall fail him. That word above all earthly powers, no thanks to them abideth. The Spirit and the gifts are ours through him who with us sidethes. Let goods and kindred go, this mortal life also, the body they may kill. God's truth abideth still, his kingdom is forever. We recognize this kingdom is forever, and we are invited to share in it. We believe and we're called to suffer as well. In a famous speech, Teddy Roosevelt that's actually entitled Citizenship in a Republic, perhaps you may know it more familiar as the man in the arena. Here's the probably the most well-known part of that speech. It is not the critic who counts, not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actually in the arena, whose face is marred by dust. And sweat and blood, who strives valiantly, who errs, who comes short again and again, but there is no effort without error and shortcoming But who does actually strive to do the deeds? Who knows great enthusiasms to great devotions? Who spends himself in a worthy cause? Who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst If he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat. Psychologist Brene Brown uh writes often about this speech. She does a lot of great research with shame and vulnerability. And she says this about this paragraph from Teddy's speech. I want to be in that arena. I want to be brave with my life. And when we make the choice to dare greatly, we actually are signing up to get kicked. We can choose courage or we can choose comfort, but we can't have both, not at the same time. So, brothers and sisters in Christ, let us not think we are in the arena alone. First, because Christ has gone before us in his death and his resurrection, if we share with him all things. If nothing can separate us from his love, then we can joyfully enter into the arena because he is even there with us. But our joy can be further shared. Because together, brothers and sisters in Christ, when we are in the arena, we're in there together. And we are in it. With you, and you are there with me. So let us live our lives in ways that reflect the gospel, this citizenship. May we reflect his gospel by standing firm in the arena. That place has been granted to us. Our faith in Christ. He is the victor. He is our confidence. And by the Holy Spirit, he is the way in which we follow him, even into suffering for his sake. And we can stand firm because we are granted faith We can withstand the opposition because we are granted to suffer for the name of Christ. And if we have been given faith to experience the riches of the glory of Christ, The complete and total forgiveness of sin, the complete and ongoing renewal of our whole being. Do we not experience the joy of such a great salvation? But we cannot experience the fullness of joy in Christ if we reduce the gospel to merely believing the gospel only. Paul draws our attention that we experience more and more the fullness of joy in Christ. as we also live by faith to become the gospel in our lives for the sake of others. Our citizenship grants us rights in Christ. And then there are responsibilities of how we live in love. Let us be citizens in His kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Father, bless this time. As we respond in singing, may we be called to attention by your grace and overwhelming love. How you are with us, how you never leave us nor forsake us, and how you give us the strength to abide. And you call us into a community that we are not alone. Help us to flesh this out in our lives, the experiences we may have, the relationships we have with family or friends. Neighbors, those who misunderstand us or who outright mock us in our faith May we be a pleasing aroma to them because they see Christ. May we not defend ourselves and seek to win them over because we're smart or good or better. But may we point them to you. And we be worthy of your gospel. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Please stand and let's sing, responding.