If you have your Bible with you, you can turn to Romans chapter thirteen. If you go to the middle of the Bible and flip forward more past the Gospels, past the book of Acts, then it's the letter to Romans. We are continuing our sermon series this summer on God and governance. And When we were contemplating this sermon series, we knew we were going to be discussing what I'm going to be preaching on today and what Pastor Randy will be preaching on next week, months ago. We were excited about it. And then you have to try to preach a sermon on it, and it's not so exciting anymore. It's actually terrifying to stand up here before you and preach from God's word something of great importance. And I don't mean to equate that with our salvation. I just mean to kind of give a sense of the weightiness of this because this passage is actually. Very debated. This passage is very focused upon over a thousand years or more of the relationship between the Christian church and the state. And so here I am before you. And I'm not going to say anything new. I'm not going to say anything that exciting. Randy has actually the exciting topic next week. Because that's also something that's true. As I was sitting down in preparation for this text, at every juncture I can feel it in my own heart. I wonder if you can feel it in yours. But you it's so easy to say, yeah, yeah, I get it. I'm supposed to obey. But when can I not obey and should I not obey? Or or can't what about this and what about that? And ah, but maybe only to this degree I'll obey, but then I'll s you know, it's just so easy to just slide into civil disobedience as a topic of when can I not obey So I'm going to try to stay focused on when we are to obey. And we do that very intentionally because of how even Paul writes in the first verse of where our obedience is rooted in. So that's where we're going to start today with civil obedience. And this passage does address the following question: what is my responsibility as a Christian? To the state, to the nation that I reside in, either as a citizen, resident, or a guest. What's my responsibility? And as I as I said, this really has had tons of tons of discussion. And most of which we won't have time to address. But before I jump into the passage, just want to frame our our place in the text, the context of what's going on in Romans. Remember, Romans 1 through 11, Paul has been Very thoroughly unpacking what is the gospel. He's been talking about particularly this gospel, this good news associated with the person, Jesus. And he unpacks it how it's the righteousness that comes from God. And this gospel is a power that saves. And that the gospel of Jesus is foundationally our changed status between God and us. That there is a there's forgiveness of our sins that separate us. There is a reconciliation to God in Christ. And this total salvation is rooted in His righteousness. And it's merely credited to us by faith in the life and the death and the resurrection of Jesus. Chapter 12 pivots. Paul goes from kind of maybe answering the question, what is the gospel, to, so now what? I believe in Jesus. I believe everything you said, Paul, but what bearing does it have in my life? My relationships? And he unpacks those implications in how we relate to others by the mercies of God. Chapter 12. We are to relate to God by presenting our very bodies as worship, as spiritual worship to God, and that we are to be continually transformed by the renewing of our minds. Then he goes on to talk about how we are to consider ourselves a relationship to ourselves. That's in play. How we are being renewed, but also then by nature of the the grace and the gifts given to us, how do they then do we lean out in relationship to others? And he he talks about to those in the body of Christ, the family of God, and then also how we are to lovingly serve even our enemies. So here he pi he he transitions into Romans 13. One of the debate has been, is this In addition, is this Paul, like, all these scholars are like, this doesn't make sense. And I assure you, this fits within the flow of where Paul's talking. This fits in what he's Talking about he's on both sides of this text this morning. It's he's he's he's cultivating what this passage is about because of an implication of the gospel. So let's hear how the Christian is to relate to the state as I read from God's Word. Romans 13, 1 through 7. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain, for he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore, one must be in subjection, not only to God's wrath, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes. For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them. Taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor, to whom honor is owed. The word of the Lord. Will you pray with me? Father, would you add blessing to the reading and hearing and preaching of your word? May we Not necessarily walk away with specifics today. But would we walk away with a sense of awe and thankfulness? And an acknowledgement of your authority in our lives, and how your care even extends to how you appoint leaders and governments. Would you help us wrestle with this text? Help brothers and sisters around the world wrestle with this text in their own context as well. Help us to understand, help us to apply your word in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. So do you obey or disobey? That's the question. It really is. It's the question before. before you ever interact with any law, whether it is of God's or man's. It's the question before you on your commute to work when you're running late. Or even now, this past week, do you play Pokemon Go while you drive? Now there's another layer of the tension. It's the question before you when your mom asks you to turn off the television and go get ready for bed. It's there as an invitation to respond either with obedience or disobedience. Jeffrey Clayton needed to answer that question in 1957. At that time, he was the Anglican Archbishop of Cape Town, South Africa. And during that year, nineteen fifty-seven, there was a bill introduced by a man who was to later become the Prime Minister of South Africa the very next year. But in this bill, the Natives Law Amendment Bill. said this. Uh well it had a church clause, the so-called church clause, which prevented any racial association in church. school, hospital, club, or any other institution or place of entertainment. Obey or disobey The events even in our own nation, the events in the in the world have been pretty crazy lately Somebody tweeted this. If real life was the game of civilization, it's like a role-player game, you're building civilizations. I would have reloaded 2016 by now and started it again. How is a Christian to respond to the world around us that appears to be on fire or seems to be about to catch on fire. When when everyone is walking around with either a can of gasoline or a lighter So Paul, Paul calls us to be subject to the governing authorities. See, I'm already wanting to step into when do I disobey? Because what happens when the government has the can of gasoline or the lighter? See, we're already slipping into what Randy's getting gets to talk about next week. But basically, the principle is very simple. Christians are to be subject to the governing authorities in which they reside. So what does that mean to be subject to them? So we're going to look at three things very quickly. The reason to obey Getting that from verses 1 through 4, the context to obey, verses 6 and 7, and then the motivation to obey, verse 5. So first, the reason to obey. Very simply, verse 1, God commands Christians to be subject to governing authorities. It says it right there. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except from God, and those that have existed have been instituted by God. That's the principle. Now there's two important key words there. One is well it's asking the question, well, who is the governing authorities? And there's this sense of um And the imperative given that it's for every person. Now he's writing in a particular political context in the Roman Empire. And nowhere in the Bible do we have direct discussion that reflects our modern, post-enlightened democratic republics. Paul is talking to a group of Christians within the Roman Empire that had no status within that Roman Empire. So our situation is different. The development of time since the writing of this letter has changed and developed. Paul is stating something for all Christians. Whether you are rich or poor, responsible for obeying the law, or responsible for making and enforcing the law, everyone is to be subject to the governing authorities. So to that question of who are our governing authorities, it's in this context, it really is. Those elected, those appointed, those who are in every branch of government, every regulative bureaucratic body, from the federal to the state. to the local. He's talking about the state as a a polit a political entity, a national uh identity. Now, by implication, you could definitely explore how this deals with how we are to be subject to our employers, how we are to be subject to even our parents. That's that's not directly in the mix, but it definitely is indirectly in the mix. The word subjection is important. Now, I've intentionally outlined it, you know, reason to obey, because we're talking about civil obedience here. But the reality is. The word be subject is much broader and more inclusive than just obedience. If it were just obedience, Paul could have used a different word. A much direct word. It would have been a word that would have been potentially even more active. You know, you you obey something, you you respond, you do. There is an action associated with the obedience. However, this is passive. It's even reflexive in the sense that it's implying that the appropriate response flows from our our attitude, our our posture toward the governing authorities. So why? Why? Why is he bringing our that attention to us? Because it's God, it's God who institutes these governing authorities. And because of that, Christians are subject to them. And as our attitude, as our posture, it begins first and foremost with the acknowledgement that God is the governor of all things. Which anchors our acknowledgement of God's hand in placing those civil authorities in our life. It's a way that He's providentially caring for us, even, as we discussed several weeks ago. Verse 2, though, gives us a weighty caution. Verse 2: Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. There is a sense though, even in that warning, there is embedded in the affirmation that these authorities have truly been granted authority by God. And so there is there is there's weight to disobeying. And that involves judgment. And I think there's a double sense here. There is a pointing to judgment that's coming in verses three and four. by the e uh the what the state exercises by the sword. But but I do think Paul is bringing our attention to Take great care because to rebel against God's authority and those He's placed in authority is to rebel against God's authority. So it's important. We need to hear that. Verses 3 and 4 present the governing authorities functioning in the ideal, of course. Remember, Paul is both a Jew and a Roman citizen. And so he's not naive. In his own life, he experienced both the benefit of appealing to Roman law, but he was also familiar with Roman oppression in Judea. And of course Saul, who became Paul, was very aware that Jesus himself was executed by Rome. So he's not He's not saying that, hey, Rome's great, and uh everybody should go out and get the mayor badge of God and Caesar, because Caesar's awesome. But he's saying that just as Jesus did, just as Paul did, we are to entrust ourselves to God and to the structures of Authority that God places in our lives, in our day, in our time, and recognizing that just as Paul did, just as Jesus did, just as Daniel did in the Old Testament, it's God who appoints nations. It's God who appoints leaders for his purposes. Now, there's mystery there. I don't understand it. And it gets into that ideal situation in verses 3 and 4. Because it assumes something about these authorities. It assumes that there's going to be a match between what is good in the eyes of the state, and what we would recognize as good in the in the family of God, and vice versa. What is bad in the eyes of the state, and what is bad in the eyes of those under God. So he's assuming the ideal, of course. Pastor Andy, I'm hoping I'm teeing up the softball for him on how to deal with the disobedience. Because as we know, as Paul knew, the state is not always just, the state is not always righteous. The state is not always the one that is ruling. With the best interests of those that it's supposed to be caring for. Just as God institutes the governing authorities, God also delegates these authorities with a particular function. As God's servants and God's ministers. That's the language Paul is using there. Did you catch that when we read it? He's calling them servants of God. He's calling them ministers of God. That they have a function, they have a role to play, and that is to promote and reward the good and restrain and punish the evil. Thus, the civil authorities have a vested interest in the public good and the rule of law. The authorities do so by making and enforcing laws. And we pray, we hope, we want, we long for those laws to uphold and maintain that which contributes to peace, safety, security. The flourishing of all those who reside under them. And they do this, they just as they have the power to make and enforce, they also have the power of the sword. That is coercive power. We all experienced this coercive power in April. We'll get to that in a minute, too. But the power of the sword is is both symbolic and actual. It's symbolic in that it it there is a sense of There's a warning and a caution if you disobey. It's actually a prompting to obey, to avoid to avoid the punishment. So that's the symbol prompting us to obey, but if we don't obey, it's the tool that punishes us. And so there is embedded in it a sense of what a sword does. The state carrying out punishment. And it's just not punishment willy-nilly. It's not the whims and will of the authority, but rather what is fracturing the peace, what's breaking the sense of security and safety. What's inhibiting flourishing? One scholar said this, connecting it to what Paul's saying about God's wrath. Through the state, there takes place a partial, anticipatory, provisional manifestations of God's wrath against sin. It's a way that's connecting this verse with even the verse that came before it at the end of chapter 12, where Paul is exhorting the Christians to not take up vengeance on their own. Vengeance is mine, says the Lord. And then he goes on to say in this verse that actually, partially and temporarily, and in certain moments of time, the authorities that God has Vested and delegated the responsibility of punishment is in a sense carrying out God's judgment, God's wrath for sin. Something to be afraid of for ourselves. It's something to be encouraging as we seek the flourishing and the order. And the rule of law in our midst. Those are good things, good things from God. The text, however, does not tell us what forms of government is biblical. Christians in this country, we're relating to this text in our own context as United States citizens or residents or guests. We have a particular form of government. There's a particular history to that government. But Christians in Syria have to be interpreting this passage very differently than we are right now. Christians in Turkey have to wrestle with this passage very differently now in the context of what happened a few days ago and what's going to be happening over the weeks and months. Christians can be faithful to this text in the United States. Christians can be faithful to this text in the old Soviet Union. It can be faithful in the current Russian state. It can be faithful to this text in the most abhorrent government, whatever you think in your mind is the bane of existence. Christians are called to be faithful in that context too. So Paul is actually wise in not getting down in the details because what happens is by giving us the absolute in a sense. We then now have a framework from other places in Scripture, one that we read today, even from Jesus. We have a way of interpreting how scripture interprets scripture and we begin to build an ethic. We get to build a sense of how do we respond in specific situations. So Paul is very wise to not get into those nitty, gritty details now, because those things are then perfect to be done in community when you're responding to those situations. That's biblical wisdom. That's prudence. That's seeking to be faithful not only as an individual Christian who lives in a state or in a nation, but a group of Christians. as well, how the laws of those lands might impact us. We have to be wrestling with the theology. We have to be wrestling with the implications. Of what it means to obey. To obey an evil government, to obey a righteous government. What does that look like in any given situation? And that is to be done in prayer, and that is to be done in community. The same scholar I mentioned a minute ago, he he said this the proper exposition of Paul's words. involves for the Christian living in a democracy, the translation of them into the terms of a different political order. Such a Christian can and therefore must do much more for the maintenance of the state as a just state. Christian in Rome, in Paul's day, didn't have a lot of say. But maybe we do today. So what does that look like for us to engage in the process? He says this subjection will include voting in elections responsibly, in the fear of Christ and love to his neighbor. And since such responsible voting is only possible on the basis of adequate knowledge, making sure that he is as fully and reliably informed as possible about political issues and striving tireless tirelessly in the ways constitutionally open to him to support just policies and to oppose unjust. It's much more difficult than slogoneering. It's much more difficult than clicking a share button on Facebook. Our role, then, is subjection to civil authorities in constructive ways. It contributes to the welfare and benefit of all within society. Our role as subjection to civil authorities is also preemptive. It seeks to avoid the state's right, duty to intervene when that public good and rule of law is threatened or broken. So we obey in order to prevent punishment. There is an aspect of that being spoken here by Paul. And our role in subjection to civil authorities also flows from our subjection to the Lord and his good for us. We'll speak more about that in a minute, too. Number two, context to obey, verses six and seven. I'm not going to go very much into this because it's very self-explanatory. Um and he he goes right to it. Um my grandmother has many cross stitchings on her wall. It looks like a Pinterest wall. Many of them are their pithy quotes, they're sayings. There's one that she has on her wall that my dad loves to say as well, but nothing is certain but death and taxes. Sometimes both are meted out by the state, actually, but but the principle in verse six. Verse six For because of this, you also pay taxes for the authorities or ministers of God attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed. And then he drops down into various examples, situations where you might do that. Verse 7. He talks about taxes, he talks about revenue. respect and honor. This is where we really could get bogged down and it could slip into a boring lecture. So I'm not going to do that. But there is a sense of For a society to function, it needs finances, it needs an infrastructure, it needs to have something, um it it needs the finances. And so there's something right to go from the reason to obey of the principle in verse 1 to how Paul would say, yes, because of this you should pay taxes. And then he gets into the context of that society. Some people think respect and honor denotes order. So respect or or fear might be your translation that that might be to a higher position of civil authority and then honor to a lower. There may be some validity to that. It doesn't really affect what Paul is saying here. Who we interact with and the infrastructure that we contribute and participate in all need to be for the benefit of the society. And that is a partnership that we have with the civil authorities. And we should naturally fulfill that. We get that from Jesus as well. When they were seeking to trap Jesus, he was wise and actually called for a denarius from someone. So did you even catch that? Like whatever he says, he's kind of already saying, you got one in your pocket, so why are you trapping me? Like you're participating in it. You want to know my answer, but you still have to use Caesar's money. So why do you really, what are you really wanting me to say? And so he wisely knows that they're trying to trap him, but he also very cunningly separates what is owed to God and what is owed to man. And that is a principle that is further fleshed out in this passage. In the Roman Empire when Christians were um first kind of getting off the ground, Rome didn't actually know what to do with them. For the longest time, they just thought it was this weird uh version or or sect within Judaism. And at the time Judaism was a legalized, recognized religion. And so it they just thought Christians were weird, but it you know Until Christians, it became more of a sense that, no, there there's something different. And then as the church between um Jews and Christians became spread more, there was a sense of, oh, Christians they might be weird. There were there were weird um rumors. Um it was often claimed that uh Christians were cannibals because we eat Flesh and we drink blood. People accused us of being incestuous because we talked to each other as brothers and sisters and we greeted each other with a holy kiss. And then that just also that we were just not good citizens, but there was a uh an early Christian in the in the first century, uh in the middle of the second century rather, Justin Martyr. He was an apologist. He was speaking into the context of the culture on behalf of what Christians actually believed. And so as he reiterated the teachings of Jesus from Matthew 22 regarding paying taxes, he also claimed, we pray for you. Caesar, we pray for you, uh, Roman Empire. And then he also would finally give an account that Christians in fact would be found, this is the quote, moral. upright and law-abiding citizens who were who are the emperor's best allies in securing good order. So even then there was a sense of understanding this passage for what it means to live in contexts where there might be disagreements. Over if this authority, this governance is a righteous and just government, where those things might be in tension with our beliefs as Christians. Wrestling with that, entering into that tension, but all the while recognizing that we indeed, by our joy and obedience in Christ, we actually can make the best citizens. That was the argument then, and it surely is the argument now, too. So we must study Scripture. We must soak it in and appropriate it and deduce from Scripture what it means for us to faithfully observe. and practice the gospel-informed, Christ-honoring subjection to our authorities. Which I think the default is that it assumes obedience. It assumes subjection. And of course, there's going to be limitations. There's going to be times when It needs to be disobeyed. This is for all people. Whether you are a minister like me or a non-minister. Whatever that means, like some of you. Whether you're rich or whether you're poor, this everybody is under the authority Of the authorities. We get that beautiful picture from a centurion. He goes to Jesus and he says, I too am a man under authority. He recognized his position, he recognized his authority, he recognized what he needed to do as a man of that authority, but he recognized It wasn't his word, it wasn't his order, it wasn't his will, but he recognized he was within a system that he had a part to play. He himself was under authority. And for us, the way this plays out in our context, I think just a couple points of application here. What's our duty? What's our responsibility? I think the very first, it is for us to pray for our leaders. 1 Timothy 2. Verses 1 through 3. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people. For kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior. We're to honor people in these positions. 1 Peter 2, we studied that earlier in the spring, several months ago. We looked at it in the scripture reading today as well. Or to pay taxes, pay tribute, pay customs We're to obey the lawful commands of those in authority. And then the other thing that I only mentioned because it really becomes the crux of What is that place where we need to obey and where might we disobey? And it's how Paul gives it as a motivation, or not a motivation, but rather the reason of conscience. That we do this to avoid punishment as a negative, but we do it for conscience' sake, as a positive. And that becomes very important as we interact with what we seek to be in subjection to and what we seek to say in protest or disobedience. Lastly, and this comes to the end, is our motivation. Verse 5. Therefore, one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience Those are the two motivators. One is negative, one is positive, as I said. It emphasizes for the Christian that our motivation is the glory and praise of God and his son Jesus Christ. It's here that we actually have the deeper motivation. We don't want to just be good citizens. We want to honor Christ, and by doing that, we will be good citizens. So just a quick discussion on the purpose of the law and the uses of the law. And by that I'm switching to God's law. And I think by analogy, we see some benefit as we interact with the laws of man. The purpose of the law in the Old Testament was there was a ceiling and there was a floor. The ceiling was the ideal. The floor is was kind of the base. This is the bare minimum. Murder, for instance, the base, do not murder. We see a fulfillment of that and then the the ideal from 1 John even. And Jesus and his own teachings, but if you hate, if you hate your brother, it is as if you have committed murder. There's a floor to the law, and there's an ideal ceiling to the law. Marriage, parenting, all these things are um ways of reflecting God's character. And all of these laws are in the context of that covenantal relationship with the Lord who delivered them out of Egypt. Obedience was always a response to God's grace and his mercy. And In Israel's context, you may have heard this, the law was often discussed as the moral law, the ceremonial law, and the judicial law. The moral law is forever binding upon all men. It's basically the Ten Commandments. It's binding upon us. The ceremonial and the judicial laws particular to the nation of Israel have been fulfilled in Jesus Christ. And thus we're no longer applied in the same way to the Christian. There's a lot of misunderstanding about that when you get into the dialogue with non-Christians. Because it seems like there's inconsistency or picking and choosing. There's definitely more that could be said there on how to interact with that. The uses of the law, there's commonly called just three uses of the law, bridled restraint, mirrored reflection, and delightfully regarded. Bridled restraint comes from even the passage that we look at today, that it's the law is a way to restrain evil. Romans 7, 7 through 11 shows a picture of how the law is a mirror. It is to reflect to us that by knowing the law, then we know what sin is. Sin existed before the law, but unless the law is there, you don't know that it's sin. Unless the law is there, you don't know what is breaking the law. And so it's a mirror. It reflects to us what we should be doing. And then thirdly, and this is a beautiful reality for the lives of the Christian, the use of the law is to be delightfully regarded. 1 John 2, 3 through 7, and definitely Psalms 19, uh 119, and and so many other so many others. It's all over the place. But just how beautiful God's law is. It's to be delighted. It's to be appreciated. It's to be meditated upon. And in so doing, we see a reflection of God's character. And as we are seeing God's character and interacting with Him, There's a sense of us being uh appropriating God's character as we are his family. And there is something that is now instructive for us even as Christians. Though we still sin, though we still break God's law, So now it's a mirror. It points us to our need. It shows us our sin. It points us to our need in Christ. But it also is our instructor on how we can walk in God's ways. So, with motivation, it's incredibly important to separate out these things. Civil obedience may gain favor from authorities, but it is not the way you earn favor from God. So those things have to be held in tension. Because the gospel still stands. God does not love us because we do good. God does not hate us because we do bad. God loves us despite us being bad, and he sees the good in his son Jesus. And Jesus keeps the law. Jesus fulfills all that God has asked him to do. And in that freedom, the freedom of being in Christ becomes our motivation. Oftentimes conscience is a negative sense, like it's a condemning a negative aspect. I feel guilty or my conscience is saying something. That pit in my stomach. But Paul many times talks about conscience in a positive way. And that's this renewing of our mind, that we are having that shaped and directed by Jesus, the gospel bearing fruit in our lives by the power of the Spirit, that we are growing more and more into his image. That becomes the motivators to obey, to obey Christ, and thereby our motivators to obey the civil authorities. It's important for you to understand also how you might boast when you obey, or how you might complain as you disobey. Both God, but also the authorities over us. The motivations to obey. Both God and the civil authorities comes from a changed heart in Jesus Christ. Though Paul isn't encouraging us to be afraid, of the of the civil authorities because of what they might do if if we are found to be in the wrong. In Christ there's freedom. And if we're walking and following and loving the Lord, we're out to do good. There'd be no reason for the civil authorities to think otherwise. Unless of course the civil authorities have flipped what is good and what is evil. Prayerfully. Pastor Randy will talk about that tomorrow next week. Time marches on. History changes. Leaders and nations rise and they fall, but the word of God stands forever. So here we have the ideal situation, of course, and it's the relationship between the church and the state in a way that is in a good relationship. It's not always in a good relationship through history. This relationship has been hashed out over the centuries, often using this very passage. Christians have used it for unjust tyranny. Christians have used it for unwarranted rebellion. This text does not talk about when can we have a revolution. This text does not talk about should we submit to the authorities absolutely, positively, unconditionally, whatever they say? But it does give us the principle of what God's heart is and to see his sovereignty in the authority over us. So before you make that next post on Facebook or you scoff. At the next headline that you might see, or the shake of your head, or the throwing up of your hands, the frustration in your heart. Recognize the authority. And responsibility of the governing authorities. As a Christian, your subjection and how you conduct yourself for good and not for evil is under the authority of God. He is the one that grants the authority of the state. As a Christian, pray. Pray by asking God that He would raise up leaders who are just and responsible, carrying out their duties for the good of the nation and all of its inhabitants. Pray by asking God how you are to contribute to that process. Above all, pursue your life. Your responsibilities and interactions in full joy, knowing God has the authority over all things. And we are to interact as citizens, residents or guests of this nation in ways that reflect. Reflect God's beauty, His goodness, His kindness, so that our speech The words that come out of our mouth, the words that come across our keyboard, those and our actions, our conduct, those things may give God glory. And may they contribute to the good of others. May God have mercy. And may He give us wisdom to To respond faithfully in our time and in our place. Let's pray Father, help us in this way. We so often think we are our own authority. And we will submit to those who we agree with. Help us to have courage. Help us to have wisdom. We pray, Father, that we would be a church that blesses this nation. Just as we ask that you would bless your church to be a part of the blessing of all nations. So that there might be peace, that there might be the end of bloodshed. May there be the end of that which breaks Society and us. May we look to you as our Savior for those things. In Jesus' name, amen.