In looking for the last year at our war against spiritual terrorists, the fallen angels, your enemies without skin. and the armor of the gospel to protect you each day in that battle. We have seen that Paul concludes the six pieces of armor by a call to prayer with four alls. Pray on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests, with all persistence for all the saints. And so this afternoon we're going to be gathering downstairs to pray. We want to learn how to apply praying Ephesians to our world, to our individual world, our families, our cells, our community, our nation, and our global lives We want to learn how to do that, and then we will conclude that by coming upstairs here to have the Lord's Supper together. So do come. And participate in that as we seek to apply what we have been reading about. Now we have seen that Satan's key strategy, his main strategy in his arsenal, is deception. And um his his uh intention is for you to distort reality, to convince you of lies And of all the deceptions and the lies that the demons promote, one of the most central is to unbelievers You don't need Jesus in your life. At least not now. And that's done more and more in our culture, not by somehow disproving the Bible. But it is by simply making Christianity implausible. It simply doesn't fit the ways that we think. An excellent example of that that I'm talking about is in Garrison Keeler's latest book, Lake Wobegon, Summer 1956. Anybody read that book? I read it this summer. Let me tell you about it, and then you won't have to read it. In that book, what Keeler does is there's no direct attack on Christianity or the gospel or the Bible. What he does is he simply portrays that the people he grew up with were all evangelical Christians who were all foolish. very small-minded, anti-intellectual, and that they uh they walked around with a kind of attitude that People like us are going to heaven and everybody else is going to hell. And he portrayed Christianity as ridiculous. outdated and for very small-minded people, a subculture whose time is past. Well you see for a lot of people whatever the implausibility notion is that um it's just not something I have to take seriously. I can write off the claims of Christ on my life. That's one of Satan's central deceptions. And that may be at work in your life, even though you're here at a worship service. Now, to the believer, the central deception One of the central deceptions is that you should keep your faith to yourself. That if you in fact share your faith with your friends, They will identify you with those far-right people like the Lake Wobagon folks who have a small mind who categorize things into right and wrong and good and bad, people going to heaven and people going to hell. And some of these arrogant notions and you certainly don't want to be seen as that kind of a person. And besides, it doesn't seem like they show any real need for the gospel anyway. They seem to be managing okay and they're not very interested in finding out about the truth that you hold precious and well you know Besides all that, you've tried on some other occasions to share your faith and you haven't been too successful, so Why bother to try again and fear that you'll fail again and feel bad about it? So why not just kind of let it go and Besides, after all that, who really matters what does it really matter what you believe? I mean, can you really believe that people who don't just happen to believe that Jesus is what the Bible says are really all gonna go to hell? You know, in a recent poll that was published this summer, among people who call themselves evangelical Christians, 77% Say that we should be tolerant and leave people of other faiths alone and not try to convert them Only 22% of those who call themselves evangelical Christians said that we should try to convert an unbeliever to Christianity. 22%? Now I would hope and pray that wouldn't be the ratio here. But that's what's out there. Especially if you think about Jewish folks, we certainly don't want to offend them by talking about Jesus as Messiah. It's just going to turn them off. It's hopeless. You see, all these things affect us, don't they? So I think it's very significant that after Paul talks about spiritual warfare and he talks about the armor and then he talks about prayer. That the very next verse, 19, he says, and pray also for me. Now let's have that on up there so you can follow along with me. Pray also for me That whenever I open my mouth, words may be given me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel for which I am an ambassador in chains. Pray that I may declare it fearlessly, as I should. Did you get that? You see it up there? Twice he says, fearlessly. Now I don't know if that encourages you or discourages you, that even the Apostle Paul apparently was tempted to keep his faith to himself and needed for people to pray for him that he would be able to share his faith. Fearlessly. Maybe you say, well, if he had to pray that boy, there's no hope for me whatsoever. But hopefully you'll be encouraged to see That we all need God's Spirit to give us that boldness. Now I want to, in looking at these two verses, I want to notice four things about them that will help us, I think, to understand and apply them. First of all, I want you to notice Paul's position in giving this request. He describes himself, you see there in verse 19. From verse 20, as an ambassador in chains. And of course the chains referred to as imprisonment, which he's referred to already twice In this letter, chapter 3, verse 1, he says, as a prisoner of the Lord Jesus Christ, chapter 4, verse 1, as a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you. So he's already mentioned that he's writing this as a prisoner. Now what's the circumstance? Acts 21 to 28 describe the situation that Paul's in. And we will not take time to read Acts 21 to 28, those eight chapters, but you might read them on your own to get a better feel for what Paul was going through. situation summed up briefly is that he was arrested in Jerusalem for inciting a riot because he said that the Gentiles were included in the gospel. That's what he's referring to, where he says the mystery of the gospel. The mystery of the gospel, he says in chapter 3, verse 6, is the Gentiles are being included in all the Old Testament promises. And that's what set them off. And that's why he says later on in chapter six and chapter three that this was for your sake, because the Ephesians are Gentiles. So he's saying, here I am in prison because I dared to say that the gospel was not something just for Jewish people, just as a sect here in Judea and Palestine, but it had global implications. It was for all the world. And it was only because Paul broke out of that Jewish subculture and took the gospel to Europe that the gospel went down generation after generation to your forebears To my ancestors, and that you've heard the gospel and are living in a culture where the gospel is so highly accessible If Paul had backed off and said, I need to keep this to myself, you and I would have never heard the gospel. So, it's for your sake, he says. Now, I believe that John Scott has put his finger on an insight where he says that there's an interesting play on words here in this verse. You notice he describes himself as an ambassador in chains in verse 20. Literally, the Greek is an ambassador in a chain. Singular. So what? Well, back in those days, ambassadors wore a chain, a gold chain around their neck or around their wrist as a bracelet. It would be of gold and ornamented in order to show the glory of the one that they represented. And Scott, I believe, is correct when he says that when Paul looked At his chain, he saw not something of gold and precious metal, but a manacle of a prisoner. And it reminded him that the glory of the one that he represented was not the glory of this world. The glory of the Lord Jesus was that he laid aside all of his glory, that he came to earth, and that he was imprisoned, and that he died The despicable, the despised, excruciating death upon a cross to take your sins and my sin To bear the punishment that you and I deserved. And so the glory of the one you and I represent Is a glory not of this world, but a glory demonstrated in humiliation And it's harder for you and for me to grasp that, isn't it? Because we don't have those chains. We don't live in despised circumstances. We are not under persecution. Where we live generally. And so we need to remind ourselves that despite all the appearances, you and I are still foreign ambassadors. To a culture that is perishing in a world that will soon be destroyed. And the glory that you and I represent is not of this world. It's so easy to be seduced into feeling like this is home. But Paul reminds us that for the gospel's sake, he's a prisoner. He's suffering. I want you to notice three things about his position to help you and me to understand his request at this point. First of all, notice the trial. The trial, as I say, is recounted for us in Acts 21 to 28, but it's actually summed up in Acts 28 and verses 17 to 20 We read that Paul here at Rome now assembles all the Jewish leaders together and he says I was arrested and I was handed over. Uh though I had not done anything uh deserving of death, the Romans wanted to let me go, but when the Jews objected, then I was compelled to appeal to Caesar Not that I have any charge to bring against my own people, so for this reason, I've asked to see you, you Jewish leaders here, and to talk with you. It's because of the hope of Israel that I'm bound with a chain So here he is, Paul arrested in Jerusalem, making his way slowly across the Mediterranean, finally now at Rome, still a prisoner. Think of the fact that he has no freedom, can't come and go as he pleases, can't go home, his future is uncertain And he has no privacy. You ever live in a situation where there was no privacy? Can't even go to the bathroom without a guard. It sort of wears on you, you know. He probably wrote or dictated the book of Ephesians With a guard standing by. Very difficult, wearing situation. And the opportunity he sees is, of course, as he always does, Philippians 4, 11 and 12, of learn to be content in every circumstance. To be able to use the opportunity to witness to the guards, to seek to speak to the Jewish leaders as Acts twenty-eight talks about. Anybody came across this path. Some guy's a runaway slave and he's running, he passes through, meets Paul, and Paul makes use of his services and he shares the gospel with them and Nesimus becomes a Christian and returns back to his master. And so they're in prison. Paul continues to find opportunities. Perhaps you have some circumstance in your life that has limited you. You wonder what opportunities there are. Paul says, I see the opportunities around. Pray that I'll make use of them. And then thirdly, notice the temptation. It's a temptation that every prisoner has, which is that because of their vulnerable position, they know they're at the mercy of their captors to make their life either more or less miserable And maybe you've had that experience at work. You feel that you're at the mercy of somebody at work who can make your life more or less miserable. And so you don't want to get on that person's bad side, do you? You don't want to say something that's going to offend them. And Paul's saying here, I've got this temptation. That because I'm in this vulnerable position, I'll keep quiet about the gospel. Pray that I won't succumb to that. Pray that I will speak fearlessly, not because I uh not out of the fear that if I don't offend you, you'll make my life a little easier. But rather to trust the Lord in that and simply be faithful to being his witness. And so in the light of that, I find his requests rather remarkable and instructive. Notice uh his request. First of all, notice what he doesn't ask for. Notice that he does not Keep the need to himself. He's not above humbling himself and saying, and so pray all occasions for all the saints, but of course, don't pray for me. You've got better things to pray for. You've got other people that are needier. I'm okay. It doesn't do that. Notice he says, pray for all the saints. And pray also for me. Please. Pray for me. You know, it's so easy for us Christian leaders to pretend That we don't need prayer, that we aren't weak people. And the ironic thing is that I could preach the gospel to you, a gospel for weak people, and pretend that I'm strong. And that would be so utterly misleading. One of the things that I do in my feedback to this Sunday service prayer teams that pray for me and for our services each Sunday is when I give them that feedback. Usually Wednesday of each week, I will tell them of the needs that I have, the weaknesses that I see in my preaching, where in my own heart or in my own life I need them to pray for me. And maybe some of you that'll motivate you to say, well, gee, you know, if maybe if I can find out all about Al's weaknesses, I'll join the team, you know. Get the dirt. Well, if that motivates you, so be it. But the fact is that I am a very weak preacher And Paul was humble and human to say, you probably think, pray for Paul, that boldness, he's the boldest thing I ever saw. Paul says, no, no, no, that's not what my heart is like. I need you to pray for me. Notice also he doesn't pray for ease and safety. We so often pray for safety, don't we, and for things to be easier. He must have had lots of inconveniences and troubles. He's got scars and bruises on his body. He's been beaten around. He's suffered a great deal. Read 2 Corinthians 11. But Not a young man. But that's not the main concern. Now it is a concern. You notice he goes on the next couple verses that we'll look at next week, sending Tychicus to say, let me tell you how I'm really doing. Antichicus does that in person, but it's not his main concern as he writes this. In fact, he doesn't even pray, ask him to pray for his release. For his deliverance, to get out of prison. I'm sure he wouldn't have minded if somebody prayed that, but it's not what is foremost on his mind. Rather, he asked for three requests, and they're all for the gospel Notice, three things he asks for. Number one, opportunity. Verse 19 again. Pray for also for me, that whenever I open my mouth, words may be given me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel. That phrase there, whenever I open my mouth, words may be given me, literally in the Greek is, that words may be given to me in the opening of my mouth. And one commentator points out that that is official diplomatic language of that day. It's the language of diplomatic speech and defense, being given an opportunity to speak. That in the opening of my mouth words will be given. That is the opportunity given. And I believe that that's what he has in mind. At least in part, because in Colossians chapter 4 and verses 2 and 3, I left out the three, sorry, so it's verses 2 and 3. Paul says in exactly the parallel section in Colossians, devote yourselves to prayer, being watchful and thankful, and pray for us too that God may open a door for our message so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ. Christ for which I'm in chains. So the parallel phrase in Colossians is that God may open a door for our message. Let me ask you, do you pray for opportunities to share the gospel? Do you want opportunities to share the gospel? If we want them, we'll pray for them. We talk about so much that's meaningful to us, and yet In the light of eternity will pass away in fifteen minutes. May God give us eyes and hearts to see the importance of talking. About the gospel. The truths of chapters 1 to 3 of Ephesians, of what God has done for poor, helpless, lost, sinners. And to say, I want the opportunity to talk about that. It's so precious and so wonderful and it gives hope and it's meant so much to me Pray for opportunities for that. Notice secondly, he he prays for clarity. That same phrase that words may be given to me, I think, is also significant because he says their words may be given to me, and the the word for words is the word logos. And that's the word that is used of the message of the gospel. For instance, in chapter 1 and verse 13 He said, and you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth. That's the same word there. The word, the logos of truth, the gospel. of your salvation. And you see what's important about this is that that word is a word which is given to you. You don't make it up. You don't tamper with it. You're not at liberty to make it more palatable. to make it a success story rather than the offense of the cross for sinners. Paul says, pray not that I'll be persuasive, but that I will be clear, that the word will be given to me. Remember, Jesus said in Matthew chapter 10, in verse 19, In that day when you are called to bring a defense, the words will be given to you to speak. Paul saying, Pray for me, that the message will be given to me. That message which is in itself an offense, but by the Spirit of God brings life. That's why he prays in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Rather, he says we've renounced secret and shameful ways we do not use deception, nor do we distort the Word of God. On the contrary, by setting forth the truth plainly, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience. When you and I share the gospel, what we're appealing to with people is their conscience, not their desires. That's the primary thing. The heart. Address the heart. It's the heart, the clarity of the gospel. I want to be clever. James Denny said, no man can be at one and the same time clever and demonstrate that Christ is mighty to save. To be clear, simple, and plain. To address your heart, Paul says, pray for me that I'll be clear, simple, plain. Because I'm addressing people's hearts, pray thirdly for courage. And that's what he prays for twice. Ask for Words will be given me so that I will fearlessly make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in change. Pray that I may declare it fearlessly, as I should The word fearlessly is a word which means boldly, frankly, forthrightly. Pray that that's the way I will talk about Jesus Now I don't know about you, but it is encouraging to me that Paul prayed for that. That he needed somebody to pray. He needed poor weak sinners like you and me to pray for him. That he would be bold and fearless. Because you see it isn't a matter of giftedness and just natural guts and bravery. It's The fear of presenting the gospel is it's endemic to all of us. We need to pray for our missionaries. They have boldness to pray. That they have boldness to speak the gospel. You think we ain't pray for the missionaries, we're professionals. Everyone wrestles with this. Even Dan Iverson. We need to pray for Dan, that he would have boldness. Twice Paul says that. How does that boldness come? He describes, Luke describes in Acts chapter 4, verse 13. He says, When they saw the courage, same word. The boldness, the fearlessness of Peter and John, and realized they were unschooled ordinary men. They were astonished, and they took note that these men had been with Jesus. How do you get that boldness? By spending time with Jesus. So that you begin to love Jesus more than you love your image. You begin to want Jesus to be exalted and lifted up more than you want people to think that you're such a nice person. Paul said in Galatians 1. 10, if I begin to get my eyes on pleasing people, I'm no longer the servant of Christ. You remember when he came to Corinth, he said in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, I came not with eloquence, not with wisdom and power, but I came in weakness and fear and much trembling. Because I was declaring the cross of Christ, and that's not very smart in our world. It's an offense. And so you and I need fearlessness, boldness. I still remember I used to do a lot of street evangelism. I used to take students out with me to do that. And um done it in Philadelphia, New York City, Washington Square, Boston, all over And it was a pattern that I found that um was just pretty predictable. First of all, I'd try to get the students together. We're gonna go out, we're gonna go onto the sheet streets, we're gonna share Christ's cold turkey with people, and once you get the experience of that, sometimes I would speak. Do a little street preaching, sometimes not. But you know, everybody was petrified. Boy, I'll tell you when I talk about zealous prayer meetings, it was those students when we prayed before we went out. I mean they were down crying out to God, thinking of any scripture they could claim, and they're praying, God, you know, we're going in weakness and fear and help us out the Lord, Kelvin, you know, you know, it's okay. We stopped praying, we you know we're never gonna get out there. These were zealous prayer meetings. And we'd go out there and in every case that I can remember, they would come back and they were amazed at what God had done. Not always that they had seen people come to faith, but that they had seen significant conversations, they had been impressed with how God had worked, had He had emboldened them, and that the people that were talking their hearts were engaged And they came back and they thanked God and we said, okay, we're going out next week. Yes. They were kind of pumped up. Hey, you know, I wasn't so bad. It wasn't as bad as I thought. We went out almost every single time. The second experience was negative. I used to wonder about that. Why is the first one always positive? The second one is negative until I realized. We didn't go out in weakness in the second one. We thought, hey, we this thing is not so bad. We got this down. Paul says you've got to pray for me in my weakness. Remember a discipleship journal article, a woman was talking about her evangelism experiences. And she said, for a while, it didn't dawn on me that I was missing what God wanted to do until I had this conversation on an airplane with a man who I talked to about the Lord and he wasn't very interested and this wasn't going anywhere so we finally just kinda drifted off into silence. And then he started talking about a problem he had in his life And I said, you know, boy I got that too and I began to talk about a way that I had failed in that and that I had really was a pretty shameful thing and I couldn't deal with it very well. And she said, all of a sudden it was all this renewed interest. Well, how did you deal with it? She said, then when I began to share out of my weakness what Christ had meant to me, he was listening. Do you know as Americans we tend to get this exactly backwards? We think that evangelists should be power people. And so we put up sports stars and TV personalities and all these people and say, here's the people who can demonstrate what the cr life in Christ will do. And what do we do? We appeal to people's desire for success. Paul says, here I am rotten in a prison, I'm in chains. And this guy changed the world. You see, the gospel is powerful out of weakness. And nowhere more than in your evangelism is the base of the power of God available to you in your weakness rather than your success. Nowhere is that more apparent than in your evangelism. were in mine. And so what did God do? Did he answer this request? You go back and you read in Acts 28, and you read that Paul gathered them together, and that every day he shared the gospel. And he closes the book of Acts by his telling the leaders, of you, it was said of the prophet Isaiah And you will hear, and yet your ears will be closed. You will see, but you'll never really perceive, nor will you understand. Because your hearts are closed and hardened to the gospel, therefore is going to the Gentiles, and they will listen. A very persuasive diplomatic speech to win friends, isn't it? Spoken to the Jewish leaders. And the very last verse of Acts 28 Is for two whole years Paul stayed there in his own rented house and welcomed all who came to see him boldly. And without hindrance. That word boldly is the same word as Ephesians 6:19 and 20. Boldly, fearlessly, frankly, openly, without hindrance, he preached the kingdom of God and taught about the Lord Jesus Christ. And he saw some Jewish leaders come to faith. In Philippians chapter 1, 11 and 12, he says he saw some of the palace guard come to faith, and he saw the gospel go into the palace He saw Anasabus come to faith. He saw some of the leaders that he talked to right there come to faith. And so God answered his prayers and the answer the the The thing before you and me this morning is what's your request? What's my request? Well, I'll tell you my request. My request is that I will have a greater boldness in preaching the gospel to you. That I will be more open about my heart with you. That I will be more frank to tell you that I see some of you come week after week. And I see a lack of interest during the messages. And I see some of you sit in the back so you think I don't see you and carry on conversations. And I see some of you kids sleep. And I see some of you who have come week after week and month after month, and you continue to hold Christ at arm's length. And you hang on to your precious independence and will not submit to Jesus. And every day brings you closer to an eternity where you will stand before God and give account. And you put him off. And I need a boldness and a courage that says, I care more about your fooling around with the gospel and your need of Jesus Christ. And I care that you think that I'm a nice guy and that my messages are inspiring. I need a frankness that is willing to tell you you need Jesus Christ more than anything. Now what's your request? Do you pray for opportunities and for clarity and for courage in your evangelism? Do you really want to pray that God would open to you the opportunities that He could give? Do you want to come this afternoon for us to pray together? This morning we saw Suzanne Beck profess faith in Christ four years ago, a friend of hers, Chris Gassal, that worships here. Said Suzanne, you really need to go to CPC and you need to hear the gospel. He tried to explain it to her, and he said, You really need to hear the gospel. You need Jesus. And Suzanne passed from death to life. And she said she saw the people who used to own this property a couple of weeks ago. And she said, You wouldn't believe how different that property is. And she said, You know what they said? They said, What's more amazing to us is you're going to church. God saves unlikely sinners, doesn't he? And he uses unlikely evangelists. You know, there's a couple points of contact you can use. I'll just give you these in closing real quick. One is talk about the current events of our day, the fear, whether it's the stock market, a potential war with Iraq, or terrorist activities. Talk to people about how you're handling that. And as they talk about their hearts, just talk about your own heart and your own fears and what it would be like if you didn't believe there was a God who was in control and had a Savior. Who is caring for you? Well, you know, another point of contact that's a great one is movies. A lot of movies have spiritual themes. Take the current movie, The Four Feathers. It's about shame and self-redemption. Now if that can't get you into the gospel, you're hopeless. Talk to people about when you saw that movie, what'd you think? What did it mean? You know, and you begin to discuss it and then you begin to talk about it. You know, we're even going to make it easier for you. We're going to start a little experiment this year, Peter Lee. is uh Peter and Clara are going to be showing Hollywood videos at their home. And you singles are invited to just bring your friends, come and watch the movie, and then there'll be a discussion of it afterwards. Now, what could be simpler than that? But are you willing to invite your friends to be identified with Christ? Say, come on, let's go watch this. Let's talk about it We're coming up on upward season. Tomorrow we'll have the first meeting. When we come to the games, there'll be 88 slots for testimonies. For we Christians to stand up at halftime. I'll tell you the people have been registering. I've never seen any of them, so I don't know where they're coming from. But there's an opportunity. Sign up for just one testimony slot. What would it be like if the Spirit of God came upon us to make Columbia Presbyterian fearless people for the gospel? What might happen if that happened? What would happen if you were to memorize verses 19 and 20 and make that your prayer? That God would accomplish that through you this month. What might happen? Let's pray. Lord our God, Lord, we we pray that you would give to us hearts That are more fearless because we love you and we do not fear people. We are so concerned for our image. And Lord, we see this as part of the spiritual warfare. So Lord, we pray, give us Hearts that are near to Jesus, that people will tell we've been near Him because we love Him and Because, Lord, we're we're ready and we're willing and we We have that supernatural courage with a winsomeness and gentleness to speak of you. Lord, what would it be like if you, Holy Spirit, were to make this congregation a fearless people for Christ? May we dream of it, and may we sing it to your glory. Amen.