It is with great pleasure and a grateful heart that I introduce to you this morning Mark Bu who is the General Secretary of the Committee on Foreign Missions with the OPC. As many of you know, Kurt Cray was to have been here And at the eleventh and a half hour I was notified that Kurt would not be available. After Norma administered CPR and picked me up off the floor, I got busy making phone calls. And God really blessed us by making a very busy man available. Mark was born uh in September, actually on the tenth in nineteen fifty-one. And you may ask me why that is so significant, but it was a very significant time in my life because a few miles from Princeton I was starting my second year at Rutgers University and was struggling with organic chemistry, probably the most difficult trial that I've ever encountered in my life, and one of the most difficult and useless courses I could imagine ever taking. Mark was blessed with godly parents and strong teaching from OP pastors. And he gave his life to Christ in 1963. In 1973, he graduated from Stanford University. with a degree in political science and married a classmate, Kathy. She became his wife. In nineteen seventy-seven he graduated from the University of San Francisco. uh school of law and was admitted to the California Bar. At that time he had started working with the Internal Revenue Service. He was transferred to the Portland office where he became an estate tax attorney. And I promised him that uh when you greet him as you go out, there would be no questions concerning uh estate taxes. Uh and um he was also during this time ordained first a uh deacon and then an elder in the uh at Presbyterian Church. He served and filled the significant roles with the Presbytery and also with the General Assembly In 1991, he was called by the Committee on Foreign Missions to become the General Secretary, and he and Kathy moved to uh Philadelphia. His responsibilities are implementing and supervising the policies of the committee. He travels around the world visiting missionaries, encouraging them, and looking for uh opportunities, uh fertile opportunities where the OPC can uh can perform in other parts of the world. He's a ruling elder with the Glenside Presbyterian Church in Pennsylvania. And Mark, welcome to our polka. I told the last hour, after an introduction like this, I often kid my friends and say, I used to be a tax collector and a lawyer, and then I got saved. But all cutting aside, I bring you greetings this morning in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ from the Committee on Foreign Missions of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. It's my pleasure to be with you to worship the living and the true God. It's a tremendous privilege to work with your missionaries. They are wonderful people. I'm in my 16th year. Every year goes by. I grow to love them more. Their kids become my kids, their struggles become my struggles. And you had the Wingards here a couple weeks ago. You see what fine people God has indeed called to your missionary service And it's a delight to work with you in that. Our text this morning is from the first book of the Bible, Genesis, and we're going to start reading about halfway through a big story. I'm going to put off the reading for a bit. It will start in Genesis 44, beginning at verse 16, but I'm going to start with the beginning of the story. Now, one of the things that we find on the mission field in many cultures, particularly cultures that are oral rather than written. The history, the lore, the traditions are all handed down by word of mouth. And so, particularly in those cultures, oftentimes the Bible studies, the Bible stories Are able, were you able to use them to reach out quicker and deeper sometimes than some of the other more uh teaching portions of Scripture that are there? But no matter whether you're looking at the doctrine in Romans Or you're looking at a story from Genesis, at the center of it all is always Jesus Christ. In the Old Testament, God was preparing his people to recognize Christ when he came and what it is that he would do. And we'll see some of those basic 101 lessons right here in this story. Now, the story begins back in chapter 37. It's the story of Joseph. Joseph's father was Jacob, okay? Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. There we go, grandson of Abraham. Jacob He uh he has kind of a strange life, if you're familiar with that. He eventually, after defrauding his brother of his birthright, will flee. And he will end up serving with his uh mother's brother for seven years for the woman he loved, Rachel. However, Rachel's father defrauds him, and the wedding night he ends up with Leah. And so he works another seven years for Rachel. God blesses Leah and she gives Jacob four sons right in a row. Bing, bing, bing, bing, bing. Rachel bears no sons. So Rachel takes her handmaid and says, Well, Jacob, take her for a wife as well. So there's three wives. And she gives him a couple more sons. And then Leah, who stopped having sons, says, Well, take my handmaid and have a couple more sons. And so finally, after eight sons, the Lord hears Rachel's prayer, and she bears him a son, Joseph. The Lord would reopen Leah's room as well. There'd be two more sons. And finally, Rachel would have a last son, who, as he is being born, Benjamin, she dies. So we have four wives and twelve sons. The favorite son at the beginning is Joseph. Because he is the first son of the favorite wife. And we're introduced to Joseph when he turned seventeen. And we're told that he brings a bad report to his father about the sons of Leah. And all the brothers hated him, scripture tells us, and they couldn't even speak to him on friendly terms. And Joseph in his useful enthusiasm, he also reports to them a couple of dreams that he has, which would not endear them either. You know, remember in one of the dreams, uh the brothers, eleven sheaves bow down to his one sheaf. And it's still another dream, the sun, the moon, and eleven stars all bow down to him. And the brothers are fit to be tied. One day Jacob, the father, sends Joseph out to the fields to see how the brothers in the flocks are doing. It's been a while, he wants to report. The brothers look up, Jacob wanders far and wide. Joseph wanders far and wide, finally finds the brothers at Dothan. The brothers look up, they see him off in the distance. And they conspire to take care of the troublemaker, in their view. One of them Of course they wanted to begin with, they wanted to kill him. But Reuben, the oldest brother, says, Well, let's just throw him into this pit. Let's not lay our hands on him ourselves. He is our brother. And then Judah has even a more creative solution because he looks off in another distance another way and he sees a camel train of Ishmaelites, traders, nomads, heading down to Egypt. Ah, let's sell him to the Ishmaelites. That way we don't have to kill him ourselves. Remember, the life expectancy of a slave in those days is measured in months. So they haul him out of the pit and they sell them to the Ishmaelites who are on their way down to Egypt. Get down to Egypt, the Ishmaelites are going to end up selling him to Potifar, who is the captain of Pharaoh's bodyguard. And we're told in Scripture that the Lord caused all that Joseph did to prosper. One day Potiphar's wife casts her eyes upon Joseph. He's a good-looking man. She comes after him in the house. He refuses her. But she insists and he flees from the house and now she turns his back around against him and accuses him of a heinous crime and he is immediately arrested and thrown into prison. The deepest of the dungeons. You know, centuries later, as David recalled the high spots in Israel's life, the Israelites' life. He recalls Joseph's being afflicted in Psalm 105. He wrote, They afflicted his feet with feathers, and they put his legs in irons. God again gives Joseph favor in the eyes of his jailer, and he's increased it raised to positions of increasing responsibility within the jail. Two of his fellow prisoners one time end up being the king's cupbearer and baker. And they have dreams. They tell them that Joseph, God gives Joseph the interpretations, and it's just as Joseph had interpreted, the baker was hanged, and the cupbearer was returned to his position. In the palace. Before leaving prison, Joseph cries out to the cupbearer, Don't forget me. And you know what happened, of course? The cupbearer forgot him. Years go by. One day Pharaoh has dreams. Nobody can interpret them. Suddenly the cup prayer remembers Joseph, this other prisoner who God gave the gift of interpretation to. reports this to Pharaoh. Joseph is brought out of prison. He interprets the dreams to tell Pharaoh, this is what's going to happen. And because we've had the same dream twice, it's really going to happen quickly. There's going to be seven years of plenty and then seven years of extreme famine. We need to begin making preparations today. Who can make those preparations? And Joseph ends up being appointed by Pharaoh to handle all the preparations for Egypt for the coming years of famine. becomes number two in all of the land. The famine sets in. The storehouses in Egypt are full under Joseph's good management by the Lord. Famine creeps all the way up into Canaan, where Jacob and the brothers are. And they have no more food. They hear this food down in Israel, down in Egypt. So Jacob sends ten brothers down, holding back now the other remaining son. Joseph is thought to be dead of the favorite wife. The brothers go down. Joseph recognizes them immediately, but they don't recognize him. Joseph decides to test his brothers to see if they have changed, if their hearts have changed since that awful time years earlier when they sold them into slavery. So he takes them, he has them arrested, he accuses them of being spies, he pumps them for information about the family back home, and then at the very last minute says, Instead of holding all of you and sending only one back. You can all go back except I'm going to keep one of you as hostage, and you cannot buy any more food. You cannot see my face again until you produce your youngest brother, Benjamin. So he takes Simeon, binds him, and sends the brothers home. The famine continues. And finally it's time to buy more grain. Jacob tells his brothers, his sons to go down. They say, unless we take Benjamin, we can't, there's no point in going, the man won't see our face. Finally Jacob relents to send Benjamin back down. I mean Benjamin down with the brothers. The famine is severe They get down there, Joseph receives them, he hosts them to an emotional meal, where they end up being seated around the table in the order of their birth. They eat, and then when they're ready to leave, Joseph again tells his servant to put the money bag, the gr money sacks back in their grain sacks, and to take my silver chalice, he says, and hide it. In the sack of the youngest, Benjamin. So that's what he does. The brothers leave, and then he tells the steward, Go after them and accuse them of stealing the chalice. This is the test. So that's what happens. They go after them. Of course, the brothers are convinced none of them are guilty. And they even make this rash vow. They say they protest with whomever of your servants the cellus is found. Let him die, and we all will be my lord's slaves. They open their sacks one by one, and in Benjamin's sack is found the chalice. What will they do? See, the brothers of ten years ago would have said, Shh, boy, isn't this lucky. Huh? We get rid of the next one. They'd run and leave Benjamin to f to face the music on his own. But God has worked a change in their hearts, and now they all load up their sacks and they all head back down again. To meet Joseph. And let us then begin reading at Genesis 44, verse 16. And Judah said, What shall we say to my Lord? What shall we speak? Or how can we justify ourselves? God has found out the iniquity, the guilt of your servants. Behold, we are my Lord's servants, both we and he also in whose hand the cup has been found. But Joseph said, Far be it from me that I should do so, only the man in whose hand the cup was found shall be my servant. But as for you, go up in peace to your father. Then Judah went up to him and said, O my lord, please let your servant speak a word in my Lord's ears. And let not your anger burn against your servant, for you are like Pharaoh himself. My Lord asked his servant, saying, Have you a father? or a brother. And we said to my Lord, We have a father, an old man, and a young brother, the child of his old age. His brother is dead. That would be Joseph. His brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children, and his father loves him. Then you said to your servants, Bring him down to me that I might set my eyes on him. We said to my lord, the boy cannot leave his father, for if he should ever leave his father, his father would die. Then you said to your servants, Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall not see my face again When we went back to your servant, my father, we told him the words of my Lord. And when our father said, go again, buy us a little food, we said, we cannot go down. If our youngest brother goes with us, then we will go down, for we cannot see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us. Then your servant my father said to us, You know that my wife bore me two sons. One left me, and I said, Surely he has been torn to pieces, and I have never seen him since. If you take this one also from me, and harm happens to him, you will bring down my grey hairs in evil. to Sheol. Now therefore, as soon as I come to your servant my father, and the boy is not with us, then, as his life is bound up in the boy's life, as soon as he sees that the boy is not with us, He will die. And your servants will bring down the gray hairs of your servant our father with sorrow to Sheol. For your servant became a pledge of safety for the boy to my father, saying, If I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father all my life. Now, therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the boy as a servant to my Lord, and let the boy go back with his brothers For how can I go back to my father if the boy is not with me? I fear to see the evil that would find my father. Then Joseph could control himself no longer before all those who stood by him. He cried, Make everyone go out from me. So no one stayed with him when Joseph made himself known to his brothers, and he wept aloud, so that the Egyptians heard it, and the household of Pharaoh heard it. And Joseph said to his brothers, I am Joseph. Is my father still alive? But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed at his presence. So Joseph said to his brothers, Come near to me, please, and they came near and he said, I am your brother Joseph, whom you sold into Egypt. And now do not be distressed or angry with yourselves because you sold me here, for God sent me before you to preserve life. For the famine has been in the land these two years, and there are yet five years in which there will be neither ploughing nor harvest, and God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant on earth, and to keep alive for you many survivors. So it was not you who sent me here, but God. He's made me a father to Pharaoh and lord of all his house and ruler over all the land of Egypt. Hurry and go up to my father and say to him, Thus says your son Joseph God has made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me. Do not tarry. You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near me, you and your children, and your children's children, and your flocks, your herds, and all that you have. There I will provide for you, for there are yet five years of famine to come, so that you and your household and all that you have do not come to poverty. And now your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth that speaks to you. You must tell my father of all my honor in Egypt and of all that you have seen. Hurry and bring my father down here. Then he fell on his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept on his neck, and he kissed all his brothers and wept upon them. After that his brothers talked with him. Amen. Let us pray. Oh Lord, how we thank you for your word For in it you reveal to us that which we are to believe concerning you, and what duty you require of us in return. Lord, we would ask that you'd send your Spirit to be with us this morning, that He would indeed take this word of yours and plow our hearts with it, plant it deeply that we might bear fruit to your glory. Illumine our eyes that we might see wonderful things in your word, O Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Do you see Christ in the story? Let's look Three points this morning. Number one, sooner or later our sins will find us out. Number two, to redeem his people from eternal condemnation, God provides a perfect substitute to bear their punishment in full. And number three, God calls his people to draw near to him that they might have him for his sake. Our sins will find us out. God provides a substitute. God calls us to draw near to Him. Chapter 44, verse 16. This question is at the heart of the gospel. Judah said, What can we say to my Lord? What can we speak? And how can we justify ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants. That is the question of Scripture. How can we justify ourselves? Back upon the first visit when the brothers had been taken and held for three days in detention, they began to struggle. As they realized their own sins were finding them out. Listen to this conversation between the brothers in chapter 42, verses 21 and 22. Then they said to one another, Truly we are guilty concerning our brother. Because we saw the distress of his soul when he pleaded with us, yet we would not listen. Therefore, this distress has come upon us. And Reuben answered them, saying, Did I not tell you, do not sin against the boy? And you would not listen. Now comes the reckoning for his blood. This was a terrible, terrible thing that these brothers did. In the end, in their own minds, if unless they blinded themselves, they were murdering him. They were just using the Ishmaelites' hands to do so. And this was their deep, dark secret that through all of these years had gnawed away at their soul. Brothers and sisters, I'd allow that probably here this morning Almost every one of us here has some deep, dark, secret sin. The kind that wakes you up every so often about four in the morning. It never quite goes away The evil one will whisper in your ear, that one was too bad. Not even the blood of Jesus can cover it. And you live in horror against the idea that someday that sin of yours will see the light of day But you know, all of our sins are one day going to be exposed. That one day that book is going to be opened and we're going to stand before the God who made us. In our sin. And that question will be: how can we justify ourselves? And the answer is, you can't There is nothing that we can do to justify ourselves. There's no self-improvement program we can take up There's no sacrifice we can make. We can't even lay our down our own lives in a very good cause and earn one drop of saving merit when we stand before God in the day of judgment With that big hidden sin and all the other sins, even those little ones that we commit, every day of our lives, there is nothing that we can do. That day is coming. And yet the good news of the gospel doesn't leave us at the day of judgment with no answer. For you see here, this is now the second time in the Old Testament that God will begin to be revealing to his people how it is he's going to accomplish their salvation. The first time is back a couple generations when Abraham has the son of the covenant promise, Isaac, and Isaac rose up, and God tells Abraham, It's time to go out. And I want you to sacrifice Isaac. Your son born to you when you're a hundred years old. There aren't going to be any others. That's the one I want you to sacrifice. And he goes. And he obeys God. He's all said. He's got the knife raised. His son's tied up on the altar and God stops him. And God provides instead the offering at the time there is a ram stuck in the thicket behind, the Lord will provide. And now here, the second time we're going to see a substitute, but this is in the context now that the teaching gets more and more refined of a specific sin. Look at verse thirty-three in chapter forty four. Judah offers himself as a substitute for Benjamin. Where did this come from? Judah says, Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the lad, a slave to my lord, and let the lad go up with his brothers. See this idea that one might be able to stand in the stead of another, God is introducing to his people very early on. This is the age of the patriarchs. This is before the captivity in Egypt. God is already beginning to teach them about the substitute who would come. Now, the problem for Judah, of course, he can't be that substitute because he's got sins of his own to deal with. The one who would be the substitute must be one who has no sins of his own that need to be dealt with. Therefore, he can be that perfect substitute for the sins of you and me. And of course, Christ, when he came, by his perfect obedience, active and passive, which are imputed to us, we receive by faith, indeed does pay that penalty in full. He takes our place. And on the cross, the full wrath of God for your sins and mine is poured out upon Christ. Even that awful, terrible one you keep hidden in the back. Confess to the Lord. His blood is sufficient for either that one. That, brothers and sisters, is the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Whoever will call upon the name of the Lord, believing that he is willing and able to save on account of what Christ did on the cross, will be saved. But in our story here, we see also what is a necessary component in this. We see how the brothers have finally been brought to realize the awfulness of their sin. I think one of the problems confronting our day and age today is that we don't truly appreciate how terrible our sin is. All the world around us is up to its eyeballs and beyond in in wickedness and sin, and our relatively tame lifestyles, you know, our sins don't seem all that bad anymore. And we don't understand how heinous they are. What a stench each and every one of our sins is in the nostrils of God. And the brothers here are finally humbled to see how awful their sin is. And the wonder of the gospel is that Christ, who fully sees everything, who knows about every sin in your life and mine. Still willingly went to the cross. When in our hearts we were still in rebellion with our fist in his face And took upon himself, suffered that awful death, that he might bear our punishment upon himself. And in this we see also God unfolding his greater plan for the redemption of his people As God provides one to be not only a substitute for one, but he also provides one who will indeed plot the way, prepare the way for his people's survival. As the brothers contemplate what they have done, you wonder, well, what's in Jacob's Joseph's heart? How will he respond to these brothers? Is this get even time? And we see what's in Joseph's heart. He sees that God has indeed ordered all things for good, for the good of his people. And so instead of seeking vengeance upon his brothers, as we could all imagine wanting to do, this is get even time for the terrible thing that they did to him He acknowledges God's wonderful providence in preserving his people. Four times as he reveals himself to his brothers, he reminds them of this. Verse 5 in chapter 45: God sent me before you to preserve life. God sent me before you to preserve for you a remnant in the earth, and to keep you alive by a great deliverance. It was not you who sent me here, but God. And finally, God has made me Lord of all of Egypt. There I will also provide for you. See, God has never sent his people into a place that hasn't been prepared for them. He's not starting now. Jesus told his disciples, as we heard earlier, in my father's house are many dwelling places. If it were not so, I would have told you. For I go to prepare a place for you That is what our Lord is doing, even this day, preparing that place for us But what does this mean for us as we seek to order our lives? We see that pattern in Scripture over and over again of humiliation. Coming before exaltation. That was the pattern in our Lord's life. That is the pattern in our lives here today. This is the age of the cross. And in this life, it is our lot as followers of Christ to suffer for his sake. The day of glory is coming, but in the day that is coming, it is not now. Jesus told his disciples, he said, Remember the word I said to you, a slave is not greater than his master if they persecuted me. They will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. We have some examples here. Joseph, he goes from the darkest of the dungeons, falsely accused of a heinous crime, to being the number two man in all of Egypt. A father to Pharaoh, that's an honorific, the wise counselor. How many nights can you imagine as he languished there in prison, his legs bound in the irons? Did he remonstrate like the Prophet Jeremiah of old said? Why has the way of the wicked prospered? Why are those who deal in treachery at ease? And yet, God would take this time of preparation for him and would eventually use that Not only to honor him, but also to provide that means by which that remnant of his people would be preserved. The brothers would be brought finally to the place where they would see the awfulness of their sin, and they're on their face in the dust before the number two man in all of Egypt Their hearts sank as they struggled amongst themselves, and they turned trembling to one another. What is this that God has done to us? As God finally reveals to them the true horror of what they have done, and yet in a work of grace No longer they are being immediately executed for that, but they are invited in. Jesus told us, Behold, I send you out as sheep in the midst of wolves, therefore be shrewd as serpents and innocent as doves. But beware of men, for they will deliver you up to the courts and scourge you in their synagogues, and you shall even be brought before governors and kings for my name's sake as a testimony to the Gentiles. But when they deliver you up, do not be anxious about how or what you are to speak, for it shall be given you in that hour what you are to speak, for it is not you who speak, but the Spirit of your Father who is in you. The Wingards were here a couple weeks ago. I'm sure they told you about the more than 2,000 Christians this day who are in erytry who are in prison on account of their faith. The conditions under which they are held can be described only as terrible. Many of them are in shipping containers set out in the hot desert sun to bake. With no food, little water, no facilities. They may be there for years. One of the more popular f uh female Christian singles, singers, was in prison for two and a half years. They finally had to let her out for hospital treatment because the beatings were so bad that she had to have medical treatment lest she die. A couple times ago when I was in Eritrea, we had been out doing some family visitation. We got there just before the service started. I got the last seat in the last row. Sitting next to Jonas. a m one of the members of the steering committee who'd himself had been in prison for seven months. At the end of the service, Jonas Bolton. I was looking forward to talking to him, but okay. He came back in about five minutes, he says, Did you see the guy sitting right in front of us? I said, yeah, not not really. I didn't recognize him. He said, he was my guard in prison And he became a Christian. And he went to prison. And I didn't know he was out, but I wanted to know how it was with him. The secretary at the school where Dr. Bryan teaches was imprisoned for three and a half months last summer. She's twenty-three years old. A sweet young woman. The amazing thing was that the captors soon learned they had learned they had to stop putting unbelievers. in the same cell with her. We went to visit an old shepherd We asked him how it was. He's right on the line between Eritrea and Ethiopia. It's a battle zone. You can't even get in there today. We asked him how it was He said that day back in 2002 when the government suspended public gatherings for worship, they sent soldiers to my church. They put everybody in prison. Men, women, and children. They let the women and the children go, but they kept the men. Said, but I am now an old man, and so they did not beat me. The young men they beat mercilessly. We asked him, because we know several of our people who've been to prison have had Bibles in prison. We asked if he had a Bible in prison, and he said. As he's memorized vast portions of Scripture against that day. And then Waldo Gabriel says, and you know Prison is a wonderful place to share the gospel with unbelievers. And you sit there with a man like this and you go, Lord, I am not even worthy to be in this man's presence. That's the story of his life. I don't know how many times he's been in prison, but God has used him to tell others of Christ. And the forgiveness of sins that is theirs, because he stood in their place. It is a wonderful thing And that is our calling in this life to suffer shame for his name. We tend to be a fairly timid people in our own country. We don't want people to think that we're some kind of a Christian extremist. And so we keep our mouths shut. And we don't want people to write us off as religious fanatics. And so we keep our mouths shut. And in so doing, we forget our calling to be the people of God, to be light and salt in the world. As Joseph chooses to reveal himself to his brothers, we come to our third point. God calls his people to draw near to him that they might have him for his sake. Despite the stench of our sins, Christ freely offered himself for us. He loved us so much that he did that. He put himself forward as that perfect substitute and received everything that was due to us for our sin. On that cross, he took the full punishment, and the benefits of what he accomplished on the cross are ours by faith. How can we justify ourselves? We cannot. But in Christ we are justified. And that is ours by faith. We have no grounds for self-justification. To the brothers he says, Come closer to me. To Jacob he said, Come down and be near me. Do not delay. You shall be near me, you and your children and your children's children. Christ says to his family, And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am, there you may be also. Christ prayed on the night before he was betrayed. Father, I desire that they also, whom thou hast given me Be with me where I am, in order that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given to me. In this life, we draw near to Christ through the means of grace that He's given to us. His word, especially the preaching of His Word, through prayer and through the sacraments. That we might indeed have him for his sake. You know, if you ask people, when you die, do you want to go to heaven? I haven't really met anybody who says no. And then you ask them, why I mean i you know the other place doesn't sound really inviting. But what is it about heaven that you like besides as a fire insurance policy? You know, it's not Disney World. It's it's not a Club Med resort. What is there about heaven that you find so appealing? Now, for those of us who know Christ, we know what the answer is. That's because Christ is there. And I want to be with him. There's nothing more than I want to be with Christ. And that is what the appeal of heaven is to those who love Jesus Christ. And indeed, if it were possible, which it's not, but even if it were possible for those who do not love Christ to be in heaven, they'd be miserable. Because Christ is at the center of heaven. And it's His worship, His honor and glory that drives all. Draw near to God. Come, be with, live with Him. We wait eagerly then for that day, when we shall have that full joy of being in the presence of Christ. Then Joseph fell on his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept on his neck. And he kissed his brothers and wept on them. And afterward the brothers talked. Let's pray. O Lord, what a glorious inheritance you have for your people, you yourself. That we might indeed have you as earnest in this life, but then also face to face Together with our brothers and sisters from around the world and across the ages, forever, to live unfettered in your presence, to know you. O Lord Jesus, come quickly. And until then, we pray that you would continue to raise up generations of faithful men and women. Willing to carry your gospel, that good news of forgiveness and repentance of sins to the ends of the earth. These things we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.