We welcome you here to Columbia Presbyterian Church. For those of you new, my name is John Smith. I am the pastor of youth ministries here at CPC. And first off, I'd like to extend my uh gracious thanks to everyone who made this week's ordinary Nation Nation is special and and memorable. Um thank you for all coming out. Uh it's the end of an eight-year-old eight-year-long journey for me. Many have asked, how did you wind up getting here? I actually was a band teacher in Howard County where I taught music with the last name song. which was to the delight of many of my students. But as I left my position there and and went off to seminary, um to serving at my father's church to be Being here. It's been about eight years of the testimony of the Lord's faithfulness. Bring me bring me the moment. In many ways, uh Bassioha but And I I feel feel like a hog that has caught caught up fire truck and and I don't know what I'm gonna do, but um just preach the gospel and and And just try to go as as best I can. So um I covered all of your prayers as uh we all journey and stumble together on this walk and work walking in God's grace. So thank you for the opportunity and the privilege to serve here this morning bringing the Word of God. Let's dive right into the text today. Now, if you're a regular attender here at the church, you may notice that we have the Lord's Supper out here today again. And for you type A personalities in the room, you'll know that we only celebrate the Lord's Supper during the third Sunday together and then the first Sunday in the evening service service. Now you may be freaking out a little bit here if you're used to routine and schedule and any disruption just kind of drives you a little bit ah but your calendar hasn't gone wrong, nor is this not deja vu all over again. Um rather the text of scripture that we are preaching on this Sunday leads us straight to the Lord's table. And so the pastoral staff and the elders agreed that uh that it would be kind of remiss if we didn't Celebrate the Lord's Supper here while we're talking about the Lord's Supper. You can open up your Bibles to Mark chapter 14. Mark chapter 14. Verse 12 to 25 together. And as you're turning your Bibles there, there's a lot of ground to cover today. as we talk about the Lord's Supper. And there's more ground in fact that we can cover. So I'm going to commend one book to you for those of you who like to read and want to discover more, called Spreading the Feast by Howard Griffith. This is a great book, an excellent meditation. on so much that we can't cover here today when we're talking about the Lord's Supper. But that would be my one recommendation to you. So Mark chapter 14, verse 12 to 2025. And I'll stay of unleavened leavened bread. When they sacrificed the Passover lamb, his disciples said to him, Where will you have us go and prepare for you to eat the Passover? And he sent two of his disciples and said to them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him. And wherever he enters, say to the master of the house, the teacher says, Where is my guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready. prepare for us. And the disciples set out and went to the city and found it, just as he has told them. And they prepared Passover. And when it was evening he came twelve, and as they were riding at table and eating, Jesus Jesus said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. They began to be sorrowful and say to him, one after another Is it I? He said to them, It is one of the twelve, one who is dipping bread into the dish with me. For the Son of Man goes as is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of Man Is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. If they were eating, he took bread, and after blessing it, broke it and gave it to them and said, Take. This is my body. And he took a cup, and when he had given them thanks, he gave it to them, and they drank, and they all drank of it. And he said to them, This is my blood of the covenant Which is poured out for many. Truly I say to you, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until that day when I drink it new in the kingdom of God. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, in an age where we long to find you, forgive us. For trying to find a fine clever devices of men. In our pleasure pleases that do not satisfy cheapening of you through worshiping creation. shun rather than the Creator. Father, we ask and said that we yearn for the simplicity of where you've commanded us to find you. Here amongst your people, amongst hearing your word, and participating in simple things like the Lord's table, this sacrament which points us to your son. Son Jesus Christ and his work on the cross for our salvation. We add that this feast that we're about to have would lead us to In the name of Jesus we pray all these things. Amen. Growing up as a uh second generation Korean American And um I often woke up on my birthday with uh an unexpected meal from my mother. Uh you see, she would make me this soup. It was made out of seaweed and brisket, which, you know, as I first described, that doesn't sound quite all that appetizing, but but I've grown to love that soup. You see, Korean mothers would would give it to their children on their birthdays because it was it was often the first meals that the moms would eat after giving birth to help with recovery. And giving the soup to the child was to show the child of the mother's sacrifice of bringing the child into the world. And celebrating another year of that child living and growing and maturity and love. It it it's this really great soup. It's got this warm silky texture and the meat is perfectly soft and chewy and it just warms your heart and just wakes you up better than any cup of coffee ever. It's it's good screen. That soup means birthday to me to me, as I have it And for you, you might have your own food item of choice that reminds you of something special, something memorable. Comfort food is an incredibly powerful thing. I mean, there's proof of this in this number, even the season that we're in right now. 478 million pounds of pump food. In twenty fourteen, that is the number uh that the US Department of Agriculture estimated that was was consumed in the United States State alone. Four hundred and seventy-eight million pounds of pumpkin pies, pies, pumpkin cookies, pumpkin bagels. But strangely enough, prior to 2014, no pumpkin and pumpkin spine. They didn't have any, right? Interesting. Four hundred and seventy-eight million pounds of this orangey goopy stuff that's produced for the sake of our collective taste buds, mostly eaten in the month of October. Why? There's something about comfort food. There's something about comfort food So we associate certain foods with certain seasons and experiences, and it's it's really a tale as old as time. Every culture, society, family has some sort of tradition with the first time. comfort food. Some of you associate road trips with cracker barrel, others with waffle house. Some of you can't think of any eating anything else but turkey. on Thanksgiving. While others shudder at the thought of eating fruitcake at Christmas, right? Hot chocolate in the winter, cool iced tea in the summer, cakes at weddings, hot dogs at a baseball game. These are all all foods that remind us of something special. I'm making you hungry. Right, right. This this sermon sermon long so you can enjoy lunch lunch. So as we understand our culture and society to Take time to prepare for these feasts. We notice that as we prepare for these moments where we come together, it it preparation is a huge Deal for these events. I mean, never notice that Christmas is getting a little earlier and earlier each year. Or that Thanksgiving is now just going back and back and forth because we were prepared for all these different feasts. I think it so much comes realization that important meals tak take kind of preparation. Comfort food isn't isn't all made comfortably. It comes at a cost at the cost and hence of the one. Who prepares the meal for us? In our text today, Jesus is approaching the cross. And as he does so, he wishes to share one last meal. With his disciples. As a part of the season that Israel was experiencing in their version of Thanksgiving, it was called the Passover feast. As Anthony just wonderfully shared, it was a feast for each family that became a staple holiday for the Jewish people. It was a feast of the Sina that marked their deliverance from the hands of slavery from Pharaoh in Egypt. The remembering of the promise that God was fable to deliver them. Now Jesus himself knew the Jewish law and the custom to celebrate Passover, and as Jesus wanted to keep and fulfill the law, he knew that he needed a place for his disciples and his followers. to share in this meal together. But there was a problem. Jesus is now a little bit too famous for his own good. He's a wanted man. at this point in the story of Mark and he needed to conduct this feast in a way that wasn't going to draw attention to him publicly. So he tells his decisions to look for a man carrying carrying a drug, which would have been a strange sight at that time. As it was typically in that culturally, only women who carried water drugs. Men carried wineskins to carry around wine and water. And that was supposed to be a sign, sort of a kind of a secret code that this man was in on Jesus' plan. This man was going to make secret arrangements for them to be placed in a large upper room, big enough for the disciples and the followers of Christ to reside for this meal. Jesus even tells his disciples that there's this password phrase that he needs to give to this man so that they know they can trust to be able to share this with them. This is this high levels of security and high level levels of preparation. Now, why is Jesus taking the pains to prepare this meal in this way? Well, for one, this wasn't just going to be any regular Passover that he was about to. Jesus was about to institute a brand new meal for him, for them. One that would carry on the mysteries of Passover into a brand new feast. But first, let's talk a little bit about the Passover feast that Jesus and his disciples are taking and the preparation of this feast. You see, to us we we really don't think too much. If you've grown up in the church, you don't really think about Passover too much, do you? Chances are you've never celebrated a Passover before unless maybe you've gone to a Jews for Jesus seminar and they've they've done that whole presentation in front of you. To you, the most Passover has probably ever meant to you growing up was just a day off school if you went to the public school system or if you have a Jewish friend, it was Passover was the time where you notice that they ate these very small pieces of bread. Maybe they had to have some ornate dishes on the table. You were probably wondering as a as I was early on in my faith. What what what is why is this such a big deal for the Jews? For them, the Passover was more than comfort food and an interesting Dietary plan. It was a huge celebration of a reminder of Israel's history and their past. It was a retelling of the story of God's faithfulness. It was their retelling of their gospel. The whole house would be prepared exactly to how the Jewish law demanded, which included things like, this is true, cleaning the house of all yeast. Ronald, right? Any yeastables anywhere had to be c be clean, right? And then and then cleanliness had to be ceased by the head of the house the house For many Jews, it required travel to get back to Jerusalem, where they were supposed to lawfully celebrate the Passover. They had to. Purchase a lamb. They had to have that lamb approved at the forecourt of the temple, sort of like a Jewish food and drug administration vetting the lamb purchases. It was just like our obsession. With pumpkins at this time of the year, in a small city of Jerusalem, there would be an estimated quarter of a million lambs that would be used for slaughter, an estimated traffic about two and a half million people in an age where there was no cars. on our airplanes. This is, and this by the way, doesn't even have the the the the number of tours that would be found, the number of people who would be considered ceremonially unclean. This was a huge deal. Women and children, rich and poor, would all gather around this table. And the ceremony would be this lovely family moment where the head of the household would ask questions. to the children, the children would respond and they would participate in this ceremony. You see, Passover wasn't just a meal, a formality. It wasn't just a routine. It was Something special. The time to really prepare your heart and your mind to receive. It was something that stood out to the people of God, something that helped them look forward. To and help them to see the Lord. It was something that wasn't just piecemeal together at the last second, but it was something that in the end would bring comfort and joy and life and encouragement. To the Jewish people. Just like Christmas, Thanksgiving, this was a holiday that meant more than just spending a couple of bites together. But it warmed the heart. It was remembered how God passed us over his judgment on the Genaji and spared them. So Christian, I see you this morning. Before we even talk about the supper and and other mysteries of Passover together, This morning. How have you prepared yourself for this feast? How have you gotten ready to receive this spiritual meal that Christ institutes? To replace the Passover meal? Have you been able to quiet yourself down from the chaos and the noise of this world to any Or maybe, um, you know, like me, me, maybe like Martha. You're just so just busy with the activity of of Sunday. activity of moving around and running around and making sure everyone's ready to go, that you forget the very object of the Lord's Day itself. Maybe some of you here are just weary with life. You're hurting from every angle and turn, and you can't even fathom how coming to church could be an encouragement. Encouragement to you this morning. Maybe some of you are distracted by the pains of your own sin or the sins of others. Maybe you are so distracted by a sandboxed toys of this world. It's keeping you from experiencing the true joys and comfort that are to be found when the people of God gather here to enjoy this meal. No matter where you are, the good news is, the good news that this text teaches us, the good news that the gospel teaches us, is that our Lord has prepared this meal for us. for you. Our Lord has brought you all here together. And our Lord has made the pains to prepare this meal for us. So it is not your action or it is not your perfect readiness that makes this meal effective. But it is our faith in the perfect one. Who prepares it for us? Do you believe this table is for you, believers, here today? Do you believe, as members of the body of Christ, that this feast is for you? But what is the mysteries of this feast? What is the mysteries of this feast? Because you see, we as we have our faith, faith in as the people of Israel In when what the Lord was doing in their lives symbolized in the Passover meal meal, the mysteries begin to unfold. And if you're new to Christianity, the the puzzling nature of even why we spend twice a month to pass out a thumbful of bread and tiny cups of of grape juice. That might seem a bit mysterious and strange to you. You might even question why we choose bread and juice. I mean, why Welch's grape juice? Why not wine, right? We're Presbyterian, right? We should be able to enjoy. What is going on here? If it's a feast, after all, doesn't the Bible say it's a feast? Why not enjoy it? Why do we do it this way? But to focus on too much on the physical elements of sphists would be to completely take away the meaning of what these elements were supposed to signify. Now I'm sure that we've all done this at one point in time or another. I mean, I remember when I was much younger, I remember one time I went to uh a church service where they actually served a different kind of bread for the Lord's table. table. They served King's Hawaiian bread, right, for communion. And as I was looking around the room, you know, people were were being very polite and they were taking very small, small pieces. and taking small small out and passing it around round. You gotta understand, Fan, for King's Hawaiian bread is like the king of all breads. It is so good. It's sweet, it's fluffy. It's nice and if you microwave it with a little bit of butter, it's just a ma ah, it's so good. Right. Um so it was my comfort food. So, you know, as the bread was being passed around, I remember foolishly um in my youth, I I just went for it. I just went in and just grabbed this large chunk of it off and and I tried to play it off. You know, I took a lot of it and immediately put my head down to pray, right? You know, and sort of just signaling to everyone else around me, you know what, I need more Christ today. You know you know. And uh it was so selfish push it. Actually I just wanted more like I just wanted That taste of the King's Hawaiian bread. We all do this with the physical elements. We make more out of them than what we should, or we we selfishly think that they mean more than what they actually mean. What I should have told my younger self is that there's a mystery to the elements that are just beyond the physical things that we see on the table. Just like the Passover feast was for the Jews. You see, this feast consisted of foods that were not necessarily there because they were great and tasty foods to eat, but because of what they represented. Rather, they consisted of things what we read about in Exodus 12 earlier in the service. Things like bitter herbs, unleavened bread, things like stewed fruit, which represented the bricks of slavery that Israel had to make. So these these were symbols that that went beyond way more than just their physical properties. Every Passover celebration was signposts with a cup of wine. It was taken four times during the meal, which served as sort of benchmarks for each of parts of the story. Four sections. They took the cup of suffocation. Then they moved on to the cup of plagues, retelling the story of the ten plagues of Egypt. And then they moved to this cup of redemption to show God's faithfulness to redeem his people. And then finally Finally, they ended off with the cup of praise, where they would sing through Psalms 113 and 118, which we read in the service here today. It was a response of the people of God to the salvation. Of God. Every part of the Passover meal was to show and demonstrate the very real suffering that the people of God endured, but also shows them the real redemist. that they had in Greece. They did not even know about Yahweh. Led the people of God to worship. With the reception of the elements before them. So, in other words, there was no sort of supernatural power in the physical food per se. Rather, the food gave reassurances. to the people of God. It gave them encouragement, it gave them life, it gave them comfort. And it was in this moment as Jesus was presiding over the Passover, he was the head of the household as Where suddenly we have a very dramatic moment in verses 17 to 25 of this passage. Jesus was leading them to the first section of the Passover, the cup of sanctification. And in this portion, Jews would dip unleavened bread into a dish, which is a sauce that sort of closely resembles something something like bitter horseradish, just pure horseradish. Now if you've ever had straight horseradish, which I have not, but I've been told that it's it's quite harsh. It's quite Pungent and and sort of to symbolize this bitterness of the slavery of Israel. This bitterness of the pains they went through. They they typically tasted it and did it. And it was supposed to be signs. Posts of where they used to be prior to God's deliverance. And it was in this portion of the meal. Jesus is sitting in this room and he declares. that one of the his disciples would betray him. What what a pac what just you gotta see the drama of this moment. This this symbol in Passover which is supposed to represent the bitterness of the pains that the people of God went through. Jesus uses as a moment to describe the bitterness and the pains of own betrayal. Here we stop and pause and take a look at the severity of this judgment. That's being placed on One of his disciples. Jesus graciously does not call out this disciple by name, but we all know that it is Judas. And Jesus here in this moment is showing Judas. Grace in this moment of bitterness. Why? He is showing Judas and telling him what this rejection will mean for him. In verse 7 And just as the Passover meal meal was to those who received it as a sign and a seal by faith, it was also a good judgment for those who didn't participate. Taking the Passover meal. So Jesus is pointing this grace out to Judas that here's what's going to happen. I'm calling you to myself, even in this moment where I know what you're going to do to me, I know you're going to betray me. I'm still calling you to myself. Now, for certain, there is a mystery behind the necessary nature of Jesus being betrayed by Judas. It's a part of God's plan. And yet, somehow, Judas is still completely responsible for his response to Jesus. And this is the dance that we experience in the Christian faith, this dance between our responsibility that Jesus And the apparent tension of the mystery that is present here in this meal is still present for those of us here today. But we shouldn't, as often Christians do, pit human responsibility. and the divine sovereignty of God against one another. By Packer wrote in this book, Advancement and the Sovereignty of the Tea of God, that these are not at all intention, but rather These two things work as friends. They are both working together. Packer uses the analogy of light, for example. For all you scientists in the room, right? Know that light is both a wave and And a particle. And this is a great mystery. We don't know how that can both be consistent and happen at the same time. And yet You can't claim that science isn't science because there's an apparent antinomy or apparent contradiction that exists in those two terms. Likewise, we shouldn't pit these two Two things one another. So we can't let the nuances of this theological debate take us away from the very real challenge that Jesus is giving to Judas and to all of us. Here today? Do we understand Christ for what He is offering to us? Will we accept it and believe it and trust and faith in it? Or will we, like Judas, trade Christ in for cheap offerings of this world? Will we let you Judas choose to live a life separated from him forever. Judas Jesus sorry Jesus puts it in Judas' hand. Even though he knows what Judas will do, and moves on into this Passover feast. He moves on to continue to unravel this mystery. And so Scripture teaches us here at this moment he took bread and broke it and gave it to them, which was a practice that was done in the Jewish custom during the Passover with the bread. of the household would break this bread and that introduced it to all people that were around. Now, the the this part of the palate were called the Africa Moment. They would have the bread, and it was unleavened, and interestingly enough, this unleavened bread was punctured with holes. This bread was baked in such a way that it would have burnt stripes to show the piercing of the Israelite people, to show the stripes of the affliction of the Israelite people. As they were in slavery. And some Jewish customs, even today, they have this spread separated and stored into a bag with three different compartments. And the head of the house household take the bread out of the second commitment, break this bread, and distribute it. This pierced, afflicted with stripes, bread. Does any of this Sound familiar. Jews today still don't know why they do this in this part of the Africa. Frequen. They they speculate that it might have something to do with the early fathers, Israel, Isaac, and the early fathers of Israel, you know, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They sometimes think that it has to do with the threefold distinction of the priesthood. They they they still think that this is a mysterious part of the Passover. They know. Why? How in this bag Where there's three elements in it, you take out the second element, you break it and distribute it, how this points to to anything. It's still a mystery to them. But for us as Christians, we we can clearly see the Trinitarian and also the picture of what Christ is, wasn't it? He was pierced for our transgression. By his stripes we are healed. Jesus is the unlad that was broke. You and I The Passover, not just being a memorial service for the people of God to remember the faithfulness of God. It's more than just a memorial service. Every component of the Passover was there to help us understand Christ as the bread, Christ as the wine, Christ as the lamb. Egypt our sin. Bring us into new life life through his death, build and resurrection is the power and the beauty of the feast. So when Christ instituted the Lord's Supper here in verses 22 to 25 of this text in Mark There is now a replacement of the Passover feast, an institution of a new meal. The New Testament sign and seal, the promise of the covenant of grace, Jesus introduces for the very first time here. Instead of unleavened bread to symbolize the bitterness of slavery, we're given the symbol of the body of Christ. Strengthen and defeat us in Rather than the wine to signify how God has redeemed his people from Egypt, Christ gives us his symbol through blood. Through this wine or grape juice to show how he's fulfilled the story of the covenant, God's faithfulness to his people, past, present, future, forever. That he would forget their sins no more as far as the east is from the west, and that he would just r forget their iniquity. That he he would he would be with his people, that he would that he would just show his love and mercy despite our failures and our weaknesses. Every time we we come to the table as a church, we get to embrace and explain. Experience this together. This is the comfort of Christ in the body and the blood, in this bread and the scrape juice. We don't believe that we are carnally feasting on the actual body and blood of Christ, as others would believe that that would be a mis interpretation of this text, it would be uh like as though though you were crucifying Christ at the time you came to the Lord's table. And we we would we would have our our disagreements agreements with to say no you cannot keep not keep crucifying Christ. Christ. Rather, we continue on the tradition of the people of God in the Old Testament who celebrate Passover together. We continue with the tradition of the New Testament, early Church, that every time we gather here, we're doing more than just the memorial service to remember Christ's death. We feast in the comfort Of our strength, for those by faith receive it, and encourage by the sight of other brothers and sisters. around us in the church who are doing this the same. Just the Passover was never meant meant to be an individualistic or only solely to be reflection of the cell. The Passover meal wasn't a one-person meal. You couldn't eat alone doing it. So too, here we gather together on the Lord's table, not to just simply ponder in ourselves and look inward and reflect on our own failures and our our maybe our possible worthiness to come to the table, but rather we're feasting. Feasting with our fellow members of the body of Christ, and rejoicing in the good news of the gospel together, and awaiting the day when Christ comes back. To drink again the fruit of the new vine when he returns. To inaugurate a new heavens and a new earth, where all the past bitterness, all the past slavery of sin of this mortal life, Will fade away forever. We will get to feast eternally with our King. This is what this meal reminds us of. So uh let's stop talking about it. Let's let's partake of this meal together. Um let's pray And then I'll I'm going to invite the elders to come forward to participate in the Lord's Supper. Let us pray. Father, we are about to take of this meal. This wonderful encouragement, this sign and seal of the covenant of grace. A sign that points to you, a seal as we take of these elements. Just reminding us that we belong to you. A seal that marks for each and every single one of us. That we are held in your hands. That the promises of the covenant remain true. That for those of us who have stumbled into sin, that we are forgiven through the blood of Christ. It is his work on the cross that redeems us. Lord, this what what a what a tremendous industry we get to participate in Help us to see it. Help us to see beyond the mysteries here of these simple elements and to be strengthened as we partake of this meal together. In Jesus name, Emma