Blessed us this week we moved into our new home, but that's nothing compared to something else that I want to share with you. I want you to know that in the past week, just a few days ago, I have been offered To receive almost eleven million dollars. Tinnis letter. Why are you laughing? This letter is addressed To me, I mean this we're not talking, you know, Mimeo, we're talking the Reverend Columbia Presbyterian Church. And this is a fellow who simply says, for the trouble of my setting up an account The Columbia Presbyterian Church, simply work a deal with the trustees. There will be $35. 5 million transferred from Nigeria into this account for a tax shelter. And I receive 30% of that for doing that. You read this letter and it's very confidential. I don't know if I should be sharing this with you But uh I am allowed to uh benefit from this because these feet fellows need uh place to put their money. Now I don't know about you, but you know you look at a letter like this, and uh it reminds you that every scam that ever was depends on greed. to succeed, doesn't it? I mean you take this letter and you say, Well, that's silly and I throw it well wait a minute, you know, eleven million dollars, huh? Begin to think about that. I mean I'd be perfectly willing to tie that and you know, there goes the West Wing ninety seven campaign. I mean you guys are off the hook totally. In fact we could double it to a million dollars instead of a half million dollars and you all you're all free of it. Amazing how when we see something like that, it produces something in us. There's a fascination with money, isn't there? Particularly a fascination with thinking that I could receive a large amount of money in a very simple way. Something in our hearts grasp for that. In a recent article in the Washington Post, it was the cover article of their magazine, very interesting article called Self-Help, America's One True Faith. The article talks about how in America probably the most indigenous religion that's ever been created in America is the religion of self-help. And the two primary aspects of self-help help self-help in America are recovery and getting wealthy, succeeding. In fact, they they quote one woman here. I don't know if you've heard of her, Elizabeth Town. She authored a book called Making Money, How to Grow Success. She advocates the practice of lying on your back, breathing slowly, and saying with each exhalation, I am money. I am money. It goes on with other number of other uh that's a freebie uh bit of advice there, but there's a lot of other stuff in the article. Number half of Americans, according to a recent Times Mirror survey 51% to be exact. Agree with the statement, money is one of my most important concerns. Interesting combination of statistics I came across. Sixty percent of Americans agree with the statement that they are not as well off the let's see, but the statement is That um they do not have enough money to live the way they would like to. Sixty percent of Americans say, I do not have enough money to live the way I'd like to. And yet fifty-nine percent in the same survey Agreed with the statement, I am better off than my parents were at my age. So you got, you know, fifty sixty sixty percent of Americans saying, I don't have enough money. But I'm better off than I was when my parents were at my age. We're preoccupied with wealth and with power as a culture. And that's why This whole self-help indigenous prosperity kind of gospel has taken particularly root in America much more than in most other cultures. We have more money and so we think about it more. It's not that we don't have enough. It's because we have so much that we're so preoccupied with it. In fact, you notice uh just in banking or in other things, how much of our culture revolves around the complexities of handling money, investing money, developing money, saving money? It's such a complex thing because we think about it so much. We're always inventing new ways to make money or to do things with money. But behind all of this, there is a reality. This is what we see. We look at what wealth and power produces. It's very attractive to us. We enjoy our home. We're very grateful for it. There's a lot of things that we see. If I just had a little more money, then I would be happier But there is a reality behind that that needs to be unmasked, to reveal by some inside information what true reality is. And I don't know if you've ever thought about it, but the book of Revelation has that title exactly for that reason. You see, Revelation means the revelation of things as they are, centering in Jesus Christ. The Book of Revelation, its purpose is to unmask the facade of appearances to show us what things are really like. And if you look at the book sometime I'd love to do a series on the book of Revelation. I once studied with a fellow who I thought had the best handle on a book of Revelation. It's like somebody I once read said, I became a Christian and uh but nobody understood the book of Revelation and then I read a book on the Book of Revelation and it made perfectly clear. I wondered why everybody else had trouble with the Book of Revelation. Then I read a second book on the book of Revelation, and I haven't understood it ever since. You read any two books on Revelation, they're all different, right? Well this this one of all the things I've seen uh helped me to understand it best, and sometime I'd like to do a series on that. So it's it says that the book of Revelation, this goes all the way back to Augustine is really divided into seven heptads, that is seven sevens. The whole book revolves around the number seven. The first four of those sevens reveal the ultimate sources of evil and good. The seven seals, seven trumpets, all these things. Then you move on, things climax in that. In chapter fourteen. And then you move on from chapter 15 to 22 into disclosing the ultimate overthrow of all evil by the Lord Jesus Christ. And you see those seven sevens. We don't have time to go into any of that now, but what I want you to see in terms of what I'm getting at for this morning is that when you look at this whole thing, there's a number of basic themes in the Book of Revelation, but one of the most basic of all is that history is ultimate ultimately the conflict between two cities or two peoples. Jerusalem, the people of God, and Babylon, which is the city that embodies all of the values, the temporal values of this world. Babylon is the ultimate disclosure and revelation of the mentality that says this life is where it's at, and I'm going to grab everything I can in this life, whatever it takes. Jerusalem is the ultimate disclosure of a heavenly people who understand that while we enjoy this life, we are passing through it as pilgrims toward our ultimate home in the heavenly Jerusalem. Now the ultimate conflict then between Jerusalem and Babylon works through the book of Revelation. And that conflict is exemplified in the The conflict, or excuse me, that conflict reflects the conflict behind that, and I don't have time to develop this now, just throw it in. Uh between 777 and 666. 666 is not something you've got to worry about in your social security or anything else. 666 is the counterfeit Trinity. It's the beast of the earth, the beast of the sea, and the harlot Babylon. 777, of course, is the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. And that's the ultimate conflict. Now when you come to the book of through Revelation, you come to chapter 18. In chapter 18, you are given to see the ultimate destruction of Babylon. The ultimate destruction of everything people set their hearts on in this world to say this is what is going to give me joy and pleasure. And if I just had a little bit more of this, and just a little bit and Babylon is the embodiment of that. And in chapter 18 you see what that comes to, as uh Tom just read that Now, you notice that the wealth and the power of this city come to complete and utter devastation. Ruin. What chapter in Scripture Then chapter 18 of Revelation more powerfully depicts the futility of our placing all of our hope and all of our investments in this life. I want for us to notice four things from this chapter. First of all, notice, behold the wealth and the power of this great city. To hold the wealth and the power of it. Notice it's wealth, first of all. You see the way the bulletin outline is done today really kind of confused the office, but those numbers are all scattered there, not just, you know. get you disoriented or something. And it wasn't because we hit the wrong buttons on the tabs or anything like that. It's it's so those verses will sort of stand out. So that you look at those, you may want to jot a word next to them But so you just don't see a bunch of numbers crammed together. You need to you know, s it's been often said the best way to read the book of Revelation is at one sitting You get the impact of it. The book of Revelation is really kind of like the crescendo of a symphony of the themes of Scripture. And so if you try to analyze everything about what dragon means and what this horn means and what that means, you know, you kind of get bogged down in the details. Read it for the grand scope of it. And so if you read Revelation 18, get the drift. Don't worry about what every particular thing means. Get the drift of it. And as you do that, you look and these verses will will show you where the themes come back again and again. The theme of its wealth. For instance, in verse 2, where he says, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. This is a great and powerful city. Look verse three. All the nations have drunk of the maddening wine of her adulteries, the kings of the earth committed adultery with her, the merchants of the earth grew rich from her excess Excessive luxuries. She was the ultimate investment. Everybody's growing rich because of the excessive luxuries of Babylon. You read in verses 11 to 13. Those luxuries spelled out, the cargoes of gold and silver and precious stone and pearls, all these different things. Notice in those verses, nothing is wrong with any of them. God made these things. God made the gold and the cinnamon and the trees and all of the things that are described there. There's nothing wrong with those. It is simply the idolizing of these things. It is making the creature rather than the creator the object of worship. And so these things become rather, as someone has said, wealth and things are great servants, but terrible masters. And it's these things that become the center of the focus of the people of Babylon, of people who live in this spiritual city. that become its downfall. Notice not only is it full of wealth, but it's power. Wealth and power tend to go together. If you have wealth, you have power. If you have power, you can get wealth. Notice the number of references to kings. It's the kings that associate with Babylon. She's where it's at. She's where the power structure is. Babylon is kind of like Hollywood and Washington, D. C. , rolled into one. You know, the East Coast and the West Coast, all pushed together, power and wealth, and all of the values of this world, focused in the things that give sensual pleasure. But notice that the Book of Revelation, as it unmasks this reality, recognizes that the facade, the appearance is a very alluring appearance While Babylon is in fact a corrupt harlot, she appears very beautiful. She doesn't appear as a cobra ready to strike. Rather, she appears as a beautiful serpent who's the most beguiling of all the animals. So Babylon is pictured as very alluring. She's the maul of all mauls. Everything you could desire is found in her. You could walk up and down the aisles and everything your heart could ever want is found in Babylon on a sensual level. You know, you read horses and carriages, that may not turn you on a whole lot, but translate that into Lexuses and BMWs, you know, and you get a better picture of what this is talking about. culturally see all the things that you and I esteem and say, that would really be nice to have. And Babylon says, that's what I offer you. Whatever is temporal, whatever you can feel and touch and see in this world, that's what I have to offer to you. It's very alluring. But notice, it's sudden destruction, secondly. Notice its sudden destruction. Behold her sudden destruction. Notice how sudden it is. The emphasis again and again, one day. Very soon, with a mighty voice, the the angel is going to cry. Uh you see in that uh in verse uh one, pray after this, I saw another angel coming down from heaven. He had great authority. The earth was illuminated by his Splendor and with a mighty voice he shouted. Most commentators think that that angel refers to the Lord Jesus Himself, because the Lord Jesus alone has splendor that illumines the earth. And so he, the word angel means a messenger. And so Jesus comes to declare now, with a mighty voice, he shouts, fallen! Fallen is Babylon the Great, she has become a home for demons and a haunt for every evil spirit. Notice uh again uh the suddenness uh of this that um You see in verse 10, for instance, terrified of their torment, they will stand far off and will cry, Whoa, woe, O great city, O Babylon, city in power, in one hour your doom has come. Verse 17, again, in one hour such great wealth has been brought to ruin. Verse 19, throw dust on their heads. Woe, O great city! In one hour she has been brought to ruin. Then verse 21, then a mighty angel picked up a boulder the size of a large millstone, threw it into the sea, and said with such violence, you see the suddenness, it just comes crashing, and it's gone. No warning. Everybody's polishing their cars and taking care of their things and locking their doors and all of a sudden it's gone All of a sudden, there comes sudden destruction of all the temporal values. Now, again, is that because they're bad? Now notice, secondly, in this how horrible the devastation is. This is not simply God destroying his creation. Notice how horrible. In verse 2, this city becomes a home for demons. It's a haunt for every evil spirit, a haunt for every unclean, detestable bird. The picture is of the desert. It's a wasteland. This place that you looked at and you said, look at the architecture, look at the streets, look at everything here, all the riches you could possibly the highest technology, uh everything that you could think of is state of the art, and it becomes a desert. It's a wasteland. Now why is it called Babylon the Great? Why is Babylon a picture of this? It's because you remember in the Old Testament when Nebuchadnezzar destroyed Jerusalem. He went back home and he said, Here's Babylon. Babylon the Great, which I have built with my power for my glory, the book of Daniel. And then you remember how Nebuchadnezzar was struck with madness for seven years until he confessed, the Lord God of Israel, he alone is God. Babylon is the epitome of man's glory. And because of this self-centeredness God pours out on her the cup of his wrath that we spoke of two weeks ago. Remember that cup we talked about? Look if you were here a couple weeks ago, this will make more sense to you. Look at verse 6 Give back to her as she has given. Pay her back double for what she has done. Mix her a double portion from her own cup. Give her as much torture and grief as the glory and luxury she gave herself. In her heart she boasts, I sit as queen, I am not a widow, and I will never mourn. Therefore, in one day, again the suddenness, her plagues will overtake her, death and mourning and famine. She will be consumed by fire, for mighty is the Lord God who judges her. And they will weep and they will mourn, verse 15. People will look and they'll say, I can't believe such a beautiful place has been destroyed. It breaks your heart to see such beauty. Go up and smoke. There was never a city like this. Verse 18 and 19. Verse 21. She will never be found again. Where's earthly Babylon now? Have you ever stopped to think that there is no city on earth called Babylon? When Nebuchadnezzar raised up his power and his glory, God destroyed Babylon. It was never rebuilt. It's in Iraq, but there is no city to this day by the name of Babylon, earthly Babylon. She will never be found again. A picture of what God is going to do to the spiritual city and all its temporal values. Notice that the destruction is absolutely irrevocable. Verse 21 With such violence, the city of Babylon will be thrown down, never to be found again. And then he goes on, all the music will never be heard, the workmen will never be found. Sound of a millstone grinding wheat, never be heard in you again, light of a lamp, never shine, voice of the bridegroom and bride rejoicing together, never going to be heard again. Here's the merchants, the world's great men. This is the Hong Kong and the London and all the Tokyos and all the great trade centers. In a magic spell, the nations were led astray. Commerce. In her was found the blood of the prophets and of the saints. Why? Why is there going to be this destruction? Well the clue there you see in verse 23. It's not because God is an ascetic Who desires that nobody has fun? It's not because God's saying, I don't want you to enjoy anything that I've made. And uh the older our cars can be and the rustier they are, and the more r run down and And uh deteriorated our homes are, the simpler they are, then the better it is, the more spiritual we are. We somehow try to outdo each other in spiritual talk about how simply we're living. There's a virtue to living simply. But the idea here is not that God is saying I'm an ascetic, and if you enjoy anything, you're sinful. But rather, it's because there is a basic hostility between temporal values and eternal values. In the root orientation of our hearts. The reason, the cause for this devastation is because it is due to a personal judgment of an angry God for Babylon's vileness. Two things that you see here. First of all, her vileness. Look again in verse 3 All the nations have drunk the maddening wine of her adulteries. The kings of the earth have committed adultery with her. The merchants of the earth grew rich from her excessive luxuries. The adulteries that are speaking and spoken of here are a spiritual adultery, that is a forsaking of our allegiance to, our worship, our love to our God who has made us. Which then gets translated into immorality as you see in Romans chapter 1. Romans 1, there's that basic A shift from the creature from the creator to the creature, which then works itself out in a self-centeredness, a self-gratification, a vileness, and an immorality that inevitably follows. So you see, and as the chapter develops this idea of lust and self-gratification, notice in verses 11 to 13, all those things. That in themselves are fine things, you know, ivory and bronze and cinnamon and spice and olive oil and flour and wheat, cattle and sheep, and then notice how it ends. And the bodies and souls of men. It's part of her cargo. All these things come at a cost. And the cost is the bodies and souls of human being sold for the purpose of greed People used for my ends to get what I want. I always remember the quote I heard just as a very early Christianist stayed with me for all these years, James Denny, who said, Before Christ A man loves things and uses people after Christ. A man loves people and uses things. Perhaps the most obvious reflection of Babylon is in the drug dealers, cow pornography merchants. The people who say that there is money in this and I don't care the effect on people. It's interesting I read uh Dr. John Britton, that name's still familiar to you, he was the abortionist who was killed, murdered by Paul Hill last July. Do you know how Dr. Britton got into performing abortions? From what I read, he was against abortion. He had a conviction against it. He was an obstetrician. But he was disciplined by the state on two charges of medical um was malpractice or some something he had done that was deficient and was rebuked And his investments failed. And so against his better desires, he began to perform abortions to make money. And continued to do that until he was cut down. An example of doing something, even at the cost of another's life. Because it will get me something of temporal value. The bodies and the souls of men. Warp values Notice secondly, not only the vileness in itself, but there's a basic hostility of Babylon to Jerusalem, her hostility to God's people. Verse 20, rejoice over her, O heaven. Rejoice, saints and apostles and prophets. God has judged her for the way she treated you. Is that interesting? God so loves his people that when any of his people are persecuted or abused, God says he's going to judge the person who did that. Look what he says in verse 24. In her was found the blood and the prophets of the saints and all who had been killed on the earth. And so this is the climax of why God is bringing all this judgment, why she'll never be found again. Why should who is the high-tech luxury city of the world, the mall of all malls, will become a wasteland? Because of the way she treated you. Brother and sister in Christ, if you find that because of someone else's greed, their self-centeredness, that you are suffering in your job or in some other situation. The next time you're tempted to be bitter at that person and angry, think of what they will receive because of the way they've treated you. And have pity to warn them and pray for them. Because of Babylon's vileness and her hostility to God's people, she is just. Not because she enjoyed things, not because she liked to have parties. People say Presbyterians hate parties, you know. If they want to have a good party, never invite a Presbyterian. That's not the point here. No? We need to do more rejoicing as God's people. But it's because of a sinful self-gratification, an autonomy that says, I will get what I want for me now. Eternity is a dim unreality in my thinking. And so finally the fourth thing. Heed the warning. Heed the warning to us today. It's interesting that embedded in this chapter of all the destruction that's going to come on Babylon, we are not simply given this as information about the end times. But rather there is a call to us. Did you see it? In verses 4 and 5. And then I heard another voice from heaven saying, Come out of her, my people. So that you will not share in her sins, so that you will not receive any of her plagues. For her sins are piled up to heaven, and God has remembered her crimes. See, come out of her, separate from her. How do you separate from Babylon? How do you leave this world? People tried in the early centuries to climb flagpoles and live in caves in the desert to separate from Babylon. They missed the point. Babylon is a spiritual city, and therefore the separation must be a spiritual separation. It's not a matter of just leaving Columbia. Let's go out and form a commune in western Howard County or something, you know. The idea is that there is an attitude of the heart. Babylon is a spiritual city. It must be a heart separation from Babylon. Believe me, after a week like this, of all the stuff we moved and all the stuff we got into, I preached this to myself as much as to anybody else here. In fact, as I look back on my own life, I realize that things have meant too much to me. And I realized things mean too much to me when I see, for instance, that a pen that I bought in Japan, it was a real nice pen, you know, it was kind of unique and I liked it. And a couple weeks ago I found that thing in my drawer, two big scratches right on the barrel. All I could do, take it back to Japan, you know? I mean it reminds me of the futility of everything, you know, and I look at that and it upsets me and my pen is all scratched up. Why does that bother me? I remember one time I used to have a my first new car was a 1965 red Volkswagen, curry red, beautiful thing. Now you say, I liked it. You know, it was my car. The thing, you know, though the paint in those days wasn't so great. After about four or five years it began to really look pretty grungy. So one day we decided, Kathy and I, we're gonna take this thing and get it painted. I found a guy that did real crestman work in Baltimore, took it in, this thing came out, it looked better than when it was new. I mean this This guy did a job on that thing and I felt so glad. There it is, my car is back, beautiful, perfect again. We like things perfect, don't we? Don't want to mar it up, scratch, dirty. Perfect Parked it outside. The next day, there's this big shriveled wrinkle right in the middle of the hood. And look out there. A bird had hit it I mean he must have done target practice right there in the middle of the hood. And you know bird lime on fresh paints all shriveled up. I called up the dealer, I the fellow that painted and I said What recourse do I have? A bird shriveled my paint. He said, get the bird to make them pay for a new paint job. You're a big help. But I'll tell you that really stuck with me. Nothing will be perfect. When my heart is wrapped up in things, I will always be disappointed. Why do things mean so much to me? As a kid, there was a lot of tension in our home. And I would escape to my things, my books and my toys. Why? Because my books and my toys were always there for me. They would never reject me. They didn't produce tension. They were my friends. And so there's a way that we can distance ourselves from people who disappoint us. And we remove ourselves from them because we can go to things. If we have pain in our lives, we'll go shopping. And so he goes shopping and you say, I'll get something new, it'll make me feel better. Well what's that doing? That's the spirit of Babylon. Nothing wrong with shopping, nothing wrong with getting something. But if that's the way I deal with pain, then I've removed Jesus from my life. If my heart is wrapped up in things and I say I don't need people, they can't hurt me as much because I have my things. I'll surround myself with my things. It's the spirit of Babylon. And brothers and sisters, we need to come to the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to repent of how we replaced him with our things. And someone has said the best way to come free of the spirit of Babylon is to give. To free myself from all of that bondage by giving. By simply removing myself. I'm saying giving, giving, investing in kingdom activities. Francis Schaefer was a fellow who was remarkably free. of the whole um spirit of Babylon and and being uh in bondage to things. And he says one of the reasons that that was true in his life was because as a kid he lived in Philadelphia And on Saturdays he would like to go out to the country, and the shortest way to get there was through the city dump. And so he would travel right through the Philadelphia dump and he said he saw in that dump everything that people lived for There it all was, stinking, rusted, crushed. And he said he never forgot that's where the things of this world will all end up After we moved, we were following uh a pickup truck that had all the stuff left from Tamar Drive where we lived in. I told Dean, I said, there's a parable for this Sunday All that stuff was so important to us going into a dumpster. Only Jesus and his kingdom lasts. Brothers and sisters, let's come to Him. Let's bring our hearts to Him now to find our peace and our joy in Jesus. Let's pray. Lord, I don't know what you're saying to each of us here. I know that you speak to me in this of how my heart can so easily get wrapped up in things And that being wrapped up in things so easily displaces you. And Lord, we live in a culture that is obsessed by things, not because we don't have enough. But because we have so much. We have so much more than the basic necessities of food and clothing and shelter. And it's so easy, Lord, to find all our values wrapped up in those things. Lord, I know that even our home If we center our hearts in it, we'll become a source of bitterness and disappointment. But if it's a place to minister for you, A place simply to serve you because it too, as everything else that we have, will someday be consumed. And we can find it at a source of joy. That's true for every one of us here, Lord. Lord, speak to us. It's so hard to speak without being misunderstood. And Lord, all of us react, and we can react defensively. Well, what are you telling me to do? Get rid of everything? I can't enjoy anything? Lord, help us. Speak by your spirit about what is the true nature of the spirit of Babylon, that you would root that out of our hearts. We would become a generous, giving people who invest in your kingdom. Whether it's in West Wing 97 or anything else, Lord, simply the orientation to invest. In eternal values. Speak to us, Lord, right here. Speak in our hearts right now.