All right. So let me um let me get started with prayer and uh we will get going because I know your stomachs may be rumbling. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity we have to look back, to look forward, to consider, Lord, what you are doing in our midst. I pray that you would continue to give wisdom. to our leaders that as we continue to seek your face and ask, Lord, what is it that you want us to be in the kind of church you're calling us to be, and ways in which we can more fully achieve what you have called us to do and to be in this community and in the world. We pray you would receive honor and glory, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory. Amen. Okay, so this morning, what we're doing is we're introducing uh a new theme. This theme, The Church on a Mission, will be uh the sermon series for the month of September. As in the month of September, we will be unpacking our new mission statement, vision statement, purpose statement. Choose the word that you like, the reason for why we exist. And so we are introducing this idea of the church on a mission that we are called, what we are called to be and to do here and around the world. So this morning, what I want to do is we're going to simply do four things. We're going to look back, we're going to look forward, we're going to talk about a new structure for our ministries. As well as I want to give you some more insight in regard to where we are as a pastoral team and our structure and what our activities are so that you can have a little bit more knowledge about what goes on. uh here at CPC among the pastoral team. So first I want to take a few moments, if you will, to look back. Now here, those of you who've been here since the beginning, you may see some things missing. Please do not be offended. It was not intended, but we believe this accurately represents the broad outlines of who we are and who we have been. What God has been doing and how we can praise God for the last 34 years of ministry as Columbia Presbyterian Church here in Columbia, Maryland. We want you to be aware that this has been a church On a mission from its beginning. We note that because the next slide represents for you some of the countries that we have sought to support. We have supported uh missionaries, not only those from our own midst, but also those from uh mission to the world, as well as OPC missions. Throughout the world. And consider these. These are some thirteen countries, not fully representing all that we have done, but thirteen countries that we have sought to send missionaries out and to see and to pray. For the glory of Christ to be made known through the gospel and for open doors. And you see that those countries represent a wide swath of where we have been as a church. It is great to see that this church has committed itself to international missions. But not only have we s directly supported missionaries in these thirteen plus countries. We've also sought to give support to not only being a church on a mission, but that supports organizations on a mission for Christ around the world. They represent actually 24 different ministries. It's remarkable when you consider over 34 years the different places that have been impacted locally, regionally, nationally, and around the world. 24 different ministries. And here I'm going to put them up just so that you can get a really good sense. And I'm going to lose count here so you can get a pretty good idea. Oh, I can't go back. There you go. These represent the 24 plus ministries that we have supported that do ministry locally, regionally, nationally, and internationally. We have been committed to being a church on a mission. Consider for just a moment the number of short-term mission trips we took this summer alone. Places like Tex-Mex, Uganda, Japan. It's been remarkable To see what God is doing, just short-term missions here, then sending our youth team to New Jersey to Boardwalk Chapel. We have been a church committed to being on a mission for the sake of Christ. The extension of the kingdom through the preaching of the gospel in mission. Praise be to God. Now, what I couldn't do is adequately get a photograph of the first living room. That this church met in. Right there. Met in a living room of members of this church. From a living room, we went to an interfaith center. From an interfaith center, we came to a building. And that building is no longer. That building is this building. We see how it began in a very intimate space. To growing, to growing, to growing. God has blessed us in our desire to be on a mission. He has blessed us materially I know and and marvel at how God has blessed this congregation because you'll remember I was a pastor of a church plant that in ten years saw us become a go from eleven families. to meet meeting in a living room, to then meeting in an old theater that had no windows. It was completely it the place was painted back, black, the whole place. We had to completely bring it back to see how God took us from that, then actually being able to buy our own property. And Lord willing, I'm going to see pictures here soon of the church that I planted in their renewed con renewed um. Sanctuary, thank you so much. Whoever said that, thank you very much. Thank you. Yes, Kate, my lovely wife, thank you. Saving me again. There we go. So seeing that renewed sanctuary, and I will tell you. Having been involved at every level of watching that happen, coming here, watching where this congregation has come from and where it is. Do you know where the praise belongs? To God. That He has raised up not only the ability, but the people, the passion, and the commitment. To seeing this place built for the sake of Christ. Praise be to God. Not only has he blessed us materially, God has blessed us financially This is a very expensive place to live, amen. And I will tell you, knowing that it is an expensive place to live and giving to the Lord on top of being in an expensive place to live. It's hard to sacrifice. But we see how God has blessed the giving of his church We've met budget. There have been years we've had to reduce the budget. There have been years we haven't quite made it, we've been close, but isn't it amazing? That God, in the midst of a very difficult financial recession and economy, God has continued to bless you financially, and therefore we've been able to provide for the this continued work of a church on a mission. Ladies and gentlemen, it may seem like just words. But the mission, the material, and the financial blessing that God has given is worthy of our praise. Amen. Amen? Amen. Praise be to God. And I want to spend just a moment. I want to pray. I want to thank God Because we don't deserve it. He doesn't need Columbia Presbyterian Church. But he's called us into being. And he's called us Has blessed us. Let us pray. Father, thank you for the immeasurable blessing that you have poured out on this congregation That you have meant for us to receive that blessing, but to be those who also take that blessing to the world. Lord, thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you, Father, for your grace and your goodness that has been poured out. For you are worthy of praise. I thank you for the people, the men and women, the boys and girls, those who have been a part of this congregation. I thank you, Father, for the The pastors who have served here, thank you, Lord, for what you have done. The stories that can be told, not of us, but of you. To your name be praise. Amen. God is good. We are a church on a mission. But while we have much to celebrate in the past, we also need to look forward I say this with every ounce that I have, because I would have said it about the congregation that I served for ten years. I came to this congregation serving as team leader pastor because I believe that this is a church that desires To be revitalized, to be renewed. Does that mean it was dying or dead? By no means. By no means. But I believe we are at a juncture, even after 34 years, that God still has much to do in and through us. So, what I want to share with you is that one of the questions that the session has sought to answer is: how can we build on this strong foundation that has been laid to move into the future that God has planned for us? Another question. How do we honor the Lord in using the considerable resources he has given to reach this community? What does it mean for us to be a church that celebrates and declares the grace that has come to us through Christ? These questions are questions that the elders are actively discussing and praying about. And on Saturday, September 7th, we as a body of elders are be gathering together for a morning of prayer. Devoting ourselves to the ministry of prayer in the Word, to ask God to guide us as we discuss these questions, and we ask for His blessing and His leading through His Word and His Spirit in answering them. There is no question of what God has done, but praise be to God, he is not done The wonderful, faithful, Christ-centered, grace-focused, word-based ministry of Alan Harris and the pastors that have served here. Have done so along with these elders and these deacons and these trustees. And I want to say to you, as someone who is still so new to this body, My wife and I, when we heard of what God has done and God is doing, we were brought to tears because we are so excited. About what God wants to continue to do, please pray for your elders as we seek to pray for what God is doing But we believe there is one answer that we collectively can can agree on that we've seen God show us. And that is this, that celebrating and declaring the grace of Christ, celebrating and declaring the grace of Christ are never mutually exclusive. We must do both. For CPC to grow spiritually, we must experience and extend the grace of Jesus Christ. In short, we must become more missional. But what does that mean? Before I can answer that question, let me just put forth to you three simple challenges that I think keep us and will continue to tempt us from being more missional as a church. Church. First, I think we all must be aware of the pride and arrogance that so quickly settles in because of our commitment to one theological tradition. We must be aware of the pride and arrogance that can settle in because of our commitment to one theological tradition. One that we are convinced that the Bible teaches, but never ushers us into a place of arrogance or pride because of it. We are not reformed because we're reformed. We are reformed in Presbyterian Church because we believe first and foremost reform cannot be found in the Bible. It is biblical teaching. It is biblical doctrine that we are committed to, and it is that biblical doctrine that leads us to humility and never a place of pride and arrogance. A second challenge that we face is confusing evangelism with convincing people to leave one theological tradition and convert them to a new theological tradition instead of reaching the lost. We must always be careful in confusing evangelism with converting people from one tradition to another instead of seeing the lost one to Christ. That's what we must pray for. A third challenge is that we would unintentionally, unintentionally, foster an atmosphere of safety and comfort, either socially or culturally. Do you see? We can never be a church. And we pray that God's Spirit would keep us uncomfortable. And feeling unsafe if we've begun to find our comfort and safety socially with the people that we know that look like us, that think like us, or Culturally, that come from our background. Because the world has come to this region. If we want to reach the region for Christ, Either through this location or seeing churches planted throughout the region, we cannot have a place that becomes comfortable with just one culture. Or one status. These are just three challenges. There are others, but these are three challenges that I believe we face But these only disrupt, if we allow them, they only disrupt our gospel mission, but they also will stunt our gospel growth. Remember, experiencing and extending the grace of Christ go together. They go together. We can never be satisfied with simply being a reservoir that receives grace. We need to be like a colander. That water is being poured into, that the source of water never runs out, but it never remains stagnant. It's always being poured out to those around us. So what does it mean for us and what does it look like for us to be missional? Now some of what I'm going to say this morning, you might say, well, I I heard him say that, but I don't remember what he said. This will be available for you, downloadable as a PDF from our website. We'll send out the email so that you can read the full statement here, but just for the sake of time. Being missional means that we must move from the old idea of missions simply being done as a part of a missions committee which funds only foreign missionaries. To a model that realizes our church is a mission right here where it is. And every member Is a missionary wherever you live, wherever you work, wherever you play. Being missional for Columbia Presbyterian Church means we move from an old model that simply sees missions as something done by a missions committee and done over there to a model that recognizes that we have a mission here and every one of you is called to be a missionary wherever you are. And wherever God calls you to be. Secondly, being missional means we must avoid two twin dangers. the dangers of either fear or accommodation in living out the gospel in a secular culture. We must avoid fear or accommodation. What do I mean? We can never be a holy huddle in which we isolate ourselves off from the culture because we fear contamination. But nor can we jettison our core doctrines and beliefs in hopes that we can attract more people. Do you see the difference? Because if we wall ourselves off, we will fail the call to the Great Commission But if we seek to lower our standards and our beliefs and hopes to attract more people, we will eventually stand for nothing. We preach the word. We preach the cross. We preach Christ and Him crucified and raised from death because of sin. If we leave that message, we give people the question: why should I get up on a Sunday morning and go to church? We can never water down the gospel. We can never excuse the doctrine of Scripture away. We can never preach from any other book. It is our only authority, our only foundation. And we cannot jettison it. But nor can we wall ourselves off in hopes that the world will stay out there. We want the world, we want pagans to come here I remember what it was like not to believe and to be sitting in a room like this, not knowing what in the world that guy up front was saying. We want those people here because we're those people. We are human beings who don't deserve grace. We cannot wall ourselves off, nor can we accommodate. Those are twin dangers. So we must be aware of those. But third, being missional means this: it means becoming recognizing the reality that the larger CPC has gotten and will get. It will be harder to reach out. The larger we are and the larger we become, the harder it will be to reach out. This is counterintuitive. But consider this the words of Pastor Ed Stetzer, who said the following words: quote: Small units of people, that is, small churches. can see one another, look at one another in the eye, and easily, quote, provoke one another to love and good deeds. Hebrews chapter 10, verse 24. Yet, in a large church, he says, everything is larger and it requires more systems, more servants, more structures. It takes a huge investment internally to get a large church running. And that internal investment, that internal investment, can limit external engagement. Couple this with the following observation from his organization, Lifeway Research Group. That all the studies show that non-Christians are very overwhelmingly unlikely ever to attend a Christian church unless they are invited by a trusted friend or family member. This means that it is more important than ever for CPC to embrace a go-and-tell evangelism and not simply depend on a come and see evangelism. Do you see the difference? The people driving along 108 are not looking and thinking to themselves, well, I wonder what goes on in that building. Let me say it in the boldest terms that I can say. The world does not care about CPC. What they need to know is that the members of this body care for the world. And in so doing, as we befriend, as we know, as we love, We can invite. We need to go and tell. So therefore We face these challenges of being missional, but they are not unique to us, but they are applied to us. And we believe that God has, through our many discussions and our meetings, led us to a new vision statement. Now let me be clear. We've had a purpose statement here at CPC. To know him, to know our hope, to know his power. And that is an excellent purpose statement. But as we discussed it, we believed that while it is good, it has a right and central place in our existence and reason for being, but it doesn't adequately communicate That we desire to know him, to know our hope, to know his power for the sake of making him known. It felt very inward. And we want to be, because we recogn we want to be explicit in recognizing that we are called to experience and extend the grace of Jesus. And we want that to be abundantly clear to all who come to know this congregation. And so we have this statement to experience and to extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to Colombia, the region, and the world. When we say to Columbia, we mean one another. We all want to experience God's grace ourselves. We also are called to extend that grace to one another, but also to this. Local community. Colombia needs Christ. And we are called to extend that grace and the message of the gospel to Colombia. To this region. We are a regional church. We have people here from various counties. So Howard County is a focus, but we're also called to reach this region because we have people from all over the region. And we need to be equipping ourselves and equipping one another so that you can go out and to share the gospel of Jesus Christ with your neighbors, with your friends, with your coworkers. But it is also called to reach the world. We will not stop funding aggressively and seeking ways that God is calling us to reach the world overseas with the gospel of Jesus Christ and supporting ministries that do so. This continues to be a central focus for who we are as a church. Because we want to make clear that this mission statement. Doesn't change anything, does it? We want you to be aware that this statement, while we want it to be very clear in everything that we do, We recognize it doesn't change anything right away, but we believe it is a statement that accurately reflects the trajectory that God is calling us to go and the kind of church that we want to be. We want to be a church that experiences the grace of Jesus Christ and extends it. It's both. We celebrate and we declare Now, the elders of the church believe that the best way to realize this mission and this vision is that it must shape our priorities and our ministries. To achieve our vision, we need to assess our structure and priorities as a church. This is another way, this is another area the elders have been discussing over these past few months. We have a lot of ministries and a lot of activity. Consider for just a moment, this is a list of all that we do. We have from Sunday through Saturday ministry upon ministry Meeting upon meeting. We have volunteers, galore. We have meetings in the morning. We have meetings during the day. We have meetings at night. We have a lot going on. Amen. Let me see if I can fit a couple more in there. I think there's one more. Aha. So do we have a lot going on? Okay. So I want you to look at that screen for just a moment. Is there any organization to that screen? It just shows a lot of activity. This is what it looks like when somebody comes into Columbia Presbyterian Church. There's a lot of activity. But how in the world do I get involved? When you've got so much going on, so many different leaders, who's responsible for what? And why do we do all these things? These are questions that the session is actively discussing and praying about. But we believe to best reach our mission, our vision that God has called us to be, we need to think about a new structure. Under which all of these ministries can find a home. And these ministries need to be focused around three priorities as a church that we believe is not unique to us. But we believe God has called us to. These are the three priorities that God has called Columbia Presbyterian Church to, based on our personality. based on our history, based on our giftedness, based on who God has called us to be. And we believe they are three. They are these worship, discipleship, mission. And we believe every one of those ministries that were on that screen before find a home under these three priorities. Worship is fairly obvious. You are a church that loves to worship. We could see that when we when Kate and I first were learning about the church that you love to worship. And you have a full expression of that worship, and we need to grow in that worship. But it is a church that sees what happens on Sunday morning as one of the most beautiful and important expressions of church and Christ and his body that can happen. Worship is a priority for our body. Discipleship. When you consider the numbers of people over the history of this church that have been involved with navigators, intervarsity, RUF, and ministries that See the focus and importance of discipling, of what does it mean to follow Jesus Christ? What does it mean to live out our hope? His presence, his power. How do we live that out? It's through discipleship, life on life. So we've had as important part of this body adult Sunday school and children's ministry. Has been a central important factor of who we are as a church. We believe that must continue. But discipleship doesn't just cover what happens on Sunday morning in those classes, it covers things like home fellowship groups. It covers things like Christian service brigade, pioneer girls. I could go on and on and on. Places where life on life, where the word is being applied and lived out, are discipleship ministries. That is a central focus. And finally, mission. Now you might notice the lack of the letter S, because mission is meant to incorporate two things. Missions and mercy. Mercy ministry is a key part of our mission One of the reasons why Kate and I were so overwhelmed is to see that how many in this body have committed themselves to mercy ministry in this region. Things like habitat, things like Route 1, things like uh Laurel Pregnancy Center. These are things that we have sought to actively engage in as a form of mercy ministry. And I will tell you, let me just Go off my script for just a moment that I wrote down. I've been a part of many different Presbyterian churches, all of them except for this one, and we're in the PCA. Let me say to you that in the normal run-of-the-mill PCA church, you have two bodies, elders and deacons. Deacons were often saddled. With more than just taking care of the felt needs of the body and the mercy needs of the community. They also are responsible for budget, building and a whole lot of other random activities, which meant that the deacons couldn't properly devote themselves to caring for the felt needs of the body and the mercy needs that came to our understanding as a part of our community. When I've come here after being here for a year, I committed myself to these elders. that I would spend my first year in in learning and observation. And I'll be quite honest with you, when I learned that you have a how how many trustees do we have? Just forgive me. How many trustees? I saw 13 trustees, 16 elders, 12 deacons, 8, 12. I was like, that's a lot of people. I don't like that. Because I thought, you know what I thought? Bureaucracy. I'm just being honest with you. But after being here, I want to tell you, I love our structure. Do you know why? Because we have a group of trustees that are able to take the responsibilities that used to be solely on the shoulders of session and deacons. It's made up of men and women who dearly have the gifts and want to serve this body in this way that frees up the deacons to commit themselves to taking care of the felt needs of the body and the mercy needs of the region. And the session can be committed to its biblical call, along with the deacons, but the biblical call for elders to be committed to word and prayer. After planting a church, I've never been a part of a church like this that enables so much of our session time to be devoted to talking about ministry. You don't know how that we have such a great situation here. That may not seem exciting to you, but as a Presbyterian minister, that's exciting to me I love it. And so what I want to say to you is, we have a mission, and we have a group of deacons that, Lord willing, we're going to be able to add four more guys to here in just a few weeks. Who can commit themselves to caring for the felt needs of this body? And that they, along with so many others, can be a part of God's mission of mercy in this area. With Habitat and Route 1. I am excited about what God wants to do. But it is also missions. More and more people are signing up to be part of our missions team. We're excited about planning strategically where God wants to have us support mission throughout the world. And Nate Edwards is just one small example of how we can do that. So worship, discipleship, mission. And here's what we're asking for. We are not going to start any new ministries for the remainder of the year. The ministries that we have, the activity that we have, quite frankly, is enough for right now. But what we want to do is to take this opportunity with this new structure to organize our ministries in these three priorities So that we can adequately lead and equip the leaders who are already in place, encourage them with the gospel. so that we can take ownership of the ministry that we are doing. We've done a thing here called unleashed ministry. How many of you have heard of that? Raise your hands. Okay. Okay, here's the thing. Unleashed ministry is a great idea when you're 250 people. It's not so good when you're 550 and above. Unleashed ministry is good, but it can lead to unmanaged ministry. Not that the ministry leaders aren't managing their ministries, it's that the elders, the deacons, and the staff don't all know what's going on in all of these ministries. And so we want to continue to encourage ministry entrepreneurialism. We want to do that. We're not going to stop starting ministries But they cannot adequately be started if we cannot provide the support, the encouragement, the oversight that ministries need. And so we believe that while Unleashed Ministries is a great idea, we need to move into a different idea for our size. Our systems, our structure, our priorities need to fit the size church that we are so that we can be prepared for growth and how God wants us to move out in mission in the years to come. Does that make sense? We're praying through this. We're actively discussing this. So we want you to be aware of it. So To experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ to Colombia, the region, and the world. Our three priorities are worship, discipleship, mission. We believe that these also become a way for people as they come in through the door to find out how do I connect? How do I serve? You see, now we can begin building a way for people to become more easily a part of this body because now worship, discipleship, and mission become three venues to connect and three venues to serve. Do you see? You might learn more about our body by coming to a worship service. You might become connected to Columbia Presbyterian because you were involved in a mission work through Habitat. You might become more involved with this church because you were connected to a home fellowship group, so on and so forth. But those also become the three areas that we direct people to. Because we want people to come to learn of the Lord Jesus Christ to profess faith But to go from being a visitor to a regular attender to being a member to being a servant to being a gatherer. You see, it's full circle. But we want to do so through these three priorities. But what does the pastoral team look like? And how does it play and how does it work interspersed with this new structure and these ministries? Well, I want to talk about these the pastoral team. So you need to note that we've been working on job descriptions. And the responsibilities for each member of the pastoral team. The members of the pastoral team are as follows: Pastor Tim Flora. is now going to be pastor of worship and fellowship groups. His primary focus and responsibilities will be coordinating of the worship ministry, which incorporates, which includes the building of a worship ministry team. Making sure all that's taking place here on Sunday has a team to build it so that we can build on the foundation of worship that's been a priority here. He will also be uh working as a coordinator of fellowship group ministry to develop a fellowship group ministry team. Tim can't oversee every fellowship group ministry. or every fellowship group, but there needs to be a team in place to do so. He will be working with that in implementing uh a fellowship group ministry uh philosophy of ministry and and vision. And he will also be working to help create a team, an assimilation team, to help people connect and serve with this body. Also, Pastor Dan Halley continues as associate pastor to youth and or a pastor to youth and families. So KIS primary responsibilities will continue as they have been to coordinating student ministries, strategic planning for those student ministries. and taking care of all the administrative realities and building these teams so that our student ministry continue to grow and to flourish. Now moving through these quickly because I want to give you a little insight about what happens with us as a pastoral team. Also, Robbie Pennington will continue as our director of outreach and missions. He also is continuing to see how a team can be more encouraged and built up as our World Mission Task Force team. So he'll be coordinating uh that particular ministry, but also overseeing, continue to see, oversee our upward ministry and all that that takes place in our region and in our town. Also are generally our outreach ministries, conducting things like Fall Harvest Festival, which we're going to have here on September 15th, working with teams of people to make these kinds of special events and greeter ministries, visitor ministries. Take place. And then my role as team leader pastor. My role as team leader pastor is primarily one that seeks to, along with the session and pastoral team, to develop a vision and strategic plan. for us as a church to work along with our administrative leader, that is Eric Johnson, to work with him to oversee the administrative work of the church. But also my primary responsibilities is working with the pastoral team. And so, what I want to give you some insight on is what happens on a weekly basis that you may not know. The pastoral team gathers every Tuesday morning. After we've had our administrative team meeting with all of our administrators, we spend about an hour and a half with our administrative team spending time in prayer, although the summer We haven't spent as much time going through a a systematic study. We'll do that again in the fall. We study God's Word or a book together. We then take the opportunity to cover whatever administrative Bases need to be covered. Then after our administrative team meeting, we move into our pastoral team meeting. And here's what happens in our pastoral team meeting. Every week, whoever the preacher was the previous week. Takes the floor and he critiques himself. And what we primarily want to know is, how could the sermon have been better? Because we believe as preachers that we're continually seeking to grow in our craft of being a preacher And so once we critique ourselves, we then everybody goes around and gives constructive criticism on how the sermon could have been better. We believe this is a great way to sharpen ourselves, to grow theologically, to make sure that we are preserving the central doctrines of our faith. and keeping the word as the center of the authority and Christ and his cross continually before us. Answering the question Was the worship service, was the sermon a retelling of the gospel itself? That is what we seek to do. We then take the opportunity to look forward to plan the weeks to come. We plan who's gonna be preaching uh weeks in advance, sometimes more, sometimes less, depending on the uh schedule that everyone has, but we seek to talk about themes, outlines, music, and so forth. We then talk about our different pastoral needs that we're each Each covering are different roles on the pastoral team, things that need to be taken care of pastorally. This is just a bit of insight into what happens. We sometimes meet for an hour and a half, sometimes it can stretch to two or three hours, depending. But that's what we spend our Tuesdays doing. So that gives you some insight. And so what we believe is that our pastoral team, Lord willing, will continue to grow spiritually and grow as God leads numerically. as we seek to make sure, along with the session, along with the deacons, that the three priorities of worship, discipleship, and mission, and the ministries that fall under there Are adequately overseen. The ministry leaders are equipped and encouraged. And we recognize that we can put all this down on paper and we look good on paper. But what I will tell you Is that while we look good on paper, we have plenty of room for growth. That we as leaders want to commit ourselves to prayer over these next number of weeks. That God would lay on our hearts how He is calling us as elders, deacons, pastors, trustees. How has God called us to uniquely serve you as the congregation of Columbia Presbyterian Church? That we might see the vision that God has given us become a reality. That we would increasingly be a church on a mission, that we would be a place to experience and extend the grace of Jesus Christ. So that's what's been going on. There will be more coming out as we continue to seek God's face in these things. Please pray for us on September 7th as we gather together. Pray for these deacons. Pray how God would want you to prepare yourself for the congregational meeting, to vote on these four deacon candidates. Our deacons need further manpower. And it is my desire, as team leader pastor, that the ministries of elders Deacons and the work of the trustees becomes more aware to you as a congregation. We want to preserve a month during the year where we spend time talking about what does it mean to be an elder and a deacon. We want to be accountable to you. We want it to be transparent, the ministry that we are doing. So, what I want to tell you is, not only has there been a lot going on in terms of the session and the DIAC in it, but also the trustees. We want you to be aware that we recognize that we need our structures and our systems to grow to meet who we are and where we are numerically in the size of church that we have. Some of the things you've heard this morning are very new. You're gonna have a chance in just a moment to ask questions. Some of it may be new to you, and some of it may be like, oh I don't know about that, and we're gonna we want to pray, and we we get that. We also want you to be aware that we are working hard to make sure that our policies also fit who we are as a church. We have some policy changes. We want to make sure that things like our children's ministry is adequately protected. And that means that our insurance company, our our law firm that we have gives us advice on how we need to protect ourselves, things like background checks. things like uh approved drivers for ministries, if you're coming to drive, that these things have consequences if we are not covered. For if we fail to cover our bases, as God has adequately given us the wisdom to do so. If we fail to do so, we expose the body of Christ and we expose the name of Christ to controversy if we do not adequately protect the ministries that we protect we have. We recognize that we're a large church. We recognize we live in a litigious society. That's why we've sought advice on how we need to set policies in place. to set structures in place that bring protection, that we ought to live shrewdly within the world that God has called us to live. But in doing so, we want you to be aware. We are not trying to impose a new regime to be mean about it. You need to know we do so with all humility and care because we want the church to be protected and to grow. And to do so requires some administrative changes. Be patient with us and pray for us as we seek to faithfully take care of these duties. But you may have questions. And so this morning I want to take the opportunity, I believe we have a microphone available. If you have questions, please raise your hand and we'll get you the microphone. And we will seek to answer any questions that you have. And if you don't feel comfortable in the setting, I invite you to speak with me or our elders or our staff personally. But if you have questions, please let us know. No Presbyterian questions? What What is all the time? English as a second language is a ministry that has already begun formally. That so we are not what what we're saying is it if it's a ministry that's already been in place and English as a second language is very much that. We're talking about from now until the end of the year so that we can adequately provide that support. I'm seeing people leave. So can we pray? Let me pray. And then if you want to stay, you can. But let me pray. Lord, I thank you for all those who are present here. Father, we ask that you would give us your Holy Spirit and your word to give us a passion and devotion. To the mission that you have called us to, for your glory, for the extension of your kingdom. And we pray you would do so by growing us spiritually and making us a voice that declares the hope of the gospel. That the world may hear, and that those who do not know you would come to know you. May you be praised in Jesus' name. Amen. If you need to leave, please do so. If you have questions, please feel free to ask. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, thank you.