Um yeah, I I I I guess I kind of threw you there because I I tried to jump the gun and come up before you you know you introduced me, so thanks. Sorry about that. Yeah, it is good to be back with you all this morning. We are continuing in our series in the book of Philippians. And in the previous section, Paul had been dealing with external opposition that the church in Philippi was facing. And in the passage this morning at the beginning of chapter 2, he's really turning his attention to potential divisions within the church. that have the potential to really sort of tear down their witness and pull the church away from the mission, the mission that it shares with Paul. If you remember, if you've been part of uh uh uh with us for this series, you'll remember uh Paul has been uh imprisoned, and yet his imprisonment hasn't stood against the mission. In fact, it's the gospel has continued to go out even because of his imprisonment. His circumstances haven't slowed it down. Last week he encouraged the church to stand firm in the one spirit that they have against the opposition that comes from them from the outside. And now in our passage, he turns his view internally to the internal division that may get in the way. And the argument that Paul makes, even before we read it, I want you to know this. The argument Paul makes is an indicative that leads to an imperative. He says, this is the way things are. This is what you've experienced. That's the indicative. And because of that, this is what you should do. So I want you to listen for that as we read it, for that indicative, this is the way things are, and then the imperative, this is what you need to do. He shows that they're being leads to their doing. Their being in relationship to Christ leads to their doing with one another. And that's a message that all of us need to hear because too often we get that order wrong. And it leads to frustration. Doing without being burns us out and leaves us empty. And being without doing fails to close the circle and leaves joy incomplete. Complete joy is found when being leads to doing. So let's listen to God's word this morning. This is Philippians chapter 2, verses 1 through 4. Hear now God's word. So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, Any affection and sympathy complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray. Father, thanks for giving us your word, and thanks for giving us your spirit so that we aren't left to figure out life on our own. We ask you, Spirit, to open our ears, soften our hearts that we would receive your message this morning. Whatever is in me, whatever is in us as a community that would keep that from happening. Happening. We ask you to break through because we need to hear from you today. We are desperate for you. Speak to us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. So I don't know if you've ever experienced this, but sometimes there is there is this frustration happens when a fum that happens when a familiar pattern Is begun but isn't completed. I'll give you an example. I used to have the first house that Summer and I lived in when we were in Philadelphia when I was in seminary. We had a doorbell and it was a battery-powered doorbell. And the doorbell was supposed to go bing bong whenever somebody pushed it, right? And it worked that way, you know, bing bong. But one day the battery started to fail. And the doorbell, when somebody pushed it, it would just go bing! And that was it. And it used to drive me crazy. Like I was waiting for that bong to come, but it never came. It would drive me nuts, you know, until one day finally the battery died completely, and that was actually better. But have you ever experienced that where like a pattern starts but it doesn't finish and it just drives you crazy? I have a couple of young nephews, they love to tell jokes And they they use this need to complete the pattern to get me to listen to their jokes. Even though I know all of them, they'll come up to me, Uncle Dan, Uncle Dan, knock knock. Yes, some of you already you couldn't knock complete it, right? Who's there? I have to complete it. And so every time they can Uncle Dan, knock, knock. Who's there? You just you can't leave the pattern uncompleted, no matter how much I may want to I know this is being recorded. I hope they don't watch this. I love you guys. But Paul In writing to the Philippians here at the beginning of chapter 2, he's begging them not to leave the cycle that Christ has begun in them unfinished. to complete his cycle of joy, to complete his joy that begins with their experience of being with Christ, but which must be completed. He asks them to complete his joy, but implied in that is really the completion of their own joy. He begins by saying, if there's any encouragement in Christ, it's not so much a statement that's in doubt. It's not like he's saying I'm not sure if you have any encouragement in Christ, but if you do, it's more like he's saying, since there is encouragement in Christ, since you have experienced it, he's stating what they already know. And what they've already experienced, that there is hope in Christ. But he then builds on that. He says, any comfort from love. Who's love? Well, most likely it's assumed he's talking about God's fatherly love for them. And then he goes on, any participation in the spirit. He's already written about their need to stand firm in the one spirit that they share. That Greek word for participation, it's the word koinonia. means fellowship, any fellowship, any sharing in close relationship with the Spirit. One commentator points out that all the members of the Trinity are present right here in Paul's list. Encouragement in Christ, love, presumably from the Father, and fellowship with the Spirit. And then he tacks on any affection and sympathy, possibly pulling on their love for him that results from them having experienced affection and sympathy and being brought into God's family through Paul's ministry. Paul is probably dictating this to a scribe. And so you get the feeling that he's getting all excited as he just starts to list all of these things that the Philippians have experienced. Because that any affection and sympathy, they're kind of like incomplete phrases. He doesn't even complete the phrase. And I just I picture in my head Paul's like pacing back and forth and he's saying any encouragement in Christ, love, participation in the spirit, any any sympathy, any affection, he's so excited. He's caught up in all that knowing Christ. And being united to him has brought to the Philippians. He's not asking the question, have you experienced these things? Because he knows that they have. This is what you've experienced. This is the indicative of your reality. All of those words, encouragement. Comfort, affection, sympathy, even participation or fellowship in the Spirit. They describe what the Philippians have experienced by being in relationship with God. It's their being in relationship that Paul's reminding them of. Let me pause here and ask you to consider this for a minute. Think about your own relationship with God. What is being in relationship with God like for you? What do you experience? Being in relationship to God. Maybe you haven't thought much about God at all and you're just becoming aware. That he might be calling out to you? Or maybe you've believed in him for your whole life. Have you experienced this kind of relationship that Paul is describing? This is what Jesus invites each one of us into. Whether you've experienced it many times or never before, God gives us this window. into what the Philippian church experienced because he wants us to experience the same things, the same encouragement, the same comfort. Encouragement in Christ. No matter how far you've fallen in your life, there is hope for the future because Jesus secures a better future than you could ever make for yourself. The love of the Father. No matter how much or little love you've experienced in this life, God has love for you beyond anything you could imagine. The fellowship of the Spirit, the actual presence of God in your life affection and sympathy from the God who walked in our shoes, who entered our world to make us his. This is the reality of the relationship God intends for you and I to have with Him. And out of that being in relationship comes the thing that Paul wants them to do. The indicative of their experience leads to the imperative, the command that Paul gives them. You experience the comfort, the wholeness, the love of being in Christ Of being connected to Him, which makes you one with Him and with each other. That's the indicative. And the imperative is this: complete my joy. Extend that same oneness. To each other. Your being in Christ leads to your doing in relationship. To others. What Jesus starts in you is meant to be completed with others It's not that he isn't enough or his work for you isn't complete, but your experience of his love is meant to find completion in others. In a world where we are so divided, we the church do not need to perpetuate that division within our walls. The Philippian church faced opposition from outside of it, and Paul wanted them to be united inside their community. It was the only thing that would allow them to survive. It was the thing that would complete his joy. And the reality is, it's the thing that naturally comes from their being in Christ. Do you ever feel like maybe you're spiritually stuck in a rut? You know, you do all the things maybe you're supposed to do. But you hit this invisible wall and you can't seem to press through. You know, so maybe you decide to buckle down and and you know you read your Bible a bit more, you talk to Jesus more in prayer, maybe have longer times of being quiet with God and and and maybe that works for a bit, but but maybe it doesn't. And then you start to question, am I doing something wrong? Now listen, I'm all about the spiritual disciplines. You won't hear me say that you need to spend less time with Jesus. But maybe the issue isn't that we don't have enough time with Jesus. Maybe the issue when we feel stuck in that rut. Is that we aren't completing the cycle of being with him that leads to doing with one another. Maybe it's because we've bought into the way the rest of the world thinks about religion, which is it's something to fill me up, something to make me better, happier, more joyful. Being in Christ is meant to be completed in loving one another. Paul's message is counter-cultural in that way. You find your joy by pursuing someone else's And that flies in the face of kind of this natural understanding of relationships. It's counter to our culture. You know, our our country is founded on this assumption that we all have an inalienable right. To pursue our own happiness. Paul says being in relationship with Christ must lead you to pursuing the happiness of others. Now it's not a sour-faced pursuit of our own unhappiness. It's not like in every decision I make, I'm supposed to now think, okay, how can I make myself miserable here? I mean that would that that doesn't help anybody. It's not even that I have to want the same things as everybody else. You know, PD touched on this last week using that example of playing quarterback on a football team. Not everybody has to be the quarterback for the football team to work. In fact, It's good when we have different roles and different desires. Look at what Paul says at the end of verse 2 He says, be of the same mind, have the same love, be in full accord, have one mind. He's talking about having a singular focus, not necessarily having all the same opinions about things. It's a singular focus, one that flows out of being with the same God and sharing in the same mission that we all have because of our relationship with God. Remember, Paul's concern is that they not tear themselves apart from the inside, just as they're facing opposition from the outside So, what does this mean practically for us as the church today? It doesn't mean that we can't disagree with each other. It doesn't mean we can't have different opinions about things. It doesn't mean that we have to all like the same things or vote the same way. But it means that we subsume all of those things. We put all of those things underneath the singular focus that comes from being known by God and making him known in the world. And it means that in our differences, in our differences of opinion, we actually demonstrate an attitude of love that considers one another above ourselves. It's the very opposite of the attitude that Paul experienced with some of the people that were preaching the gospel around him. He talks about that back in chapter 1. There were some people who were preaching the gospel out of out of pride, out of a desire to elevate themselves above Paul. And while he rejoices that the gospel goes out, he doesn't want to see that attitude replicated in the Philippian church. He says in verse 3: Do nothing out of selfish ambition or conceit. But in humility count others more significant than yourselves. This is not to say you don't matter It's not it's not about being negative about yourself. You know, that sort of that negative self-talk, you know, I'm I'm worthless, I'm I'm no good, I'm I'm not good I'm I'm no you know nothing nothing good Comes out of me That's not helpful because your focus is still on you. This is about looking to the other person. Counting them as more significant. Weighing the impact of what we say and the decisions we make and considering how the other person is affected. Considering their good as more important than my own, pursuing their good even maybe at the expense of my own. He says it a slightly different way in verse 4. He says, let each of you look out not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. As I was preparing for this message, I was I was trying to think of like examples of what this looks like. You know, what does it look like to look out for each other's interests? But you know, what I realized as I was thinking was This is actually pretty straightforward. I think we all know what it is to look out for each other's interests. My problem is not that I don't know what it means to look out for someone else's interests. My problem is that I don't want to do it. Am I alone in that? I don't think I am. But I'll give you one example. So this weekend, my daughter came home. uh from college and we were we had like a Friday night we got pizza we watched a movie um and uh somehow even though we ordered out like our kitchen was a complete disaster By the end of the night. I mean, there were like dishes everywhere, like sink, counter, islands, dishwash, like everything was full of dirty dishes. Now, when I went to bed, And there were dirty dishes everywhere. And by the way, the dishwasher had been run. It was clean. As I surveyed the mess, Do you think I was confused about what it meant to look out for my wife Summer's interests above my own? Do you think I went to bed wondering, does my wife love it when dishes are scattered around dirty everywhere all over the house? Or does she hate it? Of course not. I knew exactly in that moment what looking out for someone else's interests might look like. The issue was. I didn't have the will to clean it up. Where do we get the will to look out for someone else's interests? See, even our culture knows that you're supposed to look out for others. I mean, that's the first lesson of kindergarten. It's not how to count, it's how to share. And then as you learn to share, you learn to count, right? You have one, two, now you give your friend one, two, right? Our culture knows we're supposed to share, to look out for others. The problem is that it has no answer for how to deal with the selfish bent that's in each side of it that's inside of each of us. The call to do, to think of others first, is only possible when it flows out of our being, our being in Christ. In the love of the Father, in the fellowship of the Spirit. Paul's about to write in the next section of his letter, the next verses, he's about to write what is, in my opinion, the most beautiful poem in the Certainly in the New Testament, possibly in all of Scripture, shining light on Jesus' revelation as the God who is the God of self-giving love. The God who empties himself, who becomes a man, and considers not himself, but the good of his creation. This is who Jesus was. And when he calls us to come to him, to be with him, being with him remakes who we are from the inside. And that has power to drive what we do and how we treat others, especially those who are our brothers and sisters and fathers and mothers in Christ. Look around at the people sitting near you. If you're online, look around at the people with you, or just know that there are others watching with you. But really look at them. These are the people that Paul says, as you have experienced being with Christ, so now look out for their interests. You all, one another, are how you put that being into action as you love one another Now, if you're here and you're somebody who doesn't yet believe in Jesus, maybe you're attracted to him, but you're still trying to figure everything out. If that's you, then know this. Jesus isn't like anything else out there. He isn't a way to feel good about yourself or a means to make a difference in the world. He doesn't give you twelve steps to make yourself a better person. He is comfort at the core of your being. He is love that sees through all of the masks that you put up and knows the real you because he made you and loves you. He is the God who understands you better than you understand yourself. His spirit is the thing that you've been missing without even knowing it. And If you find comfort in him, that comfort comes with a call, with an invitation to action. A command, a compelling invitation, like the first half of that knock-knock joke that has to be finished. His love is meant to be completed By connecting yourself to others and finding your purpose and your significance and considering others before your own. His joy is completed as you pursue the joy of others. Now maybe you're here and you've been following Jesus for a long time, but but it still feels like you're missing something Like you can't connect all the dots. I mentioned earlier, maybe you feel like you're stuck in a spiritual rut. I think sometimes that happens because we get caught up waiting. for everything to feel just right before we act. We're waiting for our joy to be complete before we act. And we miss the reality that our joy is completed as we act, that our being leads to doing. If you know Jesus, if you put your trust in him, follow his compelling call and consider others ahead of yourself. Look for ways to serve those around you. It doesn't have to be perfect. It doesn't even have to be profound. You might make a bit of a fool of yourself sometimes because sometimes we try to do something in love and it turns out. What m you know, the person that we're trying to love doesn't like the things that we like. You know But that's okay. Jesus knew that even in our, he even knew about our bumbling attempts to love one another. And he died to cover those two. His joy is completed in us as we find ourselves moving towards others. In fact, you might find that you start to have a more similar mind. That in Jesus you agree more than you disagree with those around you When you look for ways to serve others, you begin to appreciate and even enjoy the differences that would otherwise divide you. And joy is completed in unity. I want to close with this. This the season that God has you all in together as a church is an incredible opportunity. To demonstrate this kind of mindset that Paul describes. First of all, the cultural moment that we're all living in. We live in a world that's still dealing with the aftermath of an epidemic. We live in a world that is incredibly divided. politically, culturally. There's all kinds of confusion and turmoil and mixed messages about even what it means to be human. And all of that demands a community of people that can demonstrate to the watching world a different way of being A way of being that responds neither with being overwhelmed and sort of giving up, or that responds with panicked overreaction. A way of being that is confident that Jesus has made us his and in him As we demonstrate the transformed life that He brings, the world sees a new way of being. The world needs for us to be the church in this moment. People who belong to God and are called by His Spirit to be His, and out of our relationship to God to do, to lay down our interests for others. I was glad to hear the update from the session this morning on what's happening with the process of beginning to search for the next senior pastor here. Because even in your transition as the as the session and the elders lead you in that process, it's vital For you as a church to close that circuit of joy in Christ by being of one mind. And it's important for a couple reasons. It doesn't mean you'll always agree. But it means that you will draw on being in your relationship to Christ to lay down your own personal agendas, your own sense of what you want for the sake of your brothers and sisters. Around you. And it's important for a couple reasons. First of all, it's vital because as you are one, as you put into practice who you are, It will impact the kind of person that you look for in your next pastor If you're willing to lay down your personal agenda and have one heart as a church, you will look for a pastor who models that kind of humble leadership that comes from resting in the encouragement of Christ. And you will also become the kind of place or be the kind of place that will bless your pastors and your staff members. You know, your leaders need you to be the kind of place that reminds them of the comfort in Christ just as much as they need you. To remind you of that reality. And as you put into practice who you are, your being, you remind your leaders That Jesus is enough, that he is their comfort. It's a gift that you can give them. Paul wanted the Philippian church to complete his joy. In their unity of heart and mind. And the reality is by completing his joy, they would complete their own as well. He reminded them of the comfort that they have in Christ, their being in him, which leads to their doing with one another, counting others more significant, and looking out for the interests of others. So in this season, be encouraged in Christ. Let your being in Him lead you to complete joy by looking out for the interests of others. Father, thank you that you have given us your spirit, who makes us not only one with you, but one with each other. We ask that you would lead us, your church, in putting into practice the reality of who you have made us to be. That we would demonstrate to the world, to one another, that Jesus gives us life And that his joy would be completed in us. We pray in his name. Amen.