If you uh have a copy of the scriptures, I invite you to turn to Romans chapter 8. And near the end of that chapter In verse 31, we're going to read from that passage in just a little bit. So if you want to keep a placeholder there My uh my mother's mother, our family's mammal, anybody got a mammal out there? Mm-hmm, Maw Malls, they're all over the place. We had a Mammaw. And Mamma taught elementary school in Salem, Virginia for decades. I don't know how many decades, but very many. And one of the roles that Mamma had in that school system was as the uh safety officer. She was responsible for creating fire escape plans for all the classrooms because they had uh different levels to the school and their stairs were on the outside. So you had to come out to a fire escape and come down and you had to get to that fire escape and all those things. And so Mammal carried that with her into her retirement, constantly pointing out uh where there was risk. where there was danger. In fact, even when we moved into our home here in Columbia, uh she visited and um made us buy a ladder that we could hang out our upstairs window. In the event of a tragic fire. God forbid. Mamma has passed away, but her legacy continues. I want to avoid trial and pain as much as the next person. But if we're honest with one another We can't avoid tragedy and pain. It's not actually given to us in this life to avoid We're no doubt aware of the band of very powerful destructive tornadoes that hit most of the South this past week, been identified as the deadliest tornadoes in over eighty-six years. And I have uh close friends in those uh areas. I know many of you do as well, and our hearts and prayers go out to them, to the Lord on their behalf. Maybe you haven't been able to pay as close attention to the news because perhaps There is personal tornado, if you will, swirling in your life None of us can avoid the pain of sickness, the effects of aging in a fallen world, the diagnoses that brings with Them uh the final end to our life here on this earth In fact, sometimes trials come our way specifically because we've claimed the name of Christ. When we follow Jesus Persecution should be expected. Maybe you've encountered a personal attack of some sort. Maybe you've extended yourself over a matter of principle. in your neighborhood, in your family, in your work setting. You've taken a stand for Christ by living out your faith. And those around you have responded with attack in a way that is negative, accusatory, condemning. That's why Paul penned this letter. For those who follow Christ, we will encounter trial in this life. And the scriptures are very clear that those trials draw us closer to our Creator and our Redeemer. So we turn our attention to God's word in a life, in a world that has fallen. Because the temptation When those times come, the very real temptation is to doubt that God loves us. We doubt his love We doubt that he's involved. And we become discouraged because we forget the precious promises. of God's word. Let us not forget. Let's read from Romans chapter 8 then, beginning in verse 31. God's word for us. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring a charge, any charge, against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No? In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. Will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. God's word for us. The Apostle Paul raises some questions. I want to look at five questions that Paul raises. If you want to take that outline, that's the title I mean, and let that serve as the outline. We're going to look at condemnation free. Confidence in the everlasting love of Christ. And as we look at that topic, Paul raises these questions, and I've rewritten them for our outline, so that we can follow this train of thought. The five questions before us are this. If God is for us, who could possibly be against us? With the glorious generosity of God in view, won't He surely meet us? Meet all our needs? Question three. The righteous judge has justified the guilty, so who could ever hope to bring a charge that was sick? Question four. With both Christ's finished work on the cross and his ongoing intercession before the throne, who would dare condemn God's people? And question five, in light of the fullness of God's everlasting love, listen, in light of the fullness of God's everlasting love What could conceivably separate us from our Creator and our Redeemer? Five questions. And Paul puts them out there in this rhetorical fashion. They're asked in such a way that you can't really answer them with a positive. He's daring you. To scrutinize the sovereign love of God. AMC Movie Channel had a Rocky Film Fest yesterday. Don't know if you caught that. Do you remember maybe in Rocky III when Clubber Lang, played by Mr. T is standing in the middle of the ring up against Rocky? And Clubber says, I'm gonna bust you up. Remember Rocky's response? Go for it. Go for it. That's what these questions that's how these questions are raised. You want to talk about the character of God? You want to talk about the sovereignty of God? You want to talk about the persevering grace of the living God, the active, living Creator, Redeemer God? Do you want to challenge His character? Go for it. That's kind of the nature of these questions. And Paul puts it right out there and provides the evidence that we need To go for it. So the first question, listen, if God is for us, beloved Who could possibly be against us? Now that doesn't mean that we won't have enemies. In fact, quite the opposite, we'll have a lot of enemies. Jesus said, the world hates me. If you follow me, they're going to hate you too. Remember in Luke 14, he said, consider the cost. Of discipleship. Before someone takes up to build the tower, they count the cost. Before you follow Jesus Christ in this life, consider the cost of discipleship. Because there are many enemies to the cause of Christ. But Paul says, listen, if God is for us, beloved, then who could possibly be against us? They will not win. Paul says, these things. What then shall we say to these things? And of course he's referring to the immediate verses preceding. For those God foreknew he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers, and those whom he predestined he also called And those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. The absolute sovereignty of God in view in salvation He grabs our hand. We don't clasp hold of him. He is the sovereign one. So that Paul says these things refers to the immediate verses preceding, but you have to understand the structure of this letter. He is getting ready to conclude a major thought in the end of chapter 8. And so these things also refers to the seven chapters preceding. Paul has laid out for us. Who God is, who we are, and what Christ has done. The Pioneer Girl, you notice the congregation's a little bit smaller today? The Pioneer Girls are away. The Christian Service Brigade is away. And part of what the Pioneer girls are doing out there in the woods of Hollyfield area of Potopsico is going through the Romans Road as they mutually disciple one another. And Paul refers back to the Romans road. Is this the gospel that you've believed? Paul said in Romans 1 21, For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God, nor did they give thanks to him. But became futile in their thinking. Their foolish hearts were darkened. In Romans 3:10, there is no one righteous, no not one. 323, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. 324, those who are justified are justified by his grace as a gift. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God has put forward as a propitiation by his blood To be received by faith, that wrath, canceling, shed blood on your behalf. Romans 5. 1. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace now with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 5, 8 and 9, but God shows his love for us in this, that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us in our place. He became a curse for us. Verse 9. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, then how much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God? Romans 6, 23, because the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life. in Christ Jesus our Lord. And then the beginning of chapter 8, for now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That's the good news for fallen sinners. The bad news is very, very bad. We are desperately wicked, without hope. If we don't have Christ, because there's nothing that we can do to save ourselves from the wrath of God to come. But the good news is so very, very good Jesus Christ has accomplished all that was necessary. And Paul says, listen, if that God is for us Then who could possibly be against us? Is that the foundation for your hope today? Those truths? Please do not labor any longer under the false and foolish notion that you can possibly stand before the righteous judgment of Christ. On your own. You cannot. I cannot either God's sovereignty, such a great comfort to the believer. Such a great comfort is the sovereign one. To those who have yielded their lives to him. I'm yours, Lord, and you are mine. What a delight to be able to sing that of our beloved. But it is not A comfort for those who reject God It's always black and white. It's always clear with the scriptures. There's no gray area here. So Paul raises that first question and he says, God is indeed for us. And Paul raises another question. With the glorious generosity of God in view, won't he surely meet all our needs? Look at verse 32. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? With the glorious generosity of God in view, won't He surely meet all our needs? You see, the primary gift of God's grace is his one and only Son, Jesus Christ, on behalf of sinners. His own son. Paul just has earlier in chapter 8 has gone through the doctrine of adoption. And so the distinction he draws is, I have given my own son In order that you might be called sons and daughters of the living God. That's how it was accomplished. He did not spare his own son, but he purposefully gave him up for us all. The same word that we get did not spare or withheld. He did not withhold his son. We hear the echo. of that scene on Mount Moriah when Abraham was called to sacrifice his own son, Isaac. Several weeks ago we looked at James using that to show how our faith is vindicated by our works. And Abraham was the example there. In Genesis 22, you remember when Abraham gets to that place and that time where he's about to sacrifice, and God commanded, do not lay your hand on the boy or do anything to him. For now I know that you fear God, seeing that you have not withheld your son, your only son, from me. Mount Moriah, as many of you know, centuries later, would come to be known as Mount Calvary. The same place where Isaac was spared, God purposefully and willingly gave up his son. In her place, condemned he stood He sealed our pardon with his blood. He did not spare his own son. How often do you and I complain? I don't know how often you do. I complain a lot. Complain about my situation. I complain about my life. I complain about my circumstances. And I get it sometimes into a loop. And the only thing that intervenes is a reminder of the grace of God. When we complain, do we ever stop and just remember God's grace? The phrase here, freely give, is charitomai. It's got the root word karas. You know what that is in the Greek? Grace. It's the grace gift. Everything that we have, everything that we have is a gift of God's grace. The only thing that you and I deserve, the only thing that you and I have earned Is eternal damnation. Black and white. Clearly cut And so all that comes our way, all that is good, is a gracious gift, a karetso mai, freely given by God, the gracious giver. We mistakenly confuse the good gifts for the greatest gift. Mistakenly confuse the good gifts that we receive for the greatest gift. And so we elevate family and health and home and money and all these other things. Good gifts, one and all, but not the greatest gift. As a reminder that we had, even as Alan is on his way from us Friday night. Two or three things that I will take away from that uh dinner. One was Alan's look on his face. I was close up when I saw us uh when I saw he and Kathy unwrap that bench that had been made out of the cherry trees. His face was just in awe. That must have been what little Alan looked like at Christmas time. And the second thing I'll remember is when he opened up the check, your love gift to him, he was overwhelmed. And I heard the only holy cow of the night. It's Alan's expression. When he gets the holy cow, you know it's good. But far better than any of those things, I will always recall Alan saying That he wished he had been more humble. It's not just a lesson for Alan Harris, but it's Alan Harris in a vulnerable way instructing us again, beloved. That we will never regret humility. Humility before the face of God and humility before one another. He wishes he had been more humble as he has served among us. Who of us could say Mm, nah. I think I was pretty humble. I was humble enough. It's all of grace, and that humbles our hearts. All of grace. I heard a conversation How you doing? And the response I've adopted, stolen for myself. How are you doing? And this believer answered back, better than I deserve. How you doing? Better than I deserve. Because it brings right to the forefront again that the only thing I deserve is the wrath of God forever and ever. And what he has given is a gift of grace. He who did not spare his own son, he will certainly meet all the other needs that I have Paul raises a third question. The righteous judge has justified the guilty. So who could ever hope to bring a charge that would stick? The righteous judge has justified the guilty. So who could ever hope to bring a charge that would stick? Look at verse 33. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect, his chosen ones, his bride? It's God who justifies. If we're justifying our own sin, then you could probably bring a charge that would stick. And you could probably bring it just about every day, twice on Sunday, and it would stick to me like glue. Because I cannot account for my sin. But it is God who has justified the guilty. We've got to be very sober about this point. Believers, because there is an accuser who is at work twenty-four-seven, never ever ceasing Satan. Literally, his name means the accuser, the slanderer. He has a weapon that he often wields against God's people: accusations, condemnation, unresolved guilt. It's what this whole chapter is about. Paul starts with no condemnation and he ends with no condemnation. Because therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Secure, covered with his blood, clothed in his righteousness. Now you and I both know that Satan doesn't appear dressed in red, pitchfork in hand. Donning some horns, kind of some kind of tail swinging around. If he did, we'd probably muster the troops, plead the blood, maybe take care of that. Maybe. We might just enjoy the show. We're kind of sick that way. But Satan is much more subtle. His slander's much more subtle than that. It's like a little loop that keeps running in our head. It's kind of first person singular voice. It's it's our voice. It sounds like us. There's no way you can be forgiven. Don't you know what you've done? Oh, how could I do that again? Oh, how insensitive was I! You hear the accusations, the condemnation, it rolls like waves on the seashore. The ploy of the enemy. This is where I want us to be aware of his schemes. Because the ploy of the enemy is to use as much help as he can get. And so, beloved, we must be careful not to be foils For Satan, the slanderer. When we fail to act in love, you know, according to 1 Corinthians 13, when we keep record of wrong, when we keep throwing it back up in each other's face, those things that have been forgiven When we use them in the heat of an argument in order to touch that button or see if we can't get a rise or get the upper hand morally, spiritually. We fall right into Satan's schemes I wonder how much damage has been done in the lives of even just the people in this room, not all of Christendom, just us. How much damage has been done when we don't practice the promise of forgiveness The nature of forgiveness is to remember your sins no more, to not hold them to your account. And so we must be wary of that, that scheme of the slanderer The true hope is ours because of Christ. For those who are slandered, the hope is this: no charge will stick. I've been forgiven of that sin. And because of Christ, there's a sobering challenge for the slanderer. Ultimately, it's a futile effort. Give it up. The Lord was so gracious this week to show me a passage that I had never seen before. I think I've read through maybe Zechariah's uh book maybe once. But in Zechariah 3, I want to read four verses, and I want you to listen to the word of God. Zechariah 3. And then he showed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. How topical is that? How timely is God's Word You see the order? There's Satan, the accuser, and there's the Lord, the strong tower, rebuking the accuser. Rebuking the accuser and reminding all that he has chosen Jerusalem And do you see what the servant of the Lord is dressed in at that moment? Filthy garments. Filthy, wicked garments that spring forth from filthy, wicked hearts. And he says, I will not Leave you there. I have taken your iniquity away from you, and I will clothe you with the righteousness of God. What a wonderful God we serve. What about this truth when we do need to be convicted of our sin? Slander and falsehoods come our way, but we believers know that we really do sometimes sin. This same truth applies to us. When you and I are confronted in our sin, or when we are the ones confronting others The cross of Jesus Christ, his wrath canceling, debt-forgiving blood should be in view and extended in the free offer of the gospel. To those that we are in contact with. How do we discern the difference between the slanders, the accusations, the condemnation of the enemy? and the true challenge and conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. I think the difference lies in that sentence I just read. When condemnation comes our way, you can bet that the cross and Christ shed blood is not in the picture But when we are challenged by the Holy Spirit, whether it be in private through the reading of His Word, or when brothers and sisters in love come to us And challenge, they should come bringing with them the free offer of the gospel of Christ in that confrontation. That's what it means to stand by grace. So Paul raises a fourth question. With both Christ's finished work on the cross and Christ's ongoing intercession before the throne. Who would dare condemn God's people? Look at verse 34. Who is it that condemns Christ Jesus is the one who died. And more than that, was raised, who is now at the right hand of God. And who indeed is interceding for us. You see those four characteristics of the work of Jesus Christ on your behalf, beloved? Christ Jesus died. We can't get away from it. Yes, like Alan mentioned, a Good Friday service. This is obscene and primitive. The blood of another shed to cover your sins? That's the wisdom of God revealed. He died in your place. More than that, he was raised. Conquering death and hell. Standing triumphant, the stone was rolled away, and we celebrate the empty tomb. But there's more He ascended to the throne, to the right hand of God the Father, that place of power, the seat of power, where he rules on high. And if you don't think that's enough, which you by the way should, the fourth thing that Paul mentions in verse 34 is that Jesus Christ is indeed That's the active present form. He is indeed interceding for us. He pleads his precious blood on behalf of sinners like you and me. Continuously. That's good news. That is great news. I want to encourage you to do something. I'm going to try it this week. We had a busy week last week, so I didn't get to do it. Memorize Romans eight Did a whole chapter if you can. I'm not gonna try that. 31 to 35 39 if you can. But if you can only muster up one verse, and that's where I'm saying maybe I'm gonna be. Verse 34, and those four characteristics of Christ's finished and ongoing work are the most beneficial truth to have in the face of accusations. Christ died. More than that, he was raised, and he ascended to the right hand of power, and indeed is interceding for us. Praise be to God. Praise be to God. So Paul leaves us with one final question. In light of the fullness of God's everlasting love, in light of the fullness of God's everlasting love. What could conceivably separate us from our Creator and Redeemer? What could conceivably separate us? Now listen, Paul does not want anyone to labor under some false Pollyanna view of Christian discipleship. He quotes Psalm 44. We're like sheep led to the slaughter daily, all day long. We're constantly barraged with things, tribulation. Distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, danger, sword And Paul says, No. No. Stand firm. Be convinced of the love of God. Be convinced. That there is nothing that can separate us from the love of God Where my feelings fail in the midst of trial, his promises prevail. Where the emotions that God has given to me cause confusion, I must look to the certainty of this triumphant truth. To push that confusion back in line. Because when distress comes our way, and we could probably all lift our hand and say, we are in some form of distress right now. Mine is unique to me, yours is unique to you. But in that distress, what God does For his beloved is he draws them to rest in these truths. God is for us, he has paid the price. I think it's no small a coincidence at all that Paul begins this list in verse thirty-eight. With the greatest enemy that you or I could ever face. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. What things? Paul says, I am convinced that neither death Starts with death. This is uh not an exhaustive list, but it's a representative list. Things that we fear could separate us from God's love. Make no mistake, when those times of trial come, fear is hand in hand. And Paul says, be persuaded of these things, not death. Death has been conquered, not the trials of this life. In fact, in another passage, Paul said For the believer to die is actually gain. Although we're not to speed our death But we know that that enemy has been vanquished. No power No spiritual power, angels or rulers, no earthly power, nor things present, nor things to come, no height, no depth, nothing in the heavens, nothing on earth, nothing under the earth. Nothing, nothing can separate us from the everlasting love of God in Christ Jesus. That's the hope for the believer. And I uh trust that that is your hope as well If that is not your hope, if you are not firmly resting in the love of God demonstrated in the finished work of Christ My invitation to you, God's invitation to you through me, is today is the day to yield your life to Him. Stop trusting in your works, your attendance at church, your good deeds. And trust in the righteousness that God gives through Christ that you receive by faith for that day. Let's pray. And as we pray, I want to read for my closing prayer from Ephesians chapter 3. Paul's prayer for his beloved in Ephesus and God's prayer for us. For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father From whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints What is the breadth and the length and the height and the depth and to know the love of Christ? That surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Amen.