This morning we turn to the passage James chapter three, beginning in verse one, to James chapter four, verse twelve. That's a long passage, but the good news is I'm not doing all of it. I want to give you a sense of the context. But let me give you a context about where we are in this series. Last week we introduced the series as it is about reconciliation. It is largely drawn from the ministry of the peacemakers. Ken Sandy, um Presbyterian elder, his commitment to seeking peace and began this ministry. And out of this ministry came a very wonderful trifold. And so in two weeks There will be a hundreds of these little trifles so that you can take them home. I have found them to be so incredibly helpful in my own walk of faith, but also in dealing with conflict. So, as a center part of this pamphlet are the four G's of reconciliation. They are glorified God. Get the log out of your own eye, gently restore, and go and be reconciled. Last week we looked at reconciliation and the glory of God. This week, in this passage. And also building on the passage that Pastor Dan read from earlier, we're looking at reconciliation and getting the log out of your own eye. And so before we start reading, I just want to give you a broad overview. I'm dealing with these two chapters, but particularly I'm going to be looking at chapter 3, verses 13. to 412. But these verses that begin in three in chapter 3, verse 1 are so incredibly convicting to me. So a part of this is my own testimony as God has awakened my understanding to the restless power of the tongue. Being a person of many, many words, I am humiliated by the reality of how much my tongue can hurt others. But as you see the flow of this text, you will see that the restlessness of the tongue is not just connected to the mouth. The Bible and through the words of James, it tells us that the restlessness of the tongue is connected to the very deepest desires and motives of the human heart. So hear now the Word of God. James chapter three, verse one through chapter four, verse twelve. Not many of you should presume to be teachers, my brothers, because you know that we who teach will be judged more strictly. We all stumble in many ways If anyone is never at fault in what he says, he is a perfect man, able to keep his whole body in check. When we put bits into the mouths of horses to make them obey us, we can turn the whole animal, or take ships as an example. Although they are so large and are driven by strong winds, they are steered by a very small rudder. wherever the pilot wants to go. Likewise, the tongue is a small part of the body, but it makes great boasts. Consider what a great forest is set on fire by a small spark. The tongue is also a fire, a world of evil among the parts of the body. It corrupts the whole person, sets the whole course of his life on fire, and is itself set on fire by hell. All kinds of animals, birds, and reptiles and creatures of the sea are being tamed and have been tamed by man. But no man can tame the tongue. It is a restless evil, full of deadly poison. With the tongue we praise our Lord and Father, and with it we curse men who have been made in God's likeness. Out of the same mouth come praise and cursing, my brothers, this should not be. Can both fresh water and salt water flow from the same spring? My brothers, can a fig tree bear olives or a grapevine bear figs? Neither can a salt spring produce fresh water Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life, by deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny the truth. Such wisdom does not come down from heaven, but is earthly, unspiritual, and of the devil. For where you have envy and selfish ambition, there you find disorder and every evil practice. But the wisdom that comes from heaven is first of all pure, then peace-loving, considerate, submissive. Full of mercy and good fruit, impartial and sincere. Peacemakers who sow in peace raise a harvest of righteousness. What causes fights and quarrels among you? Don't they come from your desires that battle within you? You want something but don't get it. You kill and covet, but you cannot have what you want. You quarrel and fight. But do not have because you do not ask God. When you ask God, you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. You adulterous people, don't you know that friendship with the world is hatred toward God? Anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God. Or do you think that Scripture says without reason that the Spirit He caused to live in us envies intensely? But He gives more grace. That is why Scripture says, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves then to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Come near to God, and He will come near to you. Wash your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Grieve, mourn, and wail. Change your laughter to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and He will lift you up. Brothers do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges him speaks against the law and judges it When you judge the law, you are not keeping it, but sitting in judgment on it. There is only one lawgiver and judge, the one who is able to save and destroy. But you. Who are you to judge your neighbor? Let's pray Father, these words are piercing. Everyone in this room has a tongue. And when we are honest, we admit its power. But deeper yet, Lord, are the motives of our own hearts, and your word tells us that in fact the human heart is deceitful above all things. Who can understand it? Lord, we come this morning and we begin by humbling ourselves in prayer. For we confess that your word tells us we can't trust our own hearts. But only you know the heart and know it at its deepest level in ways that make us deeply uncomfortable. But Lord, in those deepest places of the motives and desires that shape themselves into words that hurt. May your Holy Spirit come. May the grace of Jesus Christ bring change. Help us we pray as we study your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let me ask you, over the last week, do the following pictures describe you? Or maybe that, or that, or that. It's for Star Trek geeks. And of course that. Now we could they're just pictures. But they describe something that is very powerful and inside of us. That's oftentimes waiting for the right moment to get out. So let me ask you Let's say over the last three weeks you've struggled and had an argument with someone. Now I'm I'm talking about low grade. to high grade. Low grade is something, just a snarky response, a comment, mumbled under the breath to everything to full-on warfare with someone. It can be in your home, it can be in your office, it can be in your neighborhood. So let's say over the last three weeks you've said maybe you've had ten of those low grade or high grade sort of units. Okay, so if you think about this visually for just a moment, which you can give me the screen that says the 10. Do you have that there? Yeah, so let's say that seems fairly discrete and distinct. But let's say over the last six months that 10 has grown to say fifty. But let's say maybe if we're being generous over the last year we've had a hundred. Now, these can be low-grade or high grade arguments where words were exchanged. But the question is, if we say this, if we're being generous, what if we multiply this over years? Thank you. Now let me ask you this. How many of those have been left unresolved? Some we overlook, some we recognize that it was just a bad moment. miscommunication and they're easily dealt with. You go to the other person, you apologize, and there's reconciliation But I wonder of those hundred and over our lifetimes, how many of the high grade arguments have we had that we have left unresolved? For the Christian, God intends that the scriptures give us the pathway to reconcile. But it begins by what? By looking at the antidote to this problem of brokenness in relationship. So the problem of words said in the heat of the moment, some planned, some not The antidote is looking honestly through the truth and the grace of Scripture, which we have here in James, to tell us the truth about what is going on inside of us. Because by doing so, then we begin to do what is instructed for us to do in Matthew. Be careful that you do not judge someone else. by looking at their lives and seeing a speck in their eyes when you have a telephone pole coming out of yours. In fact, the second G of reconciliation is getting the log out of your own eye. How do we do that? We do that by allowing Scripture to demonstrate for us just exactly what those logs are. So this morning you'll find in your outline how this rather long passage gives us three points. There are so many, but there are three this morning that I want to highlight. Want to be God's mirror of Scripture, giver of grace. First, I want to look at this morning if you look back again at the scripture passage, and specifically we're going to begin in 3, chapter 3, verse 13. And we're going to look at this through verse chapter 4, verse 7. If you look back again at James chapter 3, beginning at verse 13, he says something very interesting. Again. He says, Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life, by deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. And then this. But if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it, and I love this, and don't deny its truth. That this envy and selfish ambition, we ought not to boast about what we do, but we also must not deny that we are given to pride and envy and selfish ambition. And then in chapter 4, verse 1, it talks about the nature One of the most eloquent and most sophisticated and most clear description of why are there conflicts in the human race, both low grade and high grade. Again, here, chapter 4, verse 1. What causes fights and quarrels among you? Do they come from your desires that battle within you? You want something, but don't get it. You kill and covet, but you cannot have what you want. You quarrel and fight. You do not have because you do not ask God. And when you ask, you do not receive because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. What he is describing there, I believe, is how in the human heart, in the human life, these desires well up within us. And they begin to do battle within us, but then something interesting happens when we're in community with other people. In other words, if you've got a pulse, you're living around people. And those desires come into conflict with the very same, but also at times conflicting desires from other people. And there is where quarrel quarreling happens. But what happens in the midst of the quarrel is that what we essentially want to do is we want to win. We are the wannabe gods, battling other wannabe gods. We are saying in essence, when those desires rise up against Rise up within us and they come into conflict with other people. As it is described here in James, what happens is we are saying, My will be done. You see the whole underlying thrust of this entire passage. Is James describing how the human heart is such a powerful thing and can grow in its boasting and its pride and its desires and what it wants to do? that it will ultimately set itself up as the rule of the day, which is why he gives us an example of this kind of arrogance, this kind of my will be done, when in chapter four, verses eleven and twelve he gives the example. Brothers, do not slander one another. Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges him speaks against the law and judges it. So he's saying if you come to someone else and say you're a fool or that doesn't have merit. And a whole series of kinds of responses that we give to others. We, the scriptures say here That the human heart is saying, I am the law, I know what is right. And James says that is the ultimate example of arrogance. That we are setting ourselves up as law and he says lawgiver. Isn't that what he says in verse 12 when he says Anyone who speaks against his brother or judges him speaks against the law and judges it. When you judge the law, you are not keeping it, but sitting in judgment on it. There is only one lawgiver and judge. The one who is able to save and destroy, but you, who are you to judge your neighbor? So what does that judgment look like? It looks like this. When you go to another person and you seek to confront them or to bring something up to them, sometimes not so formal, sometimes very snarky and under the breath, but sort of in abadement, but you can deliver that judgment. You you you maybe you're exactly right. But what oftentimes we find, and I think t what James is telling us to be so careful of, is that oftentimes what we're so good at recognizing at someone else, it's because it's a problem in our hearts too. Which is why Jesus says, be careful That when you judge someone else, the same measure will be used to measure you. So that if you notice a speck, if you notice a sin in someone else, Before you go and address that with someone, a wrongdoing, make sure that you begin by asking the question, is this a problem with me? Because if we don't do that, we very quickly simply say, My will, my perspective be done. The problem is you. But beyond that, not only does James uncover how we want to be gods by saying, My will be done, he tells us something even deeper, and it is this: the problem of envy and selfish ambition. Isn't that what he says in chapter three, verse thirteen? Who is wise and understanding among you? Let him show it by his good life and by his deeds done in the humility that comes from wisdom. Now watch what he does. He's saying there's a wisdom that comes from heaven and a wisdom that comes from the earth, meaning among the wisdom of men. And he says, but if you harbor bitter envy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast about it or deny its truth. Such wisdom, wisdom that leads to envy and selfish ambition, is what does not come down from heaven, but is earthly, unspiritual, and of the devil. Where, and this is so amazingly eloquent, verse 16, for where you have envy and selfish ambition, you will find disorder. of every evil practice. So here's the question. What is the envy and selfish ambition? Socrates called envy The ulcer of the soul. An ulcer is an open wound, something that is festering. And envy is the soul saying, I want something I either want what you have, or I want what I have to do to get through you to get what I want. Envy is desiring something that we do not have. And the selfish ambition goes closely with it because selfish ambition is the plotting, it is the strategy by which we hope to have our envy satisfied. But another Greek philosopher, Aristotle, called this envy, this selfish ambition, as one writer said, the sorrow of the soul. And when Aristotle called it the sorrow of the soul, a certain sorrow, this one writer expands. He's simply saying that why is there such sorrow? Why, as in Socrates, does envy serve as an ulcer of the soul? It is because of this. It derives from the premise that being depends on having. That identity and worth derive from things that are possessed. In such a view, to have less is to be less. Less worthy, less real, less important. To have more is to be more important Fundamental to envy also is the conviction that humans exist in a closed system, a finite world of limited resources. And there's only so much to go around. And so I want that thing because that thing is not going to appear again, and you're in my way, and it becomes a survival of the fittest. This writer continues. He says, so many have written about the pr but with such precision about the airy vice. They consider the logic of envy as it is displayed in real human behavior. They saw it as that which lies behind rivalry, party spirit, and competition. The bad sort of competition. I want to destroy you. In much literature, envy is consistently associated with hatred. Faithlessness, tyranny, malice, pride, ambition, and above all, arrogance It is envy that creates desires that must be satisfied. And this is precisely what James is getting after. This isn't the idea of a Greek philosopher. This is the living God who is saying with truth and grace, what causes quarrels among you? It is your desire to say, this is what I want. You're in my way. This is what's wrong with you. I, my will be done. And it is coming out of a deeper place, a place of envy, which can, if left unchecked, serve as an ulcer of the soul. And will lead to sorrow. It will lead to all kinds of brokenness. But beyond that, we must ask something deeper about this passage. Yes, generally speaking, it's saying that the problem is in fact that we are wannaby gods. Because all of us have hearts, all of us have desires. But the way in which we deal with it, and I believe that the way in which James is wanting us to deal with it is to allow this scripture, to allow his words. To serve as a mirror. And this mirror of Scripture first shows us something so basic. Why am I fighting? Why am I quarreling with you? Whether it is outward and verbal or whether it's internal. My guess is there are so many here in this room that there are so many arguments you've had with another person when you're by yourself, right? I remember a few years ago, that place for me was the utility sink in the basement. And um it's because I had asked Kate, you know, if there was something that I needed to do, but in truth, I I wanted to go and ride my bike. Um I'm just a boy who hasn't grown up and um I remember it was a Saturday and I remember she had asked me to do something and I knew that there was probably a better time that could be done, but She thought it should be done then. And you see the desires. And so what do I do? I make myself feel righteous and I don't say anything. What I do is I go to the basement where the utility sink is. It's a quiet place. But there I begin the argument with Kate. She never heard that argument. But God did. And what I saw well up within me is why I was fighting. She wanted things to get done, I wanted things to get done, but in a different order. Was my desire to ride a bike good? I think so. Was Kate's desire for things to get done a good thing? Yes. But what I saw in that moment, which I'm sure has been multiplied over 15 years of marriage in my own heart, Is that I was simply wanting what I wanted and she was getting in the way. And my guess is, if Kate's honest, she was probably wondering why I was in the basement talking to myself. But the reality is, this gives us a very clear and concise picture of why we fight. And David Pallison, who's a pastor, or has been a pastor, but has PhD in counseling and writes on these very issues. Says in the following words. He says, The Bible is packed with stories and teachings about anger, conflict, and alienation, and how to solve such problems. Anything the Bible discusses frequently must be a universal struggle. We may each put our own spin on sin, but the basic sins indwell us all. Some people are called more civilized some people are more civilized about it, some less. But all look out for number one in some fundamental way and collide with others looking out for the same thing. Why we fight, James would say, and I believe Paulison summarizes It's the battle of everyone trying to protect themselves for number one. But beyond that, this passage goes even deeper than just telling us why we Why we fight, because of these desires that well up within us. It is the x-ray of Scripture. Scripture sees more than just arguments. Scripture doesn't just describe why. It goes to the very heart that is behind most of the reasons why we quarrel. Yes, it's envy. Yes, it's desires. But it's something else which is far more profound, which most of the Old Testament spends a great deal of time talking about, and it is idolatry. I want you to hear this again in James. He says this: You do not have because you do not ask God. When you ask, you do not receive, because you ask with wrong motives, that you may spend what you get on your pleasures. You adulterous people, don't you know that friendship with the world is hatred toward God? Anyone who chooses to be a friend of the world becomes an enemy of God. Or do you think that Scripture says without reason that the Spirit He caused to live in us envies intensely? Now, I want to explain this through this x-ray of Scripture and why it shows us idolatry. Idolatry is setting something up that we desire so intensely that our whole lives begin To center on that desire. Maybe not our whole lives, but maybe a whole day. Maybe a whole hour. And what happens is he says the reason why we often don't get our desires is because we what? We forget That if you are a Christian, you belong to the Heavenly Father who has given wisdom from his word, who has spoken wisdom. But he says there is another wisdom which wars against it, is the wisdom of the world. The wisdom of the world would have us believe that in fact we do live in a closed system, that there is no God. And while I'm not going to go there and talk about whether there is a God or not, I'm simply going to say that the world oftentimes and the wisdom of the world describes this is all there is, and it is finite. He who dies with the most toys wins. And that really, in many ways, if we take that to its logical end, it is Very much Darwinism in everyday life. Only the strongest will survive. And this Which James describes is, he's saying, that if you are living in such a way, if you are backbiting, if you are arguing, and you do not realize the desires that well up within you that are causing this. And the envy and the selfish ambition that fires it. That what will happen is you have begun to create friendship with the world. Now here James is not talking about, if you're a Christian, that you can't have a friend with someone who's not a Christian. That's not what it's saying. The friendship he's talking about here is a much older definition of friendship. It is a oneness. an agreement, the sharing of a worldview. And he's saying that the world says there is no God. It is finite. There are only so many things, so get the best that you can and simply run over those who who get in your way. The strongest will survive. There's that wisdom, and then the wisdom from God which says I am God. I know what you need. Do not worry about what tomorrow will bring, about what you will eat or what you will wear, for your heavenly father knows what you need and will give you what you need. So it's a wisdom that from the world that says God doesn't exist, so I'm simply going to do the best that I can to wage war against others who get in my way, and another one that says, no, you are not the beginning and the end, I am. And so he's saying here that this if left unchecked, this envy and this selfish ambition begins to form such a heart of idolatry that it begins to turn prayer into an idolatrous act When it says that even when you pray, you ask it with the wrong motives. I love what one commentator said. It's treating God as a vending machine. So I'll talk to God insofar as I think He can assist my getting ahead to get the things that I want. And I'll simply drop my quarter in with prayer in hopes that I can get back what it is that I desire. James is simply illustrating for us that if we allow Scripture to speak The scriptures which are described as a sword will begin divide dividing arrow and bone, and will go to the very heart of who we are. Now the best that we can ever have is a three-dimensional X-ray, and it's amazing what they're able to do with X-rays this these days. My father-in-law and sister-in-law are both Radiologist. And I asked this past week, can you show this picture? I asked this past week if my sister-in-law would send send me a CT scan of a heart. This is profound that we can do this. It enables us to see so many things like cancer and blockages and enables us to see whether a heart is healthy and what is going on beyond what we can do through blood. It's an amazing thing before We call in Dr. Koch and he has to open us up. Fortunately, he will ask for an x-ray and can really tell us. But the reality is scripture goes so much farther. And what that scripture does is it goes to that which no human being can truly see with a naked eye. A motive, a desire. And here is a question that James asks. Right here in the In verse 5, he says this. After he's already said, You cannot have friendship or oneness with the wisdom of the world, you must be transformed. You must you must agree with the wisdom that comes from heaven. He asked this question. Or do you think Scripture says without reason that the Spirit he calls to live in us in these intensely? Now what he's referring to here is not the Holy Spirit. He's talking about the very spirit, the soul that God has placed within us. In other words, do we think that God has given human beings, that God Himself The giver of all things, is it God who has given the human being to desire enviously? It is not. For a soul that has not tasted of the grace of God, and even a soul that has tasted of the grace of God will still experience this war. This reality, this envying, this selfish ambition. But we must not blame God for it, for God did not give us that kind of spirit He intended for us to be something entirely different. Which is why James answers the question. He says in verse 6, but no, he gives more grace. That is why Scripture says God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. Do you see the logic? God could never be blamed by giving us a spirit a spirit of envy if what he does is opposes that which envy comes from, pride. God did not give us that. But because of sin and its twisted logic, it is taken from what God has given and rebelled against God and says, I will be God. But here is the most beautiful, right at the center of the passage, is one of the most beautiful things James says in the midst of such a harsh saying. After talking to us about the reality and the power of the tongue and why we fight and why we want to be God, he gives us this phrase, but he gives us. Grace? Do you see the word? Say it with me. What does he say? If you have your Bibles. More. He gives us more grace. See, James is often accused of being so practical and like where's the gospel? It's about works. It's about what you're supposed to do. But don't you see right in the middle the harshest thing that that that James could say by taking the x-ray of Scripture and showing us the reality of our idolatry? And even how we can turn prayer into an idolatrous act, simply turning God into a vending machine, he says this beautiful question in the middle. Do you think that that envy has come from God? No. God opposes the proud, but gives his gives what? gives grace to the humble, lifts the one who humbles himself and he says, but God gives us more grace. That's James saying that was the truth. But notice with the truth, God gives grace. And here I want you to see the giver of grace. The vertical solution. When he says, God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. And hear this, verse 7: Submit yourselves then to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Come near to Come near to you. And then he gives this list of things that that looks like. He breaks out, what does coming to God look like? Now now g work with me here and if you're not a Christian, I know what you're going to think, so hold hold on, hold on here when he says this Wash your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Grieve, mourn, and wail. Change your laughter to mourning, and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord and he will lift you up. If you're not a Christian, what you're going to hear is exactly what I used to hear. You see, that's the problem with Christianity. They're just a bunch of doom and gloom Puritans. You see, it's what it says. Turn your joy to sorrow. Turn your laughter to grieving. That sounds like fun. But if you'll hold on with me for a moment, I want to show you the vertical solution from a God who has given us more grace. The vertical solution is this: it's dying to self. When he says, But God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble, when it says the words, Submit yourselves Then to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Come near to God, and then he goes through the process of wash. Can we can we can we wash our hands? Yes, but what is he getting after? He's getting after the nature of bringing the heart before God, bringing our lives, and just dropping it there like that There you go, God. Here I am, before you, before the X-ray power of an Almighty God Who has given all things, who knows all things from beginning to end, you know me, I cannot escape your gaze. It is finally saying, Lord, I want to die by acknowledging my envy and my idolatry and my pride. Now, let me illustrate. It comes, though, from a God who is so different than every other purported God of every other faith. At the center of the Christian faith, from which these verses come, from the Lord, it is a God who says, I'm inviting you to die to self. Because I sent my son who died and who was lifted up Who is now King of Kings and Lord of Lords? But as one writer said, and I want you to hear this, as one writer said this Some and most kings ride to the throne, but you, Lord Jesus, stumbled to yours. At the center of the Christian faith is a God who shows us that the solution is dying to self, but he doesn't ask us to do that first. Jesus died while we were yet his enemies, the scriptures tell us. The vertical solution is Christ Himself And he calls us to just be honest. What does that look like? That before we go and seek reconciliation with someone that we're in conflict with, someone who has sinned against us. And you feel the victim. The scriptures are actually telling us: be careful And before you go, go before your heavenly Father, who has sent his Son to die. To simply go before him and acknowledge that which I'm ready to go and deal with this other person, am I guilty of the same thing? And if I'm not, God, by your grace, show me in any way, as David wrote, if there is any offensive way in me, lead me in the way everlasting. Ask for forgiveness, and then go. For the Lord promises a tailor-made grace when he says these words. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will lift you up. How was that tailor-made? It is because each and every one of us has our own story, has our own life, our own set of relationships, our own way of doing things. And the laundry list of things that we do by coming near to God, by dying, is going to be unique and it's going to look very different from person to person to person. Though there may be a general theme, there are going to be different sins that need to be confessed. Different light poles, some a telephone poll, some a stop sign. All kinds of stuff are going to be pulling out of our eyes before we go to deal with someone else. But they're all unique to you. And the Lord says that as you do so That what? Humble yourselves before the Lord, and He will lift you up. You You plural and you individually. Because what he wants to so James, I think, and and through it the Lord, what he so wants The description of those who profess faith in Jesus Christ, the description should be a people who walk in humility. And not in judgment. Now there are going to be some here this morning who are going to hear what I'm saying and say, does that mean, therefore, that we cannot acknowledge sin in someone else? That is not what I'm saying. Does that mean we're to keep quiet if we notice that there's a sinful pattern in someone else? That is not what I'm saying. What it is saying is that before you go to deal with someone else, deal with your own heart first. And the Lord of grace and the Lord of goodness will meet us And will lift us up, not our own pride, not in our own perspective, but through the cross and through the resurrection of Christ. Come, Lord Jesus, and show us the root of our conflict. Show us the root of idolatry. But show us as well that you are a God who gives more grace. Lord, I pray that you would enable us to walk in humility as we see the grace of Christ, that we humble ourselves before you and are honest. So Lord, come not only forgive us, but clothe us with your grace as we deal with one another. Help us and have mercy, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen