Okay, are things being passed out? Thank you, Eric. You should be getting The 2010 budget, and I don't know if they're holding on the ballots. Let me also suggest somebody that's in the back there Uh these this petition, it's not really a petition, it's more of a statement of encouragement to pro-life congressmen And there are a number of sheets on a clipboard back there by the visitor table. So if that clipboard could be passed around, it's probably the easiest way. for you to sign that. So it looks like Ken has it. Thanks, Ken. Yeah. And so that because it doesn't um say all it says on it is please print your name, sign beside that, give your telephone number. What you are signing is that you are going to be giving ten thousand dollars a year to the facility fund to get phase two construction Now, what this is saying is uh simply a statement of encouragement for those who have been on the record, particularly the number of pro-life Democrats, who have said that um I I think uh Eric you just gave my notes uh to Stephen. Thanks, Stephen. You wanna you wanna moderate the meeting? Thank you. Okay. Um So it's just a word of encouragement. Not only do we appreciate your stand on that, but please hang tough, particularly with regard to the uh health care proposal uh to make sure that that is something that protects and does not pay for the taking of pre-born life. Okay, we've got a lot to do here now, so let me call this meeting to order. Tim is clerk, and I declare that a quorum is present. Because this is by and large a corporation meeting, let me remind remind you you need to be at least 18 years of age and a member of CPC to vote. So, let us pray and um begin. Lord, we thank you for this meeting because um some of us can remember many years ago we had congregational meetings, they were long and detailed. And those are days happily gone where things are swift, but particularly because of your great mercy. Your grace undeserved by us in the giving of that last week of December 2009, when you brought in superabundantly beyond all we could ask or imagine. To meet the financial needs of our church for 2009. Thank you so much for that. Thank you for those who have labored Al, Financial Subcommittee, Steve is treasurer, Maybeth leading the treasurers, the trustees and all of our trustees. For all the people who have labored so that this meeting can be simple, swift, and enjoyable. Thank you for that. And now, Lord, we do need to make decisions. We need to own what we are talking about and pray that you will help us as a congregation to fully be engaged, participate, and continue to see your blessing through 2010. So we commit to you this meeting and pray, Lord, that it would be accomplishing things that are pleasing to you by your Spirit and his work in us in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, um this is by and large a meeting about finances and trustees. So the first thing is to hear the report. Now, yeah, there you go. See the first part of it up there. To see hear the treasury report from Steve Harton. This is his second year as treasurer. He's got this job down now. So come on, Steve, do your second report. In in the packet that you were handed out that uh others the back three pages constitute the uh the annual report. And the excuse me the first page looks something like that for the those of you in the first row. Uh but in any case it's it's a uh a balance sheet uh showing uh the balance at the end of two thousand eight versus two thousand nine. You get a sense of uh The couple things I want to point out on this sheet is that if you look down a little over halfway down This is this fund balances and the third fund balance is the facility fund. The facility fund gets money, an allocation out of the undesignated giving. And any anybody who gives uh a a gift uh to uh the the facility fund it actually goes into phase two fund. So uh Um but there's a certain amount of income into that fund, but we've also been s been spending out of it architects and lawyer fees and so forth for the uh so that's That's primarily why that fund is down a little bit versus oh eight, because we've been spending money out of it. Otherwise I think things look uh very good. Second page is uh a look at the uh the various funds that we have that are that carry over from year to year. The second fund listed is the mission fund, and you'll notice the next to the last column says transfers And there's a uh a transfer out of that fund. It's been the policy uh of it for uh quite some years. I'm not sure how long, maybe forever That any money left over in the mission fund unspent at the end of the year uh gets transferred into the world. Uh uh WMTF discretionary fund. So that that accounts for that. Now if you go down to the discretionary fund, the number doesn't match because discretionary fund gave five thousand dollars to uh Sandtown last year. So that that's at the bottom. The third page is uh a summary of mission spending. The the uh the the uh spending out of the discretionary fund in including uh Uh and the mission trips and then the regular mission giving and so forth. So that unless anyone has any questions. Okay, what do we do with that thing? Receive it, approve it? And forget. Al always knows. Just receive it. Hmm? Yeah. All right. And is there a motion to receive the Treasurer's Report for two thousand nine? And a second? Any discussion? All in favor say aye. Opposed no. It's carried. Now we come to the main event of each congregational meeting for Uh each year want you to know that Al and Judy Björkus were out in California visiting their grandchildren and came back specially for this meeting. So that you Uh but Al comes back to do this once again. Hopefully he's hoping. Judy's hoping, possibly for the last time. So come on up, Al, and do your presentation. Okay. Uh don't can you all hear me in the back if I don't hold this thing right up to my lips? Everybody okay in the back? Okay. Okay. What you have in your hands is a report that has three parts. And Steve just referred to the the last part which is the last three pages, but there is a four-page uh uh letter, cover letter describing the budget on the very beginning of the package. Uh you know if you're If you can really listen to me and read, go ahead and do that. But if you can only do one of those things, I'd rather you listen to me. But there it is for you to look at as you have time. The next few pages, there's ten of them, are the actual budget uh package. And I uh I try to make that perfect and it's never perfect. And uh one of my good friends approached me just a few minutes ago and said on the front page there's a really big mistake. If you look at the bat the the numbers associated with the the major funds you'll see that there's a thirty-seven that should be one line lower as part of the balance in the long-term maintenance fund. it shows up in an awkward spot in the line just above it. So um that's one of the reasons we all need some grace, is because we all mess up. So there's there's the mess up. Okay, do we have the first uh slide up there We don't have the first slide up there. Can we get the title page up there? There it is. Okay. Next. Next slide. Oh do it. Okay, here we go. Okay. Now I would do terrible on American Idol because I don't have this business together about how close you hold this thing up to your face. If I if I could swallow it, then I would be in great shape. Okay. The first slide here. uh is to help you understand the process. And let me just go through it. Some people think that uh I'm the only one doing any work on this thing and that is absolutely not the case. Uh there's much more work that's done for this uh budget preparation and approval process than than than I'm involved with at all. First off, there's the authorized stewards. There are twenty-two of you who are responsible for individual lines in the budget The process starts in mid-October when I send a letter out, which all those authorized stewards probably dread. They get it mid-October. It asks them to get back to me by the early part of November with what their budget request is for the following year. That comes in in early November. I assemble all that information, get it to the Budget and Finance Committee. Now the Budget and Finance Committee is listed here. uh so that I wouldn't have to read all their names, you can look at those names. And and while I'm looking at these names, it occurs to me that uh we are developing a brand new tradition here And that tradition is that should any member of the Budget and Finance Committee have a birthday that coincides with this report We must sing to them. It turns out Alan Harris has a birthday today. And uh yes, he is twenty one. He can go drinking now if he wants to. So let's let's sing happy birthday to Al Harris. Someone with a strong voice started. Birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear Allen, Happy Birthday to you Yeah, thank you. I in in light of recent cultural developments. When you sing that, I had this tremendous urge to wash my hands. Now, for those of you who know, that's how long you should wash your hands to keep them clean. So now whenever you hear happy birthday, you don't think it's my birthday. You think I should be washing my hands and thank you. Okay. See I I actually remembered this year, Al. I I had some help though. Okay. Uh so the Budget and Finance Committee meets usually in in in l late November, sometimes mid-November, but this year it was in early December, and puts the budget together, makes a number of decisions, and makes a recommendation to the trustees. The trustees then meet in late December, actually it's the third Saturday in December, and approves a recommendation recommendation to the session. What they recommend at that point is the overall undesignated giving goal. the way that giving is to be distributed among the major funds, and they recommend an operating budget and a facility budget. Meanwhile Uh the session has been working on the missions budget. In uh June or July, the General Assembly gets back to the churches what their requests are for a per capita per communicate member giving to the various major funds that the denomination uses. Support its outreach efforts. Later in the year, the Presbyterian gets their requests together for us. Session looks at those requests, and then additionally gets some information from the World Mission Task Force about how we should change the giving that we do to those non-Orthodox Presbyterian mission efforts that we support. All that information gets assembled gets to this this the session as well and then in early January the session approves the budget and what you see before you here is that budget that session approves back on January 5th So that's the process that this goes through. And a lot of people are involved, and I certainly want to thank all those who are involved. And tell you what, let's give that whole crowd a hand. All right. Now, there are gonna be sort of three parts to the rest of what I'm going to do up here. The first part is to look a little bit at our worship attendance numbers, then we'll look at the giving numbers for the past year and in uh 2009. And then finally we'll look a little bit at some of the expectations for the future. Obviously we can't go through that package line by line, so don't be expecting that even, but we'll try to hit some of the highlights so you get an appreciation for what went into it. Okay, next slide please. Okay, this slide shows the uh worship, Sunday morning worship attendance uh for the past ten years or so. Now What you see in the vertical axis there is just the number of people who are in worship and the time along the bottom. These are calculations for 12-month periods calculated at the end of each quarter. The way we count quarters at CPC is the the we started in September of two thousand of two thousand of nineteen seventy eight with our first worship service. And so we start our quarters in September. So the the the the the first Church year quarter is September, October, November. Next one is December, January, February, and so on. So when we look at these 12-month averages, they're calculated at the end of November. End of February and so on through the year. And what you see here is that in the last couple of years our attendance has been drooping some. But if you look over the last ten years, our attendance has been substantially stable. And so the message to take away here is number one, we're not really growing in terms of worship attendance But it's been very stable and thus dependable. And you see the if someone asks you what's the worship attendance of CPC, you can say, well, it's about five hundred and thirty plus or minus twenty from year to year. Now one of the challenges that session and and we all should be thinking of is what's going on here. And one of the things that's going to be talked about as as the continuation of the effort that you heard discussed by uh Wayne Koch, David Shear. and uh uh uh Pete Floyd uh about three weeks ago now, is as we look at this vision for the future, we're gonna be thinking about, okay, what are things we should do to reach out more into the community and and uh reach more people for Christ and disciple people better and and grow as a body because that growth is a blessing that scripture says uh that come comes to God's people from time to time. So that's the message there. If we look at the next slide, that has the annual average attendance, which is calculated end of each November. And there you see the same message. Our attendance last year was actually 510 for the 12 months ending in November. And so the the the message here is that uh we are uh again tenants is stable and we've seen giving for the last couple years, as you'll see, pretty stable. Uh it has been growing quite a lot over a portion of this time and then has stabilized now in the last two, three years. Okay, next slide shows our total giving for the last ten years too, the same period of time we talked about before. And you see that while attendance was pretty constant during the past ten years, giving has been increasing up until 2007. And the green part on this chart is the uh what we call the regular giving. That's the undesignated giving that comes in. From Sunday to Sunday, and is counted as uh toward meeting that giving goal that we talk about, okay? The uh uh the the darker uh b uh blue color above that is what we call other giving and that's the giving to things such as uh Sand Town, uh the the organ fund if money comes in for that, and the conference fund and all those other little funds that are associated with the things on the right hand side of the first page of the budget, okay? The yellow part is the special giving, and that's giving towards uh It was capstone, then phase two, that's been g the giving that gets designated for the facility improvements. And so you see that overall giving for the last two years has been pr pretty stable in one sense drooping some from the high back there in 2007. But giving this past year actually increased over last year, which was to some of us a surprise. We had not been expecting that. Okay? Let's go on to the next slide. This shows the the regular giving. This is the giving that you give undesignatedly. Okay? And you see that the the high water mark there was back in 2007. And if you remember, 2007 was a year when we were not meeting our goal. The goal for that year was 1,370,000. And it looked for sure like we weren't going to make it. We made some adjustments in the distribution of giving to the various funds. And lo and behold, the giving at the end of the year came in and we met our goal by just a hair. Okay? However, for the next year, we reduced our goal. Well, we didn't reduce our goal. In 2008, we set the goal at just 1,370,000, thinking, okay, we're not going to increase it in 2008. And two thousand eight was that year that we'd kinda like to all not remember very well, where lots of bad stuff happened economically. And we didn't make uh the goal that year. The following year, this year, we actually reduced the goal from one million three hundred and seventy thousand to way down to one million two hundred and fifty thousand. thinking that was a very prudent thing to do. We had no idea what the economy would do. And if if you watch the stock market the last couple of days, last week, you still wonder what's you know what's going on. But We set the goal that low. In fact, God blessed us in such a way that the regular giving this past year in 2009 was actually a million three hundred and thirty-six thousand. That's six point nine percent higher than we had expected. Okay? So you're saying, whoa, that's something we gotta take into account and let's set the goal way high now in 2010. No That's probably not a good thing to do because we still don't know what's going on. Uh you know, you can look at the stock market for the last, you know, twelve months and see that steady rise. And those of you like me that are closer to retirement than not, are saying that's not a bad way for things to be looking. But we still have no idea exactly what's going to be happening. So what we did for next year, as as uh the Budget and Finance Committee recommended to the trustees, they recommended to session and session approved, was a goal for next year of $1. 3 million. That's four percent higher than the goal in two thousand nine. So it's an increase in the goal up to one point three million But it's the right thing to do, I think, not to go higher than that in terms of the goal. What that will allow us to do is if in fact the economy in 2010 continues to strengthen You know, people keep their jobs, uh stock market goes up, people get raises in their salaries and stuff like that. We are going to be able to then in 2010 have people who are able not be stressed by giving towards the the the the regular giving but should be able to give some toward the phase two campaign, which as you heard last week is important because the more money we gather in that fund the more favorable terms we can get for the uh the bond issue or the loan to complete the phase two process. So that's a little bit of the background behind what went on there. Now the next page shows What our giving look like week by week last week. And now you can see why, as trustees, we were nervous in the beginning of December. We looked at that and you you can read about this in the the cover letter, but you see the a the typical giving through the year was twenty five thousand dollars a week. That's not quite enough to pay the bills. We knew that, and so that's why we have a substantial balance in the operating fund as the year starts, because it's there as a buffer, okay? So we we have to spend the same amount every every month. I mean the the the monthly salaries that the staff get is, you know, you know, Lord willing in the creek don't rise the same every month. And y and and yet the giving isn't quite enough to cover that. And so we were looking and looking and looking and it it looked like in December we I don't know, you know might not make it. You might have noticed in December there weren't any appeals in the bulletin for extra giving and stuff. Because, you know If nothing else, the trustees in session are faithful folks and they they have a lot of confidence in what God's gonna do. And and he he could he could work it out, you know, we thought. Okay? Well there you see that last week. Well then the snow came. And and and after a few years of me watching this, those weeks when snow comes are are generally not so good for us because we generally don't quite make it up the next week and the week after that and the week after that for some reason. And and lo and behold here we got over 140,000 in that last week. That's how we went over the goal. And so you can praise God for that. And if you keep Um it's just you know just praise God for what he did there. And what it did, what this extra giving did was allowed us to make plans that you'll hear me talk about in a minute or two for 2010. If that giving hadn't come in like it did, we wouldn't have been able to do the things that you're seeing in the budgets that were able to do this coming year. Okay, let's go to the next page. One I like to use this slide. And some of you who have seen me do this before realize that why my job's so easy. I kind of just just add another column in my spreadsheet each year, right? And and and tweak the instructions for the chart to pick that column up. Well What happens in an organization that reflects what their real interests are is how they spend their money You know, you can look at that in your family budget. You look at your budget and you see, okay, what did we spend money on? Well that's what was important. And you wouldn't have spent the money if you didn't think it was important. And so if you look at this, you'll see the things that are important to CPC as a congregation. There's the local operations. They're important because we have a lot of ministries here that uh provide the kind of growth opportunities for our children, for us as adults. for people who come to visit with us. And secondly, we have the facility. We've been working now for some time to make this facility something that will do the job. And I won't say more about that because you heard a whole lot about that last week. Missions is very high in our priorities. Also, upward basketball sits in there. Now this isn't money that we actually collect and spend. Upward basketball is a ministry that pays for itself. with the uh uh the the the I don't know what you call it, it's not dues, but the registration fees. Yeah, thank you, T Tim. Registration fees. And so if we if we can make all our ministries do that, hey we'd be cool. Um you know, just just drop that twenty in as you come in to hear the sermon because that's what No. Just just kidding. Okay. But you see, that outreach is very important to us. It shows, you know, uh the kind of level of of uh of uh of support that we provide for that. And you can see the rest of them there just to see what things are important for us. You notice there too that that Santown shows up in there even though it's not something that we talk about a lot. And perhaps we should talk more about that because it's It's a ministry that engages a number of folks in the congregation. And as you see, it's one of the bigger things that we do. Okay? So let's go to the next one, the next slide. Okay, that's the past. Now let's talk about the future. Okay, on this chart, let's start at the bottom. You see on the 2010 goal column The $1. 3 million is the goal that session approved for next year. So that's what we're shooting for. If you look above that, you'll see that The resulting goal for the operating for the facility fund was $220,000. And you heard about that last week, so I won't mention more about that now. Missions went up four percent, just like the rest of the goal went up four percent. That's because uh we sessions set a a a uh a priority uh about three years ago and the last slide talks about this, where emissions will never drop below fifteen point four percent of our overall uh giving goal And I'll talk more about that later on. But that's that's what happened with missions there. And you might notice that in missions this year, we were able to uh respond to the General Assembly and the Presbytery with the requests that they asked for for uh for giving to them on a communicate member basis There's only one one case where we didn't do that and that was with the New Horizon magazine line. And there we made a decision a couple of years ago. not to provide that for everyone in the congregation because that was pretty expensive and so what we chose to do was uh buy a few copies of that and have on the back table so those of you who are interested we'll pick it up and get it. And it it saves it's sort of a green thing to do too because a lot of people probably got that at home and didn't look at it much and it got into the recycling pretty quickly. So other than other than that line, we were able to respond to all the requests And we were even able to increase some of the missionaries that are not associated with the OPC but that we support. So look carefully at that mission budget. If you have questions about that, check with Dot plants or Dan Rowell. They are co-chairs of the World Mission Task Force. Or check with George Walgrove. He's a member of Session who is liaison with the World Mission Task Force. The top line is the goal for the operating fund. And you see that only went up 1. 1%. That's because it got the money left over. after money has been allocated to the facility fund and the mission fund. I'll explain that in a subsequent slide. Okay, operating budget. It's the one that's the biggest chunk of this and the one that is most concerning to us. That budget increased 6. 6%. Okay? Why why did it increase? You may remember that last year we did not give our paid staff any salary increase. That was something that some of the rest of us experienced as well in our jobs. There were no increases last year. Those of us for whom that happened were quite happy to have the jobs Because others were not so fortunate. This year we were able to provide increases in salary for the paid staff as both the pastoral and the admin staff. that make up for what they lost last year and the increase they would have gotten this year. So uh the trustees in session were very pleased that we were able to do that because Uh staff and you know any organization is one of our most important resources and while they willingly accepted the notion of no increase last year, doing that two years in a row is not a really good idea for to do in any kind of an organization. We also increased the medical benefits. We had a way that that's linked with various measures of medical costs out there and what other other employers are doing. And so those were increased and you can see reference to that in the budget. I won't go through the details of that. We also were able to include a part-time pastoral intern as you'll see if you go to check my memory here now. Page five of the budget, you'll see that there is money allocated for a part-time pastoral intern who's in a seminary. Okay? The next thing we did was we included Funding for the Pastoral Search Committee. Unlike the federal government, we don't go in for unfunded mandates. And so We gave the search committee a job to do, we gave them some money to do it. So as they'll they'll be placing ads in various venues and they'll be doing some traveling, we'll be bringing people in here and stuff like that. So that was an increase as well. We also were able to increase some of the local ministry line items. Many of them had been reduced last year Many of them were able to get along okay with that level of funding. Others needed some more, so we were able to add to that. And you might also notice that some items were decreased based on what the cost of doing that function represented by that line item was. So um we we try to be as careful as we can with the the money that you all give to the to the church. And so some things that didn't need as much money as they needed before don't get as much money, but they still get the job done. Okay The operating fund cash flow, the next slide, is the one that shows how we were able to do these increases this year. Okay? If you look back there at 2008, you'll see what the actual balance coming into the operating fund was. About a hundred thousand. You see what the uh income was from giving. You'll see the Ministry Center user donations are in there, and those that's money, donations given by people who have weddings here. uh the homeschoolers that come in uh and use the uh I shouldn't it's well I g yeah well it's it's uh um what's it c what what's the name of that Granite, granite, yes. Uh the granite tutorial people come when they use the place, they provide a donation which trustees have set in order to cover the increased utilities and maintenance and stuff like that. We don't make any money on that, but we don't lose any money either, right? That's how that works. And you see in two thousand eight we ended up with that hundred thousand dollars. That's about what we need to float the boat. In a typical year, remember the weekly giving isn't quite enough to cover the cost. But if we have a balance of about $100,000 that gets run down toward the end of November, then it comes back up with that extra giving that happens in December. In 2009 you see what happened last year. You see that, whoa, 173,000 is the balance. Hey, we could all take a trip somewhere with that, right? Take a church retreat to, you know, Alaska or someplace. Or maybe Minnesota. What happened there just two things. Spending was about four point it was, four point eight percent less than we had anticipated. That was a reduction in the costs last year, causing the balance to be higher. We also had that 6. 9% increase in giving over the goal, that gave us more cash to put into the bucket. And so we had that $173,000. Okay, that's carried over into January 1 of this year. And there you see our our income budget at eight hundred and seventy-nine thousand, which only increased about ten thousand dollars or one point one percent, while the expenses increased six point six percent. And if you go down there you see the expense budget there of nine point nine hundred and seventy nine thousand with less money coming in from users because remember we're not going to be here all of next year. We're going to be hopefully someplace Uh some of those organizations won't be able to use this place like they're using it now because construction will be going on, tearing the place up and so on and so forth. With these increases that I just talked to you about from the previous slide, we are going to run that balance down to $83,000, which is lower than it probably needs to be. However, While it's not in the the budget, it's not in my presentation, uh w we all know that Steve Green is planning to uh head west uh sometime in the middle of next year. And so h his uh compensation package costs will drop off at that point. And so we're expecting that we will not have a problem next year. There are other costs though that we'll be bringing in a new person to replace Al. That won't be a cost that that'll be a cost issue if there's overlap between the two. And if we bring in someone uh temporarily or permanently. Once we have the pastoral team leader in place, we we uh will have some other expenses there. So we're gonna we're doing a lot of trusting in God here with this budget. You might think, based on what I've been saying so far, oh, sounds like a business, okay? They got their projections all squared away and you know things are gonna work that way. Well there's still a lot of uncertainty here. There's still a lot of uh real need to pray that actually are uh Giving continues to increase again from that drop back in in uh two thousand seven and eight. And uh but uh trustees in session are confident that uh with God's help We're we're being prudent here in what we're making for plans. The last slide I've got is the next one. And I I just put this up because it's the giving allocation percentages the session approved and you should be aware of. You notice This goes back to 2007, where we distributed money to all of these eight major funds. Okay? It was in 2007 when we didn't quite make Uh we didn't think we'd be able to make the giving goal. And so in two thousand eight we made some adjustments, you see. We zeroed out the contributions of some of the other funds And they were still zeroed out in two thousand nine, they're still zeroed out in two thousand ten. And you might wonder how can that how can that work? Well, it works because the balances in those funds are still adequate to fund one more year's operations in those funds. And so you'll find more descriptions of that in the handout, the cover letter for the budget, but that's the situation there. One of the things you'll notice here is that here you'll see that the emissions percentage is 15. 4%. Okay? That that is being preserved. You'll notice that the facility fund increase is going back up. It was 21% back in 2007. Session made a decision back in 2006-2007, that time frame, that the maximum amount of our regular giving that should be used for the facility was 25%. Okay, that was the max. And so all the planning we did to put phase two together was predicated on that limit, on the the cost for that thing. So that cost was capped at that And if the cost came in higher than that, either on a bond issue maintenance level or any other way you looked at it, that would be the limit we'd spend on that. We're not quite up to that. Uh but that one of the reasons that the increase was made in the facility fund allocation this year was to get closer to that twenty five percent And the closer we get to that, the better financing terms we are able to get. Also notice that the amount of money we're spending on the on operations has been increasing because we we while we had decreased that as much as we could in terms of limiting costs for some of the local ministries and so on, that is a line that is still quite high. And uh it's a it's a a line which needs to to kind of drop down. We'd like to give more to missions someday. We'd like to have the facility be maybe closer to twenty-five percent to get it paid off faster. But that's something that will happen. I'll come back here when we come back to visit folks. Um, you know, if I can tear myself away from Minnesota. starting, you know, sometime this coming year, uh to see how that will work. But in a in an ideal world it would be nicer to be able to give more emissions and more toward the facility and and have the operational costs be be uh lower than the 67% it is now. So that is the bottom line. God was good to us this past year. We expect him to be good to us in the coming year. We're all trying to be really, really good stewards. And uh that's it. Any questions? It's dark in here and I don't see good in the dark, so if you're raising your hand you got a got a big red flag way up high. Yes. I have mine. First of all, before I say anything else. That's okay. Before I say anything else, uh I I did want to thank Steve uh very much for your work as treasurer for one more year because He's in the office a lot and does a lot for that. Also, um, I don't know if it uh registered on you, but you realize that that last week of the giving for December We had over ten percent of the entire year's income in one week. And that, you know, without that, that's a huge difference. So, you know, I don't know if you want to applaud the Lord, but I mean thank you, Lord, for that provision, which I'm sure broke a record. Lord, thank you. Alright, now I am here with this because um you get to wear one too, see? Uh because I want you to know we are serious. Yes, well I I've got to have some I thought of getting that, but I couldn't it's not the right season. Uh but we're really serious. Last year we said he's trying to get a replacement before the Lord comes Uh but they actually figure if we're not gonna make plans, they're making plans. So Alan Judy bought a house. In fungus fall uh Fergus Falls Yes That's what they do call it when they're being disrespectful Kind of an inside thing, you know. Don't you call it fungus falls? He's only allowed to call it fungus. Uh Fergus Falls. Anyway, they they actually bought a house, a very nice house by a nice little river. And uh so what are you going to be doing? What is your plan? Tell us in the next year or so. Well, uh I'm gonna do a little resting. Uh Judy would like me to get reacquainted with her. And uh I'm in I'm I'm intending to do that. Uh I'll still be teaching some online classes for Hopkins. Uh I I plan to uh put together this uh couple of weekend seminars maybe on Bible and science that if people want to pay me a couple of bucks to get there I will do that. And so uh I'm working my model trains, got an old tractor up there I'm gonna keep running. So uh plan to do reading. I'm way behind in my reading. Um where are you gonna be living? We'll be living well we're planning to visit the grandkids for a couple of weeks, twice a year or so. Uh we'll be back here for, you know, two, three months Uh Steve and Ellie are gonna be living in our house and making it their own at some point. And uh so we're gonna have a little father in law partner there. Not not a mother-in-law one, so a father-in-law one. And uh so it it you know, I'm if I catch up on things. I'm I'm guessing I'll still be pretty busy 'cause, you know, life is short and I have a long list. You know, you can have that. Um I want you to see that they've actually worked out a deal where the summers will be in Minnesota by and large and the winters will be down here in Maryland. So we will continue to see them even while he moves into a kind of a semi-retirement sort of thing and works on grooming another man. I don't know if you want to name him. who will be making the presentation probably next year that you have been making for thirty-one years. I won't mention his name, but his initials are David Shear. David figured he'd better see what he does on this, even though his wife is in the hospital today, just recovered from gallbladder surgery. But he figures I better know what's going on with this thing now and uh find out how you do it. There's another side to Al that you probably have never seen. And the best way to briefly introduce, we need to move on, but you just can't miss this. Al is the head, he oversees the Johns Hopkins a graduate program for the engineering um department there. Oh for the working engineers that have real jobs and want to get some school as well. Right. Which are generally night courses and things. But he oversees that And so, you know, there's a guy that's pretty far up, you know, he's there with Johns Hopkins, and he's got this office, and you go into his office, you go behind this, you know, there's a couple doors you gotta get through, and then there's this administrative assistant, and you get into this Office, nice office, window office, large mahogany desk, and what's on his desk? About twenty to twenty-five die-cast metal John Deere tractors. Now that may alter your perception of a person in that position, as long as as well as the iron train that runs along his windowsill. You know, there's a few other you ought to see it if you could But this other part to J you know, day uh Al just said that uh when he's up there, this other side to him is he has an old formall tractor And the ideal of Al, if he thinks that the ideal day, it's riding his Farm All tractor with a straw in his mouth Singing Kenny Chesney's She Thinks My Tractor's Sexy. Well, actually, actually I therefore We wanted to present this to you as a token of our appreciation for you to take to Minnesota and add to your collection Ajá. It's a 1939 to 1947 model. Yes. This is a B Farm all, which is uh what I have the real deal back in Minnesota. That one is a 46 Which was made two years after I was born. This is the kind of tractor the first one I drove as a kid when I was growing up on a farm. I I I often tell people at Hopkins and I worked at APL before it retired from there to go to the engineering school. that uh you know say, how come are you out here? Not Minnesota. I say, Well I'm just a a farm boy from Minnesota that came east and couldn't find my way back. That's right. Going along with the tractor, we thought that this would also probably be something you could use. You can take a look at that. You know how to restore Your tractor, see? And keep it running and all the things you ever wanted to know about farm old tractors that most people don't even know exist. Yeah, yeah. Just what one thing you all should know is that my collection of books like this, and these are new, I don't have these. is is still only about ten percent of the books I have, the theologically oriented ones, that which I've only read about ten percent of. Which puts it up around a thousand, you know. Anyway, we hope that uh that will help you to look forward and remember us as you're riding on your tractor singing that song. With your farmer's tan that Judy thinks is sexy. Okay, brother. Okay. Thank you very much. I I I really love you guys. When we came out here in seventy three, I had no idea I'd be here this long. And we had opportunities a couple of times to leave and do something else. And each time one of the things that kind of kept us connected here and staying here was C V C. I've sunk uh you know a lot of my life into this thing. Al and I used to joke about which of us would leave first and uh I'm only a little bit more than I'm not sure if you have a lot of people. Well, I I guess I'm sorta leaving first if I actually get out of here and successfully retire in May. You mean Oprah are sort of moving at the same kind of pace there. So anyway, so thank you all very much. I really appreciate Okay, and now we've got to pick up the pace. We're already a couple minutes behind. I mean a couple minutes overdue. Hang in there, Tim. We will do the best we can here. Because you're doing the minutes. Okay. Voting on the number of trustees. They recommend fifteen. Let's hear a motion. Anyone want to move that? Move that motion. And uh second, uh is there any discussion? 15 trustees for 2010. All in favor say aye. Opposed no? Carried. Now we need to elect the trustees. Uh have these ballots been passed out? You should have them to see them. Is there a slide that lists them? Okay, there they are. And for those of you who may be looking to see what's the difference, there is one difference. Dave Chandler is leaving, trustees taking a vacation, and uh Dennis Pesh is coming on, actually You probably know the reason that Dave Chandler is going off of trustees is because he has taken on becoming the chair of the search committee And we all decided if his marriage was to continue in the solid state it's been in, it's probably better for him to not be on both. So that's why Dave is off and we're very grateful for Dennis, a deacon. to be able to replace him because we need to have a majority of ordained people on our trustees. That's the only change. The rest are the same And there is the option of your nominating somebody from the floor that you need to have talked to and gotten their permission to say, yes, I will serve If there is no such thing, these people have all agreed, and it would be simply a matter of moving to approve this slate of trustees for 2010. About what, Pete? Well s yeah, Steve would. Um so we'd probably have to have an election or appointment at some point, yeah, to replace Steve. Yes, Al Bierkas could be the same kind of thing, but he's he's here for most of the time. Hey, even if they were here half the year, came to all the meetings, they'd still come to more than I do for the whole year You can figure that one out later. Is there any motion for us to approve this slate as opposed to somebody nominating someone else? Approved slate. Okay, a motion. Is there a second? It's moved and seconded to approve this slate as it is. You're ready to vote. Does everybody have it so you can just have it? Because I always encourage you to take it just as so you know who your trustees are and might occasionally pray for them as you see that slate. They do a lot of work They meet at least monthly at the fourth, usually fourth or last Saturday of the month and several hours and serve on a number of committees to do things beside that. We benefit as a smooth-running operation because of the many, many hours of work that our trustees do. Some churches pay their trustees. Um some people are surprised when I tell them that we don't pay our trustees. Maybeth has operated as the head of the trustees for about a decade, I think. hasn't it been? And the gentleman sitting right behind her is replacing her in this next year, Mike Newkirk. And so May Beth, let's vote on this, and then I want to say a word there. So ready to vote on this. All in favor say aye. Opposed no. It's carried. May Beth thank you for your many, many years of leading the trustees. We don't have a tractor for you yet. You're not retiring, but uh Thank you so much. For those of you who may not know, CPC started in their living room as a Bible study and then Vacation Bible School and a women's Bible study. So with Kennan Maybeth, uh you are looking at the very roots of the beginning of Columbia Presbyterian Church that God raised up here in 1978, but that was in the mid-70s that it started in your home. Thank you so much. Okay, um the rest of it is pretty much announcements. We hoped to be able to hear a word from Robbie Bennington on the upward, but uh it looks like you'll have to ask Robbie or we'll put him in a minute or focus or something because we're already over time. Sorry, Robbie, I did hope that you would be able to say something. He didn't have as much hope as I did because he was more realistic. Lord's Supper will be um says yeah, February 2nd. We're planning on a lunch at 1245. Don't know if it will be served. It'll be a potluck. Watch the bulletin to see the announcements for the details of that. But we will be having the Lord's Supper at 2 o'clock in two weeks from today. Month of missions begins, middle hour next week. The whole program begins for February And you see some of the things there, the International Dinner, Planning on Elder Home Meetings, third Sunday of March, Gospel in the Heart Seminar, 26th and 27th. We can't delay on that. So Tim, would you please do the minutes so we can get out of here and get back to the second worship. I would love to. Uh with apologies to the high schoolers. I was supposed to teach a high school class today and then I realized At about five of ten oh yeah, I'm also the clerk of session now because of something that occurred in December, so All right. The annual congregational meeting of Columbia Presbyterian Church and the annual corporation meeting was held on January 24, 2010. The Ministry Center in Columbia, Maryland, the meeting was called to order at ten oh two A. M. by the moderator, the Reverend Alan Harris. Moderator declared that the congregational meeting had been properly called, that quorum was present, and that the corporation meeting had been properly called, that the quorum was present. And then only those members 18 years of age and older could vote on corporation matters. Moderator opened the meeting with prayer. Copies of the Treasurer's Report and 2010 budget approved by the session and trustees were distributed to the congregation. Stephen Harden, Treasurer, presented and reviewed the Treasurer's Report for 2009. On motion, the Treasurer's report was received. Alan Bierkiss described the budget process, reviewed attendance and income statistics, and presented the 2010 budget, approved by the session and trustees. On motion, the number of trustees was set at 15 for 2010. Moderator declared the 15 names on the slate proposed by the trustees to be in nomination for the Office of Trustee These names were Alan Bierkiss, Kathleen Gandhi, Stephen Green, Alan Harris, Ex Ficio, Stephen Harton, John McBride, Michael Milligan, Gerald Myers, Michael Newkirk, Don Peralt, Tennis Pesh, David Shearer, Douglas Scheit, Barbara Stamps, and Maybeth Williams. On motion, the slate of 15 nominees was elected as presented. These minutes were read and on motion, hopefully, approved as read and the motion to adjourn. Is there a motion to approve those minutes as read? That sounds like at least two, so moved and seconded. Any discussion? All in favor say aye. It's approved. Let us now have a motion to adjourn, and I will lead in prayer. It's been moved and I think second, I heard, to adjourn. All in favor say aye. Opposed no? Let's pray. Father, again, we thank you that um we don't have issues um where that could possibly divide us. We thank you again for Al and Maybeth's long service to us as a congregation. We thank you for Steve's service to us as a treasurer. For the many other trustees, we pray for Mike as he takes over leading the trustees that you would give him grace and wisdom. That you would equip our trustees, Lord, to continue to serve faithfully. For Dave, as he leads the search committee, equip him, Lord, to be able to serve you faithfully in that All these things we thank you for as a congregation. We are richly blessed. You have blessed us financially. We pray, Lord, that you would make us more effective as a congregation to reach our community for Christ. Lord, we offer these things to you with thanksgiving for this meeting in Jesus' name. Amen.