Good morning. Let me Just apologize to Tim, first of all, that uh you're gonna have to lift this mic, and any other speaker will have to lift the mic. Um Before we get started, I was not supposed to be standing here at this point in the meeting. Our moderator, Wayne Coke, is at the hospital. And uh so we had slight bit of confusion there. We apologize for starting late. So I will, on behalf of Session Service moderator of our meeting this morning, let me begin our congregational meeting with a scripture and then let us open with prayer. It is a scripture which this church should be familiar with, considering that verse 3 is on our cornerstone, right outside these doors. Psalm 115, verses 1 to 3. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory. For the sake of your steadfast love and your faithfulness. Why should the nation say, Where is their God? Our God is in heaven in the heavens. He does all that he pleases. It is to God's glory that we gather this morning. It is to God's glory that we exist as a congregation. For the sake of Christ, let us begin this morning as we do the work of the church together. Let's ask the Lord to give us his presence and his wisdom. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you this morning that you are with us. We thank you that Lord, we have a lot of things which are very easily summarized under administrative And somehow we feel at times that those are somewhat less spiritual. But Lord, you care about the ordering of your church. You care about how we go about the ministry that you've given to us. And I pray, Father, that this meeting would reflect the order that would please you, because our goal is to glorify you. That we would not receive the glory, but we give you great thanks for the many blessings that you have given to us over this last year, the ways in which you have faithfully provided for us in ways that we couldn't see. But we do not want to confuse the gift. For the giver. For you are the great God of grace. For your Son Jesus And through the ongoing presence of your Holy Spirit, you are with us. Help us to rest in that. Help us to rejoice in that. And we pray for your wisdom and word to guide us in all that we do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Would you mind rolling forward for me the slide for my screen here so that I can see what I'm supposed to be doing. Thank you. All right, so here we go. Uh the next item is um Well, some brief statements on on my behalf and then what we're going to be doing is uh Steve Harton will give us a brief treasurer's report and uh again as you can see I don't have this printed out for me. I apologize. You can see the 2012 budget presentation from Dave Shear. We will be voting on a number of trustees. We're recommending 12. Mike Newkirk will um Yeah, thirteen. Uh Mike Newkirk will be leading us in that. Also, uh we will elect uh some trustees, uh the moderator, correct, Mike? According to this. Oh, that's me. That's that's what I'm supposed to see. This is what happens when I get thrown into this in the last minute. So, alright. So let me just begin with what I know I'm supposed to be doing and we'll just work together. How about that? Okay. All right. So this is really ironic because what I was getting ready to say uh really has just come to incredible um incredibly obvious to me. Uh and it's uh this way. This is my first congregational meeting with you serving on staff here as team leader pastor. And having never been to one of your congregational meetings and having to uh be a part of this gathering, I must tell you there is a pressure to perform. And then when the moderator is not here, I really feel that pressure to perform. So if I'm being honest with you, I must tell you that I feel the pressure to perform, to produce for you in some way, shape, or form on behalf of our pastoral team, some magic ministry dust to help you see, look at what amazing things are going on. But I must tell you, as as I was preparing for this morning, I realized that in many ways We are experiencing the product of massive change. I just want to remind you of something which is very obvious to me. And if it's not to you, it is to everyone who is on staff. And it's this. That between August of 2010 And June 1st, 2011, this church saw the loss of 50 plus years of collective ministry experience. Pastor Church Planter Alan Harris, Associate Pastor Steve Green And let's just add to that a bit more change. Let's add on to that a massive building project. Let's add on to that the process of trying to find a team leader pastor. Let's add on to that then moving back into a building which is completely new to us right in the middle of the fall, the busiest Time for many families and many ministries. We are still experiencing the product of massive change. You ready for the word? Disorientation. We as a pastoral team, we as a session are still learning, trying to find our way, looking and praying for wisdom and discernment. How to work through all of this change in such a way that leads and serves you as a body of Christ here at CPC in a way that promotes and glorifies Christ In ways that seek in humility to seek guidance from God, what He would have for this congregation. And one of the things I want you to note that I don't believe necessarily that My coming on staff here as pastoral team leader has necessarily issued forth in obvious massive amounts of change. Lord forbid, because I don't know how much more change we could undergo in such a short amount of time. And yet I want you to know that there has been a great deal of change. There's been a great deal of things that we're seeking to implement in ways that you can't see as a congregation. One of the things I would like to share with you is one of the things that I actually delight in most. And that is serving with this pastoral team on a weekly basis since I came here in July. Every Wednesday morning. We gather together as a pastoral team. And on that Wednesday morning, what we do is whoever preached that previous Sunday, they take the opportunity to give themselves self-critique. They they talk about their sermon, what they wish. uh they had done better, what they thought went well, did they achieve the goal that they had hoped to preach God's word? And then with enabled by God's grace, we seek to, as a team of of pastors, we give each other constructive critique. We then take the opportunity to not only just reflect on the sermon, but we reflect on the service. And then we look out at the next week, we begin thinking about the building blocks for what that service ought to look like, and then we've been working together, at least most immediately. This uh last couple of weeks we're looking at where do we want to go after the missions month. So we're in the throes of planning the sermon series which will cover not only post uh missions month, but that leading up to Easter and then ultimately up to the summer break. We're trying to, in the best ways that we can be able to plan ahead in a way that is constructed for us as a pastoral team, but more importantly, that promotes Christ and the grace of Jesus at work in our lives here at CPC. In addition, on a weekly basis, we gather together as an administrative team, along with a pastoral team. We spend time in God's Word. We reflect on all the change that we've been going through, but how God is working in our midst, how we can be praying for one another, how we can be supporting one another. Now, here's the thing. We are in all of those things, they are good, but they're not fully where we want them to be. Because guess what? We're still trying to figure each other out. We're still learning each other's personalities. We're still learning at how each other works with stress and difficulty and pressure. We're still learning how to trust and to build camaraderie. We're learning how to work together collectively on where God would want to lead this congregation and to do so along with the session of this congregation. And so with the session, I want to tell you that we have spent a great deal of time working through this disorientation. I don't think I've ever had so many session meetings. In my brief time here, which is just over six months, I think I've had more congreg uh session meetings in that six months than I think I had in probably a year at Redeemer Montclair. We've been busy. So what has your session been busy doing? We've been busy praying. We've been busy working out what the kind of change that has been happening to this congregation and how can we begin building a vision and a plan for the future. I wish I could, along with our session members, be able to stand in front of you this morning and say, see, this is our vision. But I will tell you, to be able to come before you this morning with a a well-thought-out vision for this congregation after just going through the massive amounts of change that we've just been through, I don't believe would be necessarily the best thing for you. or even one that would have been bathed in prayer. But I want to bring you the comfort and I want to encourage you to be praying for the elders and the deacons and the trustees of this congregation. We are in the process of planning We're looking and considering different options for a second service. We are feeling the pressure and the blessing of increased numbers of those who are attending here. And we believe that we'll we hope and pray that those numbers will increase for Christ's sake and for his glory. We recognize the need for multiplying our services, but what's the best way of doing that? We're in the process of talking through those different ideas. And once we have, and we've con and had a concert, if you will, with strategic leaders. We will be prepared in the very near future to let you know where we are headed in regard to a second service. But deeper and longer yet is the need for coming up with a strategic vision for who we are to be as a congregation, who God wants us to be in this new phase of the life of Columbia Presbyterian Church in this city. In this county, in this region, we believe God has given us a unique call, distinctive convictions. That lead us to minister the gospel of Jesus Christ in a way that we believe He's called us to do, and we want to do that in a well-thought-out, well-prayed through process. We want you to be praying for us and we want to ask you for two things prayer and patience. These elders and these deacons and these trustees are truly, and I say this not for for in any way, shape, or form to to um, if you will, seek their favor But having served in various parts of the country, in various kinds of churches, I will tell you that the level of commitment, the level of sacrifice. That I have seen displayed among your trustees, among these deacons, and among these elders, are truly without equal in my own personal pastoral experience. It is a deep delight and incredibly inspiring and humbling to see the hard work that they are getting and the degree to which they love you. But we don't believe that we can do it alone, and we're seeking to do it together as a team. We want you to be praying for us, and we ask for your patience, and we will be communicating to you. in ways that we believe will be helpful, the ways in which we believe God is leading us. And so I end with this. Recently I was reading A description from Ray Ortland, Pastor Ray Ortland, to pastor in Nashville, Tennessee. He was writing about his own city. But as I read it, I couldn't help but think about Columbia, an elegant city, and Laurel. Catonsville, Elk Ridge, Baltimore. Couldn't help but think about the broader Howard County in the region. And I want to just read this brief paragraph, but plug where we are into it and see if perhaps you too don't see the parallels. He says this. In the corporate psychology of every city, there is a threshold of non-ignorability. Here in Columbia and Howard County, many things can be ignored. But the ravens cannot be ignored. Politics are not ignored. Defense budgets cannot be ignored. The University of Maryland is not ignored. High school, middle school, children's activities are not ignored. Civility Is not ignored. There are many things which are not ignored in this area, but the gospel remains too ignorable. Only an organic, spirit filled, Christ led, word guided from below Process of churches, and this church, as Columbia Presbyterian Church, that have a clear message of grace and a beautiful culture of grace. will be able to make the gospel unignorable. You see, Columbia Presbyterian Church needs to be a place where sinners can admit their problems without being humiliated. A church where more and more stories of divine renewal are being heard. And as those things happen, Columbia, Howard County, and this region We'll wake up one morning, we pray, in the not too distant future, and sense that something is changing And it cannot be ignored, it cannot be dismissed, it cannot be written off as anomalous, because it is not just another big event. At the Meriwether Pavilion that comes and goes, but is embodied in a growing network of Christians, in a ministry that is radiant with the grace of Christ. That is here to stay. We do not want the gospel to be ignored. Which means we, as a session As a diaconate, as trustees, as a pastoral team, as a congregation, must begin to acknowledge the ways in which we have ignored the gospel. And may God by his grace and by his spirit and word awaken us to the beauties of that gospel. We pray for your patience. We ask for your prayers. That we may together with you humble ourselves before a gracious, loving Father. Over us his banner is love. May he enable us to be the body of Christ he calls us to be in this community for his glory. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory. Let me pray. Father, we pray this morning that you would enable us as a pastoral team, as administrative staff, as trustees, diaconate, elders, and congregation. May we exist for the purpose of glorifying you and seeing the beautiful gospel of grace change us from the inside out. I pray, Lord, that you would give us perseverance and patience, but we thank you for what you are doing. For you are moving, you are working, lives are being impacted with this gospel of grace. But we pray you would do it for your glory and for our growth and for the sake of Christ and his kingdom. In Jesus' name. Amen. Steve Harton, where are you? Please come forward this morning. Yes. Okay. Tell us that we've got a call. Oh, okay. Which which one? Okay. The moderator declared that that's me, that the congregational meeting had been properly called, that a quorum was present, and that the corporation meeting had been properly called, that a quorum was present and that only those members 18 years of age or older could vote on corporation matters. Thank you. I appreciate the guidance. We'll notice that this year's report looks remarkably different. And the primary reason for that is that we've made uh some changes in how we've structured our accounting system. The the accounting system that we've had for many years, uh pretty much the entire life of the church has been what accountants and CBAs would tell you is a kind of a mixed system, but primarily a cash accrual system. And I can say that with 100% confidence because accountants and CBAs have actually told me that. Um we have spent a lot of money, as you're well aware, renewing our facility, and most of that has been borrowed money. At some time in the early part of this year, probably in a couple of months, perhaps a little longer, we will convert that construction loan to a mortgage. The bank wants to know that we can service the loan and the mortgage, and they want to see some kind of an accounting. A cash accrual system is a perfectly legitimate accounting system, but it It's banks aren't used to that. They want to see something different, something that they're familiar with, that they can look at and say, Oh yeah, they can meet the loan, rather than have to dig through the numbers. So we had a choice of either creating another report that we could give to the bank or redoing our accounting system to make it what is known in the trade as generally accepted accounting procedure compliant. That's what we did. And so this is the end result you see uh before you if you have a copy of this. Um A clear statement of our assets, which was be primarily the property. Uh and then our our liabilities, which uh primarily the loan that we're converting to a mortgage shortly. As you know, if if you've been reading the notices, you know that in 2011 we had a giving goal for undesignated funds uh of one point three million dollars. We uh came very close to meeting that goal Uh earlier in the year, if you had looked at the if you you you received uh notices in your bulletin and so forth, uh we were well behind that. So it was uh um It was uh God's grace that we're able to get that close. We've we've uh met our bills for the year and so forth. I don't intend to go through this thing in any any particular detail. Um I would, if you have a copy, go to the second page and steal a little bit of David's thunder. The first line is the operating fund. And that's the fund that we use to pay the general expenses, salaries and the heat and the light and those kinds of things If you notice we we ended 2010 uh with about two hundred and thirty-seven thousand dollars. We ended twenty eleven with a little over two hundred and thirteen thousand dollars. So that balance went down a little bit, but it's still fairly healthy. And I'm sure David will tell you in his presentation that it's important from a cash flow purpose that we have uh a reasonable balance in the in the operating fund going into the new year. The early parts of the of the year we tend to uh donations tend to drop off a bit But the bills don't. And so we we need a cushion going into that. So it's it was uh good to see that we were able to carry that over. I don't really have anything else to say about this. If anyone has uh any question, I can uh make an attempt to answer. Can you talk just for a second about the joke at the bottom of stage two? Okay. Fisher Ring is an accounting firm. And we hired them to well we hired them twice last year, once was to uh do a a financial statement that we could present for the bank in relation to the loan. The other thing we hired them to do was to look at our accounting system, look at what we were doing, and come up with uh what we needed to do to become GAP compliant. Um and So they had us go into the various funds that we we maintain and so forth and make some adjustments in. in the accounting to bring it into compliance to make make the bookkeeping gap compliant. And that resulted in in making some transfers uh between funds and so forth in order to to accomplish that. So that's that's what that note is about. And if you're coming on a bunch of funds are labeled at temporarily distributed Okay. That's accounting talk. Um there the you can ha you can have funds We we could as a congregation have funds where we uh either by virtue of law are obligated to spend it on what it was collected for or Establish some sort of legal commitment, a document that we sign off on saying, okay, you give us a certain amount of money to do a certain thing, we have to do it. We're legally obligated to do it. Those are totally restricted funds. We can't do anything else. We don't have that with any of our funds. The the building fund, uh the upward fund, and so forth. We don't have a legal contract with the people that are donating to to do that. There's no law that requires us to do that. But we have made a commitment to the givers that if you give money to uh upward or you give money to the facility fund, that's what we're gonna spend it on So they're temporarily restricted. We could, if we really wanted to, break that commitment. But ethically, we're not going to. Right. From our standpoint, it's permanent. But from an accounting standpoint, we could, if we wanted to, break the commitment We're not going to Well before you go, I we um I do want to take the opportunity to to say we would like to thank Steve Harton for his four years of service. in the very difficult role of treasurer, uh particularly over these last four years. Amen? Amen. So thank you very much indeed. Dave, if I could have the next slide, that'd be great. Okay, this is a challenge to uh put down there. And forget it. Looking up there. So we're we're okay. Perfect. There we go. That's outstanding. Okay, next one please. And one more. And still one more. Okay, so um I'm gonna try to avoid accounting speak. Um because there's others that are much better qualified. But I think this is a helpful kind of basic picture of how we arrange our finances. So on the left you see giving comes in. And then the giving is allocated to various funds. Here I'm just showing fund A and B. We'll get into more particulars. But you can think of those funds as piggy banks. that the giving goes you know, certain amount of giving comes in and it's distributed to these funds and then spending comes out of those piggy banks or out of those funds as authorized in the approved budget. And that's basically the system right there. Next slide, please. So first let's talk about regular giving. Regular giving is by far the most common. Basket is passed, folks put checks, cash, whatever. Some folks do electronic funds transfer, whatever you like. Each year we set what we call the regular giving goal. And for planning purposes, that's like an income assumption. And you probably recall progress towards the goal is often printed in the bulletin. And for 2011, our regular given goal was $1. 3 million. Next slide, please. As Steve mentioned, our regular giving came in very close to that goal. You see at the bottom there, 99. 7%. This slide also shows the regular giving for the past dozen years, and you see steady growth up to 2008, which you recall was a nationwide recession, and somewhat more or less level from there. Again, very happy with the results, happy face there for this year, very close to the giving goal. Next slide, please. Now, while we came very close to the giving goal, as Steve mentioned, the giving is not uniform across the year, and a larger portion of regular giving occurs at year-end. So all through the year we're taking money out of that piggy bank, uh paying BGA every month for the heat and the lights and so forth. And um more money goes into the piggy bank at the end of the year than in the beginning of the year. So one of the things that we want to watch is make sure that the piggy bank doesn't run dry through the year before it gets replenished, filled back up at the end of the year. Next slide. In addition to regular giving, we have many folks have also been giving designated gifts. For example, for our phase two facility expansion. So here you see a little graphic of that with the check with on the memo line designated for phase two facility. Next slide. This plot shows the designated giving to the facility expansion over the last uh seven years. It's actually quite remarkable. There's more than a million dollars of designated giving. beyond regular giving that we would not be in this expanded facility without that. It's quite an amazing thing. And there you see for 2011 $163,281. Another happy face. In addition to facility expansion, next slide, please. Some folks also give other designated gifts. You see the deacons there. If you're familiar, we do a deacon's offering after the Lord's Supper. Some folks also give designated to the deacons. As you know, we have gone to Brazil for the last two summers and to with uh uh border evangelism and mercy ministries prior to that on the uh Texas-Mexico border And so uh many folks give designated gifts towards uh summer missions through what used to be the World Mission Task Force, now the World Mission Team. And also, as we'll hear about and celebrate next week, we continue to do work with Sand Town Habitat for Humanity. We are say about 80% through our fourth home and we'll have our homeowner here uh for a celebration next Sunday um including a lunch afterwards for those who work on the house and let Debbie know ahead of time that they're coming to the lunch. And so there's people give designated giving towards that Sandtown Habitat House as well. Okay, next slide. So if you wrap all that giving together, here you see all of the green is the regular giving, and I've broken out the designated giving into two groups there, the yellow and the blue. The yellow is um the facility giving and if you go back to the earlier years it was part of the early debt retirement for the initial uh ministry center. So there's been um uh consistent uh special facility giving uh for many years. And then the blue there, which may be a little hard to read, has the designated giving towards Deacons, World Mission Task Force, Soundtown, those kind of things. But the big thing you see from this plot really is the regular or undesignated giving is by far the largest part of our giving. Okay, next slide. Let's go back to our model. So on the left there we have giving filling up the piggy banks. It can be regular giving, it can be designated giving Or in the case of Upward, it's registration fees. Also Christian Service Brigade, Pioneer Girls have registration fees. All those different mechanisms fill up the funds or fill up the piggy banks. And then whatever is given as regular giving is distributed to the different funds, and we'll go through that And then, as I said before, on the right, the funds are d are depleted or money comes out of the piggy banks as authorized stewards spend money up to their budgeted amount. Okay, so now let's look at that how regular giving is distributed to these different funds. Next slide. So you see there on the top left are weekly giving through the year in 2011. And the total there, the uh $1. 297 million, that 99. 7% of our giving goal. And you see here the five funds that regular giving was distributed to in 2011. What we actually do is it's a it's a uh percentage. So if you put $100 uh in the plate, then um 62 and whatever percent goes to operating fund. fifteen percent emission fund and so forth. And so you see here uh the different funds. So for example, uh mission fund is around fifteen percent, uh fifteen point four this year, and so if you take that one point two nine seven And if you're doing math in your head or whipping out your iPhone times 15. 4, you'll get that 199. 689 to the mission fund. So as as money comes in, it's allocated to these different funds. Next slide. So that's money coming into the piggy banks as it were. Now let's look at the money coming out of the piggy banks. The facility fund I just didn't put a number there because it's a little complicated because we did a lot and got a loan and and the rest of it. But to to give you a sense of the round numbers. Yeah, just the rest of it, you know, with everything else going on, it's just it it it was, you know, whatever it's three and a half million or whatever. Um So you see there the rest of the uh just to give you sense of the numbers of what was spent out of the operating fund, the mission fund, uh upward again, which is um comes from uh registration fees, the deacons. uh World Mission Task Force or World Mission Team Fund and the Sand Town Fund. Now in some of these cases like Sandtown Fund there's one authorized steward. In other ones like the operating fund there's you know, maybe 30 authorized stewards under the different parts of it. So let's blow it up and look a little bit more at the operating funds. Next slide. So uh what you see on the right here is the different major uh categories underneath of the operating funds and then within those categories there's even um uh sublines underneath of that. So for example under facility operations There's a budget line for insurance, a different line for utilities, a different one for cleaning, a different one for maintenance, different one for grounds, clearing the snow, and each one of these budget lines uh has an authorized steward and an authorized spending limit each year. Similarly, there's several lines under Christian education and local outreach and such. So that's where the money is coming out of the operating fund, Piggy Bank. So next slide, let's go back to our model. So every year when we build the budget, there are three decisions to be made or three categories of decisions. What is our giving goal for the year, or set a different way, what is our income assumption? What is the giving distribution? How should giving receive be allocated to the various funds split amongst the piggy banks? And then what's the budget? What are we going to allow people to spend out of the piggy banks? So those are the three decisions that we make each year. And now we'll go through these and for the sake of presentation we'll go backwards right to left. So now we'll go to the budget. Next slide. How's the budget determined? Back one, please. Back two. One more. Perfect. Okay, so the process begins with the authorized stewards making a budget request for 2012. Each of those 30 or however many stewards it is for all the various lines. Then we have the Budget and Finance Committee, which operates underneath of the trustees, and you see there the members of that committee. That committee looks at all the requests and comes up with initial recommendations for the giving goal, for the giving allocation, and for the operating and facility budgets The trustees review those recommendations, revise as they see fit, and then pass motion making recommendation to the session. The session develops the missions budget with input from the World Mission Team. Reviews, perhaps adjusts and approves the giving goal, giving allocation, and authorized spending limits or budgets. That's our process. Okay, so now as we're going to look at the twenty twelve budget, uh before we look at what we're gonna take out of the piggy bank or what we're gonna spend. a question that one would naturally ask is how much money is in the piggy bank at the beginning of the year? So let's go to the next slide. So this slide shows the operating fund cash flow. So if you look on the left, you see at 2008 at the top, there was a balance in. That's how much was in the Piggy bank at the beginning of the year. Then there's the income, which is over the course of the year, the portion of regular giving that gets allocated to the operating fund. You also see we have various folks who use the facility with the approval of the church, but are not ministries of the church, and when they do, they Contributed donation to offset the cost of uh cleaning and and uh heat and utilities, so it's sort of a revenue neutral thing. And then there's a series of expenses, and then if you do the adding and subtracting, it gives you the balance out. So if you look at 2008, that's a very representative year. That's sort of the steady state condition where we like to have about $100,000 in the operating fund Piggy Bank at the beginning of the year Through the year we spend down that balance, and then in November and December, when we get the year-end giving surge, that balance is restored. And what you see in 2009 and 2010 is we have been building up some additional balance. So for example, this past year when we were off site at River Hill, we weren't paying any cleaning, we weren't paying any utilities. We were paying rent to River Hill, but that wasn't out of the operating budget. That was out of the facility fund. And so we've been building up a little bit of a balance here in our operating fund, Piggy Bank, as it were. And so what you see is uh 213,561. Now this is the time to get out in front and go for that uh culture of grace that Randy was talking about before. Because for the Eagle Eyes, uh Craig Duncan, Barb Stamps, the others folks, if you look very carefully at Steve Hartin's handout, he has 213-458. And I have 213-561. So I confess this error, and it's all my fault. The real books are right, and this is simply our planning tool to set the uh to set the budget for the year. So glad I got that off my chest. Okay, so um Comparing the grace of bound, this is small good news in comparison, but nonetheless, it's good news that we have a nice healthy balance in the operating fund. Okay, next slide. So now back to our three decisions working right to left in our model. So now we're talking about the approved budget numbers for 2012, what we're going to spend out of these funds or out of these piggy banks. And you see I didn't really put in a number for facility in 2011 because of all the construction stuff. But what you see for 2012 is to round numbers $306,000. That is principally driven by the debt service. for the uh long-term loan. When we convert the construction loan to the long-term loan. The only other thing in there is the preparation of the annual financial statement that is required by the bank as part of the terms of the loan. And that relates to some of the things that Steve described about our transition to the generally accepted accounting practices. You see the missions budget has increased in 2012 compared to 2011. And you see a substantial increase in the budget, uh in the operating budget, or said differently, in the authorized spending limit. for operations. So one might naturally ask, what's driving that increase in the planned spending out of the operating fund? That would be the next slide. So here's the breakout of the most substantial increases in 2012 compared to 2011. So these are not the spending limits, these are the increases over the current year. And what you see is we've moved back in the facility here where we have about twice the square foot that we had previously. There is additional heat and lights, there's additional cleaning. Maintenance should be relatively good since everything's new, but there's additional insurance. And that's a substantial increase. That's about $95,000. Now we're um we're sort of making our best estimate of w that we can for the utilities amount because we haven't been in here very long. We don't have a winter in here. So, you know, there's some uh whatever the degree of precision of that estimate is. Uh you see salary and benefits uh increases in our medical dentist dental benefits and salary for the pastoral staff and administrative assistance. Want to take good care of the folks that serve us well. Here we are. We're drinking a lot of coffee folks. We're spending $2,000 more this year on coffee since we moved back in here than last year. And I was pretty glad for it when I got here this morning. And you'll see several things under uh local outreach. Uh women's min ministry got an increase. And if anyone's concerned that the men's ministry got a larger increase than the women's ministry, I'll just note that the women's ministry budget is still about twice the men's budget. So hopefully we're doing okay by the women. The hut I'll move right past that. The hospitality closet. Joanna will let me know later. The uh hospitality closet is uh all those cups that we're drinking the coffee out of And I think some folks will be happy to see we have planned in the budget here a return of both VBS and Fall Festival. And there's also an increase for Christian Service Brigade doesn't completely cover but helps uh then replace the track for shape and race. So that's not an exhaustive list. You can go through the budget line by line, but those kind of the big items, and that um and that's where those increases in the operating budget are. Okay, so now let's back to our model. So on the right now, we've set the budget or the authorized spending limit for the operating fund, the facility fund, and the missions fund. Now let's come to the middle and are sort of working backwards. Here's the giving distribution. Next slide. So here, representative, I just sort of showed $100, so it's easy to convert it to percent. So whatever comes in as regular giving, 62. 74% goes to the operating fund, 21. 86% goes to the facility fund. 14. 79 to the mission fund, a little bit to the piggy bank to replace office equipment when the when the uh copier breaks. And uh 11 cents out of every hundred dollars to send our good brothers to T4G and other professional development things. Okay, next slide. So we've got the authorized spending limits on the right. We've got the giving distribution. And now the question is, what should the giving goal be for 2012? And one of the things that we often do is look at recent attendance and giving to help inform our deliberation. So next slide. Here is our attendance from September through November after moving back into the renewed facility. And you see it's quite exciting the trajectory there. It's good to see some attendance growth. Next slide. If you take that same September to November period and you look back at the regular giving in that three month period for 2008, 9 and 10, and then 2011, if you take the average of 8, 9, and 10, 2011 was 13% higher for that September to November period. That's regular giving. Next slide. Next slide has regular giving plus the phase two designated giving. And I'll point out I I didn't run the plot all the way down to zero So um obviously the regular giving is much more than the designated giving, but I just sort of blew the plot up for visibility. When you include both regular and designated giving, you see uh six point seven percent increase in twenty eleven over the average of the three. prior years. So we're seeing attendance growth and giving growth. Next slide. So if you think in between those two percentages on the two previous slides, What we have selected for the giving goal for 2012 is $1. 4 million. It is a 7. 7% increase over the 2011 goal. Next slide. Okay, so if you take that giving goal of $1. 4 million and you think back to that slide where we had the $100 and we divided it out to the different funds. Hold on here, we're getting on the right slide. Should say fund income goals at the top. Be the one keep going forward. Keep going. Uh you're going backwards. Let's go the other direction. Or uh type uh two six on the keyboard and it'll jump right to it. President Trustee says two six enter. No, I failed again because I'm going off the black and the the black text on white, which when I pasted in the other one is no longer slide 26. So keep going forward. Sorry. Keep going. Down arrow. Um Perfect. Okay, thank you. So if you take the one point four uh whoops. Okay, if we take the one point four million dollar giving goal when you think back to that chart that had the hundred dollars divided to the different funds. uh for example, you know, the um uh 14. 79% of the emissions fund, then you see that the uh the fund income goals is basically the money going into those different piggy banks if we meet that uh giving goal. Okay, so now we have an authorized spending amount, the budget. We have a giving allocation for every dollar that comes in housing Divided amongst the funds and we have a giving goal for the year. So now the question that one would ask is, okay, let's say we go down that plan and we meet the giving goal and we allocate the giving that comes in and we spend according to the budget. What's going to be in the piggy bank at the end of the year? And let's make sure we don't run out during the year. So next slide. And what you see here, this is the same chart as before, only the projection for 2012 has been added over on the right. And you see that the projected balance out at the end of 2012 is $124,000. So it's uh it's a little above that that hundred thousand balance that we like. And trust me, we've done multi-year projections and had a lot of discussion about that. But uh basically it works with reasonable set of assumptions. Okay, so let me go to the next one. The other piece I showed previously was the phase two uh designated giving and what you see on this slide when we extend out to twenty twelve. is a designated giving goal of $100,000 for 2012. So we are continuing to seek designated giving towards the facility expansion. This will be used in the very short term until we convert the construction loan to the permanent loan to keep the amount of the loan from growing or keep it less. And then after we convert to the permanent or long term loan, then it will be used for early debt retirement. One of the conditions of the bank, and I may get close to accounting speak here, one of the conditions of the bank is what they call a debt surplus coverage ratio. Okay, so to round numbers, our annual debt service is $300,000. The bank wants to see a 20% surplus, so an additional $60,000. coming in basically to be sure that we're able to meet the debt service without any issue. And that's one of the drivers for this hundred thousand dollar goal that we meet that bank requirement and we continue exactly what we did in the original ministry center here to do some early debt retirements and and uh make some progress on reducing that debt. Okay, so next slide. So I've talked a long time to tell you just what's on this slide. Here it is. There's the giving goal on the left, regular giving 1. 4 million, phase two designated giving, 100,000. And once it converts to the long-term loan, that will be renamed early debt retirement. The giving distribution was that chart showing how the $100 is distributed And on the right is the authorized spending limit for each of those three budgets, the operating budget, the facility budget, and the missions budget. We use budget in two ways here. Budget on the right is the authorized spending limit. The whole package with the giving goal, the giving distribution, and the authorized spending, we also refer to as the budget. in in the big B sense. And um copies of that are available, but I asked Eric not to hand them out because I'd be distressed if everyone was looking at their paper or not. Looking up here. So I have one last slide, and then you're welcome to get your hand out and study as much as you want. But not when Mike's electing trustees, please. Okay, so I really wanted to come back to this growth in attendance slide, and I wanted to point out on the right over in November that it starts to get a little flat. And you certainly don't feel it sitting here now, but I will tell you, uh if you had the privilege of serving Lord's Supper and going to the back of the room and seeing every one of those seats against the wall filled. and there's a few scattered open seats in the middle here. Um we're we're approaching capacity and uh we're not going to break through that 600 number uh until we go to a second service And that is one of the reasons that we are working on thinking through the best way to do that. So our transition is not finished. Hopefully we'll be transitioning to two services in the spring. Last slide. I don't know if I have any time for questions. I don't know if I blew through it, but if uh if there's not time for questions, I'll certainly take them individually. Um if you're an authorized steward and you want your individual budget line, it's in the handouts that are available. And uh we will put this presentation and the full budget uh up on the intranet portion of the website as well. So it's it my my iPod says it's ten oh five. Um we have four m motions that we need to pass Uh which m probably won't take very long. But uh I think if if anybody has a burning question that I think everybody should hear about what David just presented, um please put your hand up and let's take it. We do want to give at least fifteen minutes of stretch time and get some of that coffee before we I don't see anybody jumping So four motions. One is that we um we don't vote on the budget, but we receive the treasurer's report by motion in our minutes. So I need a motion to receive Steve's report. And a second. And we're just going to do these by voice vote. All in favor? Thank you. Okay, so two three more motions now. The next one is the it has to do with trustees. We uh first need to set the number of trustees and then vote on them. And I'll tell you we have a slate. Um I think if we can get that slide up with the night names on it, that would be helpful Uh trustees have done a yeoman's task in the last couple of years with the building as you know and a couple of our trustees have uh asked for uh some time of relief. Uh we talked about trying to replace them, but felt it better to reduce the number this year from fifty And we may do that part way through the year. But for now we're going to uh I'll I'll entertain a motion to set the number of trustees at thirteen. And second. And all in favor? Aye. Good. And then this is the slate. We're going to vote this up and down with a voice vote. The people that are here as you may know from previous meetings have to be more than fifty percent ordained, which means deacons and elders, and you see those names there. And then uh the other Forty-nine percent can be uh members at large, and these folks have all been uh met with, talked to, and are willing to continue to serve in that regard. So um if I can Entertain a motion, we'll we'll have a motion to accept this slate. It's a good thing Rob's here. He's hitting all of them. And a second? Any discussion? All in favor? Aye. Opposed? So the motion carries. Now, we're at the end. I think the last motion is To adjourn, and after a motion to adjourn, we need to hear briefly the minutes from our clerk who is still working on his laptop. So I hear the motion. Thanks again to Rob. Second. All in favor? Aye. We want to get some coffee. And Mr. Moderator. Or Mr. Clerk. February twelfth, Lord's Supper in three weeks. So we we have set the um policy now to have a Lord's Supper in the morning on the third Sunday of the month. And I guess the twelfth is the third Sunday. I'm standing here trying to figure out how that can possibly be so. It's not gonna be on Super Bowl night. It will be on the third Sunday. But I think the third Sunday must not be the twelfth. It's uh the nineteenth. Right. Yeah, whatever Pete says. So the um the we'll clarify this. Yeah. It's the morning it's the third Sunday morning, the nineteenth. Uh I believe it's the nineteenth. And um there was some confusion. We just have one Lord's Supper celebration in the month of February. So all right. Let me uh pull this back up here. Bear with me. Thank you. The annual congregational meeting of Columbia Presbyterian Church and the annual corporation meeting was held on January 22nd, 2012 at the Ministry Center in Columbia, Maryland. The meeting was called to order at 912 a. m. by the Moderator, Reverend Randy Lovelace. Moderator declared that the congregational meeting had been properly called, that a quorum was present, that the corporation meeting had been properly called, that a quorum was present, and that only those members eighteen years of age and older could vote on corporation matters. Moderator opened with the m opened the meeting with a scripture reading from Psalm 115, 1 through 3, and prayer. Reverend Lovelace gave the team leader a pastor a report. He spoke of how God has lovingly guided our congregation through a massive amount of transition. Reported that the session is engaging in the work of seeking the Lord and how we how he would be pleased to lead us from this point forward Reverend Lovelace pleaded with the congregation to support the session with prayer and patience. He cast the vision for Columbia Presbyterian Church to be open to God's Spirit, to make us a people who love and live the gospel of Jesus Christ to the glory of God. Reverend Lovelace led in a time of prayer. Stephen Hartin, Treasurer, presented and reviewed the Treasurer's Report for 2011. Elder Dave Shearer reviewed the budget allocations for 2011. Described the budget process, reviewed attendance, income statistics, and presented the 2012 budget approved by the session and trustees. Elder Shearer stated that the two thousand twelve missions budget amount has been set at two thousand the two hundred and seven thousand The two thousand twelve facility budget amount have been set at three hundred and six hundred thousand. That the two thousand twelve designated facility given goal had been set at 100,000. The 2012 operating budget amount had been set at 977,634, and that the 2012 regular giving goal had been set at $1. 4 million. Congregation was informed that the budget was available for review soon on the Columbia Presbyterian Church website. You can take soon out. Elder Coch joined the meeting and took up the role of moderator. On motion, the treasurer's report was received. On motion, the number of trustees was set for at 13 for 2012. Moderator declared the thirteen names on the slate proposed by the trustees to be in nomination for the Office of Trustee. These names were James Bauer, Richard Bellivo, David Chandler, Kathleen Gandhi, Randy Lovelace, ex officio Michael Milligan, Michael Newkirk, Donald Peralt, Dennis Pesh, David Shearer, Douglas Scheit, Barbara Stamps, and Maybeth Williams. On motion, the slate of thirteen nominees was elected as presented. These minutes were read and on motion were approved as read or whatever and the adjournment at such and such a time. Okay. Okay. I'll I'll uh I'll make that known that uh copies were made available. Um If you if you will, I'll I'll change that language so it reflects that. Uh Dick? And we had a start a craze there, an increase of seven point seven percent over budget for two thousand eleven. Uh I have no problem putting that in. Uh yeah, as as corrected. So now we have to approve the minutes as corrected. All in favor? Aye. Opposed? Let me pray for us. But thank you so much for your faithfulness to us. We uh have heard a lot of numbers and we get lost in that perhaps. Uh, from remembering that it is you who own the cattle on a thousand hills and provide all of our needs. And we are so thankful that we can trust in you, that we can turn to you, that you deal with us not as we deserve, but by the riches of your grace. Thank you for the men and women who have served so faithfully in so many roles, uh trustees and and uh the the various other positions that have put together this report. We thank you for the joy that we have in serving you. Bless our time now together as we break and as we come back for worship in Jesus' name and to his glory. Amen.