Please turn to Second Corinthians chapter one. I'll be reading verses three through eleven in the NIV. I was thinking this morning as I bought my NIV how I have weaned myself somewhat from my new American standard. I can read by I still can't preach from the NIV. I've just got to use my NASB. I will read from the NIV, uh, Second Corinthians chapter one, verses three through eleven. In our church we do believe the Bible to be the Word of God. Only infallible rule of faith and practice. Praise be for the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion. And the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our troubles, so that we can comfort those in any trouble with the comfort we ourselves have received from God. For just as the sufferings of Christ flow over into our lives, so also through Christ our comfort overflows. If we are distressed, it is for your comfort and salvation. If we are comforted, it is for your comfort which produces in you take the same thing. Patience endurance of the same sufferings we suffer. And our hope for you is firm, because we know that just as you share in our sufferings, so also you share in our comfort. We do not want you to be understanding. informed, brothers, about the hardships we suffered in the province of Asia. We were under great pressure, far beyond our ability to endure, so that we despaired even of life. Indeed, in our hearts we felt the sentence of death. But this happened that we might not rely on ourselves, but on God who raises the dead. He has delivered us from such a deadly terror, and he will deliver us. On him we have set our hope. That he will continue to deliver us as you help us by your prayers. Then many will give thanks on our behalf for the gracious favor granted us in answer to the prayers of men. Let us pray. Lord, how we do thank you for your work. Word that it not only touches the doctrines of the faith, it not only teaches us truth, but it touches us in very practical areas. Lord, we often do encounter things That are difficult, that are hard to understand. We thank you that this portion of your word does comfort us and helps us to know how we might comfort each other. Lord, use this in our lives this morning. We pray, Come, Holy Spirit, and speak from your word in Jesus' name. Two weeks ago I mentioned a friend of ours, Gail Oler, whose husband had been killed by a sniper's bullet to the head and Beirut told you their two little children, one who he never saw, the agony that she's gone through since then. The skeptic says to Gail, Gail, how can you believe in your God? How can you say that he is great? And how can you say that he is good when he lets that sort of thing happen in this world? Our passage does give answers, some answers that help us in hard troubles. like that. Or a man that I met about a year ago in a Bible study I was reading in a little small Mississippi town. He had just been a Christian a couple years. He had a teenage son and his son had to wear a a helmet like a football helmet all the time because he would go into these convulsions and throw himself on the ground and injure himself. And this fellow had become a Christian. And he wondered what hope do I have now that I'm a Christian? The hope he had was not quite right though. He was a man that loved Christ and followed him, but he had this view of the Christian life, this victorious and extreme view of the victorious Christian life, that if I pray hard enough, that God will automatically heal my son, and that I won't have And he had all this guilt on him because he felt the reason that his son had not been healed, and the reason that he still had affliction and suffering and hardship in his life was because of his own lack of faith, a lack of prayer, or something like that. Well this passage and and so many others teach us that as our head, the Lord Jesus Christ has suffered, So we, as we partake in his glory and as we partake in his comfort, we also partake in the sufferings that Christ did. We're not excluded from them. This passage, uh uh verse 5, for just as the sufferings of Christ are ours in abundance, so also our comfort is abundant through Christ. And all through the Bible, Acts, through much tribulation you must enter the kingdom of God. In the world you will have tribulation, Jesus tells us. So we do have struggles in this life. It's part of being in a fallen world. But we do have comfort. We have a right way to approach. Not like uh the skeptic who says God is not good, God is not powerful. Not like this man that was a dear Christian who I think was coming to see that it's not like just saying it's my fault that I have those. But this passage gives us real help. Paul, you notice in verse three, he said, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Why was it that Paul could praise God as he begins to talk? about afflictions and trouble. It's because Paul did have a foundation. He must have heard the sermon I preached two weeks ago. Remember that God is great and God is good. He wrote the passage that that I that I preached once. That Paul knew the foundation on which We can approach the world as yes, we do have a God that's all powerful. And yes, we do have a God that is very good. We see that so many ways. So that's the foundation. But now today we're going to build on that foundation and look at some very specific ways that God does use pain in our lives for his own glory. We see first in verses three through seven, especially verse four, how God comforts us in all our afflictions so that we may be able to comfort those to come comfort others. We are able to comfort others as God brings affliction and pain comes into our lives. Uh sometimes it seems that we want to think that we say, Well I'll be with you in spirit. You know that that's true and sometimes it has to be, but there's nothing like having somebody there. Just to cry with you, to God really uses people in our lives as we struggle. Look over at uh chapter seven, verse six of of Corinthians. And I I've been just as I studied This through here in 2 Corinthians, I've been amazed at how 2 Corinthians really is the book where Paul talks about suffering and hardship and about comfort. Notice in uh verse 6, he says, But God God who comforts the depressed, comfort us, comforted us by the coming of Titus. God really does use people to comfort us. You know, it's hard sometimes when we encounter different things. All of us have different struggles we go through. last week. It touches every pew. And sometimes it's hard to remember and to get from our heads to our heart. Yes, God is great. And yes, He is good. And it helps to have people who stand with us and who encourage us. You know, David got it almost seems angry at the Lord in the Psalms, he cries out over and over again, God, how long will you let this go on? You know, it wasn't a rebellious cry, it was a cry of faith to a God that he knew loved him. But still his heart was in anguish with so much that he went through. God, how long? And as we go through those kinds of things, it helps us when we have others to stand with us to help us to see that yes he is good and to give us comfort. We need to not be afraid, I think sometimes, I know it it's hard sometimes when someone has really suffered To go and be with them, where oh what will we say, what will we do? How it helps us just to be there, maybe not to say anything, certainly not just to give uh quote Romans eight twenty eight and other verses. Uh we just need to be there and to love and to cry together and to come comfort one another. And all of us are to do that, not just the professionals. You know, it's so easy, uh it seems in modern America to have the idea that it's the pastor, it's Al, it's his responsibility to go. But we know in Ephesians four twelve that that Al particularly is his task and the elders to equip the saints for the work of service, that we all can be of comfort to each other. You know, everyone uh we're so happy that we have a a pastor who opens up the word to us. He doesn't only do that because it you know doesn't put it together an hour or two Saturday night that takes a week of study and of preparation and of feeding his own soul. And and yet some people in some churches, I don't think in earth, would expect the pastor to be to visit everybody in the congregation twice, two, three times a a year, to be able to to preach great sermons. from the word and yet also to do all the business. No. All of us are to comfort each other. We are all to be able to do that and help one another in the comfort. Uh you can pay me later for that. know I was going to say that. I've been looking for a way to get that in sometimes, so we finally got to do it. But but really, that is something we are all to do and we need to be looking for opportunities to do it. But notice on your outline there, we it's God especially uses those to comfort who have also suffered themselves. Who have also especially similarly suffered it seems. Notice in verse 4 NIV says that we can comfort. And Numeric Standard says we are made made able to comfort. The word there is the same word we get dynamite from. It's that we are made powerful. We are uh there's the ability given. Making us able to comfort through the suffering that we've encountered. We are made powerfully able to comfort others as we encounter things ourselves. Certainly, you know, you may feel I can't comfort you because I haven't experienced that. The word of God is authoritative and we can use the word. But there's a certain other authority, isn't there? someone has gone through the same thing that we have gone through. I mentioned my friend Gail Oler and her husband Mike who was killed. She was uh he was killed about six days before the big bomb blast in Beirut when all the other Marines were killed there. So he was by himself when he was killed. The body came home from Beirut and flew into Camp Lejeune and uh when Gail went up there. She was staying in Pensacola with her coach while he was on float for six months and and his uh Gail came to Camp Lejeune, all the other wives whose husbands were out in uh the Mediterranean and Beirut, they came to her and tried to comfort her, most not Christians. And they said, Dale, how can you be so strong? Through your tears, you praise God. And you give uh you say that he's your hope. And she was able to point them to Christ and that he was her hope. And uh and just the things she shared uh were beautiful and encouragement and God really gave her strength. Through her tears, certainly, but he gave her strength. Then she went back to Pensacola. Two days later, after the memorial service, the big bomb blast in Beirut took place and 240 some uh of her husband's friends and buddies were killed. And she went back to Camp Virginia because of this passage. She said she felt like she was John the Baptist, going before, able to uh really speak to those people. those ladies. They had seen her in her agony. If I had gone there or if you had gone there, we couldn't have had the ministry that she had. But because of what she had just gone through and they had been with her, she was able to go and be powerfully used by God in the line So uh God really does use that. There's a certain authority when we when we go through something and we need to remember that and see God how can we use this? It's hard, certainly, but he can do that in our life. I think of uh uh And I were uh sharing and talking and he said I appreciate having someone that had also been a company commander to go th you know knew some of the same things he had gone was going through and I'm sorry, George, for using Marine Force stories. George always gets on me about using Marine Force stories, but Haven't done it a couple of times sort of but you know that it really is true for hard things and for things that are less hard. And we need to be thinking that the tapestry of our church here has people saying all kinds of backgrounds. All kinds of different things that God has brought us through. Some from Christian homes, some from not Christian homes, some who have uh with different kinds of marital struggles, struggles uh singles, all sorts of things. You fill in the Bible. And instead of only looking within God. God can use you to speak to other people in special ways because of what you you've gone through. I've seen numerous cases since I just in the short time I've been here of uh things that some of you have gone through and have been willing to share and how we've been able to point someone else to someone in the congregation. Going through something similar, who could minister to that person in a different way than Al could or than I could because of what they've gone through. The skeptic says, How can you believe God is great and God is good? And by God's strength, does he comfort? We say, Lord, how can I comfort somebody else? The Lord does use that. But we not only see here with a oh one other thing here. Uh Romans twelve, verse fifteen, weep with those who weep. And to rejoice with those who jo rejoice. You know, as you read this passage and you see how they're mingled together our sufferings and the sufferings of others and how God really does help us to rejoice together and to weep together. That's a good passage, uh Romans twelve fifteen to look at. And uh uh see how it fits with this. But not only does God use sufferings in our lives as we help other people, but he uses it also for our own growth. He helps us to grow through the sufferings. How many of you read the morning? How many of you have read some of the nine stuff? Okay, a good number of you have. Um one of them, the horse and his boy. How many of you read that one? The horse and his boy. Okay. The little boy is Shasta. What's the girl's name? I forgot. Okay, well the little girl, uh she uh and she is escaping from the evil land to Nornia and Shasta on his horse is escaping to the evil land, uh to Nornia to go to Nornia, and a lion chases him. And that and they others scared to death. Great tribulation. But if the lion changes the boat, they come together and then they travel together and and they're both brought along on the journey. Then later on another lion comes after 'em. And the lion scratches the girl. And she Uh later on when they meet Aslan the lion, they say, Ah, Aslan, you should just the struggles we've been through And and he tells them I was the lion that chased you. They say, You chased us. Why did you chase him? He said, Look what good was came together? It was providential you might say. And then later on the lion he said and and another lion came and it scratched The go Erebus wasn't there. And they scratched Erebus. And uh and he C. S. Lewis so beautifully weaves that together and she tells about I was wondering as she finds out it was Aslan that scratched her, why it healed so fast. How the the circumstances work together for their good as they suffered themselves. And that's the way it is in our minds, isn't it? That the Lord similarly and that's what those those are great to read to your kids. You just see all kinds of stuff you want to shake 'em and say, Can you see Often sometimes they do, sometimes they don't. But how God really does do that doesn't he take our afflictions and the things that we experience and he really strengthens us. There are a few ways I mentioned here that he strengthens us. One is he really makes us dependent on him. And we turn to the Lord and he gives us strength. Paul says it here in uh verses eight especially. For we do not want you to be unaware, brethren, of our affliction which came to us in Asia. But we were burdened excessively beyond the earth. our strength, so that we despaired even of life. You know. This is the Apostle Paul, the one who writes in Philippians, rejoiced in the Lord. He says, Beyond our strength, T word, beyond our strength, so that we despaired even of life. And then verse nine, indeed we had the sentence of death. within ourselves in order that we should not trust ourselves but in God who raises us from the dead. When we're flat on our back, when we are weak, then we are strong. First second Corinthians twelve, Paul makes that so clear that God gave the thorn in the flesh, that he wouldn't be exalted. And he says that it's in in the weakness that we experience that we are made strong. For my grace is sufficient for you, the Lord says. For my power is perfected in weakness. Now that's hard for us sometimes, especially when we're going through. But God uses, He makes us turn to him. I think when I used to jump out a airplane, perfectly good airplane. Seems crazy. But uh I remember the first you know you have your reserve Parachute here and uh and you know, you go out and they say you count to five thousand or whatever it is, I forget and you know then you look up and if you don't see your shooting you think you pull those are parachuting. And uh first time going out the door, jump out that and one, two, three, five, you know. See if the thing goes out and have that hand right on that parachute and and uh and you know, y you rarely need your reserve parachute. It's extremely rare that ever happens. And and then about the second time, you know, you have it there and you look it up and the third time and pretty soon you know you kinda have your You're not you come to not really appreciate that reserve parachute, but I'd say the couple people I met that were in jump school with me who had needed their reserve parachute, they appreciated the reserve parachute. In a infinitely greater way. Isn't it true that we take God for granted so often? And that as things go well in our lives, we don't see our need of Him. And we're not so dependent. But as we struggle and as we see, as the ship goes down and we're flying the flag of Dan Iverson and the ship starts go down. We change flags, don't we? And we fly the flag of the Lord Jesus Christ and we say, Lord, we need you. And isn't he good? You think that he might not take us when we only turn to him in our struggles. But he's so gracious and so good that even when we turn to him when we have nowhere else to come, he's pleased to accept us and to come to him through Christ as uh and he rescues the ship. It's interesting, I won't be able to deal with it much, but verse eleven, he really uh shows one of the ways that we are most weak. is in the the show our dependency is in our prayers and how our prayers really help us through this. Verse 11, you also joining and helping us through your prayers, that thanks may be given by many persons on our behalf for the favor bestowed upon us through the prayers of man. Prayer is one way that you know, there's nothing we can do overtly when we pray. We're not doing anything, we are totally dependent. And notice how that really relates to point one. You know, we really comfort each other with our prayers. We won't be able to pursue that. Also we see that the uh Uh in other places in Scripture only implicitly here how God really uses our struggles to make us persevere and to endure. Romans five, you know, that tribulation worketh patience and perseverance. And perseverance worketh what? Proven character. It proves our character and helps us to grow. James chapter one. You know, in effect James talks about considerable joy when you encounter various trials. Now that, you know, the world must see something like that. But say that is so crazy, you Christians. we're saying to grief affliction as a friend and that's what the Bible says, that we see how God works it for good and uses it in our lives. It's as a friend. It's like a friend maybe that comes to rebuke you. We don't like to see them coming when we know why they're coming. But we see God uses that in our lives and they really are our best friend. And affliction is like that so often. Uh my my wife has been uh swimming at six with Pat uh Mitzel at six A. M. , not six PM. Uh you can't really appreciate that. unless she knew my wife, that is uh she's n definitely not a morning person. But uh you should ought to hear no need to have excuses why not to get up you know and was lightning outside and uh all kinds of things. But and she wouldn't do it I'm sure very Very much of the time she'll say this should if Pat wasn't Pat thinking the same thing next door. Oh I wish we wouldn't go this way. But they go and they come back refreshed and rejoice. God he made us such that we that he uses each other, doesn't he? Not just for accountability. know, did you have your quiet minds and those sorts of things and all but he uses us to comfort each other also. And that's one of the ways he helps us to persevere. And and he did the church, we do pretty well at that, but we can do better. It's helping each other to persevere through the struggles and difficulties. that we have. I do praise the Lord for our church that we really do work at that. And I see his hand, God's hand, using each of us in our lives together as we do that. If you think of our small groups, how they are really a way to do that at Sunday school. We come not just to get what's the gift? How can we minister to others in a more informal environment as we meet together and learn things? Also we see the hope is another way that uh God really uses our suffering in our lives. Uh we see in verses nine and ten Paul really points to that uh indeed we had the sentence of death within ourselves. This is right after he gives you know the struggles that he's been going through. Uh in order that we should not trust ourselves but in God who raises the dead. Think of Alice Easter sermon on the resurrection, who delivered us from so great a peril of death and will deliver us, he on whom we have set our hope, and he will yet deliver us. Paul really does see the hope that we have in our affliction and that God gives us hope through the affliction. We have temporal deliverance. He does use but he does deliver us here on this earth. He is good. He is great. He has power to deliver us from things. Just flip over to chapter four. And we see Paul give a couple examples of that. Chapter 4 again this This is a great book, 2 Corinthians. I've never noticed how much it had about uh struggles and and God's comfort in his struggles. But let me read uh verses 4, 7 through 10. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels with the surpassing greatness of the power. May be of God and not from ourselves. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not despairing. Persecuted but not shaken. Struck down but not destroyed. Always carrying about in the body. the dying of Jesus, that the life of Jesus may be manifested in our bodies. There is temporal deliverance and God does work in this life. We have hope here and now as we turn to Him in prayer and pray for for our children and for other struggles and things that we go through. But we also have eternal hope. Uh look over now at the second part of that passage towards the end, verse sixteen. Therefore we do not lose heart. It's chapter four, verse sixteen. Therefore we do not lose heart. But though our outer man is decaying, our inner man is being renewed day by day. For momentary light affliction is producing for us an eternal weight of glory far beyond all comparison. You see that? Momentary light affliction. makes us turn and think of the hope that God has for us. Verse 18, while we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. So God in his graciousness does give us hope now and and we see hope, but He also also we always have the hope of looking forward to what lies ahead. Sometimes I have to confess I enjoy life very much. And we should. But I noticed that uh that sometime I really think I enjoy life so much that I don't think of how wonderful it will be to be with the Lord. I was thinking this morning, I didn't put this down, but I just I was thinking on this this morning and how remember seeing down as a little kid and my told my I was sitting on the stairs, couldn't sleep at night and told my mom, said Mom, I'm not sure I want to go to heaven. I must have been six or seven. I can't imagine being there forever and ever and ever and ever. And um she uh gave me some good good words good little story I won't tell it now that really made me say, Well I can't wait to go to heaven. The joy that it is. But I was as I've gotten older and I've as I've suffered and I had some affliction, as I see this body that used to be in pretty good shape start to have little problems here and there. I've I've come to s I've come to look forward more to heaven and to the hope that we do have. And the momentary light afflictions that we go through really do help to turn us to God. He uses the pain to to Point us to him, how it fades our sorrow to look at what God has in us. Let me give you some verses you might want to look up where God uh I'll just read them, you don't have to look them up, but from Psalm 119, he uh some places that just kind of summarize this point. about how God uses affliction. This is from the scripture. There's Psalm 119, 67. Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep thy word. It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I may learn thy statutes. That's verse seventy one. Notice that It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn my statutes. In verse seventy five, Psalm one nineteen, I know, O Lord, that thy judgments are righteous, and that in faithfulness thou hast afflicted me. In faithfulness God does it for our own He uses it. C. S. Lewis put it this way. He uses our pain. He whispers to us in our pleasures. He speaks to us in our consciences, but he shouts to us in our pains. It's a megaphone, he says, for a deaf world, and it rouses us to turn to God. How true that is. But not only does God use our pain to comfort others, and he teaches us to comfort others, and not only does he use it to help us grow, but he uses It to bring glory to himself. And I really see this implicitly in this passage and in so many other ways. This is just from the whole Bible, in the sense of an application of how God has glorified in our affliction. From the first point, as we comfort each other, as the world sees us, comforting each other. If they see us pouring out our love for one another, doesn't that bring glory to God? No wonder is uh the brother and we were having breakfast together uh uh about a month ago and we during that conversation we cried together And we laugh together. Just like Romans twelve, fifteen, rejoice and weep as you weep. And I wonder what the you know people around were wondering what's going on over here. But isn't it as people see the Church of Jesus Christ and certainly we do it imperfectly, but as we grow in that to comfort each other It does bring glory to God, that he does change lives. It is supernatural what he does in our needs. I praise him for our church and how we're seeing us growing now. And also as we grow, doesn't it bring glory to God when we turn to him? It brings glory to him when things go well and we turn to him. It certainly brings glory to him when things are going bad and we turn to him in praise. And people in the world says, How can that be? I think of um just two weeks ago and after I preached the sermon and said And one of the ladies in the church was uh sitting in front of me and singing, we were all singing, Jesus, what a friend for sinners. Let me hide myself in him. Even when my heart is breaking, he myself. strength my victory when I think it does something like that and and then hallelujah, what a savior. And this lady lifted her hands. You know, in our church I always like I wanna sit on them sometimes, you know, I really wanna uh gotta be careful, we don't want to show too much enthusiasm. But uh She started to lift her hands and praise the God as she sang, Hallelujah, what a Savior. Now that brings glory to God. But it was a great comfort to me because of what I know she's gone through in in her life and some difficult things. And through some teaching And to say, Hallelujah, what a Savior. When we're able to do that, not only can we comfort each other. I may forget that sermon I preached, but I will never, never forget. It's indebtedly on my mind. Her lifting her hand. Grace to God after what she's been doing. So God really is glorified by that certainly. But also I I think that an area that I haven't really seen until preparing the sermon is how in our suffering And here's what's written on the back of your outline there. Just some thoughts on it. Don't try to follow it. You might read it later. But in our suffering, I think we more fully understand the incredible love behind the incarnation when we glorify God. You know, when we suffer, we need to think that Jesus suffered also. He participated fully in the sufferings that we go through. He knows what it is like. And here's why that should bring, I think, great praise from us to God, great glory for what He has done. You know when President Reagan went to the uh thirty eighth parallel in Korea, you might have read about that, you know how they dress him up in camouflage utilities and and uh and he goes out there and he eats in the mess hall, you know, real incarnational troop visiting. But I guarantee you he didn't spend the night in a pup camp and he didn't sit in a foxhole while it's raining and let water come up his waist and try to sleep. But it was almost he was insulated from the real world there, the 38 parallel. Our Lord Jesus Christ was not insulated from the fallen world in which he came to safe. From the very beginning of his life, the pains of childbirth, the pains of growing up, he confessed Conflicted not only with sin, but he conflicted with sickness and with curse, with his father dying. He had to sit on the cross and see the mother, stand out on the cross there and see the mother who he loved, knowing what she would go through. God didn't insulate him from the sufferings of this world. He fully participated in and more than what we go through, those nails driven into his hands. He wasn't somehow immune from the pain of the world. He fully participated in the world. Participated in our suffering. Powerful point. Look at Isaiah 53, that's on the back of your uh bulletin there. Uh you know, when I've used Isaiah 53, fifty three, especially to show non-Christians how the Old Testament speaks of Jesus. I've always used verse six and following, but as I as I prepared this this week and was reading about Jesus, I saw the humanity of Jesus and the incarnation. He was despised and rejected by men. Man of sorrows, familiar with suffering, like one from whom men hide their faces. He was despised and we esteemed him not. Surely he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him. and afflicted. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him. And by his wounds we are healed. We all like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. You know, the good news of the gospel is not only that Jesus died for our sins and took away our sins. That's all in the rest of Isaiah 53 talks about that. But part of the good news is just that Christ fully came. came and suffered and was a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, just like us. And when I I hope I can learn the next time I have sorrow and pain to realize that Jesus had sorrow and pain also. And that he didn't have to have that sorrow and pain. He willingly came and became a man fully, just the way we are, so that he could die for our sins and that he could take the punishment we deserve. You know, I pray that I don't forget that. That's a precious truth. And may God remind us when we suffer that Jesus did that. just like us, even though he did have to, that we might come to him and be forgiven for all of our sins. Let's pray. Our Lord, we do thank you so much for the Lord Jesus Christ and that he was a mission. and acquainted with grief. And that right now as he intercedes for us, we know that he can help us because he has been through the things that we have been through. Lord, we thank you for the comfort you give us and the comfort you give us through each other, Lord. Help us to endure and teach us to love you more as we go through this life. In Jesus' name, amen.