For those of you who don't know me, blessed are you. You have been spared a lot of pain and sorrow, so uh consider yourself blessed. Greetings from my wife Kim. Um she tells me often, uh she's a school teacher, she says, Well, while you go around the world teaching Bible and theology, I have to work and sustain you. So But thank you, uh my dear wife, if you're watching this. But thank you as well, Congregation CPC, for loving us, for praying for us, for giving, so that we might be engaged in this work. of proclaiming Christ and making his good news known around the world. It is a real privilege. I think I'll have some time after the service. I think downstairs to talk about equipping Leaders International, what we're doing, and you know just share stories with you about how God is taking um these pastors and leaders with whom we work and giving them a vision for reproducing themselves and seeing leaders multiplied uh in the Latin context. So it's it's a wonderful good work. And I often tell my brothers in Presbytery Um there in New Mexico in El Paso. I say, well, I think I have the best job. Sorry for you guys. That's not something that, you know, I I say too often because I know that's pastoring is hard. It's a hard task and a calling. So it's a real privilege to be able to do this. But right now, my privilege is to open God's Word. And so, if you would, uh, we're going to read from 2 Corinthians 5. I'll be reading from verses 11 through 15. 11 through 15. Therefore, knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade others. But what we are is known to God, and I hope it is known also to your conscience. We are not commending ourselves to you again, but giving you cause to boast about us. So that you may be able to answer those who boast about outward appearance and not about what is in the heart. For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God. If we are in our right mind, it is for you. For the love of Christ controls us, because we have concluded this: that one has died for all. Therefore all have died, and he died for all. That those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you with all our weakness, with all our concerns and our burdens and our joys, and ask that you would display before the eyes of our heart, Jesus. And everything that he is, everything that he's done, so that we might be transformed. Not by my words, but by the gospel By the living Savior, the one who died and was raised, and who lives in us by His Spirit, the one who is present among us and in us. So speak, Holy Spirit. We your people here want to receive a word from you this morning, that we might love you, that we might serve you. That we might proclaim the glory of your grace. But we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. As you conclude, I suppose, uh this month of missions emphasis, I want to think that if somebody approaches you and uh offers you an opportunity to serve, whether locally or abroad, that you, as a result of everything that you've heard this month, I would say, yes, I'm willing to go. I would like to think that after all these messages and exhortations That if someone says, Would you pray for me as it and pray for missions, that you would say, Yes. I'm happy to do so. I would like to think that You know, after this month, you would say, I'm willing to give financially so that the work and the cause of Christ would keep on going around the world. I suspect that after several weeks of listening to different missionaries, hopefully you all are saying, it's a delight. I want to participate. I want to do this. I want to pray. I want to give. I want to go. But I also realized, give yourself a few days and a few weeks and a few months that you're not going to be so excited about it. It's going to be a burden. Because the truth is, there are seasons of our lives when yes we want to participate in missions, we want to love our neighbors, we want to love our enemies, we want to tell others about about Jesus, but there's sometimes we just don't want to. Can I get an Amen? All right. So I'm really here to just confess my sin to you. And the reality is there are days in which being a missionary or being a pastor or whatever calling God has given to you, there are days in which loving your neighbor is simply not something you want to do. It's a burden, it's a chore. So what do you do? Because Jesus doesn't say, well, today you don't have to love your neighbor. You have a a pass. So what do you do? How do you keep on serving him when you feel the the burden within to to not do that, just to be selfish? W how do you how do you motivate yourself? So that you continue to love your neighbor, so that you continue to pray for the cause of King Jesus around the world. You know, last year I read an article about these local leaders from the small town in the state of Chiapas, Mexico, in southern Mexico. And they had organized this meeting because they've come to a compromise agreement with Mauricio Vázquez. Now, Mauricio Vasquez and his family came to faith, evangelical faith in the Lord Jesus. And they're the only Christians in this town of Chiapas. And when the people of that community, of that town, learned about Mauricio and his faith, they wanted the family out. So what did they do? They cut off electricity and water to his house. And so for months, here's this Christian family living in a community without water, without electricity. Right? And the months passed, and these leaders of this community drafted this agreement. They were going to all meet. And here's the this is what they said. that they would reconnect the water and electricity to Mauricio's house, and he could even profess his faith freely, but outside of town. He couldn't do it in the town there in Chiapas. He couldn't invite Christians into the town. He couldn't have a Christian pastor come. You know, to instruct him, and he certainly couldn't build a church in the future, some church building, and he would be required to participate in all the traditional festivities of the town. So here's the question. When I read this article, what keeps Mauricio and his family in the town loving his neighbor? You see, that's a real question for us. Because not all our neighbors are kind. Not all our neighbors are gracious. Not all our neighbors want to hear. What keeps you engaged in missions locally or abroad? What's your real motivation? Is it guilt? Is it fear of what others will say of being judged? Is it a sense of duty? The Apostle Paul in this passage he describes one motivating factor. He says, for the love of Christ controls us. And I am astounded by that because if you think about this context of this epistle, and it's hinted at in the verses 11 to 13, The Apostle Paul is confronting a very difficult situation in the Corinthian church because there were these false superapostles who were discrediting the Apostle Paul. They were saying that they were superior to the Apostle Paul. So they were, you know, rejecting his his ministry. And so he has this opposition from other leaders within the church contacts. But you also know that in this Epistle in chapter 6 and chapter 11 particularly, Paul describes his physical sufferings, right? And his hardships 40 times, or five times. Here we see 40 lashes, minus one, three times beaten with rods, once he was stoned, three times ship-druck, experienced dangers from robbers, sleepless nights. He suffered hunger, cold, and nakedness. Why didn't he quit? I would have quit. I would have quit And he comes back, for the love of Christ controls us. So think with me about this love and there's three things here. Love's identity, love's manifestation, and love's response. So let's begin, first of all. Love's identity What love is Paul talking about here in verse 14? For the love of Christ controls us. Now you could think that the Apostle Paul is thinking about his love for Christ. That motivates him. And certainly that would be a noble motivation, right? I just think of the number of times that uh because of my love for Christ in my more lucid moments You know, my love for Christ restrains me from sinning against the Lord Jesus because I don't want to offend such love Right. But though that's a noble motive, I don't think the Apostle Paul is talking about his love for Christ, but rather his focus is on the love of Christ for him. It's on Christ's love for him. And he says about that love that the ESV translates that word as controls him It's a great word because if you look at, you know, how it could be translated other ways, it could be translated as You know, this love of Christ not just controls him, but it constrains him, it compels him, it holds him in, it it presses in on him, it holds him together, it holds him fast, it seizes, it sustains. It urges, it secures. It's a rich word. So just think with me for a moment. Philippians 1, 21 and tw to 23, there the apostle Paul in Philippians, he's in prison. He's not sure if he's going to live or die. In verse 21, you know, he says, For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. That's Philippians one twenty-one. So he's got these two options to die and to be with Jesus or to live and continue to serve the believers. And in verse twenty-three of Philippians one, he says I am hard-pressed. Hard-pressed between the two. That word, hard-pressed, is the same word that's translated in 2 Corinthians 5 as controlled. Hard-pressed control. Let me give you another example. Luke 22, 63. This is before Jesus is crucified, but he's been arrested. And Luke writes, now the men who were holding Jesus in custody were mocking him as they beat him. And the word, same word, translated controlled. Hard press is translated there, verse 63 of Luke 22 as holding. Holding. This idea of a tight hold of a person. Let me describe it to you this way, and I'm gonna this is a risky illustration, because you're gonna remember the illustration and not remember anything else. So don't do this if you're learning how to preach. Don't do this. So many of you know that uh we served as missionaries in Spain. Um and As before I we ended up going to Spain, Kim and myself and at that time our son Josh was just a year old, uh I had this dream that when I got to Spain I would run with the Bulls. All right? I honestly thought this is gonna be the coolest thing in the world, running with the bulls. And so I was thinking I was gonna go up to Pamplona, where it's been made famous, right? And you know, I would join the festivities and I would join all the crazies and run with the bulls. And then I got to Spain and I saw a bull. Two thousand pounds of muscle with these horns that are sharp as all get out. And I go, I'm not gonna do that. But I did watch others do that, right? I did watch others do that. And you've seen it as well, right? And so San Fermin, the Fiesta San Fermín in Pamplona And so every July they have a week, Monday through Friday. So imagine the scene. The bulls are all behind these gates, all corrals. Let's say 20 or 30 of them. All right, and this small little, you know, town with cobblestone streets, very narrow, their homes are very close together, all right? And and you have these bulls are there and you have the ferminis, all these guys that are running, they're dressed in white, they have a red scarf on, and they're all getting ready to run. And now where are they going to run? There's a predetermined course. right that's going to take them through the town and there are barricades on both sides of the street, right? And you have to follow this course until you get to the bull raid. Right? La plaza de todos. That's the objective. Get there alive. And so 8 o'clock. The sound goes off You know, the bulls are agitated. They come out of, they open the gate, they come out, and they start to run. Now you imagine yourself in the crowd. You've got to get to that bull ring, hopefully without shedding blood in the process. And so you begin to run, but you're not a very fast runner. You're not a very fast runner. Everybody else is outrunning you. You have a couple people who are, you know, next to you. So what are you going to do? You sense the bull is getting closer to you behind you. What are you going to do? Oh, instinctively you're going to move to the left or to the right. You're going to want to go and get out of the way, right? So imagine this. You move to the left, but you can't because all these other runners are and these other runners You know, I face with this barricade. They can't go anywhere. You've got to keep on going. You go to your right and you say, Oh, I can't go anywhere. And but you got this bull behind you. What are you gonna do? You gotta keep on going Because you have a bull hard pressed on your back, you have no other option but to go forward. And I think that's the picture the Apostle Paul is painting for us. That Christ's love for him exerts such a controlling, compelling influence on him that he has no option. But to continue to preach, though faced with opposition, to continue his missionary journeys, though it's hard, and he gets whipped and he gets stoned. In spite of the difficulties and the adversities. He doesn't continue. This is what astounds me. He doesn't continue his ministry because The circumstances are good. It wasn't simply more discipline for the apostle. It wasn't simply a greater sense of duty But it was not an abstract apprehension and grasp of the love of Christ for him But it was a visceral, real experience of the height and length and depth of the love of Christ for him. Have you ever felt that? I know intellectually we we accept that, but I'm talking about here an experience of that. And and the apostle Paul in Romans 5. He talks about through the Holy Spirit, right, God pours into us the love of God in Christ. And it's an ongoing thing. And so here you have this passage that clarifies this. It says, look, I need to know intellectually about the love of Jesus for me, and I can explain it to you. But I need to experience that so that I can continue in this ministry of loving my neighbor, proclaiming Jesus, even when it's difficult. But the truth of the The matter is I'm a big a mixed bag of motivations. Oftentimes what motivates me more is what other people will think if I don't do these things. I'm motivated by guilt. I'm motivated by shame. I'm motivated by duty. Ah, but you know what I long for? I long to be motivated by the love of Jesus for me. And I whenever that happens, and I'll explain in a minute though, the one time in my life I think that happened. It's a gift of grace. It's the gift of God's grace. To be constrained and pushed forward in our calling, in our loving our neighbor. It's a gift of God's grace that He would love you and me, who at one time were His enemies. At one time we were children of wrath. At one time we were walking according to the power of the Prince of the Air. But he would love us. He would come and send his son. To die in our place, to live the life, the holy life, obedient life that we should live, to live it for us. so that we might be justified, declared not guilty, that we might be accepted, that we might be loved and adopted and delighted in as his sons and daughters. And I ask myself, Tito, what more do you need? What more do you need? But sometimes I lose sight of this. And so I have to come back. to the gospel, come back to the scriptures. Sometimes I doubt it. Many years ago, 400 years ago, John Owen A theologian now wrote a book, a treatise on the communion with the triune God. And I'm going to read to you a sentence out of one of his writings. But I'm not going to give you the last phrase. I want you to fill it in. You figure out what ought to go in that the last bit there, okay? So it goes like this. The greatest burden and sorrow you can lay on your father, on God, the greatest unkindness you can do to him is Fill in the blank. What's the greatest unkindness you can do to your God? Commit a scandalous sin? Moral failure? What is it? So you think about your answer now. Let me just read that again and give you the sentence before, and I'll finish it out for you. He wrote, Be fully assured in your hearts that the Father loves you. Have fellowship with the Father in his love. Have no fears. Or doubts about his love for you, the greatest burden and sorrow you can lay on your father, the greatest unkindness you can do to him, is not to believe that he loves you. To not believe that he loves you. And sometimes I don't believe it And so when I don't believe it, it's hard to be compelled, constrained to keep on doing those things like loving my neighbor that's hard to love. So, going back to Spain, the first two years were extremely difficult. And there were conflicts and not conflicts with my neighbors per se, but rather conflicts with other missionaries. And uh I sinned against them, they sinned against me. They were very difficult uh two years. And I was very conscious of my sin not being loved by others. And not even sure that, you know, God loved me, could use me. And I got to a point where I wanted to quit. Two years into Spain. And that was about the standard time frame when a lot of missionaries just left after two years. And I was following course. And I remember being in my office and lying down on the floor and just crying out to God and saying, Lord, I don't know what to do. I really don't know what to do. And that moment, and I can't explain it to you, I wish you could have been there But I have a sense, not an audible voice, but the sense of Jesus is saying to me, I love you. I love you. And its result of that, the Holy Spirit Taking this love of God in Christ and pouring it into my broken heart that kept us there for another 11 years. Otherwise I would have stopped. I want you, I want myself, maybe to take Romans five, five. And I'll read it for you. It says, and hope does not put us to shame, because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. If you have some struggles with the love of God, would you pray Romans 5. 5 That the Holy Spirit in his grace would pour it into your heart so it becomes real. But we must go deeper and ask ourselves, how is this love manifested? This love that hemms us in, this love that presses in on us so that we continue to serve him who died and was raised. for us. Paul continues on and he says, because we have concluded this. So Paul had assessed the evidence and come to this carefully thought-out conclusion. And this is his conclusion, that one died for all, therefore all died. Now, another theologian by the name of Gretchen Machin, he says about this passage, he says, these are strange words. that Paul writes here. He says, he asks the question, how does the second of these two propositions follow from the former? Why should we draw from the fact that one died for all the inference that therefore all died? It might be said with more apparent show of reason, one died for all, therefore all did not die. One died for all, therefore all lived. And that's what we would expect. I have a four-year-old granddaughter, she comes to the house, she gets on her tricycle, we go outside, she's on her You can imagine she's riding along on the on the sidewalk, but what if she goes out into the street and there's a car coming? What is grandpa gonna do? Grandpa is going to place his body between this moving vehicle and his granddaughter. And if I get injured or if I die, it's so that she might live. And that's how we think about Jesus' death. He died so that we might live. But here's the Apostle Paul, inspired by the Holy Spirit. He wants us to understand something else about the death of Christ. And it's not something that prevents the death of others, but rather that actually brought with it the death of others. One has died for all, therefore all have died. And when he uses there that one has died for all, that for has the idea of on behalf of In the place of the it's really substitution. So in Galatians 3. 13 Paul writes, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. So there you see it, in our place So when he died at the cross, he did so as our representative. He died the death that we should have died. He died it as our substitute. So what Paul has in mind here is our union with Christ. And this is something that he talks about in other epistles, his other writings, for example, in Romans 6. We who have been united to him in his death and resurrection, right? So in the person of Christ, my representative and my substitute when he died at the cross, when he took upon himself at the cross my sin, your sin, and the sin of all those people that he has come to redeem. When he at the cross suffered the holy wrath of God that I deserved, when he at the cross suffered the punishment that we deserve, when he at the cross was condemned in our place for our sins, when he died, I And you who are in Christ died with him. I've been crucified with Christ, he writes in Galatians 2. 20. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. But you have to ask the question, in what sense have we died? Well, Machin has this imaginary dialogue between the law of God and the sinner, and it goes like this. It is man, says the law of God. Have you obeyed my commands? No, says the sinner. I have transgressed them in thought, word, and deed. Well then, sinner Says the law. Have you paid the penalty which I pronounced upon those who have disobeyed? Have you died in the sense that I meant when I said, That soul that sins, it shall die? Yes, says the sinner, I have died. The penalty that you pronounce upon my sin has been paid. What do you mean, says the law? By saying that you have died. You don't look as though you have died, you look as though you're very much alive. Yes, says a sinner. I have died. I died there on the cross outside the walls of Jerusalem for Jesus died there as my representative. I died there so far as the penalty of the law was concerned. You say Christ is your representative, says the law. Then I indeed have no further claim of penalty against you. The curse which I pronounced against your sin has indeed been fulfilled. My threatenings are very terrible, but I have nothing to say against those for whom Christ died. Nothing to say. I have nothing to say against those for whom Christ died. And you know What makes loving your neighbor hard? Do you know what makes serving in this community and serving locally and serving abroad in other countries difficult? Is when you feel condemned. When you feel criticized, when other people point out your failures What do you feel like doing in those moments? But quitting. Or hitting them. But you're much too holy to hit them, so you just quit. You see, and so I have to remember, we have to remember, go back, right? And in those moments when there's opposition from within and there's opposition from without, when your conscience accuses you. Right. And your conscience does accuse you. It says, you're not holy enough. How can you be doing this? You're not wise enough. You don't have enough biblical knowledge. You don't have enough, you know, love for this neighbor. You shouldn't be doing this when your conscience accuses you or you have other people that condemn you and criticize you and point out that you just don't serve well enough. It's to this, it's too that. They complain about you and you instinctively you want to pull away. You want to say, no, I'm done. I'm going somewhere else. I'm going to do something else. I'm not going to press on. You come back to the gospel. You come back to what God has done in Christ Jesus for you. That He When he died at the cross, died to the penalty of the law, right? Died to the condemnation, so that any condemnation that's leveled against you, any criticism that has been dealt with at the cross, and you can speech. Preach to yourself and tell yourself time and time again, Yes, I have made mistakes, yes, I continue to sin, but in Christ Jesus I no longer am condemned. He's taken upon himself all my moral and spiritual failures. And so there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So let the love of Christ not control you, not the criticism. Of others. There's two voices going on oftentimes in my own head: the voice of other people that criticize me, and the voice of the gospel. Which one am I going to listen to? I hope you hear this. I hope you hear the Lord delights in you. I hope you hear clearly the gospel song and music. of his love for you. I think of Zephaniah 3. 17. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exult over you with loud singing. Oh, I hope you hear that much more than you hear the condemnation, the criticism, and uh and your own conscience can condemning you. I love that phrase. He will quiet you by his love. Because it describes on one hand how he soothes and consoles us when we get anxious and agitated and discouraged. But you know what's interesting about that verse? There's another way of rendering it from the Hebrew. And it's not just he will quiet you with his love, but he will be quiet by his love. He will be quiet by his love. And the King James Version runs it like this. He will rest in his love. And John Owen, the theologian 400 years ago, he comments, he says, his love will not allow him to complain of anything he sees in the beloved. Certainly he sees our faults, right? And yet, Owen writes, he says, God will be silent. His love will not allow him to complain of anything in those he loves. Others will complain against you. You will complain against yourself. But he looks at you in Christ. And he sees you dressed in the beauty of Jesus Christ in a righteousness that's not your own. And he has an affection for you that leads him to sing over you. And what a glorious song of love, no condemnation, no complaints, no criticisms. No. Let that manifestation of love compel you, control you. There's a woman in in Spain, her name of Julia, and uh she's married, and years ago when we were serving there, she uh She would have her husband, who was a terrible man. Her husband would complain about her, criticize her, tell her she was ugly. Tell her she just didn't measure up. And worst of all, he would watch porn in her presence. Talk about being devastated. And she told me one day, she says, you know, I go up to the fourth floor apartment of the fourth floor of our apartment building. And the elevator is a mirror. And uh she says, I'll I'll look in that mirror As I'm going up, I'm usually by myself, and I'm going up, and I'm looking at the mirror, and I say to myself in the mirror, you are loved. You are beautiful. You are a masterpiece by God. And she would repeat that to herself. You see, that's a song. That's The message that we need to hear so that we are compelled and controlled and hemmed in to continue to love our neighbor. Now, this leads us finally to just love's response. Well, we've been talking about that all along. Paul writes in the verse 15, for the love of Christ controls us, that we might live no longer for ourselves, but for him who for our sake died and was raised. See, by Jesus' death and resurrection, and that that is so critical because what Paul is saying is not only did he die, He died our death, but he's been raised life, and he's alive in us. He has sent the Holy Spirit, and he's at work in us. Even now. And he says we've been freed from slavery to sin to the law's condemnation, but not a freedom. The gospel doesn't give us a freedom to live any way we want. We've been freed from living for ourselves, freed from our selfishness, freed from just living for comfort and ease. Free to live for Jesus. Now free to serve Him and His people and His Kingdom. Free to love those who persecute us. Free to turn the other cheek. Free to walk the extra mile. But Lord, I can't do this on my own. You're right. But that's why I died and was raised to life, and I live in you. You see, if Jesus had not died and has not been raised, and if he's not had not ascended and not reigning and ruling at the right hand of God and not sent this Holy Spirit, boy, this would be a terrible Mission, but because he died and was raised and lives in us, he uses you and me and he compels us to go and serve him I pray you will listen more, not to your conscience, but to the gospel. And that you would pray for the Holy Spirit to pour into your life an experience of the height and length and breadth. of the love of Christ for you. And that that would be the controlling voice, the controlling song. We had some neighbors moved in several years after we moved into our house. And young guys, single guys. Great guys. Um so I thought. So I think they were there maybe a week or two and they started having their parties and so which which is fine, right? I'm I'm Latino, I like to have parties, so that's okay. Well, you know, three or four in the morning, the music is going really loud. And everything echoes on our street. And so, you know Our kids were young, and so, you know, the following day I went over and I and I knocked on the door and I introduced myself and said, Welcome to the community, glad that you're here. And by the way, could you uh turn the volume down in your parties after twelve? for example. And I said, sure, no problem. So the following weekend, well, he had another late night party, four in the morning. Music is going strong. I go, what do I do? And so the week goes on and the following weekend after that another party. So I do what every and any Christian pastor would do. I prayed, and then I called the police. Right? I mean what do what do you do in this I said Lord I don't know what to do. Uh you know I and so And that particular evening in his party he had some of his guests, so the police had come. And um I'm watching from my window, and I'm I'm watching all this, and uh The the police escort various guests of his handcuffed, put in the back of the seat of the cruiser and off they go. So about sixth of his guests are escorted with handcuffs. They all leave, needless to say the party ended, and uh he stood on the his front porch and for the next fifteen minutes and four in the morning he was yelling obscenities, looking at my window. yelling obscenities at me and threatening to kill me and killing my family. So, you know I take it in stride. This is not what I expected. Love your neighbor, Jesus says. Well, maybe not that one. So, you know, we get through the night, other neighbors heard this and they reported to the proper authorities and all that stuff. Well, the following week, I'm not home, but he comes to the house, he knocks on the door. And my wife is home, Kim is home, and and he says, Hey listen, um can I borrow your phone? What? Yeah, can I borrow your phone? Well my my housemates have locked me out of the house. and I can't get to my phone. And so she closed the door, she raised the store. She closed the door. She prayed, Lord, what do I do? You know, this guy who just threatened to kill us. And uh she opened the door, she says, Here's my phone. Use the phone. A week later, Kim is uh making brownies and uh and I said, Oh, great, we're gonna have some brownies tonight. He says, no, these aren't for us. You know, right? You know where she's going. And so who are they for? For the guy across the street. What? What are you talking about? How can you make brownies an expression of deep love in our family? How can you make brownies for this guy who wants to kill us? Do you see? I'm hearing, this guy wants to kill me. I'm not thinking the gospel. I'm not being controlled and constrained by the love of Christ for my neighbor. But my wife is. She is. And she taught me a lesson that day. I don't know what it looks like in your life. Maybe you need to give away some brownies, or maybe you need to have a bull behind you. But may God bring that to a reality in our lives. Amen. Father, we thank you. We thank you for sending your son, Jesus. We thank you for loving us so. We talk much about it. We read much about it. We study it. And now we need it, Lord, Holy Spirit, to be poured into our hearts. Into our experience so that we might be shaped, compelled, that we might stay the course, proclaiming Jesus Here, to our neighbor, to our community, to the city, to the state, to this world, until the fame of Jesus and his name is exalted over every nation. May it be so. Amen