This while we're going through two factors that are among the most determining factors for your growth and progress in the Christian life. Your relationship to the body of Christ and the function of that body, what we do. We recognize that most churches in the United States are light years away from what the New Testament means when it talks about fellowship. And in order for us to as a church be growing in this area. We believe that maybe we're doing a little better in that understanding in our small groups, the number of people that are in relationship at Columbia Presbyterians, very encouraging. But I don't think that we have arrived in that area. I think that there's a lot more that we could be doing, and a lot that we need to grow in, a lot that I need to grow in as a disciple. And so this fall we're looking at the scriptures that talk about our relationship to one another in fellowship. And I'm looking at three passages this fall, just three passages, only one or two weeks on each. We'll finish this part of the series before Thanksgiving. We have those three passages, plus then one character study to illustrate what I'm talking about. And in doing that, I hope that we'll be able to see what the Bible says we ought to be doing as a church This is not looking at what the latest church growth people say, reading some manual and saying this is the end thing now. This is simply looking to see what does the Bible say about how we should be relating together as a congregation, as a church, as brothers and sisters in Christ. Two weeks ago, we looked at Colossians 3. 16, the first of those passages, which tells us that we are to do two things to each other. What were they to? That was the first one? The two things we do to each other. We are to I somebody is saying something, I'll give you that. Say it at louder Teach! That's I heard one of probably a teacher said that over there. We're to teach one another, and what was the second thing? To admonish one another. The second thing, to admonish one another, right. Teaching is to remind each other of the truth of God in contrast to the lies that we're constantly telling ourselves or that we're believing from the world, from the evil one. And then to admonish each other is the encouraging each other to live it. Whoops. To live it. To be applying what we know to be true. And that teaching and that admonishing is coming as the Word of Christ is dwelling in us richly. So we teach and admonish with wisdom, and that then moves us to praise together back to God. That was the cycle that we talked about. God speaks to us, we speak to one another, teaching and admonishing, and then we turn that back to praise to Him. Now, last week Tito spoke here just to show you how flexible I was. Just threw that in, you know, and He's going back to Spain, but you know, how to kind of coordinate it, so we worked out together that he was going to speak from 1 Peter, and I'm speaking from 1 Peter last week He spoke about the fact that our life is full of trials, disappointments, grief, difficulties while we are here. And he talked about how those are both brief and necessary. Those are the things that come into our lives in order to teach us to depend not so much on ourselves, but on the Lord Jesus. Now, the point he was making about that being brief and necessary is related to the whole thing that Peter's book is about. First Peter is about people who are suffering and who are living in times of trial and difficulty. Things are tough. Your life is not going the way you want. Remember, we define suffering as suffering is getting what you don't want and not getting what you do want. And life is full of that. Now, what I want to do is show you that he picks up on that idea in chapter 4. That's what we're looking at this morning. In chapter 4, verse 7, Peter says, the end of all things is near. In chapter 1, he had said, if you've got to endure this just for a little time, then in chapter 4 he picks up on that again. He says, the end of all things is very near. Therefore, be clear-minded and self-controlled so that you can pray. Above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Each one should use whatever gift he has received to serve others faithfully, administering God's grace in its various forms. If anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides. So that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ, to him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. So those verses I want to look at this morning and next week. This morning we're going to look at verses 7 to 9 and next week verses 10 to 12. What I want us to see is first of all that Peter picks up on this idea that the time is brief. The end of all things is near. We don't know when the Lord Jesus is coming. But Peter says it's near. And any of those of you who are parents, Particularly if your kids have grown up a little bit, can recall times you went for a long trip, you throw the kids in the car, and what happens? It's always the question, how long is the trip going to be? And so you think you're doing this great job as a parent when you try to prepare. It's going to be five hours. That's a long time. I don't want to hear you say when you get in the car. We there yet? It's going to be a long time. Half your lifetime will go by before we get relaxed, you know, and go through this whole thing. What happens ten minutes into the car? We there yet? Almost there? And so what do you say? He said, well, not yet. Just hang on. It's gonna be a little while. It's not gonna be very long. And we used to travel when we lived in Syracuse and our family is in Philadelphia. That was over five hours, and we used to make that trip quite a bit. And our kids were real, real little when we do that. And say you're all the way down Route 81, you know, we there yet? We there yet? You know, no, it's gonna be a little And so we stopped saying you're at halfway there or two-thirds. So what we do is we just say, well, it's going to be close. Hang on. And what I would do is then when we would be there, I wouldn't say anything different. We were there when we were five hours away. It's going to be close. Hang on, you know, it's going to be going to be a while. Won't take half your lifetime. Relax. And then when it was one hour, it'd still be saying the same thing. It's it's close, but you know, but hang on. And then when it was ten minutes, it's going to be close. And then there was the big surprise. You see, we pull up into the driveway, we're here Well, you see, the the psychology of that was then the next time they never knew when it was going to be just in a couple minutes or was it still two hours off, so they just sort of hang in there, you know. And that's the way it is with the Lord Jesus All we're told is the end of all things is near. First century Christians were told that. Didn't happen in their lifetime. We're told that Today could be the last service that CPC would ever hold because the Lord Jesus might be here before next Sunday. The end of all things is near. You don't know how near, but they're near. And the context for ministry in the New Testament Which is what we're thinking this morning. Begins with that notion. The Lord Jesus is very close. This life and all that you're enduring, all the things that you're going through that you wish were different. Are soon going to come to an end. And so the first thing that he says of the two points is first toward the Lord, a first focus is toward the Lord. Is that we are to to be looking for him. The end of all things is near And it's like our Heavenly Father is saying, hang on. I'm not going to tell you whether we're five minutes from our destination or we still got hours to go. But it's near. And you're going to be surprised. And when you get there, all the waiting is going to seem like such a short while. And so when you think of the Lord Jesus and His coming, your heart should beat a little faster. You should be thinking of all it's going to mean to see Him in His glory. To see those that you have loved that have gone on before you, to be with him, to be gathered around his splendor and to see him with unaided eye, to be able to see. The glory of Jesus Christ in its full splendor. That's near. And so what does Peter say is the effect of that Look what he says in verse 7. Therefore, connection, whenever you say therefore, find out what it's there for, the connection is therefore, be clear-minded and self-controlled so that you can pray. Not only do you look for him, but you pray to him. You see, what Peter's saying is that what you and I need in our prayer life. To motivate us is a conscious sense of the near return of the Lord Jesus. You see the connection? He's saying, you know, you look at your prayer and you say, you know, boy, yeah, I I should be praying more, and I You know, somehow I I I I know I ought to set aside that time, but I can't focus on it, I can't concentrate, I lack the self-discipline, and my thoughts get all muddied and muddled, and I you know I'm not sure what to pray for, and you have all these problems. And then you find out that someone that you love has cancer. Or you lose your job. Some crisis hits. And what happens? All of a sudden, your prayers are very focused. No problem concentrating now. The only problem is just the upheaval that you may be feeling But you can concentrate, you can pray, you can pour your heart out to God. Why? Because the crisis has focused your attention. Now what Peter is saying is here is the positive crisis of the Lord Jesus coming back The end of all things is very many nears. Therefore be clear minded. Your priorities are set. Eternity has set those priorities for you. You're saying this life really ain't gonna last a whole lot longer. Therefore, I am clear-minded in what is important. I'm not going to waste my life in the trivia that's going to pass so quickly here. And I am self-controlled. See, I've got the discipline because I'm recognizing the main the main thing and the light of eternity is extending his kingdom. Now Lord, how can I do that? How can I cooperate with you to see your kingdom come and extended? Therefore, he says, be clear-minded and self-controlled unto prayer. Literally, the Greek says, unto prayer. But he doesn't only say that. He doesn't simply speak about our relationship with him and saying, you want to increase your prayer life this week? Think about the return of the Lord Jesus. But then he goes on to talk about our relationship with one another. And what he does is he gives us three commands. Now the New Testament is full of commands about one another. In fact, Steve Green has a program, you know, it's one of these little things that, you know, you just sort of push in these little buttons and it tells you one another, all the verses that say one another. And he did that, and he got three in the Old Testament and thirty-seven in the New Testament, commands to one another. All these things that were to do for one another. If you take each other and add that to it, you got over fifty different commands that the New Testament says that you and I are to do with each other, for each other, for one another, to one another, all the rest of this. Now of those, one of those commands appears 11 times in the New Testament. Love one another. That's the one that sums it up. That's one that Peter gives us. Then he gives two other one another commands, and we'll look at one a little later on in the other one next week But two things, three things that Peter then says to do, these you do to one another in the light of the fact that Jesus is coming very soon. The first, he says, is to love one another, and notice it isn't simply love one another, but it's love one another deeply. Above all, love each other deeply. Now you notice That verse begins above all. In the Greek, it's literally before all things. In other words, this is the number one priority. If there was one thing that would be stated before anything else concerning our relationship with one another at Columbia Presbyterian Church, it would be love one another deeply. Now, what does he mean by deeply? We here love one another so much that it becomes trite and you say, okay, I hear it, but it just sort of rolls right off. It doesn't make any impact. I'm so used to it. The word deeply here is a word that is used of athletes stretching their muscles. It's used of horses that are galloping at full speed. It means to stretch, to strain, to exercise yourself. To put all your effort into it. It's talking about something in which you are concentrating earnestly to accomplish something that's going to take stress and strain, activity and effort. He doesn't say that loving one another is something that you simply do automatically because you're a Christian. It's something that you focus on. Love one another deeply. Think of just uh Thursday we had pastor's uh day of prayer. First one that I know of. Probably a history of the state of Maryland for all I know. It took a whole day from nine to five for uh sixteen pastors. plus three fellows to help us from Northwest Renewal Ministries. These guys are in Philadelphia's pastors there and came to help us. We prayed, spent n uh eight hours together in prayer and sharing. One point somebody prayed for Mark Norman, pastor of Grace Community Church. Mark has a very serious heart disease. This heart disease is so serious that he can only function three to five hours a day. He's had radical surgery and tried everything to alleviate this. Still has constant pain, very severe limitations, has a heart with a passion to reach people and to minister, but simply doesn't have the energy, the strength to do it. And Tim's associate was there. We asked him to share a little bit about what was going on there. And here's a bunch of pastors, you know, who could be thinking Well, you know, Grace community is having tough times. Uh that's really too bad. Of course, that means a little easier for the rest of us, you know, to attract people because uh you know these poor brothers are having it kind of tough, but um You know, that's that's too bad, but uh you know, it's e so easy to look at another church's competition. But because of the relationship that had been built among these guys. The concern for each other. We placed him in the center of the room on a chair, and the rest of us gathered around him, and he said, Let's just pray for Mark and for you and for this ministry. And I found myself weeping as I thought of the strains that that church is going through The strains that Tim is going through, and trying to provide leadership and working with Mark and the frustration and the questions that Mark's asking. God, why are you doing this? And there was the sense that we were gathered around, and it was a deep moment of emotion and a feeling that we were loving him deeply and caring for that church. But that could pass so easily. What I thought was more significant was as the thought was going through my mind, somebody came up to me right after we prayed and they said, I wonder if they have financial needs. Maybe our churches should get together to help him out. Mark does not have a good health insurance program. And so he asked, and we asked him, and he said, I really appreciate that. We're okay for now. But the fact that these guys would say, let's come together, maybe we should take up an offering together as churches to help this other church that's preaching the gospel. In order to help them in their ministry, to be encouraged. When this church, when this facility was being built, Mark Norman wrote me a letter in which he said I was driving past, and he says I was praising God, seeing your facility going up. and how God's blessed your ministry. In the body of Christ, loving one another deeply is a supernatural thing. It's something that we do because God is working in us, knitting our hearts together. Now, what's intriguing to me, though, is what he says at the rest of this verse. Above all, love each other deeply because love covers over a multitude of sins. Now, why does he say because? Isn't that interesting? He doesn't say love each other deeply And when you do, you're going to find that there's going to be some sin, and you know, love will hopefully cover it. It's a connection. Love each other deeply Because love covers a multitude of sins. Why? Because? I believe the answer is That because if I am ever to love the way Peter says to love, deeply, passionately, earnestly, Then I must know you well enough that you will fail me. I must know you well enough That you're going to disappoint me. You're going to let me down. You're going to fail me in some way. And then I've got a decision. Either I back off, I withdraw, I protect myself. I become bitter, I avoid you, I pretend it doesn't matter, and simply go my own way, I can fake it for a little while, or I choose to forgive you. I choose to let it simply pass, to cover over, or to bring it up to you. With a heart that desires reconciliation. But Peter's saying here that if you and I love one another deeply, we will find That love must inevitably cover a multitude of sins if the relationship is to continue. Love and forgiveness cannot be separated. You can't love without forgiving. And you can't forgive without loving. Peter reminded us again and again in this book, in this letter, of the mercy that we have received from the Lord Himself in chapter 1. He began after his greetings. The very first thing he says is, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he's given us new birth to a living hope. You and I needed mercy. We didn't have any right to that living hope of the resurrection of Christ from the dead, an inheritance in heaven that never spoils, perishes, or fades. We received it by one means, mercy. He says in verse 14 of that same chapter Disobedient children do not conform to the evil desires that you had when you lived in ignorance. You and I are full of evil desires in ignorance. In chapter 2, in verse 1, he says, Therefore, rid yourselves of all malice and deceit and hypocrisy, envy, and slander of every kind. That's what fills your heart and my heart. slander against people that we want to feel better than they are. So we put them down and we talk about them and gossip and we deceive. And on and on and on it is. He says in verse 10 Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God. Once you had not received mercy But now you have received mercy. This morning your hope is in Jesus Christ As we said earlier in service, not in your baptism, not in church attendance or church membership, but your hope simply in the Lord Jesus Christ alone, his death. On your behalf, taking your sin to be punished before the Father, you have received mercy. And you can't receive that kind of mercy and hold grudges and bitterness against someone else who has failed you. Dan Allender in his book Bold Love says that there is a formula in Christian relationships, and it goes something like this. The degree to which you and I can love and forgive is directly related to the degree to which we are stunned into silence. By the wonder of the mercy of God who canceled our great debt against Him. The degree to which you and I can love and forgive is directly related To the degree to which you and I are stunned into silence by the wonder of the mercy of God in canceling our debt against him in Jesus Christ. Love one another deeply. Because love covers a multitude of sins. Because you had your sin covered. And therefore, that enables you to love another sinner and to stay engaged with that sinner, to be in a small group with that sinner. and involved in that close fellowship where you're getting to know each other and you're finding out about each other to get past that honeymoon stage. that point where you say, this person's really neat and interesting and we're having a great time in our small group to finally say, this small group really stinks, you know, I got in the wrong one. I when you can treat one of these things, you know, isn't there some time when they recycle or something, you know? And uh maybe small groups really aren't for me, you know. Uh we're our our schedule's kind of busy and maybe we ought to just take a breather for a while and just kind of withdraw and You know, go into our own family and take care of our own needs for maybe someday later we'll get back into the small group. And what's really the factor is you've been disappointed. Something's happened in that group. Something's happened in your relationship. And you've had a decision. That either you're going to forgive and you're going to come to reconciliation with someone who's bugged you or irritated you or it's some little niggling stuff that's constant or with some big thing that was a failure and disappointment. And you got a choice. Peter says, not for the super saints, not for the elite, but for everyone here who names the name of Jesus Christ as Savior. As their hope for heaven, love one another deeply. Because you can't separate it, because love covers a multitude of sins. Believe that? Love deeply. And then he has the gall to go on to a second thing and rub it in. Verse 9, he says. Practice offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. The first command is to love deeply The second command is to love broadly. See what I think Peter's saying here in verse 9 Is that in a context of a time when there were no motels and people just uh didn't have the option to stay at uh places they paid for generally, I mean there were some of that, generally they stayed in homes. And Peter is saying here, the word in the Greek has the idea of friendliness to strangers. It isn't just talking about entertaining your friends. It's not talking about the people that you've been friends with for a long time and you're comfortable with and you have them over. And you reciprocate that back and forth. It's not talking about entertaining with candlelight and tablecloth and all those kinds of things to impress somebody of what a great hostess you are. Offer hospitality here has the idea of pizza on the floor in the family room, but with an open heart that simply says, You need a place to come and feel welcome? Our home's open to you. It's that idea of offering a welcome with an open heart and an open home to somebody who's visiting the CPC. To somebody who's coming that you don't know. Or someone that you know enough to know that there's some needs, there's some loneliness, there's something there that God wants you to minister to. What he's talking about here is ministry, not entertainment. Offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Why does he say without grumbling? Because my experience, that kind of ministry never comes at convenient times. A few weeks ago, we were leaving here and it was a Sunday and somebody was here who I knew had some real needs and I went out and didn't get a chance to talk to them, and we got in a car and drove off and saw them leaving by themselves. And it was a moment of decision. Do I go home and relax and enjoy myself this afternoon comfortable? Or do I minister to that person? Stop and say, come on over. So you know what I did? I went home. Said man I'm gonna relax. But you know what happened? And relax. All afternoon I was thinking about that person and thinking, wish we had had him over. So we did the next week. But there's an opportunity in all the times that we interact together after our worship to detect, is there a need here? Am I open is is our family and our home of such a nature that we're saying that we're available to promptings of the Holy Spirit that don't take a week to plan? God continues to teach us that, to be more flexible and spontaneous. I ask our kids, you know, always trying to teach us that. Nothing like teenagers to try and teach you that, you know. But to be open. And so he says, without grumbling, because it never comes at convenient times. It never comes at a time when it seems like you're rested and everything's together. Ministry comes at inconvenient times. Offer hospitality, friendliness to not just your close friends, but to people who have a knee, Peter says Don't grumble about how inconvenient it was. Let me say one final thing, Juan Dis. That is as you hear, this is I hear this kind of thing. My concern in preaching this this morning is it's not the kind of thing we generally come to want to hear And you may be feeling like, man, you know, I kind of walked in here feeling pretty good, and now, well, you know, all you did was make me feel guilty, and I, you know, I don't want to do that, and I'm thinking about these people that I Don't you know I really would rather avoid and what are you saying? I you know I gotta have him as my best friend and I gotta open my home every week and just you know never any time to ourselves and you know, boy you're really laying it on us Now, first of all, go to the Holy Spirit. I'm not telling you to do those things. But the main thing I think that's important for us to understand is we do not obey what Peter says here. By simply saying, well, yep, I gotta do it. And so I'll grit my teeth and I'll do it. You obey by faith I can't obey this in my heart the way I am. Galatians chapter 5 talks about the nature of God's justification. And he says in verse 6, that faith which rests in the righteousness of Christ, that faith expresses itself in love. Love one another deeply. Doesn't start with a love. It starts with a faith in Jesus Christ. And that faith then, chapter 5, verse 22, he says, produces the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. And so this morning, if you're like me and you hear this and you say, I don't know how to do that, I don't know where to begin, And my word to you, as it is to myself, is to look to Jesus Christ. Look to Him to say, Lord Jesus, I don't love deeply. And I'm bitter against some people that have failed me. And I'm cynical about whether involvement in a small group and that kind of face-to-face contact that is necessary in in order to get to know people on the kind of level that Peter's talking about, opening my home to a small group and having people in and not just protecting myself among a close group of friends, but being open to the body more broadly, I can't do that. Lord Jesus, I believe that you could do that in me. I believe that you who welcomed me as a stranger and adopted me as your own son can give me a heart that's welcoming toward others. I believe that you who have forgiven my sin and showed me a mercy, which has given me an inheritance that will never perish, spoil, or fade in heaven, can make me merciful. Lord, there's some of us here who say that we love others, but we haven't forgiven them. We pray right now that you bring those people to mind, even as right at this moment we're perhaps trying to fight off their name, and it's like saying, Don't think of the color blue, and then you can't think of anything else We want not to think about them, but you keep bringing them to mind. And we know we need to forgive them We know that the love which has forgiven us works in us to cover a multitude, not a few paltry sins, but a multitude of sins. People who have failed and disappointed us. People who are without excuse in that? We realize we were without excuse Lord, work in us by faith in Jesus, the willingness to forgive them. Whether to bring it up Or whether it's something that's simply between us and you. Grant that grace to love one another deeply Lord, those that we say that we have forgiven, but we don't love them. Give us grace to know that you can't separate forgiveness and love. We love one another deeply because love covers a multitude of sins. Give us grace to show them love, to do something for their good. And Lord, for those of us who either are from the kind of a background that has a closed home and doesn't open it easily or comes from a background where having people in meant that everything had to be perfect. Release us from the bondage of that To offer hospitality, a welcome to strangers, an openness to those that need a place, a listening ear, a place to relax. To not be alone. A place to get to know some others, to know us and our body. For those of us, Lord, who don't form deep relationships easily Give us grace to extend ourselves, to not continue to think simply of how others don't extend themselves to us, but to by faith in you, Lord Jesus, who have loved us so much. To give you thanks for that by extending ourselves to others. Lord, hear us in our need now Each one of us and meet that need. Lord, we pray too that you'd motivate us as we recognize But you've reminded us this morning that you are coming soon. So very soon. We may not have very much more chance to love one another deeply here by faith. To forgive, for we soon will be in a place where we're never sinned against. And we will never sin To offer hospitality in a context of loneliness, for we'll never be lonely again. Lord help us to be clear-minded as we think about eternity. We pray too, Lord, for those in our congregation who have particular needs this morning Needs of jobs, the sense of your direction, what job to take, where to go, what you're doing in our life through upheaval. Lord, bring comfort, a sense of your control, a sense of your sovereignty in our lives. We pray too, Lord, for our church and its ministry within the Sunday school. We pray for the teachers, for the aides, for the substitutes, Lord, that you would help them as they prepare and as they teach. Not simply to present material to minds, but there would be a communication heart to heart, which would knit their hearts to those kids. That you would work in the hearts of the kids. We saw this morning the promise of Deuteronomy that you will circumcise the hearts of our children. Lord, we pray that in a world that once to rip them from us in our values, or the evil one wants to take them and submit them to peer pressure that will cause them to Want to be popular and not to follow you, we pray, circumcise the hearts of our children, O God. Children of our congregation at large use the Sunday school program, the youth programs, the children's church, and all those that work and minister to these kids. You would win their hearts to yourself. Lord, we thank you for the work that you're doing in Lenore, North Carolina. Pastor Bob Eckert there. We pray that you'd continue to strengthen him. Use the contacts he has in a public school Bible committee, the tremendous opportunities in that community for contacts and to be more open about Scripture. Lord, we pray in a place where people are more apt to simply say they're Christians without really knowing you. That you would help them to make those distinctions that people who have a false assurance would come to a genuine assurance of faith in Jesus Christ. She would cause that church to grow and protect it from the evil one. And for the Colburns, Lord, in Japan, we pray for them. Thank you for The birth of Mary, pray for her with Daniel and Hannah, that they too would grow to love you, circumcise their hearts. We pray for the English classes that they're involved in, that you would continue to work in the students, those who particularly have spiritual interests, that that would grow and deepen. They would come to faith in Christ. That you would encourage the hope and the faith of Craig and Ree and direct them over these next months about whether to return to Japan, whether to come home, whether to extend their time there. That you would provide for them all that they need if you're calling them to continue long-term in Japan. Lord, I thank you for the pastor's prayer summit this past Thursday and pray that you would gather the pastors to deepen our fellowship together, that we might pray more as we talk about more extensive times of prayer together. To pray for renewal and revival, for you to do a deep work in this community as we join together. Lord, we pray for Howard County. That you would soften it spiritually, you would tear down its arrogance and cold-heartedness towards spiritual things. That you would make us available and ready. As you would do that as a church, to love one another deeply, to open our homes, and to look for your soon return. We rejoice in that hope this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.