Reading from the New International Version, let's hear with expectancy the reading of God's word. The Lord reigns. He is robed in majesty. The Lord is robed in majesty. And And armed with strength, the world is firmly established. It cannot be moved. Your throne was established long ago. You are from all eternity. The seas have lifted up, O Lord. The seas have lifted up their voice. The seas have lifted up their pounding waves. Mightier than the thunder of the The great waters mightier than the breakers of the sea. The Lord on high is mighty. Your statutes stand firm. Holiness adorns your house for endless days. Oh Lord. Have you ever thought about the awesome power of the ocean? One of my favorite activities when I visit the beach is to simply walk along the water's edge and to feel the tug, the constant tug of the tide against my feet, and to listen to the birth that constantly pounds against the sand with its rhythmic motion. Or sometimes I'll just sit by the by the ocean and look out on the waters and consider the great the great power that's manifests there, the great strength that uh is uh is known and and shown by those waters. And perhaps you can recall times when you stand along the beach and enjoy peace and calmness and tranquility as you sit and you look at the ocean. The sea thus could symbolize Steadfastness and constancy. The sea could be something that gives you peace. But the ocean doesn't always symbolize peace and calmness for everyone. To the sail around the ocean in the midst to the raging storm, the sea is anything but calmness. The sea represents something menacing, and no matter how big a ship this you're on, the sea is something that's a threat to you if you're out in the middle of the ocean in a storm. Now I'm not a navy guy like a lot of you folks have navy connections I know and I've never been out in a boat in the middle of a real storm. But I've been in small craft and choppy waters enough to know a little bit of what it must be like. And yeah, it's a threat. It's something that causes consternation to me. It causes fear. And that is often what the sea is for post. The sea and that kind of The situation is something evil. You see, it's something it's a source of turmoil, a source of turbulence, a source of unrest. It's something that threatens your well-being. It threatens your varied life, perhaps. people of the ancient Near East viewed the sea in that way. The ocean was seen as something violent, something restless, something uncontrolled, something seething with power. And exuding evil. The scene was virtually equated with chaos and disorder. It was something that was seen as destructive. And against that kind of background, the song. This morning brings these words here in Psalm 93. Yahweh, the Lord, is the true King, and he is the controller of chaos. I submit to you this morning that you should ask the Lord to control the chaos in your life. Let's look then at Psalm ninety three together. First then, as you see in the bulletin outline, the first part of the Psalm Is verses 1 and 2 taken together. And we see there that the Lord reigns in eternal majesty. The Lord reigns in eternal majesty. The Lord reigns is the first. It opens up this psalm and it's really the theme phrase of this psalm. If there was just one phrase that would sum up the entire psalm, this would be it. It's really a summary of the psalm. And elsewhere in Hebrew poetry we see the same phrase repeated again and again. Again, the psalmist never tire of stressing this. In Psalm 97, we see that the Lord reigns, let the earth be glad. Thus the system sure rejoice. And again, in Psalm 99, that Psalm Against the Lord reign, let the nations tremble. He sits and throne between the cherubim. Let the earth shake. Not only does the Lord reign, but he is also roped in matters. Majesty, rode in majesty. But the Psalmist is most conc concerned is the stressus because he repeats it twice. He repeats rogue to majesty twice here, and so it's something he wants to drive home to us. Now The description of attire here really is meant to indicate God's personal character. When the psalmist says God is robed in majesty, he means to stress that majesty is something very, very much a part of God's character. Very much That's one of his personal attributes. So we sometimes uh think in these terms and elsewhere in the Psalms we see that uh the Lord is described in the same way. In Psalm one oh four we see, O Lord, you are very great. You are close in splendor and majesty. I think we sometimes think in these terms too. Say, for example, if uh you were invited to a dinner party attended by the Prince and Princess of Wales. Maybe it was in Washington DC and was covered by the Washington Post and all the major magazines talk about this event. And let's say you were invited to it. And afterwards someone were to ask you, What would Lady Diana like? How would you respond? Well you might respond something like this. Oh she was gorgeous. She had on this beautiful silver line down with these puffy lace sleeves and a and a slit up the leg, and you'd go on and on to talk about her attire, what she was wearing. Well In a similar manner, you see, in a similar manner that Psalmist focuses on Yahweh's attire. What he's wearing as indicate as indicative of his of his character, something that's of great significance. But Yahweh, the Lord, is That majesty itself is his garment. Majesty itself is what he is robbed in. That is what he wears. It's not Tilburg MA, it's not even purple velvet. Which is sometimes seen in the scriptures as the as the um robe of kings, it's majesty itself. Now that's splendor for you. Now that is glory for you. The Lord is robe in majesty. And then the Thomas goes on to qualify that he's robed in Majesty and he's also armed with strength. He's armed with strength. Majesty's what more strengths are his garments and are what he takes upon himself. He arms himself With strength. And this is elaborated as we'll see later in verses 3 and 4. But the Lord is a strong God. And we see that this majesty and this strength is displayed in creation and in God's establishing of the will. The world is firmly established. It cannot be moved. God's power, his majesty, and his strength are shown in the fact that He has established the world. His steadfastness underbirds the earth. It is his power. power that the earth rests upon, such that it cannot be moved. And then again, this majesty and the strength are eternal. Verse 2 says, Your throne was established long ago. You are from all eternity. Yahweh's reign then, the word's reign, is symbolized here by his throne. And the psalmist says, It is of old, because God himself, his being, has never had a beginning. He's the eternal God. You remember, those of you who are familiar with the Old Testament, know that the phrase I am is used in throughout the Old Testament. We don't have time to look at all the places. But the phrase I am is used By God to say for Him to say to us, I am the eternal God. I have no beginning, I have no end. I am. That's all there is to it. And so the psalmist replied to the Lord, You are. You are from all. Now you might say that Queen Elizabeth Queen Elizabeth II's throne was established long ago. She's from a long line of monarchs. But she could never say of her or any other earthly monarch, you are from all. All eternity. You see, the Lord's reign is unique, in that He is the eternal God. His reign is eternal. And so I ask you, does the Lord reign in eternal, in his eternal majesty in your life. Then Psalm 93 goes on in verses 3 and 4 to show us that the Lord reigns with power over the sea. The Lord reigns with power over the seas. The second major division of the psalmist here. And we see that the the psalmist is very concerned to stress something. He he he mentions it three times. He talks about the seas. lifting up their power or their voice. The seas have lifted up, O Lord. The seas have lifted up their voice. The seas have lifted up their pounding wave. A tripled expression here. Something the psalmist wants to emphasize. The sea symbolized chaos in the ancient Middle East. It was an emblem, a virtual emblem of hostile powers and of evil forces. And so we have here the turbulence and unrest and violence of the seas. as as daring to raise their voice against the Lord. Here the sea stands for something that's evil, that rebels against God, a force that that seeks to thwart his his kinship, seeks to undermine his power. And so the seas rebel with all their might. They lift up their voice. They lift up their pounding legs. But in verse 4 we see that the Lord is mightier than all the Forces of chaos, mightier than all the seas and their churning forces, mightier than the thunder of the great waters, mightier than the breakers of the sea. The Lord on high is mighty. Yahweh is the shrew lord and he's migh mightier than the seas. Now the author is speaking against the background of literature that talks an awful lot about battles between gods over the dominion of the seas. There's even one text that talks about this God named Baal. Some of you probably have heard of Baal. And Baal goes to war against another god called Yom. And god and Yom is the god of the sea. And Baal defeats Yom and takes over the sea from Yom. And the author if you were uh one of the original readers of this text, you would have known about that story about Baal defeating Yom. And you would have known that Baal is stronger than Yom. And so it's against that backlog that the author makes his message. And it's really his the This section here is really a culturally relevant way for the author to say to those people, Yahweh is the true lord of the seeds, not Baal. Yahweh is the one that has conquered the seeds, not Baal. And so Yahweh is the true Lord. And this water imagery I think is fascinating. Um, it's not the new to the Old Testament. Water imagery is used throughout the Old Testament to talk about God and his power. Remember back in Genesis and chapter. One, the very beginning of the creation account, we see that the God's Spirit hovers over the waters. God is over the waters, even then. And later in that same chapter in verses six to ten, we see specifically that God God changed the waters and he sets boundaries for the waters. He keeps them in their place. He we see God as the controller of the waters even there. And if you think back to the account of the flood, one of the things that that shows is that it's that God God is the Lord of the waters again. And again, the Red Sea, when the Israelites cross through the Red Sea, the waters stand back and separate at God's command. They are regrouped by the Lord and they stand back and they bow to Him. And even in Psalm 33, the Lord gathers the waters of the sea and puts the deep in storehouse. For the Lord is the controller of the waters. He is the Lord over the waters. They flee at his command. Does the Lord reign over the chaotic waters of your life? Then thirdly, the psalm finishes with this note. The fact that the The Lord reigns with his holy word. Verse 5. The Lord reigns with his holy word. Your statute stands firm, says the psalmist. Holiness adorns your house for endless days, O Lord. You see, God's word is unshakable. God's word is steadfast and firm. It does not change. It is trustworthy because his character is that way. God is a trustworthy God, and hence his firm his word stands firm. and reflects his character. God's statute stands firm. His word accomplishes all that he intends. And not only does his word reflect his firmness and his steadfastness, his word reflects his holiness. Because holiness adorns God's house. Holiness is part of his character. And you can think of holiness in terms of perfection. God's character is perfect, and hence his word is perfect. It's not something tentative. It's not something that might be trustworthy. It's not something that perhaps is reliable. No, it's something firm. It's perfect. It's holy because the Lord is perfect. And he is holy. God's law is perfect. Does the Lord reign with his holy law in your life this morning? You see, the Lord that is talked about here in Psalm 93, it's the Lord Jesus Christ. We know that from our New Testament. Perspective. How do we know that? Because the New Testament tells us that Jesus Christ is the creator. Colossians 1, verse 15 tells us that by Jesus Christ all things were created and have their being. He is the one who is established. He is the creator. He is the Lord, even as we sung this morning. And he is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. He is the one who is who reigns in majesty and splendor. He is eternal, he is unchanging. His character does not sh change like shifting shadows, but he is unchanging because he is the eternal God, you see. He is the great I am. In j in the Gospel of John, there are many what in many times it's said Jesus tells us that I am this, I am that. Referring back to the Old Testament context as he speaks to the Jews there. They would have understood he was claiming to be God. They would have understood he was claiming to be the eternal God. He's the great I am. And as Hebrews 13 8 tells us, Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Jesus is the eternal God. He is the creator. And he is the controller of chaos as well. He's the controller of chaos. In his personal ministry, remember how Jesus proved his power over the seas. Remember when he rocked on the waters and he treaded on the very waves of the seas back there in Matthew fourteen, twenty-five. And he amazed his disciples in that way. But one of the reasons he was doing that was to prove that he is Lord over the seas. He controls the oceans. He is king over the waters. And then remember in Luke eight, twenty four, when he rebukes the storm? And the sea turns to calmness, like before the disciples are. Jesus is the controller of chaos there. He's the one who calms the wind and the raging waters. He's the one who calms the stream. And furthermore, we know that by death and resurrection, he sealed his king triumph. He displayed his mighty strength over the chaotic forces of sin and death on the cross. And he rose again from the dead to prove that all he said was true. He rose again to prove that he was king. To prove that he was the Prince of Peace, that he had purchased peace for all who would trust in him. Jesus is the controller of all the verses of evil. Now, if you've never acknowledged Jesus Christ as your Lord and you've never transferred your trust to him, then I must urge you to do so. Otherwise his his reign would be something that's a threat to you. Because if you're live trying to live your life on your own as your own boss, Jesus' reign is something that's going to unsettle you, to put it mildly. It's going to be a threat to you instead of a source of peace. And Jesus' reign, when he comes again, is going to be a cause of terror for you instead of a cause of joy. But if you have trusted in Christ as your Savior and you're alone and trust in him for your salvation, as Charles and Lori and Jennifer sort of that they were this morning. Then and you've asked him to reign in your life, then you need to understand he controls the power of sin in your life. Many of you know that we have started with the film series further in your private world on Sunday evenings. And most of us can identify at least one or two turbulent areas in our external world, in our public world. Uh we can probably put our finger on a number of things that are are chaotic in our lives, our external lives right now. Maybe it's job uncertainty, maybe it's health problems, maybe it's family problems, family disorders. But the private world you see is made up of our motives. It's made up of the use of our time. It's made up of what we feed our heart and what we feed our minds. The private world is what bring the Saul is talking to us about in these film series. The part of the world is made up of how we use our leisure time, how we spend um the hours that God has given us to restore ourselves and to uh recreate ourselves. And I'd encourage you, if you've not done so, to join us this week, even tonight, and for the rest of our series in the in on Sunday evening. And last week, those of you who were here last week know that at the very end of our discussion time so and so for half an hour and then we have a half hour discussion afterwards. We were left with this idea and this quote. To bring order to one's life, to bring I'm sorry, to bring order to one's personal life is to invite Christ's control over every segment of one's life. Let me repeat that. The bring order to one's life is to invite Christ's control over every segment of one's life. You see, if there's chaos and disorder and turbulence in your private world, in your heart, it's probably because you've allowed the chaos of your outer world to shape your heart, to shape your inner world, instead of it being the opposite. Instead of having Christ's peace fill your heart and then having that control your outward circumstances, if there's chaos in your heart, it's probably because the chaos in your outer world is filtering down into your private world. And you need to do something about that. And so I'd ask you, is there some areas of your Christian life where there's turbulence, where there's turmoil, where there's chaos this morning? Is there some area of your heart where chaos is king instead of the Lord Jesus and instead of the Prince of Peace? It's so you need to ask Jesus to control the chaos in your life and replace that chaos. Turbulence, but you feel in your heart, with his peace, with his calmness, with his tranquility, as he comes to reign as lore in that area of your life. Perhaps it's your motive. Perhaps you are driven as we're the McDonald says, driven. You're a driven person. You're driven by the world and by other people's expectations of you and by the pressures you feel in your job. You're driven instead of being called. Instead of knowing Christ's calling in your life and Christ's peace because of that. Perhaps your motives are in turmoil. Perhaps the use of your time is a source of turmoil for you this morning. Maybe you don't feel like you have a grasp on how you're using your hours and you're fittering away time in movement. activity and wasteful wasteful tasks, things that really don't accomplish much in the kingdom. Perhaps you don't have that inner peace because of the way you're using your time. Or perhaps it's been what's your feeding your heart and your mind, or not feeding your heart and your mind. If so, you need to ask Jesus to control that chaos, to come in as Lord in that area of your life. To take control of your life, to bring peace, his peace to your life. If you're in your private world is really just asking Jesus to be Lord over a segment of your heart. It's asking him and inviting His dominion and rule. over more and more of your life so that you notice peace in your heart more and more. So let me suggest to you and leave you with three ways. Psalm ninety-three shows us how to order our private world. Three ways Psalm 93 can help us in this in this matter. First, I'd say this. Remember that Jesus never changes. Remember that Jesus Christ never changes. He's the one who rules in eternal Majesty. He is the great I am. He is the one whose thorn was established long ago and who is from all eternity. No matter what kind of chaos and turbulence you have in your life, remember that Jesus never changes. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. You can trust him to be the same. But firstly remember that Jesus never changes. Remember that he rules in majesty and splendor that is unchanged eternally. And secondly, remember he is able to control the chaos and the turmoil that you feel in your life. Remember that he reigns in power over chaos. He is the King of Kings and the Lord of the universe. He controls the very Of the ocean as you look out on them. And how much more can he control the turbulence you feel in your life? Remember, he is able to control that turbulence. He is the controller of chaos. He is able to bring And then thirdly, the third part of the psalm I think tells us to look for his holy word to find steadfastness, to find peace. You see, Christ's statute stands firm. God word is trustworthy. It's steadfast. It's it's reliable. And so if you hide it in your heart, you're going to have that firmness and steadfastness in your heart. God's word is trustworthy. Trustworthy and firm and cannot be moved. And so if you invite his word into your heart, and if it dwells there in your heart, you're going to know that firmness yourself. You're going to know that peace yourself. So remember that Christ never changes. Remember, he is able to control. Control the chaos that you feel. And look to his Holy Word to make you peaceful in your heart and give you steadfastness there, and to give you his firmness there. Ask Jesus to control. control and to conquer the turbulence in your life, by his great strength, by his power to work within you. And so bring his kingly peace to all areas of your life and he comes in to rule as Lord. Let's pray together. Lord Jesus, you are the King of Kings. You are the ruler, the tamer of all evil and turmoil. And we look forward, Lord Jesus. to your triumphant return when you will proclamate your kingdom, when you will bring to completion what you've already begun, and you will bring your peace and full into the earth. And until then, Lord Jesus, we pray that you'd come into our lines and bring your will and bring your calmness, the calmness of your presence and the firmness of your word. Will Jesus apply the message of this song to our lives. But seal it to our hearts by your spirit that we may know more and more of your order in our private world, more peace from your spirit in our hearts. Say these things in your precious name. Amen. Pra