So we're not going to insert that, not for the words I insert in front tests. And seventh days, the crowd died. I bring him back again. So because of this work, I decided to conclude the first part and reading that's a good look concerning justification and it's interesting That is five and body. He split a food and drank in his cup and even swept in his own. You are not going to die. But he would not look into it. The student asked him, I know it's open. I would like to illustrate on this theory these three confidences that I feel it's forgiven. Dividaces, dividing specific, dividing rationalizations, to one the simplest reason, if you say He says, Have mercy on me, O God, 51 days. And you see the tone, it's exactly where you think that's like that five meetings. It's funny because the sun is over. Now, in that case, the second principle is sin still has consequences. That that becomes something that is so obvious, something that we see that has had such uh awful consequences in our lives and those that we have. With our bodily discipline. Pennsylvania. And I will open this with John. How do you understand? understand I'm talking about this. You realize that many of the body is very possible. It has been so completely absorbed quality in me in data flight. Matter of the prophets and could bring the more ends, things in him. God's forgiveness. We have surprised. The man said to me from the story with the Lord move with the man who did this a very good. In draw telling you the other people in draw tones if you are doing this continuous How are you saying to believe that? A man who is in uh side of a sooth and a rabbit who had little teeth at all he could ever desire but gave me full feet. That's something of the line we did for given. Walk away all my iniquities, cleanse me from my sins, verse nine, hide me things for my sins and wife out all my iniquities Mercy for them. carries out in the life of the believers. Yes, he is not quantitative. So things that we need to realize. Ago all of the presents of great weeks in the door these things. The the delight of the cooking is uh more delight than the pain of the T snack on the earth. uh once then the delay of three cookies because how are the men are we gonna flip that. by corruption and by without the truth. type of things, the very standard thing we need to stand in. That is really key. Don't make that happen. Let's see my problem. And did that point out until they just wore that first and completely and fiddled and stubborn in this map? All that's a handle. Yeah. I'm not dealing with this with continuing simple attitudes to do what I have as a result of simple mindfulness God and through men. For the word of the Lord, by hearing that it is. This guy's a real life, he deserves to die. I kept away your senses like a cloud and you cleaned like the morning wind. Very strong. I did before I was a sort of sense. That's the very name. That's a terrible delight. But first of all, notice if you're about to come to have a simplified life Many situations. I have consequences in attitude or in things in my life now, but as far as I can concern it, I have dealt with that as thoroughly and that was great induced an insatiable group that had no. And I was taken its order to land. is what a man was impossible need to do. Man is this one pure man. It's the same idea within the girl disease within science within ones. about how it's starts to do that things. I was uh watching old and I was bones within me were groaning when I was hiding myself through these months. But it was not simply an incident. He would establish certain patterns of deserving, certain things of change in his life. But the country classes are buildings. People might get anything. He brought me out of a into a safest places. But all this dealt within according to my righteousness, according to the thinness of my hands, he's away. And still there's enough to be fine. And sin against God, some sinful patterns perhaps could be like. Get Ryao to go home so that nobody's going to notice. with the um turning and how bad that was the situation. Uh but nevertheless both beautiful women, and that's the truth of women in my case. sort of whatever you say will read the sort of an impersonal law of the universe. But that's to make the consequences of what they do more awful than the pleasure of doing the disability. Uh you may be able to be able to bless these by repeating them. As if this is our holy truth, if we decide line against the holy God, and if somehow that doesn't holy consciousness, what do we read in our size that finished their paper and episode Jesus cells are more funny as we have. And amazing silence. Nothing in between him and his father, no judicial punishment being carried out. His sons followed in that Adam. So this is a Timor God over here. But he has built in certain patterns to my servants and the sons. So God turns from you. But all of a sudden that was a great temptation, a great stumbling book, something that could have been idone for. Because by doing this thing, we have made the enemies of the Lord because everything first. Well here, he stays home and makes his dinner say the bottle while he's going over the other man's body. I was a black stealer and a persecutor of the church. But the quantitative still and a good dead hand will always be not a fact if we expect the thing. What's the floor? And David embarrass himself in a little bit of lumping and decided to take a little bit of sleeping into it. This is the second case. If you steal something, you have to go back to something and that's what he didn't lie to them. Because it's I think you can deal with a bad like this. He did to give it all get away with thirty things. He did not think anybody could sit up in the last thing. And the consequences of sin are joking to Christ in Jesus Christ. And yet the consciousness, the pain of sanctification, the prince is so often seen through hand and slow, the one who is at Steve and Eden seems God will totally purify these things and say that be remembered with no more. So when the time is the conduct of those hands, David rather than going out to battle and fight some clearance with his learning. and walked around and saw a new woman baby, took her, what had his wife supposedly too, and took her, then she was the wife of another man I anointed you, King of Israel, and I delivered to you, you from the hands of God. David did not discipline himself. When do I go? You never hear again a danger that's the ones and only to stop him off and indulging himself in undisciplined underviews. A day is pretty example of the latest, the authority of the same. God believe in heaterism. Except it's very true. The third all the dealing is going to lower 50 and everything. Move them in a simple situation so that they would receive those participations and they're going to be delivered from the same patients. That first people that God says I'm going to serve these people these going to be done. Think of his body of the leaders. What could we do here? It is something very terminalizing. Before his response is immediately God has taken away, because we put away with sin. Yeah. There are three kinds of consequences that are quickly. The one who fails to please the internal and that makes it process. Ab for them accepted. The problem is the 50 years we neglected. But before your very eyes, I will take your eyes and give them to the one who placed me. But I was the influence to see, a grace and thy speaker, about grace and about feeling in their family, but even out of all the spirit and out of all of the bloodshed and out of all the hope that is coming to his ears to come. Because we spent three weeks to remember some weeks ago, dealing with Tom 32 lines, talking about the extent of It's a different world in the beauty, but it's the same idea. Right, Tamar. We may verify it from some highly quite a little nice. Sometimes God must let the consequences be publicly fooled for the people, the church, and the world will know that God is a holiday. When we had to make a public demonstration, whether my own is about things, we know things you're doing about things, we've got to make a public demonstration The first part is telling the meaning of the implications of the meaning of the given on our relationship with one another, the simplest. David, uh we conducting a campaign. The second one that could be done or two is our three has consequences nevertheless. And now David's really fast. Went to his laugh. I thanked him. We put the plant in the head of our skin, it went for the span of the source, we have seventy-five pounds. That's what they can think about as one from the film and that's what that would be. Here we have something not simply as an inevitable outlooking of a pattern of increasing. Even if we think that I would do this thing in blood daylight before all the things. You never do a thing that's a little bit of every event. they uh yeah they they feel easy to have to all here's heard about these again. And then you put those things totally behind us. This is what the Lord says. So we say it. With a part of the belief, we have a believer in France. You better be tempted again. In a way that we couldn't see, perhaps, in God's written, it must be true. I've seen this person and that person that's in thousand thousand, you don't get a person, talk about being born again. The baby, of course, having heard this, could be divided. And the word yeah, the word that tells it to give me a very important. Well notice that I do with this person. As sin is being here. When animal society came before the case and they say we're going to give all my property besides everybody else, and they lie to the whole And the colour is dependent fifty. Now David is here in uh left and home and thinks the thing has been covered up. As Paul says in Galatians chapter 6, verse 7, what does it mean? David had here reached a pattern of passion and violence in the standard. The we will turn our thing to require within us, so that our heart is very good at the very good. How many times did you talk to somebody about these cards and you said they tell me that? How do we answer the building if the quickly left me to the easy logic? But you understand of forgiveness. That is the second thing. The one you are particularly loved with God and evil. He went back to the animal and the God bleed it took that because the Lion leaders took that and he defeats the animal And I'll just add all these slowly in circumstances and tell them what we really need to do, even though we blow it. The consequences are inevitable, and they're already changed. Him that is over and done with. The rich man had a very large number of people in colour, but the poor man had nothing except one little new line to do it by. In order to arouse those emotions, to get them throughout as to the injustice, the ugly His sins have been forgiven. Then do we have to bear the consequences of former friends in our lives today? Well, okay, well you're sorry for that on your own. And so we did this into Egypt once. We sometimes be surprised. And God's never going to be able to use us anymore because of this thing. This is something that's a continuing problem that I'm having in my current attitude. Well you remember the turn and baby flight after he has turned it to the place with kings. The Lord thanked Million to do this. How can we tell him the child is dead? David David lied about the things. They would be resolved. Those are the consequences I'm dealing with. He brought out the people who were there, inspiring them to label the cloud, the iron fixed colonists, and lazy work of sickness. Let's not think that somehow we can deceive things and sing without any consequences. Thirdly, don't discover as you experience the past point. After Nathan had gone home, the Lord struck the cards of the wild light had born to David into the life. Before they simply rather than describing the penalties, we try in fact addressed penalties with four times The first in that was the sword and David's service. The weak thing called the death of the little babies. Who are the lower ways to be both replying? And then finally something else with he must be quite fine and two parallels up to give it to him, right? Everything he knows that he could have possibly done you have dealt with in his friends and clearly that's good. And Psalm 32, one to five, talks about God's forgiveness concerning this incident. A number of months has gone by. They're just thinking that somehow those things I do so even while I'm a certain I'm immune to the effects of that because I'm And it's in good case of the truth. I will go to him. I've been seeing it to be case. Are those perfect types of closely with to be five of suffering? They scheduled to conduct the different certificates for nine days, May 17th, season 74th. We talk about a uh a wrong attitude about life as well, about cases, uh dependent people in Christine and put myself down. You put them into influence and you pick up your story and second time it's not the strength. He fellow never done. This is what David it has with well doing. You can still turn the path. Because you give it all experience for the other for the relationship because everything stands. In Columbia, in Africa, in New York. Stone itself a king in Stell's new task perhaps with humanity. Now must be the rest of the troops and defeat Sicilian Sasses. Yes, God would forgive us and God bless for you. And then I realized not happy, but rather that bodily discipline in David Light If God says that I am going to teach the reason that I'm a very guy, that I'm doing a man Now then you have something that's not simply a telling the week. But because by doing this, we have made the element of the Lord before everything comes. Because words means to remove something by putting it away. It took a matter of a week or two and dangerous and I simply said, Oh well, I really blew it and then came right back to the end She marries a person. He is a fellow who when he was not a Christian, that was We come on self-diving. That is what is fine will be weak. De bad let's be affected. You see you have that same thing. Put on maps, he didn't display, he went into the house of the Lord and voices. He has taken the land from one who is free with all the things that you to them. And uh asking to become a company. When you and I don't deal with our thing, we'll always be following us on it. The sun comes out and flip the case that mist and it's gone. Three reasons for those consequences, these three kinds of consequences, once there has been full repentance, full revelation And those countries we work their own us in allowing to do across in our own, the servant to do with buildings, and be hidden, family. The person uh if you and I are justified and forgiven, God remembers our sin no more, he does not punish the Christian. The example I want to use in illustrating this and dealing with this is the story of David and our students. Do we return his work? If we're not only the great and delivery fast piece, why they're low to Out of your own hearthrows, I am going to bring calamity upon you. It's supposed to say I don't need to make record mutants to that. They syntax it. That's an awesome business in your time to do it. The Lord is my rock, my forces in my words. These might be lefty and favor from five and sequences. Because I will be done to the annual General Assembly of the Orthodox Tech Central Court with Lewis College and Dead with all And that the consequences are too wrong. Um women and sisters, both of them described as beautiful women. Add someone who's brother, his half-brothers, Tamar's brother, that he's both until two years before this. So but why would God do this? When God is he doesn't restore it to the image of Adam to his things I gave you the house of Israel and Judah. I thought he made. If they read in chapter 13, right after what they are here, that Annon, one of David's sons, he's the half-brother of Canaan. How is it? They're way to die to make you realize I have the credit. And say David decides we don't want to be reading the science and the temple, open the tone connected, the middle instance in the science. And it's probably the large answer than this. Nevertheless, it's it's more and more than when you believe in the Lord and you have it to be Secondly, thank you. The Lord Latin. He wants to be because we delayed them. First of all, the principle that I said is the given. David describes very much like David Man. I even I am he who's locked out and sounded weapons from our own truth. We could be not going to endure the consequences because they do. It's the king. Just to give you an idea how rich the Old Testament image we are doing, there's a number of words that we didn't cover. According to one TLM slide, according to your great company, block out my translation. And you see that by feeling in his own life. He got a daughter for it. If you involve yourself in similar activities, those activities have their consequences. When you and I find that there's a three-week committee, and we have a tentative action, then there is absolutely no guarantee that you and I are not going to understand that After having done this he said voice and later on to see the problem. And even after we determine shiftings. We were students were closed to tell them because the card is dead for their death. Because it's simple, three, and simple. God doesn't hold them against him anymore. Not my help is right with that. That is the second kind of participants that the body seems by thin science. The other things can get away with. He will not be saved me. And then of course David supposed this story went back on David. It is exactly what we've been talking about all the feasts. David had established a pattern. Again we'll uh conclude this this morning and then when I return on the second, we will be dealing with uh You have to look at the thing. That's why that means. That's the idea of causing something to cast out of existence, modding it out, erasing it, eradicating it. Nevertheless, it's consequent. Now it's pretty big. And Raoul comes back and possibly Raoul hears some memory about what's been going on with Louisville and he leave music to go home too. And then the value has to see the calculator speed because we don't identify the type of this speed and same. Him that is been repented of, revived, we have a clear conscience. And we say to ourselves, Ah, that's severe. And after God would give you on a very large scale to David Light and say that you are wicked people are offered to God in the middle of the I would lie, and I did that all the time. We did have two. God remember that the moment. And you can have a whole new relationship with this given. So what does God do when he plays this? It affects you the can't be thoughts. You can go to that night. My friend has set me aside. And it's in that situation that we didn't get a couple of times, but nevertheless, having thought it This fellow deserves to die. Yeah, you know it's not gonna be anything too. What about a new idea? That's not the way it works. Is the third lead to the very. Who's the girl who is and love? But he's a girl who felt a lot, many levels, connected. And then he improved his servants to withdraw from the art that he was left there and When we don't deal with our own sin, we become more accepted and tend to gossip more of our audience in Now therefore, the sword will never depart from your hands because he despised me and put it right Now it's okay, they're being good. We still have one more time to say two, they can say home. And when he came to me, he said I did a sea man in a certain plan when we You never hear a thing with every event removing it on its possibility of things ever. And she has a baby here. How do you do it? 50 U and there is no clear to the reasonable problem. And he said the Almighty has this one, this air. You stuck down the eye of a good light with a sword and took his life to the Uran. For the season the consequences of what he'd be done with burden your sins. We never record it off the page. So today I'm going to be dealing with it now, custom and the vicnar custom. So we have made a great to me and left the power live. That's my means. God forgives totally remember to a symbol. You turn to himself with Jesus. If you want your prints to start doing something, there's only one way to do it Do you see God is a happy thing something to replace that God saying But if God makes that little and that adults and that adults and leaves and them And there's people to tell them, yeah, I never heard of that. When you were all robbed out of his life for slaves by our friend So when I'm talking about the continuing things, we have a a wrong odyssey, a wrong union about stuff. Because the Lord Latin fellows he later in the carpet is not a bad season. This is the part you think it comes in Psalm 33, 1 to 5, 17. And I believe there are three kinds of consequences that are two I think we're equivalent to the word that we've blot out that we talked about when we talked about It's like a morning lift. Well that's a diverse don't it's the old system because I want you to see how I call this but results in the fact that we can see a MLC study But even though we have repented of that, we have put that aside, that is behavior, still could be There have been two campaigns previously. He must pay for that man four times over because he did such a thing and had no kidding. And that's the two. My father came to the rich man. It's perfectly me that I would have given you even more. Otherwise I would think the city would be named after the East. To call something to be put away, be taken away You say you may be opposite ten snacks. The consequences, the joy back to that person, the setting that right, the recognition, looking at lights, the pieces. Rather I am dealing with the participants of still The first principle is that our sin is forgiven tests. That is not mine. What a perfect thing would be weak. To build up the case of Jesus cells, not selling five seconds. And the consequences of unmitigated loss and destruction have never come to Jesus to have these things. That is to Absalom is only thought. The most funny four maybe the favorite one after the card is taken by that. And then the half-brother of Hamon looks at her under the full unbridled past Because that was just the open to preparing to be in it, it's used to And to be played so if you have two colours, even if you have things for a husband. My simple matter of the fact that my simple nature has not been eradicated. Well is there that uh we found the data back in DVC They haven't seen this and they will continue to be closed This is what you know about the same When we can find science, this incident It's the same idea that we look back, even as far back as January. Yeah, that's the kind of thing that's bad back then. And yet you say it does be reminded of your trust. Everybody card is good, we get up and eat. Okay? They would notice for the servants who are listening among themselves and realize the child is good. This had gone over a period of months, perhaps a year, year and a half, you don't really know how long. Because that's the way the things are, the way race, the latter feeling, the like a mist that flip the cubes in the spin out. My God is my rock and I think That's something that could need to be worked out of it, something that's actually In a way that we couldn't be true, the life of consequences Hopefully it's classic places with them, but if we really didn't we really did play two M. God means that it's still possible for everyone else. Because we have now received the new one. It makes you scary. I am not feeling in this the continuing thing But we have now God personally stepping in. But if you and I say the problem used that it is so different, make that so easy. I thought his blood out of their ass is something that is glowful, viewing since I would never say it. Three kinds of consequences. Then David comforted his wife like Peter. It's been totally removed, it's passed away, he's pardoned. And the part of how it's consequently. God is personally opposing us. Because of this, for the Lord. Because God is going to bring us to a place where He's going to all degree The one who fails to please the spirit and the spirit will reach eternal life. The second until out of your own helpful, I'm going to bring calamity upon you. And yes, that's still 5%. How then can we say that God forgives us fully and freely? Uh as he says in Isaiah 44, verse 22. We call it Before your very eyes I will take your lights, and give them to one who is close to you, and you will lie with your eyes. All right, let's find the consequence. It's like to say that somehow I escape the person to have this thing And that pattern of David began to throw you had its consequences with the inevitable. I don't know, it's a call to perfect question, but I never know who to put my life Yeah, I know the way they are. God has used another means. They filled me. And the baby has birthing things due to the effects of the world. Something you realize very well. There is no difference. If you never have you think protein along the side, it's something What is fine will be weak. So if that's what we've decided to do, we actually do is really And then we keep finally if people realize they think that's great to never have the faith. And they would have a two paper down to motor system How do you feel that you've an understanding of God, another heavenly father? No question about that. For some reason or other the uh the scene did not fix the one number one to an in That is that two with Mary for her husband, and thankfully with his wife. I gave you masters And we put with plenty of stones and we stumped on data head because of great fine And the delay was feeling that dipped in mind, which is overcoming, again and again, over things. Then he went to his own house and it was exactly so it can see in this. I feel like consequences nevertheless Now when you and I You can't see anything if it's fog and everything How do I not leave the belief? So let's follow the scriptures. First of all, it's not one of the ways that we discuss now You said just like a cloud. It does not violate any of the things we talked about. Very good call in a very perfect particular way, he's called in the other guy. Even for the fixing there, we will be constant. The God purpose is good to be possible. And it is true. Somewhere in Luke, what do you think? A things can be turned up and God can produce a human being of founding And you say, Well no, I took it eight snaps because the fresh. We can take this back from the soul control. How many times did that happen to me And David and we think David one reason wasn't finding a difficult So often that's what God misses The Nathan came and hit me with it, I percepted, and now God has taken away my sins God takes that place. It's not simply a matter of collective discipline, it's done M. We cannot go into God. If if I could uh leave a bite out and I try to follow the case of That's what this is paying with Particularly, however, what I'm focusing on is hearing Because even their babies have been tempted and have fallen and have been Like that uh five My sister let me say beans, scarcely, always great having a scarf because they're hugging. Do the need of stuff is that an When do we get to you? Absolutely lies into the throne. So principally I know the way they see. And second summer Now the girl The Bible gives us three sensibles To become a Christian. And do the bond of angle But that's clearly a mindset. If if uh taking the quick is worth peace maps, then they take the criteria is That's the third law and it's the third reason to type the fact that it's a candidate and for given things. He waved it and operated in a spirit. And remember who's in their life. That sense there is a lead. I perceive my elements and I crossed them It seems like we do, doesn't it? He then uh decides to bring it in the wallabat and It's taken out of existence that we talked about. And who will lie with your wives and brought their life? No things are more difficult to find I call And the book of Moses. What is it? That's a Now that he is dead, why could I pass? There is a war going on with the animals And so you see that in verses eleven to thirteen. What is happening to go specifically recorded? What then can you do now the things can be David was penny, David was five. I mean how could that do that to be? So we could give this meaning on our relationship The third campaign was filled up with a main theme. So David monstered the entire army and vote, Saraba, and Tassin said. They they see no one else cared to join them even though they were highly inspired among the people. David rather than people live and acknowledge him. Why did you describe? In this way. You might David Solomon Because we're under the second David seeded with God for the cards and fast and then And by doing that you may it even I don't think He did this for all the animals, and then gave the women And so I'm dealing with a consequence of his sin. You will sometimes take this up and ugly people that If I hadn't taken it to my eyes. What did David say in the universal idea? That something that you do tell you that you You'll cover everything and then all of a sudden it's kept away. Uh both of them uh having uh really difficult and sad stories. I believe we have to particularly powerful and personal David noticed in response to this story Because it's none So did that no longer. A blast feeler ticket cast people. He went in and lay your hands and to go first to his hand. See that in both hands. How many times I've seen parents I don't see other person that's said the last person out of your business. If you couldn't even ask you that, the faithful, Nathan told a story about the But sin still has consequences, nevertheless. To become a person is not to say, Well, I don't need now to suffer the consequences. And we have to be careful that we don't take a deal to do with a system. And the humanity relatives it's not just saying, uh well You killed him with the sword of the animal. We look back as if uh same words with a lot accent. God is dealing with David as his father, not as his father. We began to prepare if we see what's happening to us. So that's means of sinus today. But now ten snacks He said that Somehow 15 years of neglect. So nobody's going to see it. And bloodshed that follows to my That's great. David Faldman has This is what the Lord says. I'm going to bring the season of calamity. What about this? Now