Caleb was a man who followed the Lord how? Fully. Well wholeheartedly. Literally the Hebrew says fully. Good. But if he followed the Lord right up to the brim, there was no room for doubt. He was a natural-born leader. He was a man of great courage. But more than that, he was a man full of faith. He was a man who followed the Lord fully. He loved the Lord. Because he had been a slave and the Lord had freed him. And so he said, Lord, you're deserving of my full love. I had heard of the promises to my forefather Abraham. I'd seen the miracles that you did in Egypt to Release me. I saw how you brought your people out from that mighty nation. And I saw what you did to bring us to yourself. I love you fully. And Lord, I trust you fully. He saw how the Lord had proved this faith. faithfulness again and again. So he loved the Lord fully and he trusted him fully. Seven times in the Old Testament you see that word, Hebrew word used fully, or in the NIV wholeheartedly. And in every case it has reference to Caleb. He followed the Lord fully. But now it's 45 years later. As a young man, he was dynamic in his faith. But what's he like now? What's he like at age 85? Israel's, Len reminded you, it finally moved into Canaan. After 38 years wandering in the wilderness, seven years fighting for the land. They've been established in the land. Those of you who remember my course on the Old Testament, remember that we uh took the books of the Old Testament and uh one of the ways to help you to remember those was to use hand motions. And you remember for the book of Joshua was that he divided and conquered, divide and settle. You just remember those little hand motions, you know. If you want to see me for Genesis to Malachi, check with me afterwards, but that's just Joshua. They divided the land, went into the center portion, and then took the south and the north, divide and conquer. And then the second half of the book of Joshua is how they divided the land and settled it. And so that's where we're at now. The land has been divided, it's about to be settled. Caleb is 85 years old now. And what's his attitude now toward the Lord? Now, before, you assume that because he started out so well, that surely he's gone on and mature. In his faith, let me remind you of three quotes from contemporary older Christians. Frank Tilipau, author of the book The Church Unleashed, The Grandfather, said in his pre-assembly conference for our church. He did a study on the book of Nehemiah, and in that study he spoke of the mid-walk crisis. He said that anybody can get up to the first half of the wall. He can do that out of sheer energy. But he said most people come to a crisis in their life which determines whether they will go on to finish the wall. And he said, the more I go on in my life, the less impressed I am with young bucks who come with all kinds of zeal and enthusiasm and they're ready to kill the world for Christ. Because he said, I see how few of them continue on in their later years to do that. Chuck Swindle recently said, one of the most disappointing things to me as I travel about the country from place to place is to see how few people Who are in their 50s or older are still on the cutting edge for Christ. J. Oswald Sanders, a man who I believe is in his 70s, still operating as consulting director of the Overseas Mission. Wrote in a recent uh uh uh magazine, uh Moody Monthly, a uh interesting article, an optimistic view of old age. And in that article he says this midlife has its own particular physical and Spiritual testing. Many who soar like rockets in their youth, descend like burned-out sticks in middle age. There are usually advantages when we attain this stage in life. Our powers are at their zoneth. Important life decisions, such as career, friends, marriage, and family, have been made. Ideally, we have attained status and influence, and financial circumstances are somewhat easier. We now know many of the answers to our problems, and we can be more objective. In our views. But there are dangers. It is often at this stage that our fervor diminishes and our personal devotion wanes. A lukewarm sense of duty may replace ardent love. It's tempting to ease up on self denial and yield to softening ease. It's easy to stop growing and striving after greater spiritual maturity. And feel that we have earned the right to indulge ourselves. Now what does Caleb teach us in all this? A great deal, whether we're young or whether we're old. And so let's look now to that other major portion of scripture that speaks about him from Joshua chapter 14. Turn to Joshua chapter 14. As I mentioned, Joshua is now just about to divide up the land in order to solve But before he does, Caleb, along with some men from the tribe of Judah, approach him with a request. And they come to bring this request, which we read about beginning in Joshua chapter three. 14, beginning in verse 6. So let's now follow along as I read God's holy word. Let's give our attention to the very word of God to us. Now the men of Judah at first, Joshua at Gilgalim. Caleb, son of Japuna the Kennesite, said to him, You know what the Lord said to Moses, the man of God at Kadesh Barnea, about you and me? I was forty years old when Moses, the servant of the Lord, sent me from Kadesh Barnea to the Lord. To explore the land, and I bore him back a report according to my convictions. But my brothers who went up with me made the hearts of the people melt with fear. I, however, followed the Lord my God wholeheartedly, and so on. That day Moses swore to me, the land on which your feet have walked will be your inheritance, and that of your children forever, because you have followed the Lord my God wholeheartedly. Now then, just as the Lord promised, he has kept me alive for 45 years since the time that he said this to Moses while Israel moved about in the desert. And so here I am today, 85 years old. I'm still strong today as the day that Moses sent me out. I'm just as vigorous to go out to battle now as I was then. Now, give me this hill country that the Lord promised me that day. You yourself heard then that the Anakites were there and their cities were large and fortified. But the Lord helped me. I will drive them out, just as he said. And then Joshua blessed Caleb, the son of Jephonah, and he gave him Hebron as his inheritance. The Sohebra has belonged to Caleb, the son of Japunah the Kenazite, ever since, because he followed the Lord, the God of Israel, wholeheartedly. He'd been used to be called Kyriath Argon after Arvath, who was the greatest man among the Anakites And the land had rest from war. I had meant to uh introduce to you today uh the way that I need to read scripture now. Uh this is actually why this sermon's coming up, you see. today. I have to uh we're bi purple is now to uh see some of the print here. And so if none of you need this message, I need it. Because when you start uh noticing that this pin on your Bible is shrinking, then you begin to notice that there is a time for you to take stock about the second half of the wall that you're building. So when you see the user from time to time, just think of Caleb and you think of this message that was the beginning of that. Now, I don't know about you, but Caleb is a terrific encouragement to me. Terrific encouragement. You mentioned you notice that uh this message is entitled A Sermon from the Far Side of Forty. Uh for many of you, perhaps most of you, uh where I am at 40 on the far side. is uh the different side of 40 from where many of you are. If you're like me and you're beyond that point, uh then I pray that God will use this like a dash of cold water in a race. Left your flag and and will slow down in your zeal. Of running that grace of Hebrews 12. If you're on the short side of 40, the underside, then I pray that God will make a profound impression on your life, even if you're way, way down there. Now way below for you, you kids, teenagers, those of you who are young, may the Lord use this has a strong incentive in your life. I remember when I was before I uh got married, this was back in the sixties before the fitness craze, and I remember seeing some of my friends getting married and hearing that something inevitable happened when you got married. And that is that you went to pot physically. Um you uh immediately gained twenty pounds, that was taken for granted, uh your muscles began to get flabby and uh you just lost all the tone, you know. And so I remember determining at that point, if that's what's going to happen, it's not going to happen to me. And the only way that it's not going to happen is if I take preventative measures right now. And so back in 1967, when we got married, I began to jog. Jogging wasn't a very big thing back then. I uh you know, I don't remember anybody else doing it. I never jogged with anyone, I just used to run. I used to run for a good while in the morning a couple times a week. There was no such thing as jogging, outfits, no suits, you know. I just wore my old work clothes. And in fact I was ordery enough that it wasn't until just a couple of years ago that I ever did get a jogging suit just because I didn't want to fall into the craze idea. I was jogging 'cause I wanted to run, not because I wanted to look cool. But the fact was But because I determined back then what was going to creep up one, and I wanted to avoid that, uh I find it a delight now to meet my old classmates from high school, you know, all the job. Some of those guys, they wouldn't have even played with me on the team. I mean, you know, talk about being picked. I would have not only been picked last I would have said that we have to take 'em. But, you know, now those guys are all hanging out, you know, they're just and I say, Hey, come on, you want to play something? You know Because we can determine the course of our life. I remember when I was an assistant pastor of the church when I was going to seminaries. I was in charge of visiting with the old people And one of the things that really struck me about those old people was there was no people in the middle. They were either the sweetest, most godly people that you'd ever want to meet, or else they were the most self-centered, full of self-pity, bitter people that you could ever meet. And I began to see that the course they had set out in their life in the early years just began to find its fruition as they got older. But so Caleb is for us a model. And I want as we look at his him now for you to be able to anticipate. The fact that many of us will tend to develop spiritual gunlops disease. Well dunlop's disease, as my wife reminds me many times, is when you dunno gunlops over your belt. Now Many of us, spiritually, come to that place of flabbiness. We slacken in our pace. We lose the cutting edge. And I believe Cam's life shows us three reasons for that and how to avoid it. outline. First one is to resist bitterness and cynicism. So I charge you in the name of Jesus Christ, congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, resist bitterness and cynicism as it creeps into your life. Look at verse 6 of Joshua. 14. Now the men of Judah approached Joshua and Gilgal and Caleb son of Jiphun and the Kennesite said to him, You know what the Lord said to Moses the man of God in Kidish Farniah about you and me. That may not seem very significant to you. But it is to me. Because Caleb had many reasons to be bitter. Many reasons to be cynical. Caleb, you remember, his blend reminded us. When he came back with the spies, gave a faithful report, let's go up into the land and let's take it. Not only did the spies turn down his counsel, the whole nation turned down his counsel, and so for forty years they wandered in the wilderness. Caleb didn't get to know him because he was faithful. He spent the best years of his life wandering around in the pits. Because these people wouldn't believe God. C And so how tempting it would have been for him to develop a bitterness and a cynicism. What does it matter? I try to follow the Lord and look at what these people have done, and so I've I spent the best years of my life in this arid wilderness watching people die, burials every day, plagues and snakes and everything else, because they refused to believe God. But even more than that, you remember that in the account. We read last week in Numbers chapter 13 and 14 of how we saw there that Caleb was the one prominent in his faith. It was Caliph who first silenced the spies. It was Caleb who had spoken to the people. And Joshua joined. with him in his faith. But Caleb was the prominent one. Now 38 years later, Moses finds that a new leader is appointing over Israel. And who is it? Joshua. Do you think that that didn't affect Caleb? Caleb says, I'm the one who has been willing to lead the people in faith. And God has appointed Joshua over me. Do you ever feel like you've gotten a raw deal and the things that you've done haven't been recognized? Did you ever feel like You are so richly deserving of just a little bit of self-pity. You feel like uh there's lots of reason to be cynical about what it's really worth to try your best in this life and to really try to be faithful. And then someone else Is recognized and you lose all the recognition. And that other person who's clearly less qualified than you is put in a position of prominence or given credit for something that you did. And a spirit of bitterness and cynicism begins. To creep in. And that loses, that causes you to lose the cutting edge of your faith. Because you can't be full of faith, you can't follow the Lord fully when it begins to come into your life. The place of Bitterness and cynicism. It'll drive out that faith. But you see, Caleb in verse 6, clearly, openly recognizing Joshua's leadership. He doesn't go up and say, look, God gave me heat, and I'm going to take it. And Joshua, I dare you to stop. He comes to Joshua humbly and asks permission, with no sense of bitterness. Joshua, you know what the Lord says to you and me, and he treats him as an equal, but then as a superior in terms of permission. Joshua, please. Please, I request you, give me heeding. And it was because Caleb would not succumb, I believe, to that bitterness and that suspicion that he was able to follow the Lord fully. And so if you try it in your own life now, a creeping bitterness. of creeping cynicism has begun to move through the years into your life as you've seen disappointment after disappointment. I pray that you will repent of that, that you will turn it to that today, you'll confess it to the Lord and say, Lord, I see now. what you've been what Satan's been doing in my life to take away the cutting edge for Jesus Christ. And I want to renounce that. I want to accept this caliph, the place that you have given to me. Even if it's an inferior place. Even if it doesn't seem like I have gained In the sight of other people, what I think I deserve, I am willing to accept that, son of your Lord, so that I might follow you holy. The second thing, notice that he resisted coasting in his faith. And so likewise I charge you, in the name of Jesus Christ, resist coasting in your faith as you grow older. easy as you grow older to live in the past, you know. It's so easy for Caleb to hang around with Joshua and say, Joshua, remember the old days. Remember that time we went out and we looked up and down the land and we explored it and we came back and we stood there for those for God and and all those people were mocking us and then they were ready to stone us. Do you remember that night, Joshua? Boy, that was great standing for the Lord that morning. Remember how he delivered us? Remember the very glory of the Lord came and vindicated us and stood between us and those Boy, that was a great time, wasn't it? But then as you begin to get older, you begin to find that you have more to lose as you begin to acquire things and you become more subtle. And it becomes harder to risk. And so you begin to come to that place where where risks become more difficult. And you begin to post on what you risked in the early years. And you think in terms of your experience with Jesus Christ of what God did in answering prayers when you stepped out on faith five, ten years ago. And you begin to live on a memory of God's exciting works in your lives. And there's a twisting in your faith on the experiences of the past. My kid. Look at verse 7 and 8 where he talks about how what God had done in his experience as a spy. And then in verse 9, he brings it right up to the present. He says, So now on that day Moses swore to me the land on which your feet have walked will be your inheritance and that of your children forever, because you followed the Lord my God's voice. God's given me a promise. Now verse 10 to 12. I want to cash in on it now. I want to press on now to trust him. Now then, verse 10. Just as the Lord promised, he's kept her alive for 45 years. One of the few men to ever know at the age of forty that he's going to live at least forty more years. Know that every day. He's kept me alive since the time he said this to Moses while Israel moved about in the desert. And so here I am today. See Two out of the whole nation as an indication of God's faithful. Joshua, here it is, human beings, you're only the ones who were over twenty years old, except the Levites, who God preserved alive in that nation. Now here we are, Joshua. five years old and I'm still as strong today as the day that Moses sent me out. That guy must have really worked out. Just as vigorous to go out to battle just as I was then. Give me this hill country that the Lord promised me that day. You yourself heard then that the Anakites were there, their cities were large and fortified, but the Lord helping me, I will drive them out, just as he said. You know what he's saying there? What he's saying basically is, Joshua, you know and I know that Hebrew is the choice country. Now before you start drawing any lots, Joshua, I want to claim on Hebrew. If everybody else Oh, give him Hebron. Oh no, hold on. Are you kidding? They're all saying, let him have it. Hebrew was the toughest place in the whole nation to take. That's where the giants, the Anakin lived. You don't know how big they are, but they were huge people. Descended from a race of people like the Zulus that we think of, the Latusi, people who were ex extremely tall, mighty in their stature, had powerful, fortified cities to defend the very best part of Canaan. And so Cana here, this Eighty five-year-old guy is saying, give me the toughest assignment in all the land. I want the very toughest assignment. I'm going to take it up and I'm going to drive out these people in the name of our God. Give me the very toughest assignment. I want nothing but God's best. He's not cursing in his face and saying, God's been good to me. You know, he's really helped me and he's kept me faithful and he's helped me in my fa in my health and various this and that. He's saying, I want to press on. I still want to see God show himself faithful. I want to see him still show himself in the greatest victory of my life, still ahead, at age 85. God is still able to do it. And so we need to always be careful lest we're coasting in our faith. I've mentioned to you a little plaque that a friend of mine has on his desk that says, what am I trusting God to do beyond what I know that I can do? And so I'm very grateful to God, to those of you who are teaching and assisting in vacation Bible school this week. And that God will use that for expectation on your part to say we've got to step out on faith, we're going to try and see these kids come and see some of them come to faith. Jesus Christ. We're trusting God as a step of faith to hold this Bible school. But some of you might say, I believe that God's calling me to see Him work in my life in faith and stretch my faith in new ways this fall, and I'm going to join the EE team, Evangelism Exploration Team. And I'm going to trust God to see Him move me out and build my faith in new ways. Always be looking for new ways to trust God for us. Your faith will diminish. It never stays the same. It tastes like a muscle. If you're not exercising it, it grows flabby and weak. Our faith must grow or it will diminish, even at age 85. And then lastly, Resist indulging yourself. Resist indulging yourself. Well it's so easy to say this. I've denied myself long enough. I've gone with that long enough. You know But they're good those good things can creep in an attitude. It says, why should I deny myself any longer? Why should I now have to deny myself those things that I only may have a few years left to enjoy? And I relax. I burned it. Well to look at my sins, but I've been so tired of confessing to God month after month, year after year, and praying, God deliver me from these things, these basic character flaws, root problems in my life. God give me victory over these things. thing. And I finally come to the place where I say, you know, I'm just gonna accept that that's the kind of person I am. I want to be a man, it's Syracuse. He had a lot of potential. He had one thing in his life that destroy him. He had a terrible temper. Hey, this guy would sit in business meetings and if they said something that ticked him off, he'd stand up, he'd tell everybody off in the business meeting or stop out. It was a salmon. That really gained him a lot. So I talked to him about this, and he was in his fifties at that point, and he said, Al, I've learned to accept the fact that I simply have a terrible temper. That's the way I am. I'm gonna have it till the day I die. I thought, how sad. God has given to you promises with regard to that. He's given to you resources And you're giving up in inheriting the possession. Well, in chapter 13 of Joshua, we're told in verse 1 that there was still very much land for them to take. In chapter 18, after the land's been portioned out, and they've been there for a while, we read in verse 3 that Joshua says to the Israelites, How long will you wait before you begin to take possession of the land the Lord your God, the God of your fathers, has given to you? You see, Tarash was saying that you have this land. God has given it to you. All we've done so far is establish a foothold in it, which is still me to drive out the inhabitants. How long before you're going to do that? You know, Israel didn't do that for two reasons. Reasons. Two reasons. Number one, because they're lazy. They're effort to drive out people, you know. You've got to wage campaigns, you've got to go to war, you've got to map these things out. It's a lot easier to just sit back and sort of hope they'll die off or something. We're gonna get a plague or something, you know. I don't know, maybe God will do something who'll wipe them out. But, you know, to go up and to wage war against them is a lot of effort. They're tired of fighting. Seven years we've been fighting to get to this point. Who learned some ease? He deserved a break today. Yeah, but then the second reason was greed. That's hinted at uh back here in uh chapter 17, verse uh verse uh 13. The Israelites grew stronger, but they subjected the Canaanites to forced labor. They didn't drive them out. Why? Basically, because these people could work as slaves. They were afraid of the Israelites as they produced things, the Israelites got those things. It was a means of tribute and easy labor. And so, because of their greed, they refuse to drive out these enemies. Let me tell you something. There's a big difference between you and me coming to a place in our lives where we say, I have learned to explain. accept the fact that I'm a sinner. And that I approach God on no other basis than the finished work of Jesus Christ, his death and his resurrection for me. And that there's no other basis on which I can approach Him other than that. finished work and I'll rest in it. A big difference between accepting the fact that I'm a sinner and accepting my sin. Saying, well that's just the way I am, you know. I'm tired of fighting that sin. I'm tired I'm tired of asking for God's help in that and being disappointed. And so I'm just going to, for the rest of my life, come to accept that's the way I am Because this speaks to our lives. You see, Jesus Christ has brought you and me into the kingdom. And when we trusted Jesus Christ and gave our lives to Him, He established us in His kingdom. And He gave us with that kingdom. A series of promises, promises to claim, possessions for their ours by promise. But he calls us now by the Holy Spirit, who is the down payment of all those promises, to possess our possessions. To drive out the inhabitants, to drive out the sin, to drive out those things in our lives that still threaten to overwhelm us. God says, I've given you the land. Nothing can ever take away the land again. But there are still giants in the land. And those giants discourage you, and those giants tend to drag down your faith so that you begin, so that you weaken, and so you're not on the cutting edge for Jesus Christ. And the call of Caleb to you and to me is to possess our possessions. Do you know? In chapter 15, you read of Joshua, what Caleb alone did. In Joshua 15, verse 14, we read from Hebrews. Caleb drove out the three Anakites, Shesha, Ahiman, and Talmud, descendants of Anak. And then from there he marched against the people living in Debur. Debur was one of their great fortified cities, possibly the capital city, formerly called Kiriat Sipur. And Caleb said, I will give my daughter Aksha in marriage for the man who attacks and captures Kirapsifer. Athniel, son of Kinez, Caleb's brother, took it, and so Caleb gave his daughter Aksha to him in marriage. Caleb, as far as we know, was the only one, the only clan, who actually finally drove out the Canaanites from his section of the land. All the rest of Israel compromised. And because of that, you read in the book of Judges how gradually the Canaanites were in strength, and they were a plague to Israel for hundreds of years. But not in the Hebrew. Caleb, at the age of 85, rebuked. To have anything but God's second best, but God's absolute best. And he drove out by faith those enemies in his land. He possessed his possessions. And so he's being the result of this three things very briefly. Number one, he greatest spiritual victory was at age 85. Do you expect that your greatest spiritual victories still lie ahead? Or do you simply live in terms of what God has done? and have no clear expectations of anything that he still will do. You look at those sins and those discouragements in your life and see those as opportunities for God still to show his power and victory for you. Would you look at those things and you say, well, you know, that's just the way I am. I've learned to live with it. Caleb saw his greatest victory. At age 85, he was still looking forward to the best promises to be fulfilled. Promises such as what? Well, look at the second thing To see his family follow him in faith. And they did. You see, in chapter 15, you notice that when Caleb went up and he drove out those three Anakite leaders, then he says, Now I will give my daughter in marriage for the man who attacks and captures this fella, this city beaver or Kiryat Keeper. And Aknael, notice who he is. The son of Tunaz, Caleb's brother, took it That's his nephew. Now remember in those days people lived in clans, and so Arthma would have lived with Caleb. They would have been in close proximity And therefore you see the picture that you can read between the lines here of Achnael, seeing his uncle Caleb through those years standing for his God. And it's contagious. Adiel says, I want to see God doing my life what he's been doing in my uncle's life. And so he trusts God and he steps out in faith and he takes Kiryatsifa And Caleb Gizon, his daughter, in marriage. You know, Osniel went on to become the first judge of Israel You read in the book of Judges about the men of faith there, Osmiel, Ken's nephew, is the first judge in the book of Judges. His faith followed on as he stood and followed God fully. He saw God fulfill the promises, those covenant promises given to him in his children and in his larger families, walking in faith in Jesus Christ. Then, thirdly, you see the peace and the joy fulfilled in his life. Peace and joy. Yeah, no, I know he had peace and joy. Well, first of all, I know it because he took Hebrew Hebrews and he drove out the enemies. And so he lived alone of all the Israelites, his plan lived in peace, not fearing attacks from the Canaanites. But beyond that, I know that he met with peace and joy because he had a generous heart. You see that from chapter 15 in two verses Verses eighteen and nineteen. After he's given Aiksa to Othniel in marriage, one day Aiksa, verse eighteen, came to Othniel and she urged him to ask her father for a field. When she got off her donkey, Caleb asked her and said, What can I do for you? And she replied, Do me a special favor. Since you've given me land in the Negez, that is the drier part, give me also springs of water. And so Caleb gave her the upper and lower springs. He didn't say, you know, Kendall, I've bought my life for these springs. Do you think you're just going to come and take them for a wedding present say you want them? Oh here's the price. He said no. He said they had to receive freely from his God. And so he says, sure. Here it does take the upper ownership. God's given me so much. A generous heart is a heart at peace. A generous heart is a happy heart. And so Caleb is a man who has peace because he's able to give, he's generous, and he's able to extend to those who ask him. So you see here a full life. from a man full of faith. What possessions is the Lord Jesus calling you and me to enter into As we as a congregation together claim the possession of the property that we need to build so that we can establish a base for ministry here in Columbia. That's an opportunity for us as a congregation to have our faith stretched beyond anything we've known before. It seems absolutely impossible to get that land. We don't even know where the land is And then we've hooked everywhere to find that land, and one after another has fallen through. And so what can God provide for us? Are we able as a congregation to say, God has that place, He's able to provide as we say, well now we'll just learn to live with the stonehouse But all you know, we'll just learn to make do with what we have and not trust God to provide something that's adequate for the ministry that He's calling us to as a church. Continue to persevere, brothers and sisters, in prayer to see God fulfill thy promise. And that'll encourage us individually. As we see those sins, as we see those opportunities in our lives, where we're able to step out on faith and to grow in order to see God continue to show himself faithful to us. I thank you for hanging in with me, as far as I can tell the air conditioning isn't on And I thank you for hanging in with me for us to look at the life of Caleb together. And I want to remind you, as we close, that in the promises of God, the message of Caleb is the best. is yet to come because God's promises grow larger and larger as our view of Him gets larger through the years. Let's