Good morning. So far out here have just said four things that I had planned to say. And my pyramid is getting short or whatever. Which may be a relief to some of you. I also want to say that I'm reminded as I stand here of the first time I led worship, which was every year I was scared about that and after that first service Al came up to me and said, Tom, you did a a fine job. I think one suggestion though is that you need to look more joyful. I said, Al, stop to look joyful when you're terrified. And this morning I think, well, maybe all right to look terrified, but at least I should look content while I stand up here. Of course the first thing that I was going to do this morning was explain why I preaching on contentment and Al has already explained that but I wanna I wanna mention it again that Al did preach on it last January and his sermon struck me very, very deeply and I think God used I've used it to get me thinking about contentment, and over the last five months or so, God has been teaching me a lot about it. And I am very thankful to Him for what He has taught me, for what I've learned. I think that my wife would affirm the fact that I've been a little bit of a good thing. I've been more content the last few months than I have been probably in the previous years that we've been married. And I hope that what I'm about to share with you this morning will encourage each of you to be content. I'd like to start out by noting something and I fear that my good friend George is downstairs, but that probably makes me fear to say this. George Waldrove is a very, very wise man. I hope all of you have noticed his wisdom. I've heard George be foolish once. And it was incredible foolishness. Because George, when he was received into membership in this church, drew attention to the obvious, and that was that he had gray hair. And everything Everybody knows that he's been suffering for having brought that attention to himself to himself ever since. And of course, I couldn't resist starting a sermon by bringing attention to his gray hair. Now there's a reason for that. that I have taken a certain amount of pride, simple as it may be, in the color of my hair. And I remember even as we were ordained as elders being aware of the fact that I didn't have all that gray hair, that I have a secret to the case. tell each of you. I have gray hairs. They're few and far between but they are there, and I try to hide them, but they're there. I didn't have them until I moved to Maryland. And the reason I have them is not related to this church. It is related to my job. And inasmuch as I see a few residents from Charlestown retirement community here, and to my surprise, I see Elmer Dorzbach back from General Assembly with the device. I'm not going to go into a lot of the details about the Grand Air. But the point is that when I first discovered them, I felt like naming them. And I named one after a particular residents that have given me a lot of trouble and I named an advocate after a particular employee that are giving me a lot of trouble. Uh neither are the residents that are here ever were named on my hair, nor were Elmer or Marjorie. But what God has been teaching me in the last few months is that I made a serious mistake trying to name my gray hair after somebody else. Because if I were to name my gray hair, I'd have to name it Tom. and Tom and Tom. Because I've caused my gray hair. It's been my lack of contentment and the anxieties that I've had in my daily life that it may have caused my gray hair. I can't blame it on anybody else. And God has been teaching me the importance of learning to be content in any situation. And that's what I want to talk about. So let's start by reading from Philippians chapter four, verses four through thirteen Rejoice in the Lord always. I will say it again, rejoice. Let your gentleness be evident to all. The Lord is near. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, present your request to God. And the peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds. minds in Christ Jesus. Sign of others, whatever is true, whatever is noble, whatever is right, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely Whatever is admirable, if anything is excellent or praiseworthy, think about such things. Whatever you have learned or received or heard from me or seen in me, put it into practice, and the God of peace will be with you. I rejoice greatly in the Lord that at last you have renewed your concern for me. Indeed, you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. I'm not saying it's because I am in need, for I have learned to be content whatever the circumstances. circumstances. I know what it is to be in need and I have and I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well fed or hungry, whether living in plenty, or in want. I can do everything through him who gives me praise. Let's pray for me. May the words My mouth and the meditations of our hearts be accessible in thy sight, O Lord, our rock, and our redeemer. Amen. I'd like to give a brief overview of what we've just read and sort of put it into the rest of Philippians. If I've studied the letter, I've realized that the main body of Philippians is the first three chapters, going through perhaps the first verse of chapter four. And it seems that after Paul had finished writing that main body, he added on some exhortations. Not an original thought of mine you've seen in your NIV Bible, but right before verse 2 it says, exhortation. Well it's a list of exhortations that are all sort of related but not necessarily tied into the main body of the letter. Then beginning with verse 10, he makes comments on contentment. Now it seems that the reason he did it It was that he wanted to thank the Philippians for having sent a gift to him. But in doing so, he didn't want them to think that he was in such desperate need that he didn't know where to turn and that they needed to send him more. So he added to his thanksgiving to the Philippians. Comment about contentment, that he knew that God provided for his every need and that he was content. He did not need anything because he knew that the Lord would provide. Paul being in prison? I think we can ask what application does this have to us today? As I look around at you and I think of myself, I don't see many people in Columbia. I'm sure there are a few. But not many who have genuine physical needs, who are in desperate hunger or truly in want. As I said, Paul is in prison, at least none of us are in prison. And yet if we look around us, If you look at yourself perhaps, if you look at our church and then our society, you see that we are a society of discontent. People just are not content. That can comes home to me whenever I watch TV because I tend to watch sports on TV. And the commercial that always comes on that just drives me to crazy is you can have it all. Nicolab beer. You know, Nicolov beer is going to provide But what that commercial is saying is that you don't have it all yet, and you have every right to be sort of discontent and to want more. What sort of a thing is that? God is calling us to be content with what we're We have not longing for beer or longing for a different job or for some other different situation. He calls us to be content. And he calls us to be content in everything, as we see in verse thirteen, where Paul says that he can do everything through him who strengthens him. So I think that to search into the scripture about contentment is a very appropriate thing to do, in a very timely thing. So let us consider What is contentment? I'd like to begin, as Al did in January, by talking about what contentment is not. Contentment is not, despite what many of us think, it is Not based on the hope of change. Have you ever thought about that? That you face a difficult situation or difficult circumstances and you think, well, I can be content because it's not going to last long. And then I'll move into the new situation. I think that's a pretty shallow contentment. It's the common world reaction, and yet it goes against what Alison's preaching about from James, because in James the Lord is teaching us the have perseverance and perhaps to stay in a situation and to learn to content be content in that situation regardless of whether there is any change. One of the examples that I think of regarding this desire to change and not to learn to be content with where you are is Dorothy and the Wizard of Oz. I don't know if every if any of you are a fan of that, but have you ever thought that at the end of the movie what Dorothy learns is that if she can't find it in her own backyard It's probably not worth having at all. And what that says to me is that God has taught us that if we can't learn to be content where we are in the situation that we face, then we're not going to be content later on in a new situation. I have an example of this from my own life that I'd like to tell you about because it occurred after Al's sermon when I thought I had learned about contentment. And fortunately God used this situation to show me how little I knew. At my work I have an office that I think is clearly located. It allows people to wander in and out. I can't get away from people. I can't get out of my office without running into residents particularly who have a tendency to complain to me. And last winter I developed this sincere, intense desire to move my office. And I believed that if only I could move my office then I would be happy at work. Now it it's the type of thing where I can't go to the men's room without being stuck. And just a few weeks ago, for example, I was working hard at my desk doing paperwork and I studied Sort of looked up, thought, boy, do I have to get to the men's room quickly? So I raced out of my office, down the corner, towards the men's room, and I got stopped by a resident. And I had my foot in the men's room door, and this resident stopped. me to tell me about a problem with her lungs that she blamed me for. Well, that took me off guard and I forgot where I was and I turned and another resident grabbed me and asked me a question about income taxes. And then I was really flustered and another resident grabbed me and asked me to go back to my office to complain about their bill. And I suddenly found myself sitting at my desk fifteen minutes later, suddenly realizing that I really had to go to the message. Now I go to the trouble of telling that story so that you'll know that moving my office was important to me. And after I've been dwelling on that, I faced the fact that I was not going to be able to move my office. And this may sound silly, but I was devastated. My attitude about my work sunk. And it's because I had not learned to be content where my office was, where I was working. I had based my contentment on what I thought was going to be happening in the future. And it was a shallow contentment indeed. So godly contentment is not based on what we think is going to happen in the future. not going it's not based on the hope of change. It likewise is not based on indifference to a situation. How often do we face a difficult situation, face something that we don't like And either decide, well, I'm just going to endure it. I'm not going to grow to life it. I'm not going to be content in it. I'm just going to endure it. Well perhaps we try to ignore it. Well, I think there are problems with that, and I don't think that scripture teaches us to be that way. Indifference is basically pessimistic. It is saying, I give up, I can't do anything about this, and God can't do anything about this. It's typical not a of Christianity, but of Eastern religion. Where in Eastern religions people are trying to remove themselves from their body, they're trying to somehow separate their spirit from their worldly existence. Yeah, Christianity Teaches that we are not to separate ourselves from where we are, we are to learn to be content with it. Paul was anything but indifferent to his circumstances. If you read through the letter to Philippians, if you look in chapter one one, chapter three, chapter four, Paul was always saying rejoice. He wasn't saying endure. He was saying rejoice. He saw good coming from all things. Romans 8. 28 says we know that in all things God works for good. That's not indifferent. In Second Corinthians, which again Alan referred to in January, Paul risks all of the struggles that he went through, all of the pain that he suffered. And he ends up not saying, but I endured it and now here I am. He says that he learned that in his weakness God provided strength. That's not indifference. That's not simply enduring something. That is contentment in a situation. So we know what contentment is not. So what is contentment? Contentment I think could best be defined as inconsistent. independence from circumstances. It means that you do not allow circumstances or a situation to control you. And I'd like to reread from Philippians chapter four, verses ten through thirteen and a paraphrase using my definition of contentment and it's not mine of course as um commentator. For I have learned to be independent of circumstances or surroundings, whatever they may be. My life and happiness and joy are not determined or controlled by those circumstances. I think that's what Paul is saying in verse eleven and verse twelve. He's learned to be content. had learned to be independent of the circumstances which were around him, so that they were not controlling him. And keep in mind that Paul faced far more difficult circumstances than most of us have. Well contentment Is just independence from circumstances. How do we get it? Well, I think one of the most important things that we see in this passage is that it is a learned attitude. Paul says, I have learned to be He later says, I have learned the secret of being content. What that means is that contentment is not a natural response. It is not an automatic response. It is a learned response. And we learn it through the scripture and through experience. Again, to refer back to 2 Corinthians chapter 11 and 12, Paul shows that it was through his experience His trials, his suffering, that he learned to be content. Now that again relates to what Al's been preaching about from James 1, where Al has pointed out that the wisdom that we pray for from God Come through the trials that we have. So contentment is learned. We also learn it not only from experience, but from the example of Christ. Because in Philippians chapter two We see that Christ, to being in very nature, God did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a servant being made in human likeness. He then went on to suffer. the agony of the cross. And he did it with a sense of contentment. He didn't simply endure it. He was content because he knew his calling from God and he knew his relationship with God. That leads into the other point about what contentment is. In the uh bulletin outline it says contentment is based on God's sovereign laws. That's a mistake. I intended it to say based on God's sovereign laws. Love. And I use the phrase sovereign love very carefully and with much purpose. The word sovereign suggests that our God does reign. He is a powerful God, the Creator God, who does not let a hair on our head disappear without his knowledge. So our contentment needs to be based on God's sovereignty, but also Also on his love. I have a small amount of navigator experience having been through a two seven course. So I've memorized some of the navigator's verses, and I remember 1 Peter 5. 7, which I'm sure many of you know. Cast your anxieties on him for he cares about you. God loves you and cares about you, so he cares about your circumstances. He cares about the situations you find yourself in. And we need keep that perspective when we think about our contentments. We need to think about God's sovereign love. We also need to know the Word of God and His promises. We need to know that Paul has written in and this is God's word that today is temporal, that the eternal is far greater than we can ever imagine. And that we can look forward to the eternal. We can remember that in James the vowel has been preached. We see that our trials, the discipline that we go through is for our own good, and that every situation that we face is for our own good. And we also can see in Philippians chapter four. And my God will meet all your needs according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus. That no matter how desperate we may feel, no matter how difficult the situation may be, God will meet all of our needs. Keep in mind we must have a godly perspective that is based on God's sovereign love. Now I have an illustration of this that I heard in a sermon many years ago. It relates back to an old amusement park. When amusement parks were more common in more cities and they weren't as big and sophisticated as bush gardens or whatever it is that people go to around here. what you could call an amusement, which was a big tunnel or cylinder that was tall enough, big enough in diameter that you could walk through it. It wasn't terribly long, but you could walk through it. The difficulty was that it would spin. And what you had to do was walk through it without falling and without the spinning motion of this tunnel to sweep you by so that you just kept falling over and falling over. Now there's a way to walk through it without falling down and without getting caught up. The way to do it is not to look at the spinning tunnel. Don't look down. You don't look to a side where you just see this motion and wonder how you're going to get your footing. You look straight ahead. And you look at the exit of that tunnel and you just walk. And you ignore the sin. Now obviously for my illustration what I'm saying is that you look to God and ignore the circumstances in the sinning tunnel It tends to make us fall down. You focus on the light at the end, which represents God's love. For a final point I want to say that I think what God has taught me most strongly, in addition to the very basics of what contentment is and how to be content, that contentment is fundamental to lasting. Now perhaps none of you have gone through what I've gone through in my understanding of this, but I realize in studying Philippians that because Paul talks about joy and peace. First, that that precedes contentment in our lives. So Paul says, Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I say rejoice and then he says the peace of God which passes all understanding. I thought that if I could simply learn to be joyful all the time and to feel peaceful all the time, that that would add up to contentment. I think that's wrong. And then I've reversed the order of things. Because when While we certainly can know moments of joy and moments of peace, I don't think that we can have lasting joy or lasting peace without the undergirding of a godly contentment. I define contentment as being independent from circumstances. Paul, in chapter 4, says that your joy and your peace should be not based on circumstances. It should be based on God. It says, Rejoice in the Lord. It says the peace of God. The joy and the peace are coming from God. And of course, that's almost the definition of contentment that I've used. Because he's saying that your contentment, that your joy and your peace should not be based on the circumstances, but should be based on God. And the contentment that he talks about later in the chapter is not contentment because he feels good about yourself or that you feel good about no no longer being hungry, but instead you are content based on God and His supplying your every need. So if you struggle perhaps with your inner joy, whether it's a lasting joy, a lasting peace. I would encourage you to think about your contentment and whether or not you truly are living independent of the circumstances. that you are in. Are you truly content because of God? And then is that the base on which God will provide you a lasting joy and a lasting peace? Al mentioned that after his sermon in January, he and I spoke about contentment. And one of the good things that came out of his sermon was that I was praying and meditating on it. and on the whole idea of contentment, and I came up with an image that has helped me in my understanding of my failures. And I'd like to share it with you with the prayer that it will help you too. I realized from Al sermon that prior to nineteen eighty six, my contentment has not been consistent. And the best way I can illustrate it is to imagine to ask you to imagine that you are sitting In a chair, all alone, and that you are covered by a dome. And it is a dome of light. All parts of the dome are light. Now, when I had thought of my contentment before this, year. I had thought that contentment would be an absolutely evenly lit stone. I would be content with everything. And I wouldn't see any variation in the light. I would be content. And yet I kept finding that there were shadows in my dome of light. There were dark spots. There were areas that became brighter and then would dim. And it was a very inconsistent glow. And I kept thinking, well how can I learn to be content? Because everything's changing. And then I realized that yes, we may be sitting under a dome of light which represents all the situations that we're facing. But God in his Love has seen us under that zone and has sent what I can only liken to a laser beam that goes directly down over us and completely enshrouds us. And that laser beam of light is so bright that you no longer are aware of the shadows or the of the unevenness of the glow in the dome. You're no longer aware of whether or not sometimes there are areas which are brighter. we are completely within the light of the love of God and it is such a powerful, strong light that the rest of it simply doesn't matter. And I believe that that is the key to contentment. That the love of God, His sovereign love in our lives, is so great that we do not need to worry about what's going on around us. We don't want simply to endure it. We can just Realize that it does not matter because God loves us. If you know Jesus Christ and know the love that He has for you, I would urge you to consider Consider this beam of light. Consider the love of Christ that overcomes everything around you so that the shadows and the darkness are no longer important. If you do not know Jesus Christ. personal. If you have not enjoyed the forgiveness that he gives, if you have not enjoyed the love that he has for you, then I urge you, respond to his call. Turn to him and Free yourself from the circumstances, from the trials that you face. Receive the love of Christ and receive the victory that is due so that you are completely in Dwell in his love so that you can be independent of what goes on around you and you can be eternally in hand. Let's bow our heads to crash. Our Heavenly Father, I do thank you for how you've been working in my life and teaching me contentment. And I thank you for giving me this opportunity to share some of that truth with your people. And I pray that what I have said that is of you would be registered on people's minds and and that what I said that it's out of view would disappear quickly. I pray that each person here would grow in your ability to know contentment that is based on use, that is godly contentment. Be with us as we go forward each day to that we can enjoy contentment and have lasting joy and lasting peace. And we pray in the name of Jesus. Amen.