Al doesn't know what's the matter with the lights. Red doesn't know what's the matter with the lights. I don't know what's the matter with the lights. If you do, we'll appreciate illumination. As Al was experiencing the privilege of the baptism of the children this morning. I could only identify with him in uh the experience when we baptized our granddaughter Hannah Now they're in Africa, but when we baptized our granddaughter Hannah, she was possessed of an upset stomach before the baptism. After the baptism, I was possessed of her upset stomach. So I understand now uh what's going on here We are happy for the privilege of sharing with you the Word of our God this morning. I have been sovereignly blessed with a cold for the past week, and I trust I will have enough voice for you to hear that which the Lord has given to us. To bring to you this morning. The passage of Scripture from which I would read only a few verses is from Psalm eighty nine, which Was read in private this morning as worship began. I will sing of the Lord's great love forever With my mouth I will make your faithfulness known through all generations. I will declare that your love stands firm forever. That you established your faithfulness in heaven itself. You said, I have made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David, my servant, I will establish your line forever, and make your throne firm through all generations. Let us pray together. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father. In Jesus' name we come boldly to the throne of mercy and grace. Yea, Lord, we come because you have bid us come. You have moved our hearts to come. And you have through the blood of thy Son prepared for us the way. O bless now thy word, we ask. Gather our hearts and our minds to thy praise. And as a solemn sound, signaling to us, thy children, this seriousness, Of the moment of our lives. For we ask in Jesus' name. Amen My physician has advised me that I am a dying man. He has not told me when. You say, what manner of physician is this? Who advises you that you are dying, but makes no suggestion as to when the process will conclude. Are you sure you have a reliable physician? Should you not seek another? A counsel of an additional word? No. When I lost my use of my left eye, I sought the wisdom of four physicians, and I decided when they agreed that I would stop chasing around for a solution. To the problem of blindness. I would accept it and live with it. And so when the physician says to me You are a dying man. I accept his word. Because you see Your physician has said the same thing to you. He has not told you when that terminus will arrive. What physician is this that we share in common? Is it not the great physician And has he not told us that it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment? You and I will indeed slip beneath the sod if our God tarry in his glorious coming. And in the words of Alfred Lord Tennyson, we will join that innumerable caravan. That issues inexorably to the grave. No, I don't know when my terminus will be, nor do you. As a pastor of these many years, I have buried babies. I have buried the teenagers. I have buried the youth in their prime. I have buried husbands and wives. And I have buried the elderly. I do not know, nor do you. And it is better this way. That way we live each day. Unto the praise and the glory of our great God, anticipating that I shall stand someday before my Lord. But what would you say if you knew your hour was coming? How would you Speak of your last will and testament? What word would you give to your posterity after you? Oliver Cromwell, the great protector of England, who was signally used of God in that day. Spoke to his weeping children from his deathbed. Love not the world Live like Christians. I leave you the covenant to feed upon. The Lord has filled me with as much assurance of his pardon and his love as my soul can hold. Charles Dickens Wrote in his will, I commit my soul to the mercy of God through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And I exhort my dear children humbly. To try and guide themselves by the teaching of the New Testament. The great Christian merchant Henry J. Hines, whose name we recognize on his products, made the following statement in his will I desire to set forth at the very beginning of this will, as the most important item in it, a confession of my faith in Jesus Christ as my Savior. I also desire to bear witness to the fact that throughout my life, in which there were the usual joys and sorrows, I have been wonderfully sustained by my faith. And finally, you know him by the words he wrote in The Taming of the Shrew, or Romeo and Juliet, or the Merchant of Venice, or a host of other magnificent things that he wrote But hear the final will and testament of William Shakespeare. I commend my soul into the hands of God, my Creator. Hoping and assuredly believing through the merits of Jesus Christ, my Savior, to be made partaker of life everlasting. It was the great infidel Voltaire of French Renaissance, if you could call it such, the great Enlightenment period of France. Who having mocked all religion, and I can understand how he would mock some of it, what he saw was mockable. But there was no peace in his soul, and he said, I am about to take a fearful leap Into the dark unknown. Some years ago, I had the opportunity of pastoring in Denver, Colorado. I was working with a woman from the community, and her husband became ill. And so I visited with him And his physician told him, Foster, you have six months to live. And then, borrowing from the prophecy of Amos, that Catholic physician said to him, Prepare to meet your God. That physician was a good gatekeeper in Foster's life, and he made my own gatekeeping ministry much more significant and much easier. For six months I had the pleasure, weekly and sometimes more often, of visiting with him, of instructing him as to the verities of our faith. Pointing him to Jesus Christ, admitting to myself I could not make him believe. He struggled with this. One day I went to see him in a greatly agitated state in the hospital. And he was exceedingly restless. And I interpreted that as a sign of impending death. And I grieved because I had no assurance that Foster had come from death into life. And it was a matter of real prayer for my wife and for myself. The next day I hastened back to the hospital, and I found a man entirely different, quite composed and restful, quite peaceful. And I said to him, Foster, what has happened in your life? You are so different from yesterday. He said, Pastor, I can't tell you exactly what happened. And then he said something that has always been a mystery to me. He said, last night in the middle of the night, I saw a strange and great light. Something I have never seen before. He said all the passages of Scripture And all the counsel from the Word of God that you brought to me came flooding across my soul. I made peace with my God. I am ready to meet Christ as my Savior. A little later We took some of the folks from the church, some of the elders and some of the members of the church, and we went to his home and we baptized him there on his deathbed. And he made public profession of faith on that occasion. He died before we could bring to him the communion service which was to follow the following week. A while back in our ministries at Charlestown, my wife and I attended one of the ladies there. When we first met her, she had little interest in the gospel and little interest in our coming and talking with her. But as her malaise deepened and continued. And her own terminus began increasingly to draw nigh. She increasingly wondered about her soul Marge spent a lot of time with her. Spent a lot of time reading scripture and offering prayer and counseling with her. And then he said to Marge, one of the last bits of conversation, is it too late? Is it too late? And Marge assured her it was not too late. There was still life. There was still time. And we saw the wind blow. We saw the power of the Spirit of God And from the edge of the grave, Betty Norton breathed out her confession of faith My Lord and my God. And shortly after, she entered into heaven's rest. Years ago, when I was a student, I pastored in our Middletown Delaware OPC Church. And there was an elderly couple there that had been brought to the knowledge of Jesus Christ through the ministry of Reverend Leroy Oliver. I came to know the Branners as an elderly couple. He was then in his mid-80s. And he rejoiced in his salvation in Christ. He blessed the Lord for what the Lord had done for him and for his dear wife, for together they had entered the gates of the kingdom. Mr. Braner rejoicing as he did in the mercies of the Lord, for he was indeed drawing close to his own grave. Nevertheless wept, literally wept, and so did his dear wife. Why? Because they had sired thirteen children and now grandchildren. And none of them, none of them Professed faith in Jesus Christ, none of them. Or the grief of his soul He thanked God for his salvation, but his concern was for his children Hear now and see now the passages of Scripture that speak to us Lessons and counsel from the edge of the grave. I have printed out, I had printed out, and I thank the office staff for the effort that they have gone to. When anyone reads my writing, it is an effort. And I thank Pat and Rhee. I call your attention to this. The lights will blink on and off. There is a short, I understand, and the the toggle switch. Counsel from the edge of the grave, and I'll read it to you, and you could take it home and study it, because there will be no time this morning to to read all of these passages of scripture. Perhaps there are other excerpts that we could take from the Word of God, but hear now from these at least. First, that there is a counsel of Abraham and his son Isaac. The counsel that we hear from them is primarily one word: their burden for God's covenant. And for their posterity. Abraham charged his servant to gain a wife for Isaac, not from the ranks of the Canaanitish women. Isaac charged Jacob to obtain a wife, not from the ranks of the Canaanitish women. When Esau heard this, it so pleased him he could do something to make his father unhappy that he proceeded to take wives from the Canaanites. But the last words that we really have from Isaac and from Father Abraham is the concern for the covenant of God and their posterity. And throughout the scriptures that we have read in the 89th Psalm and the passages which are still before us, there is a concern for posterity. I have come to appreciate within the last two years something of my own heritage. As I've gone up into the cemeteries of Northern Virginia and see there where my ancestors are buried, I did not meet my great, great grandfather. His name was Israel. I did not meet him, nor do I remember, though I should My great-grandfather, for he died when I was five, and I should have remembered him. But I don't remember my great-grandfather Isaac There I have Israel and Isaac in my ancestry. And I have a son by the name of a grandson by the name of Timothy, Joshua Timothy. And another grandson by the name of David de Jesse. And I have a granddaughter by the name of Hannah Ruth, I think. I have a right to say there is a biblical following in the nomenclature of our children and my ancestry. A concern for one's posterity, the generations yet unborn, should identify you and me. If God has gifted you with children, pray now. Pray regularly and set a guard as you are concerned. For the spouses, the mates that your children will select. Pray to that end. Oh, how thankful are Marge and I That we have now professing children, professing spouses, and one, two, three. Of our four of our grandchildren have now made their public profession of faith in Jesus Christ. We thank God for that. We pray for the rest of them, that all eight of our grandchildren Will acknowledge the same Savior as their parents, as their grandparents, as their great-grandparents, and on generations back. That's the first thing we would observe. The second counsel comes from Jacob. Jacob, in his final graveside remarks. Was concerned first for Joseph's sons, and he prayed that the shepherd of Israel would watch over those boys. Would cause them to grow into manhood, would lead them and guide them. Jacob the scoundrel, Jacob the deceiver, Jacob the cheat. spoke of the shepherd of Israel who had led him and guided him all his life I pray for my grandchildren, he said, that they may know the shepherd of Israel. For Judah his son, Jacob claimed the promise of the Lord concerning the forthcoming of Messiah and the ruling, the scepter that shall come. Anticipating the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. To Joseph He prayed that the blessings of fruitfulness would rest upon that son, and all that that son had meant in the delivery of the family. These were Jacob's words from the edge of the grave. Moving on down to Joseph. Joseph claimed the promise of God for the deliverance of his people from the land of Egypt into the very land of Canaan. He claimed God's promises on his deathbed. Here, Moses. Moses' counsel to Israel, we find in Deuteronomy 30, 31, 32, and 33, the conclusion of the book of Deuteronomy is given over. To Moses. He challenged Israel. Choose life and obedience, my people. The counsel of a man whose days are over. He's in his 120th year, and he goes to see his Lord at that point. And these are his words and his concern. Choose life. Choose obedience. Study these scriptures sometime this week, perhaps this afternoon, a good preparation. for the Lord's Supper tonight. To Joshua he turned and he said, You're going to lead the people of God, the people of the God of covenant and of promise. Hear and know that God will be with you. He was with me. He led me. He guided me. He counseled me. He strengthened me. Joshua. Be of good courage. He'll strengthen you too. From experience, Moses called out from the edge of the grave. He placed the law of God in the tabernacle as a witness of God to the people that this, the word and the law of God, should ever be set before them. Not the vicissitudes, not the changeableness of this world, the judgment and the counsel of peers That so trouble you and so trouble me. But the living word of the living God. He set that as a witness before the people. In the 32nd chapter of Deuteronomy, it's the song of the redeemed singing to the Redeemer. Of all that the Redeemer had done for his people, the covenant of deliverance by God of His mercies. When he brought Israel forth from the land of bondage. The last thing we get from Moses From the edge of his grave is the blessings of the tribe in terms of the covenant. Oh how the covenant rings through. And I'm so thankful, Pastor, that uh we had the covenant this morning. And sign and seal. Little and precious. I w I went to see the the little one. I went to see Patrick and and uh Kathy wasn't sure who in the round world I was. And uh so when she heard that I was coming to see her, she called one of the elders, Who is this that wants to come and see us and see the baby? But the sign of the covenant, blessed be the Lord. It speaks for the little ones. And it speaks for those of us whose hair we wipe out of the laboratory every morning. Blessed be the Lord. Drop down to Joshua. His challenge to Israel was much the same as Moses. Joshua was ready to leave and go to his own inheritance, taking his family like Caleb. But he issues to the nation the same solemn counsel. The God of covenant has made you his people. Remember that. I don't know who you're going to choose, he said, but as for me and my family, we will serve the Lord. I cannot guarantee my children, nor my grandchildren's faith, nor my great-grandchildren, which I hope to see. But I can guarantee to them that the God of covenant mercy is a faithful God of grace. I can guarantee that to them. Even as Moses placed the copy of the law in the tabernacle, so Joshua took a copy of the law and placed it beneath the great oak someplace there. And he said, this is the witness. Placed a great stone over it. This is the stone of witness, the Ebenezer. We testify to our children, to our grandchildren. Oh, not perfectly. No, imperfectly And you dear parents know how imperfect we are. The best efforts that we make often gang agglee Often go awry. But we thank our God for his faithfulness, don't we? That's our only hope. That's our only confidence. We rejoice in God's faithfulness. Going on down to David David charged his son Solomon to love and obey God's word. Oh, Solomon kept it for a while, prayed one of the most beautiful of all prayers in Scripture, one of the longest prayers recorded, perhaps. Is the prayer of Solomon on the occasion of the dedication of the temple. Oh, a high watermark in the life of that man. From then it was downward. But his father had charged him. Unfortunately, his father had set some poor examples to his son. David had many wives. Solomon had more. The tragedy was that Solomon apparently listened more to what he saw than what he heard. Some tragedy there, isn't there? The same thing was true of old Eli and Samuel who followed him The practice of the precepts was not there. I look back on my life As I witnessed to my children and to my grandchildren, and it's not perfect. I pray God that in his mercies and in his grace He will cause to be heard the precepts more than my imperfect practice Oh, I plead with God for generations yet unborn. Hear the counsel of Stephen As he yielded up his spirit, and he said to two things that are so significant. As he was being stoned to death, the first martyr of the Christian faith, the deacon who laid down his life after a most eloquent sermon He said, Receive my soul. Forgive them. Forgive them. Lay not discharge to their account. The confidence and the assurance of a dying man receiving the wounds and the blows of heavy stone, which was eventually to claim and snuff out his spark of life. His faith was there. But his heart said, forgive. Oh, how grievous it is to enter into heaven and to stand before God unforgiving. Carrying the bitternesses of life into the grave of death. We have counsel. Forgive. Even as God for Christ's sake has forgiven you, good counsel from the edge of the grave The Council of Paul comes to us. We read in the perhaps the last epistle. If it wasn't the last one, it was the next to the last one, Timothy and Titus. 2 Timothy and Titus, the final words of that servant of the Lord. Saul of Tarsus, who had come to the saving knowledge, the light of God had shined upon him. The wind of the Spirit had blown upon him. And he became Paul the apostle. And he said, Hold fast. That which has been committed unto you. Teach other generations, that in turn they may teach yet more generations. He said, I have fought a good fight. I have kept the faith. And now there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord will give to me. The life was finished. He was beheaded on the Austrian way, some few miles outside the city of Rome of that day He lay down his life, even as he had been a perpetrator of the dying of Stephen. For Saul of Tarsus had been the coat keeper of those who stoned Stephen to death, and now it was Paul's turn. Now he shall enter into the valley of the shadow of death, but not alone, nor was Stephen alone. He entered with the shepherd. From the edge of the grave, Paul spoke of his confidence. Paul spoke of his hope. Paul spoke of his help. There was the council of Peter in 2 Peter, where he said, I must soon lay off my mortal flesh The Lord has told me that. The Lord told me I was going to die for him. Peter knew that. Peter didn't know when, but he knew it was getting very close. He said, I must soon lay it aside. I must soon lay off my flesh. But I'm concerned for you, the church, it goes on, the church of the living God, that you live godly and holy lives in this day and generation. That you proclaim the witness to the power of God and the truth of his word, his counsel from the edge of the grave. And of course, there was the counsel of our Lord Jesus, the seven last words. Were his words of counsel from the edge of the grave? Were they not? Consider those words It is finished. Tell us thy. It's over, it's done Into thy hands I commit my spirit. And he gave up the ghost. These were the seven last counsels of our Lord Jesus. There are five things that I propose that you might take from this Body of counsel, and perhaps, and I hope, you will add to the list. First, God is faithful to Himself And his word of promise. Marge and I have been reflecting over these our forty-four years of marriage We have reflected on the mercies and the goodness of our God, the supply of our every need Beyond anything we could ever ask or have hoped for, how the Lord has supplied He's been faithful in other ways, faithful in the forgiveness of this wretched sinner. He's been faithful in leading us and in guiding us He's been faithful in support of us. Blessed be the Lord. We testify to the God of fidelity, the God of faithfulness to himself. Secondly, God's goodness and God's justice as we read through these grave Side councils, God's goodness and justice are constant By the Lord to change not. Judgment and justice of the habitation of his throne. Righteousness and peace have kissed one another. To all generations, we proclaim a God who is constant, who is absolute, and who deals in absolutes Upon which you and I may surely base our lives and claim our eternity in Christ. The third to be observed is God's grace makes my life significant. Oh, I have talked in my days as a pastor to many who are elderly, to those whose lives are spinning out. Not just the elderly, but to others also. And they have lamented their feeling of non-importance. Of lack of significance. Every one of them speak. I am important before my God. It is He who has given me significance and importance. I am created in His image. As his image bearer, I am important. He has given to me work to do. I am important. Every one of these attested to that fact. Culminating in the testimony of our Lord Jesus, it is finished. In his prayer, he had said, I have done that which you have committed unto me. I have kept them. The significance of our Lord lay in the fact that he came and did the will of his Father in heaven. It is God who makes you and me to have significance The fourth thing we would observe from the last psalm that our Lord quoted from on the cross. Where he said, I commend myself to you. He goes on, the Psalm goes on, and it says, My times are in thy hands. Shall not the elderly say that surely? Shall not to those whose lifespan is narrowing? My times are in thy hands, Emmanuel Church O. P. Church in Thornton, Colorado, had a lovely young woman who had finished her college education. Was seeking to know how to serve the Lord with her gifts, her talents. She played the organ beautifully She was a sweet young woman, very shy and very unassuming, and God visited her with cancer. She wondered why the Lord had taken, was taking her, for she knew that her days were numbered. There she was in her early twenties. And she wondered, Lord, why are you doing this? I have a life, I have talents. Why are you taking my life now? What would you say to such a young woman as that? There is no pat answer, there is no easy rejoinder. Only a heavy heart that rests itself on the solidity of the solid rock Our times are in his hands. I've seen that as a pastor many times. When the angel of death climbs in the window of a home and takes away a little one, takes away a youth. Takes away a teenager, takes away the breadwinner of the family, takes away the mother, takes away the elderly. Our times are in the Lord's hands. The same hands that bled and died, the same hands that created us, the hands of the palm of which has our names written. Who wrote our names in the Lamb's Book of Life, our times, are in his hands. The little ones that come that God has gifted in this church, they're not ours. They're the Lord's As Hannah prayed so long ago, as long as he she lives, he she shall be lent to the Lord. What I have is not mine. It's my Lord's. And finally, a responsibility. is to glorify, to exalt God by precept and by practice for the next generation. By precept and by practice. There is a word, I think, in this church that ought to be sounded. Some of you women have no children. Perhaps God will give you none. It's the grief, the emptiness of your life, the same with your husband's. It's not easy to see other children born and baptized and raised. It's hard. But I would charge you, dear childless couples. I would charge you before God To lift up your eyes and to see that the family of God is more than just the flesh and blood that emanate from your bodies. It is also the people of God. Pray for the children of others. In a church of Jesus Christ, there are no childless couples. And there are no parentless and grandparentless children. We are concerned for the unborn generation. But oh now, as we conclude, and I thank you for your tolerance of time. As we conclude, so teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. For the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Blessed be the Lord. For the counsel for the living that he brings from the mouths of the dying. Have you heard? Have you not seen? Now go home and practice. O Lord.