It's uh again great to be with you as we have returned from the summer. School has started, structure has returned, praise God, to our lives. I'm speaking for myself. As some of you perhaps are really structured in the summer, it's really good to have school back. As we turn in God's Word this morning, we are coming back to the book of Acts. And uh when we were last in the book of Acts, we were looking at the persecution that was taking place in Jerusalem against those who were preaching the gospel. And that persecution, as we will see over the next few chapters, over the next few weeks. we'll see as how that persecution was sovereignly ordained by God so that the promise that he gave at the beginning of the book of Acts that they would be his witnesses for the Christ and the gospel, first in Jerusalem, Then to Judea and Samaria and to the other parts of the world. That is precisely what begins to happen in the chapter that we look at today. And in the process of doing so, we will see how the gospel comes into confrontation with people's lives, and those lives are changed. Some lives are not. And it enables us to also see what conversion looks like, what it doesn't look like. And then also, how are we to uh understand it? And how are we to relate to these stories From a long time ago. Are we all that more advanced? Do we have different struggles? I believe we are very much like the audience that this word first came. And I hope it will be a help to us as we seek to apply God's word this morning. And as we do so, we will look at what is the purpose for our salvation. What does conversion look like? What does it not look like? And what does true faith require? That is here for us in the story as the gospel goes forth through Philip as he preaches in Samaria. Hear now God's Word, Acts chapter 8, verses 9 through 25. But there was a man named Simon who had previously practiced magic in the city, and amazed the people of Samaria, saying that he himself was somebody great. They all paid attention to him, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the power of God that is called great. And they paid attention to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic. But when they believed Philip as he preached good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, They were baptized, both men and women. Even Simon himself believed. And after being baptized, he continued with Philip. And seeing signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed. And when the apostles at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the Word of God, they sent to them Peter and John, who came down and prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. For he had not yet fallen on any of them, but they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. Then they laid their hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit. Now, when Simon saw that the Spirit was given, through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money, saying, Give me this power also, so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit. But Peter said to him, May your silver perish with you, because you thought you could obtain the gift of God with money. You have neither part nor lot in this matter, for your heart is not right before God. Repent, therefore, of this wickedness of yours Pray to the Lord that if possible the intent of your heart may be forgiven you. For I see that you are in the gall of bitterness and in the bond of iniquity. And Simon answered, Pray for me to the Lord that nothing of what you have said may come upon me. Now, when they had testified and spoken the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel to many villages of the Samaritans. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Father, we thank you this morning that we come together around your word. Your word is what has called us to worship. Your word has called us to confession. Your word has given us the promise of grace and forgiveness. Your word equips us, encourages us, warns us, and directs us. Father, every one of us in this room desire to hear you speak. You have spoken, because your word is your word. We thank you, Father, that you have indeed spoken to us. So now, Lord, we pray by your Holy Spirit that works together with your word that you would give us hearts to believe. to hear and to then live out faith that is true. Make us wise and discerning about the difference between true faith and counterfeit faith. Help us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We come now again to this book of Acts, and over the next few weeks and over the next four chapters, we're going to see the gospel leaving Jerusalem and bringing about conversion in people's lives. This is the first time really since the beginning of the church that the gospel has now left the immediate borders of Jerusalem and is now spreading to the surrounding regions Many scholars call this the first excursion or incursion of the gospel into the Gentile population. While that is true, the Samaritans themselves were not considered to be Gentiles, as would other Gentile areas like Judea What we learn in this passage is the gospel coming forth into Samaria, which was certainly no friend to the Israelites. Had seen some success, yet difficulty, even during Jesus' ministry. What we see here is the gospel coming in power and challenging people. And where God is drawing people to Himself. But we also see that the story gives us a man named Simon. He's an important person, a And Simon is for us a central part of the story to give us, I think, a way to distinguish between counterfeit faith and true faith So you'll see in the outline, we're going to look together first at the stronghold in verses 9 to 11. Then the breakthrough of the gospel in verses 12 and 13. God pouring out his power, verses 14-17. And then looking at what I certainly believe to be a counterfeit, and that is verses 18 to 24. So together, let's look at this stronghold in verses 9-11. Verses 9 to 11, we learn a little bit about who this Simon person is. He was not unknown among the people of the Samaritans. He was not unknown even to the earliest of the church fathers. There were those who were familiar with who he was and what his ministry was like and what his powers were. And what we learn is indeed that what Simon conducts and what he does is really a representation of a spiritual stronghold among the Samaritans. So let's look at it together. When he says in verse 9, but there was a man named Simon who had previously practiced magic in the city, amazed the people of Samaria, saying that he himself was somebody great. And then verse 10, and I'm thankful that this is included, that Luke included this, he says, They all paid attention to him, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the power of God that is called great. Now what is the stronghold? The stronghold is uh illustrated for us because there was a legitimate desire that the Samaritans had that all of us as human beings have. Whether we will are willing to acknowledge it or not. They desire, we desire transcendence. We desire something that will break through the stuffness of life to demonstrate to us. That there is something more, something that captivates our imagination, something that gives us goosebumps, something that drives us and motivates us. The people of Samaria were no different than anybody else. They desired something transcendent. And why not? They were surrounded by difficulty and trial and persecution. They were certainly at certainly not friends with the Israelites. Being during this time of the world's history would have been surrounded by death where there wasn't the kind of medical care, in fact, it was the kind of care that you would would not want practiced on you. There's a great deal of difficulty in trial. And whether you were successful or you were impoverished. Here is a leader who is respected, looked at, and he performs what is translated for us as magic. Now we hear that word magic and we think bunnies out of hats. That's not the kind of magic that he practiced. The kind of magic, most likely, that Simon practiced was very much in keeping with what would have been a part of his religious faith. You see, Simon was not only a practice A practitioner of magic, he was also a leader. And that is, among the Samaritans was Gnostic thought. Gnostic thought is this idea that there is a secret knowledge that you can attain to that will unlock what life is about. It is mysterious, it is not readily uh at least evident to everyone, and they pursued him as a teacher. He was so popular as the text It clearly illustrates, if you had put his name at the time in Google, you would have come up with eight million hints. There would have been videos, likely selfies, with other people who wanted to be seen with him. He was that kind of guy. He garnered that kind of attention. And the kind of magic that he practiced was of a spiritual nature. They were incantations calling up spiritual powers as a way of defense. That there was a battle among the spiritual realm, again, bound up in this secret knowledge. And so he would teach this kind of magic to gain attention, to gain power. to gain success and standing in the community as one to be followed, to be heard, to be seen as a source. And we can see that from the least to the greatest, and all around Samaria, it tells us indeed That they paid attention to him because for a long time he had amazed them with his magic. They wanted more. And it was a spiritual stronghold because this is precisely the playground of Satan himself. He knows that we want more, though he doesn't know everything. He knows enough about human humanity that we desire more than just what we can see. We want that thing that can unlock everything else. But the problem is it's so elusive, so unattainable, yet so enticing, but we can't put our hands on it. It's something we pursue, but we never quite lay hold of. That it becomes a stronghold. We just look for one more visit of Simon, one more piece of this secret knowledge. I must follow him. That's the stronghold. Now we think of ourselves as modern and advanced Are we any different than these Samaritans? I subscribe and have subscribed for years to Wired magazine. It is both at the same time what they write about absolutely fascinating, but also absolutely frightening. Because I see in the human heart, what I see in my own, a desire for something more. Something more. So how can I find and experience a technology, a language, a way Something that will unlock just this stuff, the brokenness The mundaneness, the grind. Isn't there some other virtual reality that I can seek after? We are no different. We are no more advanced, no more modern, and many of us are chasing after that elusive next thing, that next. Experience, that next seminar, that next book that might unlock that door, that will give my life, my day, more meaning, more purpose. Yeah, they're not going around pulling bunnies out of a hat. But they are at the fingertips on our laptops and of our smartphones. And of our curved HD televisions. It's a stronghold. And it is so elusive But here we find that Philip comes into that region and he begins to preach. And when he does, there is a breakthrough. In verse twelve, he gives to what to me Is both an encouragement to my own heart, as I'm sure it is to Pastor Tim, as we wonder at times, we come and we we have to stand before all these people who are looking at us. And we're preaching. And I will tell you, from a human perspective, I've more than once asked, why am I doing this? Why do you come? What difference does it make? It seems so weak. Because it is. I'm a broken sinner, and it is a weak act There is no other reason except for that the Holy Spirit works together when the word is preached. And here Philip comes, verse 12. And when he preached the good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, no magic, no secret knowledge, no elusive truth, but he preached The good news about a man. A man who they knew of, who they had heard of Who would they would have known had been crucified, they n this would not have been uncommon for them. It is not an elusive truth to work its way up. He simply demonstrates it and he says, This was Jesus Christ. This is what God has done, and it tells us that they believed Philip. And they were baptized. What is it that Philip preached? Or when Luke records it in such a short fashion? That he preached the good news about the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ. What is that? This last few weeks I've just been reflecting on a portion of John chapter 3. I've been thinking about it in my own prayer as I exercise, as I drive around, and I was listening to it again yesterday, over and over, as I was working around the house, is this phrase. For God so loved the world that He gave. He gave What is the good news? That God so loved the world that he gave his one and only son. Why? Because of sin. What is sin? As we've already heard this morning, that we were created to be beings and humans that love Sin is the fact that we've taken that which we were created to do, which is to love, and taken that from God and given it to something else. Most principally, we love ourselves. Instead of directing our love to the God who deserves it all because He has created all things, including us, and everything we have as a gift, instead of loving the giver. We wanted to be like God. And God became seen through a mirror to our face. We wanted to be like God. And so our loves are no longer invested and directed towards Him, it's directed towards ourselves. And yet, in the face of that sin. And all of its fruit, which is the fruit of ev which is gives fruit to every kind of sin, that the Bible tells us in the words of Jesus that God so loved He gave. Humanity has done nothing but take and take and steal. Sin is always a thief. It always takes from that which God says is good and takes it for its own and turns it on itself. And yet God so loved the world he gave. And what did he give? God gave from all eternity His Son, the eternal Son of God, became flesh, the stuff of life, incarnate, born of the Virgin Mary, walked like we walk. sweated and ate and got tired like we do, and yet was without sin. He gave up that we might gain. He died that we might live. God so loved the world that he gave. And he died on that cross, and on the third day, he rose again. Therefore, we receive the good news that despite our spiritual and relational adultery, And sin against God and loving another. God pursued us in Christ and He gave. And He loves. And that is the good news. And Philip preached it, and they believed. Why? It's not elusive, it's not secret, it's a person. It's not a secret knowledge, it's a story. Where there are witnesses, and there's an empty tomb. And there are now those witnesses are preaching. And when Phillips preaches what is clear, because they believed and were baptized, it was beginning to break down and deconstruct the stronghold, you see. And maybe what was happening is what was being elicited out of their hearts is, this is what I long for. What I'm really made for is not an unknown transcendence or secret magic or defensive arts But I was made to be in relationship with the Lord. Now that is the stuff of life So much so that this breakthrough seemingly makes it to Simon. Simon himself believed, it says, verse 13, and after being baptized, It then tells us this he continued with Philip, meaning he continued to follow Philip. And seeing the signs and great miracles performed, he was amazed. So far, so good. But then after the breakthrough, something else happens in verses fourteen to seventeen. The power of God is poured out. The power of God is poured out in the Holy Spirit. Verses 14 to 17 recount what takes place. Now it's important for me to note here at the beginning that there have been many, including early on in my Christian life and as I've gone on, who've tried to convince me that this passage is teaching. About something that is known as second blessing. That one becomes converted to Jesus Christ, but then you must wait for a second blessing, a second work of the Lord, where you receive the Holy Spirit. And that this passage is seen as a norm for Christians. The problem is it doesn't bear up under the weight of the testimony of Scripture. This does not seem to be the norm. There's something that seems to be unique about this passage. I'm thankful for that because early on in my Christian life I was being convinced trying to be convinced that indeed this is what is normal for the Christian. I was invited to churches that that taught these kinds of things. Perhaps some of you have been to those kinds of churches or maybe even your regular attender to one of those kind of churches. My desire is not to bash any particular church, but to simply say, may whatever I say, or what any pastor says, or any teacher says, or any book says, to bear up under the weight of the context. Of the scriptures. And what seems to be the case is I was taught that you can be converted, but must wait for a second blessing of the Spirit. that then is demonstrated through the speaking in tongues or another kind of demonstrable gift. Usually not talking about the fruit of the Spirit, but a specific gift. Early on in my Christian life, roughly about eight months or so after I became a Christian, I attended one of these churches I went to this Sunday school and one of the Sunday schools, I think it was it was a high school Sunday school, and as I left that Sunday school, I went into the bathroom. I'm very thankful for having gone to the bathroom that day. You may wonder why. It's because I learned something. That there was something underneath all of that teaching. Two men came into the bathroom and they began to discuss what they had just experienced in their Sunday school. And that Sunday school, as I they were talking about, it was a Sunday school where they were being taught how to pray in tongues. Now I'm not here talking about the gifts of the Spirit. That's not my goal. But what was very clear to me Is that this was not necessarily the evidence of the Spirit coming, but something I need to learn. And it began to ask questions and even cause more confusion in my own mind. But something I came to the conclusion of Does the Bible teach that I can be converted, but then I must wait for a second blessing that then is the evidence of God at work in my life? If so, why does God, who doesn't need any particular language, require that I demonstrate a certain kind of prayer language as evidence of coming to faith? That did not seem to bear up under the weight of Scripture. It does not seem to be the consistent testimony of the book of Acts, nor of the New Testament. This seems to be unique. So what is going on here? And so I would challenge all of us to at least consider the context. What seems to be clear is there doesn't seem to be something deficient with Philip, but rather there's something going on in Samaria. We must allow the context to drive what we learn from Scripture. The Samaritans were not friends with the Israelites. And so now this is the first time that the gospel is breaking out of Jerusalem, now into Samaria, and they're hearing testimony that the Samaritans are believing and being baptized. So it was normal practice, they would have gone, as it is told us, Peter and John, go, dispatched from the church of Jerusalem, to go and hear the testimony of these Converts. So they go. In the process of going, the passage tells us that they saw that they had not yet received the Holy Spirit We don't know why. We don't know if it's the fact that they had were not evidencing the fruit of the Spirit. We're not sure if it was syncretism. They were trying to combine the Christian faith with some of the Gnostic thought that they had learned. We're not completely sure. But what is being taught here isn't so much second blessing Christianity, not at all. But in fact, the Church of Jesus Christ leaving Jerusalem, following where the gospel is going, and trying to discern When the gospel goes out, it not only brings converts, it also brings plenty of counterfeit. And so they're going to legitimize this ministry into Samaria. And in so doing, they see that the Spirit has not yet come on. And so they pray, and the Spirit comes. What is built there, I don't believe, is the doctrine of second blessing. What I do see is the church learning of what's going on as the gospel breaks out and breaks through. But what seems to be the consistent teaching of Scripture is that when one is converted by faith in the work of Jesus Christ. And when one believes in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ alone for salvation, that that is when one receives the Holy Spirit. But that Holy Spirit is never alone. What is issued forth, what is demonstrated, is the fruit of the Spirit. And maybe that's what was missing. We don't know. But what we do see is that when they pray, the Holy Spirit comes. And when the power of God comes, it brings new birth. So if there's anything I want you to take away from this point, it's this. When the power of God comes, it brings new birth. And it says, For they had but they had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus, and so they laid their hands on them and they received the Holy Spirit. And when that happens, that is the New Testament saying, new birth has come. As we learned earlier in the book of Matthew, as was read earlier, one can be converted and believe, and even, and this is the scary part. Even as Jesus testifies, you can even exhibit great power. Go back and read Matthew 7. They were prophesying in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, they were preaching in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and it sounds like they were performing mighty acts. Miracles. But he says, I will say to them on that day, I never knew you. So it's interesting. So conversion isn't necessarily measured by one's power, but by something different. And is a resting. And that resting is in the new birth that can only come not by our hands, but alone through the power of the Holy Spirit. This is something the New Testament talks about over and over again, as Jesus would say to Nicodemus in John chapter 3, as he says, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Peter says it in his letter. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. That when God pours out his spirit, it brings new birth, but also new identity. No longer are the Samaritans to understand themselves as Samaritans first and foremost, or even as men and women, but rather to see them first and foremost as children of the living God through Jesus Christ. It's not bound up in their gifts, their position, or their background, but alone in relationship to Jesus So that is the power that is being poured out. So what is the result? The result we see is something that happens in Simon. Let's look at that together. Rather, he says in verse 18, now when Simon saw that the Spirit was given through the laying on of the apostles' hands, he offered them money. Saying, give me this power also. The reason I believe that the conversion or the belief, the initial belief of Simon seems to be counterfeit is that first we can see that he understands the gospel as something that is meant for personal gain. He wants to offer money to get something in return. Secondly, not only does he see the gospel as being wrapped up with his own personal gain, A fruit of personal gain is seeing it as the gospel as something as an opportunity to kingdom build for myself. Notice what he says. He says Give me this power so that anyone on whom I lay my hands may receive the Holy Spirit. He seems to be still bound up in that life of being seen as the source. As the guy everybody comes to, as the one through whom powerful things happen. So he wants that power too. Because he's about building his own kingdom. A third thing that we see as a part of this counterfeit is not just that he sees it for personal gain, for the building up of his own kingdom, but we can also see embedded In his desire to buy the power of the Holy Spirit, we see his definition of power. His definition of power is in relationship to other people. He went to them after following Philip, doing these amazing things, and he says, hey. What do you think? Can you give me that? Why? Because he wants to be back in that place of position of power. Now let me ask you a question. Are we still so advanced that we don't we can't relate to what Simon is struggling with here? I mean, I think we need to pull up our pew chairs a little bit just right by Simon and go, are we all that different? By that I mean, do we not understand the lure of personal gain? The lure of building our own kingdom, the lure of defining power in relationship to how we look to other people. I wonder that. As I was thinking about this this week, I realized that there are a couple of things that seem to be clear to me as a part of our culture. That we live and breathe in every day, number one, there is an absolute addiction, if not tendency, to derive identity and significance. From what we do and what that looks like in relationship to other people. Either we see ourselves as being a little more successful or a little more inferior. And how we see ourselves on that relational spectrum radically impacts how we view ourselves and how we relate to others. There is an absolute addiction, if not over driving purpose, to see our identity and significance from what we are able to do, our gifts, our abilities, our talents, and then to see that in relationship to other people. Secondly, another thing that we see in our culture that is so obvious, so get into the big old church bus with me for just a minute. We're going to drive down the street in your mind's eye. We're going to go to the one last Barnes and Noble there is probably on the planet, up in Ellicott City. We're going to go in front of all the magazine rack, right? We're all going to stand there as a congregation. We're going to look at the magazines. And what we're going to see on those magazines are different covers and different headlines and everything else. But what we're going to see coming through and through, if we can step back from the particular particularities of each magazine cover. We're going to come away with this absolute thing. Our culture absolutely positively sees gifts and talents and success as something that should be amassed. Perfected and improved on. Five more tips to make you a better runner. I need that. Right? One more thing to help your child succeed. Unlock these three key aspects of being a leader in your organization. Five best ways to clean out your kitchen cupboard. Right? Magazines make their lives off of this And commercial after commercial after commercial tells us that our culture, our stuff, our people, we as Americans are absolutely into trading and amassing gifts. If they can be purchased, great, so that we can what? Store them up and use them for our own ends. There is no way in the world that you and I can spend most of our waking hours in that kind of culture and hope that we're not going to be accommodated to it. Isn't it so easy to begin to turn Christianity into yet one more commodified gift to add to my already well-lived life? If I can just learn five more steps to learn how to pray. One more sermon. One more book. Nothing wrong with listening to sermons, nothing wrong with learning from books. But how much of the Christian stuff that is out there is just being put out as something to be purchased and bought into and followed to what? To feed Us, the fat and happy. It is so tempting. It is so alluring. And it can be done in the name of Jesus Christ. And it all looks so good. But underneath it is the powerful poisonous engine That, unless deconstructed, will lead us away from dependency on Christ to greater independence and asking God to come along for the ride in our already well-lived lives. True faith is recognizing that every single word Every single thought, every single act, every single gift, every single talent, regardless of what you do, regardless of where you work or where you serve or where you live. or what you make, or what your skin color is, no matter what. It's all a gift. And none of it, not one square inch of it, is independent of God. Therefore, true faith, as the power of God comes in to bring new birth and new identity, means that we take all the stuff, all the gifts. And we surrender it and say, not for my kingdom, but for yours. Not for my glory, but for yours. Not for my success, but for your name be made known It is the fruit of being born again into a new way of life. A new way of understanding power. Power is not something to be amassed. Power is seen in weakness and service and love The gifts that we have are wonderful and beautiful, but are meant to be rooted in the love of Jesus Christ on the cross and through the resurrection. Rooted in the love of Christ, but flourishing in the mission of making God known and extending his grace. And not just about building my own kingdom. Now Peter warns him. He gives him a stern warning. In fact, it's dire. It seems that Simon does not receive the Holy Spirit here. In fact, he tells him that you need to repent. He says you are entrapped in this poison. You are still in bondage to the world's understanding of power and personal gain and personal kingdom building. And he says, repent of this wickedness and pray to the Lord that if possible, the intent of your heart may be forgiven you. That invitation is to me. And I want to put myself at the front of the line to say to you, as a pastor, If you think I'm immune to looking at the world of pastorates around, looking at churches around, and if you think I'm immune from wondering, boy, if I could preach like that. If I could write like that, if I could be in that kind of place or with that kind of church, wow! And if you think the Christian industry doesn't promote pastors to reach pastors, you're kidding yourself So, what I say to you is, as one in humility in the name of Christ, as one beggar for bread, I stand before you and I say, This invitation. Is a reminder to me that true faith begins with surrender. True faith begins by saying, Lord, have mercy upon me, a sinner For your name alone be all the glory. I am but clay in your hands. That is an invitation to us. That is where repentance begins. And that is where repentance can begin for us. Because we say, because of new birth in Jesus Christ, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be glory. I cannot put Simon in any eternal destination because that's not my job. I don't know where Simon is. What I see here are elements of counterfeit faith. But what causes me to quake is: am I all that different? I'm called to come again as you are, Lord. Lord, may your name be praised. In just a moment, after the prayer and benediction, or after the prayer, but before the benediction, we're going to sing, Arise, my soul, arise. When we hear that word, soul, we think the thing that's invisible inside of us, the spirit But it's biblical language. It's biblical language for our entire life. So when we stand and sing, Arise, my soul, arise, shake off your guilty fears, it is to bring glory. Arise, my soul, arise, bring glory to the Lamb of God who is slain, through whom new birth and new life can happen. I would encourage you to think about that as you continue to go out through your day. Arise, my soul, arise, for he is the Lord. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this morning. We thank you for your word. We thank you that you give us and call us to a place of humility and surrender. Because you have given us everything we need for life. And eternal life. And Lord, you call us to surrender all that we have, that the new birth that is given to us through your Spirit, because of Christ, We can be made new. And we can give ourselves to you completely. Help us to do that, O Lord, and help our souls to arise to give you glory. In Jesus' name. Amen