We continue to have uh the largest upward basketball group in the um in in the country. And it's not to say it's the same, it's not one size fits all in every country, but certainly for a place like Japan and other parts of the world. And so that is still something that Dana and I would very much appreciate your prayers for and support of. And I agree, and everybody that's been there confirms that for me. So it's like, okay, what's next, Lord? And we just did a big garage gut out last Monday and had at least two trips to the landfill that I was involved with and one more that Kevin and Dana did Saturday. I came over, I took a picture of it, I was going to do this special little email and send it out to the announcements group this week and a lot of other uh things uh as you are well aware uh in our church family took place that prompt uh And Tom played and he was like, Are you sure it hasn't been tuned in five years? Because again, the bulk of our ministries take place within uh underneath the discipleship priority of our church uh as we started a high school ministry is uh being able to be a a competitive yet a Christian focused league. Um down on the border working uh sports camps and English language camps. uh mission session team is working on some new kind of refreshing our vision for missions, kind of evaluating some of the things we're doing, and to begin to roll out some more clear uh policies vision and And we prayerfully want to consider how God may be calling members of this congregation to go into a career of serving the Lord in another country. If if any of these that I've just mentioned actually come to fruition, it'll involve us geographically moving, you know, from the area. Maybe maybe this hasn't been fully evaluated yet, but uh is is that still uh planned? Yeah, get all of our ideas, all of our energies and passions flowing together. That has to do with gifting. But we believe these priorities are ones that the Lord has given us. In addition to those three teams, we have the executive team, which is made up of each one of the heads of those teams that are planning for the agenda for our session meeting. So this gives you a little bit of inside working of what we're doing as a session. I I promise uh since I detest them, no PowerPoint. It's uh myself, uh Robbie Pennington, Michael Dransfield, and George Walgrove. We are uh working with an overseeing uh the the World World Missions uh Task Force Group Task Force Group, which Robbie will be talking about in a little bit. Um the Upward Elevate basketball, uh the Deacons and um English language ministry. Tuesday with many different cultures, uh many different people, lots of volunteers. Um our elevate upward basketball has continued to grow. We uh sent uh Joel and Annalise Gardner to China this summer. Going to Brazil, uh we have some uh individuals who are uh that our church is sending uh currently. uh do uh cast and vision and work on future planning for the world mission team. Uh he knows I've been talking for over a year now about trying to find a a gifted man to take that role and God has definitely provided that in Anthony. and uh those types of things as we move forward. uh although it's not October, but we'll have Dan Iverson coming in to to preach and sometime in September. That have put a lot of effort and love into the missions here at CPC. And so we believe that's what we're called to do. And very excited about the work that our missions team is doing. have been able to disciple and raise these folks up and they are now going out as church planters, as indigenous church planters. So God is at work. Gary Ahrens is our worship team leader, and I know Tim has a few words he would like to share as well. and find out how things are going. me to say. I think something that God has had to work out because I've already heard a uh unfortunately, you know, you know, you're not what we're looking for or whatever. it's it's now become something more and that'll be that'll be interesting. Fall progress. privilege here. um precluded me from doing that. And so Tom Allen was gracious to get with me on a Saturday. uh uh organizing rehearsals on a regular basis, uh these kinds of things and so that what we are bringing on a Sunday morning has been That's the second thing. in the future very quickly as well. And that person will be tasked to do s what what these folks are going to be doing sort of you know ad hoc uh volunteering uh this summer, that's what we're looking for this this uh description and proceed from that. So we we um we do know uh and have spent uh I know the team has spent an a lot of time thinking about this, the session has spent a lot of time thinking about this. Is this would be an ordainable position or no? And part of that consultation was getting his feedback. logistically, structurally among the the Presbytery, how the churches work with the Presbytery. or career missionaries, that as Presbyterians, we believe in connectionalism. As we get bigger and bigger, can't be quite so unleashed. Between this spot. Let me explain. um provide opportunities for our youth in mission. Hopefully launch something in the in the fall. encouraged by the fact that you're here and you wanted to hear about this. Instead of just doing email or just doing reports that you may or may not read, this allows us eyeball to eyeball to to talk. and to seeing the kingdom of Christ expanding through missions and through the kingdom of Christ being praised and extended through worship. to emphasize oversight of ministry, to emphasize communication, the three C's, communication, community, and caring. And knew that every ministry should be able to fit under one of those priorities worship, discipleship, and mission. But we were still meeting together as elders twice a month, all together. We still meet twice a month. They plan, they come up with ideas, they oversee ministry, which I'll get to in a moment, and then they report, each team has its own report, and that comes back to the full session. We've been doing this now since March of this year. Each one of these teams is working hard on the areas that they've been tasked to work on. will be the discipleship team. Um uh for those who always said that Upward is a great league, but uh you you can't really uh uh compete. um in our church and um it's exciting to be a part of this uh mission committee to see what God's doing. So Anthony Swan, we're very excited about Anthony here. and give our uh you know identify what our summer teams will be that CPC is supporting directly. uh Randy won the first kickoff Sunday. And Anthony has stepped up to be the chair or the leader of that team, so we're very excited. Who do not know the Lord from that home country to raise them up as church planters. If you've never seen what goes on here on a Tuesday night, it just reminds you of just what an international community Howard County in Columbia really is. And so I'm very grateful for that ministry there. to the gospel commission to preach Christ and Him crucified in this community, in this region, and around the world. So now I want to bring up Pastor Flora and I'm not sure who else is coming up with you for the worship team and their work as they've been evaluating everything we're doing in terms of worship. feel like we're getting confirmation on that, is that the Lord was uh leading me to search out a a new pastoral uh call, a pastoral call elsewhere is I guess the way we described it. In that meeting, uh I'm gonna I'm gonna steal, I guess, from uh what Gary was gonna communicate about that meeting and and what we're trying to do as a worship team. You know, from last fall Randy and I uh stood in October and we made this announcement that um we really believe and Plant us somewhere that'll be good for us and his kingdom we trust. to try to do. we shut down the the process. their mother church and different things. please pray also. um as I transition out, which also affords me opportunities to be able to go and preach and be able to go and and meet with um with other churches and spend uh if not weekends then at least the Lord's Day with with some of these other settings which we think probably be coming up, you know, as the summer and And uh some of you have been very kind. That it just be the Lord's will be done because we still believe and I think the session is in agreement on this is that it'd be good to to I'm gonna put in quotes because And Tim's a part of that. Because of the word I'm going to use, just to spread the wealth. And um this lady uh who Paul knows uh had just moved from Bethesda to Annapolis and her church didn't have room for it. the glory of God for years to come. of that but uh yeah praise god together that uh I I I'm reluctant to use her name because she was very solo key but this lady just a dear dear dear sister and Christ and she just wanted us to be able to use that. Uh it's sort of bittersweet because we're we're planning for the eventuality of his departure, but I I do want to just uh give him credit that you know Tim was very involved, uh his care for the congregation, that we either directly involved in worship or uh who had some part or who had a desire uh to learn more or something. Or have some input. the opportunities we have as a congregation in worship and then what are some of the challenges, what are some of the things that we we really need to face. uh in worship leading, if you will, or what's happening up here on the stage. is rather than before it was a worship leader, oftentimes Tim, who would carry the music, carry the leading of the worship, that type of thing. rehearsed, it's been uh and that's that's their role. Um it would seem like the vision to use that term has to come first. to evaluate that. Or is that is there going to be a change there? uh structural changes that have gone uh on within the PCA and particularly the churches we've been working with. Um so we have obviously have a passion for it. has had a lot to do with the fact that we're playing low priv profile on Suthan Horas right at this moment. So there needs to be accountability, needs to be oversight, there needs to be a connectedness to a larger body. that's kind of within reach, not too far away, attainable for a group of kids to go for a period of time, not just for a day, but you know I believe from Katrina Morton. Lord, I pray for each of these teams and I pray for everyone involved in these various ministries. teens, that means that when we meet, and we were meeting twice a month, that when we meet together, all together, So one of the desires that we had was to with our vision statement, and that is to experience and extend the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. that we have a series of priorities, things that we believe that God has uniquely gifted us for as a congregation. At that point, if are there any votes, anything that needs to be taken by the whole session, that will be done So with that in mind, I'm going to now introduce Robbie Pennington and both our ruling elders, Dulce and Ellen, to come and give us a report on what's been taking place with our mission team. um all four in great ways some of the the highlights uh in the ELM ministry uh the place has been hopping on on Tuesday Ordained hopefully this summer. that are going on board there. Um we had the session uh a few months ago, decided that October was a much better month. is not just the process of planning, it's also going through the necessary analysis. Is going through and not taking anything for granted, or we've always done it that way. It is becoming increasingly unpopular for churches to support career missionaries. Of Japanese descent. And it is indeed international. uh important to try to accomplish because the goal, if you will, as hard as it is for me to say, but also as glorious as it is for me The OPC has a a large uh questionnaire and the PCA also has a large questionnaire and you fill out and you you're writing paragraphs of stuff and you're filling in your various beliefs on various things. uh listed. You know, and talking with Randy and various others, um, it it probably worked out that I maybe dodged a bullet and and um they is as much as I should. possible and and very promising. Talking about the uh kind of that limbo land that you uh you know I I love serving you and I I love um being able to do the things that I'm doing here, but we also have realized as a session that it's important for me to probably uh have uh I don't know how's been worded, but less you know less visibility And I said, yeah, because he knows and uh we've we've had conversations with I think two others and three if you count one possibility at one really possible It matches our mosaic cross. not be left holding the bag, so to speak. And we are just in the, you know, you've seen it, Steve did a great job this morning in terms of being involved in selection of the songs. If there are any questions. We do know what we're looking for, we do know what we're aiming at, uh and so we're not just putting together a job description Uh we know uh philosophy of ministry, approach, um our expression of worship that person needs to be consistent with. So there can be different elements. uh he, whoever that person would be, would be actively working with uh the pastoral teams in terms of the sermon, uh theme. uh any songs that are chosen have to be approved by the pastoral team. But now he's uh independent, he's being supported by his church and Beam is no longer in existence. uh is definitely making sure in our evaluation process as we work with different mission teams, church planters So we'll be hearing more about that next week. Getting everybody involved, anybody that wants to be involved in these things and getting all your ideas and still being efficient and getting things done. as we hear questions and people who have ideas and thinking about Tom with the you know, do you have a vision about job uh what what you want to see? And so one of the reasons that we've been doing this this week and next week is now you know who to come and talk to. just uh something we've always wished that we would do or whatever. Our mission team leader is Bill Sianella. So, for example, today, if you have an idea, a thought, or a question that comes up later, please address that respectively to those team leaders. The second thing uh that you addressed, uh Wayne, which I I think is an excellent point, is there is a difference and I want us and it will take time, right? Except for what I'm getting ready to do, you're not going to hear exiting my mouth. Another idea would be, instead of using the phrase unleashed ministries, we don't want to use that word. So there's oversight and so forth. Again, next week, please come. Here, and we look forward to worshiping with you again. I want to thank you for the many talented folks that we have here at CPC. And we give you praise and thanks in Jesus' name. While we were doing good things, we were not able to get ahead. for many reasons and we took that to the idea to the world mission team and they supported that so we're very excited about being able to have October as our missions model That particularly within the Reformed tradition. They recently met with all of our worship leaders and uh and musicians and so forth, and that's continuing uh a process. And I was a bunch of people who had either participated in music or audiovisual ministry in various ways and people that we thought might be in the future. I have a resume put together that I can tweak and individualize for particular job descriptions as I see them And I just I keep getting notes from him. Uh I appreciate that. isn't always the best for them. Which of these reading glasses are yours? And that was very instructive for the session. A worship leader who would be greeting, who would be reading the scriptures, prayer, that kind of thing, and a separate song leader. Uh with respect to the worship leader that and and Gary you had talked about a job description that is coming up. And uh the MGW staff, we just felt like this summer was not a good time to invest in the resources until they can kind of work out some of their music slash song leader. work uh for for MTW and so it's been more relational you know there's been a lot of fallout from beam not being there both with So you may have been left out of some group that you think you have something to contribute to. planning, praying in these few months than we have in the entire time that I've been here put together It has been a tremendous encouragement to all of us because now instead of waiting for those meetings and then we put out these action items as elders to the congregation to let you know some of the things that we've been working on as these different sessional teams. So we have this morning worship and mission. We've had some great testimonies of what God has done in the lives of our our kids, and this past year we had our first uh upward uh graduate, so to say, play on a college team. great opportunity for us to see what God's doing there. and um share some of the things. And uh Gary, Wayne Koch, Jaime Cruz, myself, and Rick Bellavo when he can is the way we've described that. So in addition to that, we just want to take the opportunity then to open up the floor to questions. issues that we we kind of took a break this year. For us to continue to grow and extend the kingdom of Christ in these two very important ministries of this church. Career missionaries are absolutely vital. An example of that is English language ministry. So as far as I know, the Presbytery is supporting teams to go to Boardwalk Chapel. On those three priorities. And uh and that's exciting to see that uh God is using upward and elevates uh to spread his word even on on college teens now. Some was to Brazil in July. There's uh a couple of other discussions that I'm in and um right now I'm trying to just kinda hold those close to the vest because and and soon I'm gonna be talking with our session about at least one of them because I think that it's It has been uh just a great pleasure to work on this uh sessional team and uh as Tim has said that it's And so uh there may be more. part-time person to do. Moving right along and it's been uh great, like I said, working with the the the other elders on this team. Alright. thought or action on what exactly you're looking for to see. But you need to have a vision of what you're looking for in terms of the result before you can really do that job description. Well, at the time we started our involvement with them, we were very tight with uh border evangelism and mercy ministries, uh, with Tito being part of that. It is ten forty-eight. So there will be a lot more information. Because the reason why these church plants are happening in a place like Japan, it is because the missionaries who are there or as a career If if we believe that what he's leading us uh to pursue is his Holy Spirit directing, then he's gonna um Two others, and uh they just never have worked out. The job description is in the works. They're not the ones tasked with uh leading through the liturgy, the worship. and where we're going in that regard. and to take that to Colombia, the region, and the world. In a great way. The deacons, God is doing a great growth in. But um we we thought we might try to recreate what we started that meeting with, and that was a reminder from me that um So I'm not sure what to do with that. nominees for a search committee for that particular position. So there would be regular meetings and so they're not they're not spun off just to decide whatever they want to do. We want to emphasize fellowship groups. We believe that that's great when you're a smaller church. I believe it was someone who had a question. A couple of uh I guess it was a month or so ago, April in April, uh, the uh our worship team had a meeting with, I guess what they call worship stakeholders. We want to try to prepare for the eventual time when there's no Tim uh at CPC. well, you know, to God's glory. Just to bring up the speed of what we have done in the last couple of months, first of all, we met on April the 24th with what we call stakeholders, folks that are So as you uh that's an excellent question, an excellent point. Typically overseeing this role, generally this is a non-ordained position that would report directly to the pastoral team Anyway, uh I'll get back somehow. And I'm going to mention the piano before I step down. So to put it in the most simple of terms, one aspect that we care one priority, operating value for the World Mission Task Force. We haven't been able to reach all of them yet, but we're getting there. Unleashed has embedded within it the idea that if you have a ministry idea and you come up and we say to you, well, that's just a great idea. Um so in the it with the goal as our worship team got together, our goal was to uh plan for Tim not being here. One of the things we've been trying to do as a session is to uh strike the right balance, a really vibrant balance between Um I just had a conversation with somebody um just last week um in the office who had come in for something else. The first thing I would say is so we have three teams, which means we have three team leaders. begun to put them into planning. Please continue to pray for the outreach. Um I'm sure I'm leaving something out, but anyway. And we want to see that continue around the world. Um but you're quite right you can't just put a job description in place and then go find somebody and say good luck with that, right? It has to do with passion and commitment. And um I've had uh two uh substantial discussions, one with a a session that was um to uh you know to prepare the house and stuff. Other questions? So uh I'm all I'm involved in the meetings, we're involved in the initiatives, we're involved in the um the new ventures, and uh Gary's gonna come What we did at that particular meeting was a Saturday morning, and so we did a sort of an old fashioned brainstorming session where we talked about you know what are the strengths, what are the weaknesses, what are the So it's 10. There's still room for people to be in involved in that. It's just been a great, great opportunity for us. So the one of the things that we'll be doing as the World Mission Team, the leadership team, and the session team I don't stop it. Uh with respect to missions, um we have um uh in the past gone to Juarez and and maybe The discipleship team encompasses a greater number of ministries in terms of its oversight. Otherwise you're bringing somebody in but they don't know what they want to do. I knew I was gonna see some nose and stuff like that. And so we want to just give, without all the nitty gritty, give a a brief update and um and also you can kind of see then when the worship team, when we make our report, why some of our initiatives are It was mutual. So we are we do know what we're looking for, and that's being refined because we've not publicized this opening yet. So in this case um it was uh Stephen Floyd. Um so I've sent paperwork to some other uh search committees. However, once a month we meet together as an entire session. So anyway, the uh I guess the short of it is that uh as the fall progressed, uh you put your paperwork together, uh if you're familiar at all, um It's a compliment and encouragement. So it would not need to be ordained in that event. He's very kind um to keep following up. I I think you mean it to be encouragement to say, you know, we're praying you don't find something and you don't and you don't leave. I don't know if I need this or not, but anyway. So uh we uh so that that is still taking place. They continue to expand and grow their ministry, and it's exciting to see what God is doing in their work. We believe we want to make sure that everyone is aiming at the same thing given the different ministries of the church. And so he got to know me pretty well and he started to make inquiries and he's talking to people. And we're going to try to take care of that. It's been incredible. We want to thank you for the time that you've committed to being here this morning. So we're really excited about that. The other thing, what we've been doing is discussing recruitment of new musicians. And God is bringing to us so many people from around the world. So we want to be able to provide the ministry support and oversight and ongoing training for our ministry leaders. Yes. So what we're doing this summer is a rollout of this, and as time goes on, we will be evaluating, making changes uh as things move along. We'll be trying to put a humidifier on it so that we can regulate it a little bit. So we are going to be delivering that draft to the session on the twenty fourth for final approval. The gentleman who handed you the microphone can answer that question. Let me pray real quickly for the ministries that we've been discussing this morning. And so we formed three teams: worship, discipleship, and mission. That was also a an initial no. You've already seen some of them implemented, but we're going to try to define those clearly so you can kind of like, oh, that's why that they're doing this. Yes, sir. It's just a matter of was it going to be the best thing for them uh in the summer? Next week we're going to be talking in a more robust way, fellowship group ministry. So uh very exciting times. About uh two months ago, uh Paul Kennedy, our caretaker, came through the office and said, Hey, are you guys still looking for a baby grand? And the world is at our door when they're participating in our our upward basketball ministry and elevate ministry It's just I said it's perfect, you know. 36, so we have a few minutes for questions, if you have any. And so that's going to be something we evaluate as a the session committee as well as the world mission team, what that'll look like going forward. We do need to have a little more structure around it. Discipleship team will take up the entire, you know, we'll have question and answer, but it'll take up the priority of the time. And so looking at also a position for the next pastoral, full-time pastoral role that we will be looking for. Um I heard everybody but me got uh a a round trip ticket. And um so that's what we're trying to do. We have also completed a draft for a job description for a part-time worship music director. So let me just briefly say that. We've got uh several new deacons in training, a couple of new deacons uh to be We drove down to Bethesda after talking with her and we wanted to hear it and and get Tom, the inspector, to go through it. Just music. We might be able to end before the scheduled time. Amen. Um uh they they very much appreciated me, they liked my, you know, everything, but they there's something there that they just didn't think it was gonna work out well. And I and it and it if you heard it, you know, it it sounds great. But George is right. Um we want to be open to that. When you're a larger church, we don't want that to just kind of spin out somewhere. And we want to continue to be committed to that, to send people to the field. So that was good. So based on those three priorities, we took every ministry of the church. And so I just want to honor him for that. So that was an entrepreneurial idea from Corey Twitt, but that came to one of our teams, our mission team. So but anyway, I guess I'm an antique. Fellowship groups is a completely different idea using maybe similar structures to cell group ministry, but we would use fellowship groups. This wasn't meant to be in the the total amount of what we're doing, but again in an effort to communicate. We uh have people from five or six counties uh coming to play in the high school ministry now because it's the only Christian basketball high school ministry of its kind. Um sometimes they don't work out because we don't have a budget for what the people want, and other times they don't work out because they're not what we want. Other questions? Um in my experience, unless you have a pastor I did uh take one exception. Each one of the leaders or participants, as the case may be, in each of the ministries that are under these priorities Uh Jennifer Uhiro is in Japan for the summer. Um to be able to see the Colburns and the Iversons and Linda just and the new church planters that are uh You can be be praying about that for us. I want to let you know just briefly that within the world of missions and churches In the past, Boardwalk Chapel has been something that's been very meaningful for the teens. And those three things are worship, discipleship, and mission. So as you can tell, as a part of what the uh each one of these teams is tasked with doing So all that said to say, I just really appreciate your prayers, your support for me. However, I've gently tried to offer in return. And you'll be seeing we'll we'll cover it. And so that's great. So we're very, very thankful for all their labor and work. But it often takes career missionaries who are working in a country that is largely unreached to disciple those. It was, I thought, it opened up some great avenues of dialogue. That's the first thing. So that is something that's on our radar and that we do actually have some thoughts and ideas that we're going to be working through over the next year to help. Our discipleship team leader, who you'll hear from next week, is Pete Floyd. Because it just, you know, it's just a wonderful gift. But it was hard. We would agree with that. Uh Beam no longer exists. So I I I thank you, Wayne. And then also uh raise up what is necessary uh at CPC to cover what I've been attempting Yeah. So um so we are the uh half of the mission committee. So thank you for that. But I will tell you that after visiting Japan I just wanted to, you know, just continue to ask, please pray for us. You see this lovely gift up here. What I will tell you, and I'm I'm speaking on behalf of the session, but after uh speaking with so many of our elders, It's still kind of a no. We were not able to truly emphasize planning. Uh we're very thankful for the World Mission Team and all the labor uh and their patience as we've kind of begun to restructure, but there's a lot of people engaged in that. Um with respect to sorry, but this is weird. At the same time, kind of the old unleashed ministry thing So we're really excited about Anthony being on board, the big time answer to prayer as Randy and I have been And so we are excited about what God is doing, and not only there, but also with English language ministry. Cell groups will not exit my mouth. But he's also giving me the skinny on you know what what's going on there. Um but all that said here to say that on the home front what we're trying to do is get our home prepared. They have the description, but what's the end result, I guess? We've accomplished more oversight Uh okay, is that better? And everything we do is outreach, but this is an area that's particularly targeting missions and so forth. Um and I have and um you know We didn't want to discuss it publicly yet because that's one of the reports that's coming back to the full session. Thank you. And we knew as a church, as we discussed last year, that we can't do everything You can see Corey Twitt, who's done an absolutely outstanding job. It's going back and evaluating everything we do in light of our vision statement and in light of our priorities as a congregation. Uh and so it is uh not a it it has a lot of creative uh room within the position, but it is not uh they are not solar or autonomous. Connectionalism is another word for accountability. And so we decided that the best thing to do was to take our session and to divide it up equally as possible. So um first I'd like to say you know on behalf of Randy and I again just thank you for sending us to Japan. And so that was a real uh lovely uh gift of God's grace for us. We have formed a new leadership team among the World Mission Team. I told uh Emma, who has just graduated from College Park, um, I don't think I quite factored in the rejection factor Um anyway, so I appreciate that. So we're trying to strike that balance. May your Holy Spirit fill them with a joy in serving the Lord, and may you open up doors. We're going to begin with mission, and then we're going to go to the worship team. And then the month of October we'll have uh missionaries coming in to preach along with Uh Gary Ahrens has uh he was uh elected the very first night of our worship team meeting as the convener of our of our worship team So we're we're appreciative. And so a lot of that's kind of led to this summer particular I've had some good discussions with them, I've had some follow-up. So thanks, Tim. So uh we this um this year we decided not to go to Juarez because there's been some uh Yeah, it continues to work. We're getting ready to send um She said that it was uh sixty-four chickering, which made it an antique. Once the vision or the the desired result has been established, then you can do the job description. So please do. And so the the the two roles that we have spun out So that's what we've been doing, and we are Um we are not just uh we have not Um that task is given to pastors and ruling elders I just uh talked to Dick Stum and uh God is doing a great work in Lindsey Anne. Thanks. He's not cooking up what he wants the music to be and then just sending that directly to the office and that's the only time anybody sees it. And probably that was our oversight. Thank you for their commitment to you. Uh these uh people are are are learning English, getting exposed to the gospel, getting exposed to the Bible, relationships are being built and God's working in a And to be able to be more proactive in planning our summer trips early on. Um I'd like to introduce Anthony Swann. So that's a very, very uh exciting opportunity for us. He and I will be working together along with Session, the mission team of Session, to MTW has uh Jamie Burkamper there who's kind of been heading up the local church We we want to encourage that and and that's one of the things I know the NPW's been working on in that respect But I went to a conference about a month ago and I met a guy who works for the Alliance for Confessing Evangelicals and he was well aware of that church and The second thing, partly as a result of that, is that we have defined two separate functions And so uh that's that's it. So the mission team, the worship team, and the discipleship team You brought uh two things up that when I was sitting here I thought I needed to address, but I had forgotten to when I came up here, the long distance between Um and some of the ministries that uh No, uh we're we're we're excited about uh excited about what God's doing. We'll get a cover eventually soon. In fact, I received a request for support over the last two days. And then um in October this year we'll have our missions month. It is the world at our door, which was our theme a couple of years ago for our missions conference. If there are if there are good ideas, if there are We are um one of the things the World Mission Team's been discussing is trying to uh Um but uh In other words, what I'm talking about is you can hire somebody and have a job description The other meeting of the month, each one of those teams meets individually. Are we still doing future short-term missions to Juarez? And I told her even I said, um We've got uh I know we've talked to Jack Ivey, um Steven, Julia Waske, Mark Schuler. D to give you an example, these past number of weeks, whoever the uh music leader is We are going to be talking about again next steps with regard to the parish model, which you've heard about, what it is, what it's not. Now and uh very specifically we have a a world mission task force and um there's been some changes and Father, we thank you so much for uh the riches that you have given to this congregation. So we see God uh expanding the Great Commission. Do you know why? So We want to encourage this kind of thing moving forward. And and we all believe that that's um a good thing in God's kingdom. Putting a baby grand piano in a gymnasium. Good morning folks. We feel that you know in a church this size that we should have Structure, uh, organization, coordination, oversight, and yet inclusivity. And so what we wanted to do is come back to you. So that's all we've got. Just it had been in her home, the last service she had had was 2009. It's been great. One of the challenges that we've had is um Um all serve together. I just want to double-check the time so that we're good with that. It just felt like it was wasn't a good good fit this summer. We are And so we're trying to work on our home and Um Thank you for that reminder. Our worship team leader for session is Gary Ahrens. And after we do that this morning, there's going to be a time of question and answer if you if you have questions. And I'm grateful that God has continued to raise up people from this congregation who want to serve God's been working and So we're very excited. And we were uh sort of a member with Beam before, so I think that has certainly The word we'd rather use is entrepreneurial. Good morning. Thank you for uh your in indulgence of the personal So as Not that those three priorities are unique to us. But since we've been doing this, each one of these teams has been meeting with the uh Well, uh, can I ask you to just adjust your prayer request? And I I guess we have a microphone that can be used. Has there been any um I would think Tito has been um kind of mentoring some of the pastors down there and so The reason for that is I'm trying to change the lexicon I'm usually over there listening. We want to be able to support. God has uh blessed us with that opportunity where our kids are playing high school and and and and now college. You've been, many of you have been very kind to come and ask and Has there been any progress or any uh action on that? Anthony, if you could stand up real quick there. And next week And on the missions front, we And there's just a lot of things we've got to get get on top of. The reasons we try to get stakeholders and people together is to get input from people. Um uh the one that looked It's a delight to serve with them, a lot of great creative ideas, and you'll hear all these uh wonderful initiatives. And so um So if I hear from them, that that'll be Just as a follow-up on that, um would this be and maybe you can't speak to this yet. And I was gonna actually And so we have taken those things and So entrepreneurial ministry is one of the things we want to continue to encourage. And I'm wondering if there's something in the work So She just wanted this nineteen sixty-four chickoring to go to a good home. You run with that. Um And in September we'll actually have They need they would need to be able to work with different leaders. So it's Gary Ahrens for Worship, Bill Sionella for Mission. So we want to encourage entrepreneurial ideas for ministry. And I told her, Well, I was born in sixty-four. So if it's very purposeful on my part. And the song leader is tasked with And uh all she wanted was, I just want it to be used. And so what we have done is spun out But to answer your question, yes, that is precisely what we're doing. And so um in talking with Tito and We believe this is still a valuable way to communicate with the congregation. And in light of that then also we will be bringing to session They certainly are not. And um And uh we hope to use it Uh Uh And I'm very grateful for The full session will have to Thank you, Lord, for this time. So that's a little different in the past. So again, we want to thank you for being So in October we would hope to kind of launch Please pray that God would make us faithful. So I have one of those for both, the OPC and the PCA. You'll find other churches that have those same priorities. So uh There we go. So It was a We believe that one of these The words So you can pass this around. It's been in February. Uh we And