Okay, we're gonna go ahead and uh get things started. If you are just joining us, um we have a great opportunity this morning. We have Dan and Carol Iverson Dan and Carol are missionaries to Japan and have been there for 28 years. We have been supporting them as a church. Since uh they left. So this has been a great, they've been a big part of our congregation. Uh Dan was an intern here. He um has just been a great part of uh our mission sending opportunities. We're very tied in with Japan. We're very excited to have him here this morning. So Dan and Carol, I'm gonna turn uh over this to you Good morning everyone. So good to be back at CPC and to share with you this morning. Uh this group probably most of you were in the worship. How many of you were in the worship? Worship time. Okay, most, but probably a lot of people are going to be coming in over these next minutes, I would think. Uh Carol and I, uh your your church sent us to Japan 20 this December 6th, it will be 28 years. We thought our big family should not arrive in Japan on December 7th. So we uh we made sure we we arrived December 6th. What we did realize was in Japan it wasn't December 7th because of the international day line it was December 8th, that fateful morning We talked in worship about ruthless nations will come, that promise. And uh since we had the Lord's Supper and needed to Preaching 30 minutes. There was one other story I had that I didn't get to tell, but I want to tell it now. Uh a very ruthless man on that morning, December 8th in Japan, December 7th in Japan, 1941. Actually my namesake, Daniel Iverson Jr. I'm the third. Daniel Iverson the fourth is in Atlanta. And his son Daniel Iverson who is the fifth Daniel. We need to stop this, Carol. We need to tell our kids to stop this. But uh we uh he was there at uh in Hawaii, a marine pilot, but on a ship far away, uh uh aircraft carrier, uh Commander Fujida Woke up early that morning and as he got in his plane and as he led the more than 300 Japanese planes that we're going to attack Pearl Harbor Pearl Harbor. He was praying to his gods that yes, uh, that the ships would be there. that they could kill thousands. And that day, uh Commander Fichida and his more than three hundred Japanese airplanes with a surprise attack on Pearl Harbor killed more than 3,000 uh people that that morning, that Sunday morning with that surprise attack. He hated America. He worshipped the emperor. This is what he wanted to do. That day when the news came to America there was a uh a man named Jake De Sa de Cesar and and he was in California and he was an airman and he read about that and he took a cup and he threw it against the wall. He was so angry, I just wanna kill Japanese people. And he signed up for a secret special mission, volunteered for it. And he was part of the famous Doolittle Raid just four months later. It's amazing. Where bombers, bombers. Took off from aircraft carriers. They they had just enough gas to get to Japan and to go on to China to land and hopefully the plan was that the Chinese uh underground uh who were fighting as the Japanese would rescue them uh because we don't do kamikaze And so uh anyway, he was on that. This guy, Jake, was on that. He hated, he wanted to kill Japanese, and they were successful, killed many, many. Japanese people that day with the in with the bombing of Tokyo. Well, they got to China but his he crash landed. He was in a a Japanese POW camp till the very end of the war and his tormentors you've read the stories of of how how brutal uh what uh the Japanese did to our soldiers and marines and navy guys who were captured. And it was just the the torture and he had so much hate. for his tortures. And as he uh but he somehow he got a Bible. They let him have a Bible. And he was reading the Bible and he got to the story of the cross. And as he read of Jesus on the cross, praying, Lord, forgive them, for they know not what they do He was moved, no one to tell him the gospel, just reading the Bible, the power of God's word, and he was converted in his prison camp there in China. And they continued to be brutal to him, but he began to love his captors. And as he kept reading that Bible, he said, Someday I if I ever get out of here and don't and don't die, you know, many did die and didn't get out of those prison camps, I want to go to Japan as a missionary And tell this message of reconciliation, this message of Christ. And he and he got out and the war ended and he went. To Japan as a missionary. And he told the good news of Christ for many, many years. Well, they made a tract about him. About his story. That's a good story. You know, this guy who hated Japanese came to love Japanese, the power of the gospel to change his heart. and to to bring him to love Japanese people. And one day in the middle of Tokyo, near one of the big train stations in Tokyo, a man received that track. about him. And guess who it was? Commander FCDA, who had led the attack on Pearl Harbor and killed so many people that day. and commander of Cheetah, he read this story of his enemy who had come to love. He was so moved by this story of this of this guy who had attacked his Great city of Tokyo and yet had come to love Jedi. He read the story and he was moved. He came to Christ. And I wish I have on another PowerPoint. I've used this story in Japan to have a picture of the two, of them having fellowship together in Christ. Isn't that beautiful? You know, I wish I had a picture of them taking communion together. It would go very well with a message this morning, uh the worship message this morning. But that uh that is just a marvelous story. The gospel breaks down the walls that separate people. It brings people together, this gospel, like Commander Cheetah. or uh de Says are. It it that's what the gospel does. Well you sent us to Japan uh many years ago to tell that good news to a people group Second largest unreached people group in the world that just doesn't have a clue. Most have never ever heard it. Japan's greatest need is the gospel. We thank you CPC for 28-year partnership. We virtually had no fruit our first four years. The first person believed that we were involved with right before the end of our first term. Uh it was so discouraging that first term. Uh we yeah, you guys sent Linda Corner, sent the Colburns I sent Jennifer Calvert to come help us early on when we started our little school that Carol's the headmaster for now has grown bilingual school. uh hybrid homeschool, Christian school, raising leaders for Japan, we pray. And you guys have supported us, prayed for us. You know, I think CPC that you guys have given for reaching Japan more than three quarters of a million dollars over these twenty-eight years in supporting the Colburn's, Linda Carner, us, sending short-term teams. when we were trying to buy this land and building, uh you know, I never thought we would own an acre of land in the Tokyo area where It's just so expensive. God just brought this piece of land down out of heaven almost in this building. And you guys, you know, your church CPC was not such a flexible church about changing, giving kinds of things suddenly. But we had this opportunity and you guys prayed and were flexible and for three or four weeks you told everyone about it, pray and put uh commitments in the offering. One person committed fifteen thousand dollars as a matching fund. And more than fifty thousand dollars came in from Columbia Presbyterian Church. And we sent the check checks to Atlanta and we had them on a desk for someone so they wouldn't be cashed, you know, all the checks from everybody because Uh we didn't know if it was all gonna go through to the last minute, but once it did, we would really need to do it fast. And it and our church in Japan uh uh at a congregational meeting voted to buy this piece of land. You're our I could not believe how our Church growing church, but still not such a big church. That time about a hundred worshippers, gone from zero to a hundred. Uh we bought that piece of land, built a beautiful building that really has become the base for our presbytery. And the Lord has just done great things. We had no idea that that that land and building would become the base for the tsunami. And we'll tell uh we'll show a video and tell a little bit about that more later. But immediately we started going up north. our the front of our church building. Just if you can picture out front here, looking like a gas station with sections for kerosene, sections for Diesel sections for gasoline. If anyone had dropped a match, I think everything would have gone up. It was mass confusion. just as we were getting gasoline and we were breaking so many rules, getting uh stuff of gasoline on these we're taking so much gasoline up north so people could run away from the uh Fukushima power plant that were near there. And we were we were going there during that time. So uh so that you helped buy that land which became a base. More than a thousand Short termers came through. They would spend the night in our facilities, then the next morning leave to go north to help. So you guys Very, very much a part of that and you sent Martin and others came to help us. We thank you for your partnership all these years. Missions is exciting. I'll tell this story. Carol says, Dan, this isn't the best story to get people excited about missions, but I'm going to tell it anyway. Our son Jonathan, who's now a missionary in India with uh four kids and number five on the way in uh Bangalore, he said uh he called me or he wrote me an email from uh From Sri Lanka, after the big tsunami there, he was a single guy, he was a missionary there in Sri Lanka. He said, Dad, what should I have done? Last night, a Tamil Tiger suicide bomber leader burst into where I was sleeping and he demanded the Mission to the World van to take one of his suicide bomber. guerrilla guys to a hospital far away. He had misused the cyanide tablets, mishandled, that they used to kill themselves if they get captured by the government side. And he uh and he said, what should I have done, Dad? If, and I'm in Japan reading this email, I said, what, you know? And uh it says, if I give him the van, I'm collaborating with an international terrorist group, uh international crime. If I don't give him the van, he may kill me, you know. If I Do give in the van, I save a life, so that he can kill another day. You know. Man, I save First thing, kids, don't, anyone, don't let mom read email, right? That's first thing, you know. Right? Yeah Sorry, worries enough for all of us, you know. And uh and uh and I called him in Japan. He had cell phone service everywhere. Amazing. Called him in Sri Lan and Sri Lanka said, Jonathan, you're okay. Praise the Lord. What did you do? He said, Oh, I didn't give him the van. Were you worried you thought he might kill you? Oh, I knew he wouldn't kill me, Dad. Said I knew he wouldn't because I'm American. Now often we have this idea that it's bad to be American And to go places in the world. And it is some places in the world. But Japan, Sri Lanka, India, now he says, many places, it's good. He said the Tamil Tigers wanted America I knew they wouldn't kill me. They want so badly America to think that they're like our American Revolution against an evil government. He was able. His indigenous workers uh couldn't go to both sides. You know, the Tamil guys that were helping him could be in on the Tamil side. The government uh majority population guys could be on the majority side, but that need they could not go to the other side. But he as an American could go back and forth as they built houses, dug wells and share the good news of Christ in this country. And he said, Oh, I knew he wouldn't kill me, Dan. I said, well I'm sure glad you're you were right, you know. Well What do you think about that story for missions is exciting? Well, Carol says, don't use that story. But missions is exciting. And in Japan, it's exciting in a different way. And that's not going to happen to you probably if you come to Japan on the mission trip. That's going to happen next summer, I think. And many of you have come before. To be a part of helping us reach the second largest unreached people group in the world. God is doing exciting things in Japan, and we hope today from this you'll get a little picture of it. This is how we looked When we left CPC and arrived in Japan, how many kids? One, two, three, four, five, six. So we went with five. So this is six, and then and then we look like this. And then we look like this. And I don't have we can't let's see we that's not how we well kinda, yeah. That's pretty good. Yeah. We have 18 grandchildren, three on the way. It's kind of like someone go, okay, Dad, we're pregnant. Okay, pass the salt. No, no, we're We are just, you know, we use uh, you know, we talk in Japan, we need to start healthy churches that will reproduce, you know. And the addition phase was so hard. As I think I've shared before, after our number three, we're sitting on the edge of the bed crying, chanting to ourselves, Children are a blessing. Children are a blessing. This is so hard at two AM with a colicky baby and and yeah, they have grown up. And by God's grace, we just see them serving Christ and s and and around the world and India and Bangladesh and different places. So, honey, you want to share anything about our family? No. Okay, Carol, when we have question and answer time, maybe you may want to ask questions. One of our uh sons, uh, you know, one one oldest son, Danny. I guess he was in fourth grade when we went to Japan. He is a pastor in Atlanta starting a church in a poor inner city part of Atlanta. They have just had their number six kid. Uh and Jonathan is in Bangalore, India, and he's team leader there for Mission of the World. And is just I was just with him in Cambodia last week. We had all the MTW uh leaders from around the world gather in Cambodia. So people say why Cambodia? Because it's really inexpensive and the guys, the indigenous partners from Muslim countries can get in. They can't get into America So we we uh met there, just had a great time. So I may fall asleep any minute. I got back Friday afternoon just two days ago. So uh it was been quite a crazy schedule. We go back to Japan uh just in a couple weeks here. So uh so it's neat to see the kids growing up. And but our son Joel number three, he, I'm not sure I can tell, I think I can tell people here what he does. Uh Joel's an entrepreneur from when he was ten years old. He would import stuff from America when grandma came, he said, Grandma, bring blow pops. I can say I know I can I can sell them for a lot here. Buy 'em for four cents. Buy them for four cents in uh America at Sam's and and uh he'd sell them for 40 cents in Japan and he bought a tennis racket stringing mach a racket stringing machine the uh for the strings and he bought it for a hundred dollars after he strung four rackets he you know he paid for it and then it was all profit and since he was a little kid he was just a good entrepreneur. And uh and we joke he had a real racket going, you know. And uh and he wanted to uh he he said dad they charge a hundred dollars to pierce ears in Japan. This is when he's about twelve years old He said, and I can buy this machine in America and I can pierce you No Joel you're not gonna do that, you know. But that's the way Joel was and as he got older and he saw so many of our faithful supporters and he who were, you know, and Michael O, who is in Japan on our team, now the president of Luzon movement, used to say, we don't have uh we have enough people willing to go We don't have a a goer problem, we have a sender problem. There are not enough radical senders to send all the indigenous church planners and the missionaries who are willing and ready to go around the world. And uh Joel said, Dad, that's what I want to do. And uh I want to be rich, multimillionaire, so we can be radical senders. He didn't use that word when he was a teenager, but that's what he was talking about. He uses that word now And I I think I can tell you what his business now a bunch of his guys from uh he was in a good company, making money, entrepreneur, and uh and Monday night his uh His small group, they would have, they would come invite their non-Christian friends to come watch Monday Night Football. They started brewing beer. Can I tell this here? And uh some of our churches in the South, I can't tell this, you know. Uh have to say uh some churches I tell this story to, they cut our support. Some churches I tell this to, they raise our support. And uh so Joel, they started brewing beer. They got pretty good at it. And if you go online, look, Monday Night Brewery, uh, they have th those three guys started they they've grown from four employee full-time to fourteen. and they have 40 part-time workers and they have this Monday nights are overrated. You don't have to get drunk to enjoy a good beer with your uh with your friends. And uh and Joel and his wife are they want to be radical senders. And most of us, that's what we do, is we look at this world We need radical goers. We really do. A friend of ours from Covenant Presbyterian Church in Harrisonburg, Virginia. We always say, you guys are the best supporting church. When we go there, we tell them they're the best supporting church. Because they gave us three godly spouses. That's hard to beat, you know. They gave us three godly spouses, you know, this church at James Madison University Covenant Presbyterian Church there. And um And and one of our friends there, a sad story, uh, and a happy story. This young man, uh he from that church went to Afghanistan. He actually came to Japan on short-term mission trips. as well. He was in that group about five years ago that went into a part of Afghanistan on a medical mission. And all ten of them were killed. Remember that? He was one of them. Killed by radical Muslims. And he knew it was dangerous. And this precious, wonderful young man, was he 25? When 23? He gave his life for Jesus. And we do need, you know, John Piper has said, if you a great sermon to Google, maybe you don't want to, is is um Uh when dying is gain, somebody help me. Uh somebody from this sorry? Religious verse? So yeah, to the to it's from that verse and other verses. Um Something like living for Jesus when dying is gain. If you do dying is gained. He he preached it at Wheaton University many years ago. We we have our short-term workers listen to the sermon. And he says, you know, the Muslims wrongly, for false reasons, are willing to lay down their life, radical Muslims in the world And we as Christians, yes, to say, Jesus, you know, here I am, send me. And then Brian Cartarelli went to Afghanistan, knowing how dangerous it was. Patrick Henry said, you know, give me liberty or give me death. I remember being very moved going to that Episcopal church in Richmond and seeing that. Because I love history and I was a Marine. I was, you know, patriotic American and all that. And I've come to realize there's this, there's this much bigger cause. That we celebrate. And we, yes, we say, I'm willing to lay down my life, I'm willing to open up my wallet, willing to take special time to pray and gather. To be a part of this gospel going to the ends of the earth. We need to raise our children to be a part of that and our church, and it's so exciting to be a part of it. Japan is 127 million people. So lost, the second largest unreached people group in the world. Some people say, what's the first? It's the Bangla people group, the Sheikh people group of Bangladesh. That's where our daughter Sara Beth is. She was a baby, had just been born at seminary when we came here to be interns, and she and her husband and uh have four kids. And adopted one from Ethiopia and uh they're they're pregnant with their fifth there. I say not many people have eighteen grandkids. and three grandkids and in the womb in three different countries. That's us. That's our life these days. So uh Tokyo is 35 million people. Just it's just an incredible city, you know Uh New York's the closest thing to it we know, but even more than New York. Just amazing. The the you know probably the biggest maybe with uh uh with uh Rio de Janeiro. Uh just a incredible city. You know, Atlanta, Metro Atlanta has 13,000 churches. I was in Savannah a couple weeks ago. Savannah has 400 to 500 churches. It's about 140,000 people. Japan has 8,000 churches, and when you think of that, it sounds like a lot. But in 150 years, the Lord has enabled Protestant missionaries, and of course not all Bible-believing Christians, these 8,000 churches. And this number is actually in decline. And our population to uh church ratio is one for every sixteen thousand people. The people that study this in the world Say to really reach a country or a people group, we need one church for every 1,500 people. Because in the gospel there's a church close enough, you know, to give the gospel away to people. So we need about ten times as many churches to get there. And it just seems in a hundred and fifty years That that now there are 8,000 churches in Japan and like I mentioned in worship, you know, we where we you sent us this area originally it was 70,000 people, not one church of any kind. Now think of that. I know numbers don't mean a lot to some of to some folks, but think of 70,000 people, not one church. You sent us there to start the first church in the history of the world in this place. And this is Japan, so lost. America's one church for every thousand. This is one of the more secular parts of the country, so probably it's about that might be one for every 1,500. I didn't uh check exactly. But Japan, just so few. The um the um we really need they they would tell us 70,000 new churches in Japan. Now I've really been moved by these numbers lately. I just have really studied these recently as country director for Japan. We have all these cities in Japan that need a church. Would maybe Some young person here will be one of the church planners for one of these cities where we need a church, where we need to go, or come to be a part of a team moving to one of these cities. to start a new church. Our goal, some of us are saying, okay, 70,000 just seems too overwhelming. How about 2,000 new churches for Japan? to get the ratio up to one for every 12,000 people. You know, that's still so few. But this is the need in our country. And sadly Sadly, there's so many of the of the different groups. The Southern Baptists have gone the biggest the denomination in America have gone from 159 missionaries in uh 1983 over this last 30 years. I'm writing an article for our Japan Evangelical Missionary Association And uh so I've been studying these numbers and I just all of these missions are in decline in Japan. Here, it'd be fine if we had a time if we had church new churches being started, we had lots of Japanese pastors. We don't We have a decline in the number of Japanese pastors, a decline in the number. The goal, of course, is that the indigenous pastors do this. But we being such a small percent of Christians, you know, that Southern Baptists have gone from 159 to to uh 46 missionaries and team, the Evangelical Alliance mission, which Which was the biggest. They had 195 missionaries in Japan, and they're down to 60 now. And this is so sad, it breaks my heart. Again, it'd be fine if there were lots of people. Who lots of Japanese pastors, but they're not. Would you pray? Our mission, we're saying, we had, you know, in um in Luke 10, Jesus sent out the 70. When he sent out the 12, we don't see any report of the results. But in Luke 10, when he sent out the 70, we see they came back. Even the demons are subject to us in your name. And Jesus said, I saw Satan falling from heaven like lightning. And there was effect. Yes, then as Christian workers go out into the world, we see the effect. We're praying. Our mission, even though most in Japan are in decline. Why? It's the most expensive. It's a hard mission field. Some say it's the the the graveyard of missionaries, even though it's it's clean and organized and safe in so many ways. In so many ways it is. But it's so hard, it's discouraging. And it's hard and uh and you have the enemy is against us, of course. The veil, the covering we'll talk about in worship, is very thick. And so we're praying. Hudson Taylor, just very inspired reading his account of when they were beginning to move into the interior of China. And prayed for, and they had pray for the 70 was their was their uh prayer. Pray for the 70 that in two years God will raise up. 70 missionaries, new missionaries in two years for for Interior China, where many of their missionaries were killed, many during some of those times Many died from sickness. No email, no telephones. He came to America one time and by the time he left from San Francisco or one of the ports on the West Coast with no email, slow mail He had they had gathered like 20 from America to go with him to China. You know, it was incredible to see that. And I was really moved, and our mission was really moved, could we by faith Pray, not two years our faith in us, but by the year 2020, our 2020 vision. Lord Jesus, would you raise up 70? for Japan. Would you all pray for the seventy? For this needy land of Japan? In fact, why don't we do it right now? That wasn't my plan, but could we do that with someone Pray, Eric, you have a loud voice? Would you pray for 70? We're praying for 35 Japanese workers and 35 missionaries. That's been our prayer request. But last week in Cambodia we had seven of our Japanese leaders there and seven of our missionaries. I've been here for ten weeks. But uh I went there and we gathered with 140 leaders from around the world and we had meetings in the morning, you know, we're studying all together, but we each morning the Japanese team met and the last day said, We we just need more missionaries in Japan. We have all these cities. with new church. And they're even there are fewer Japanese people going into ministry. We have some. We're beginning. Our church, our church, we you sent us to start, now has uh Uh three guys in seminary. Three. Praise the Lord. You know, healthy churches are one of the best ways, Christian family, college ministry, and healthy churches. raise up people for ministry. And we decided pretty much Friday, let's make the goal bigger. Do we have faith to pray for 70 new missionaries for Japan by the year 2020? I don't know that I do. We see 35. We see people come. Thousand people came after the tsunami from Singapore, Hong Kong, America, Korea, and they saw Japan. It put Japan on the mission map, this rich Rich, perfect country, and people said, Yeah, wow, you know, I could come here and help. And people have started coming back. God used the tsunami to raise up for some of these 70. But we're praying about making the goal, 70 missionaries. But for sure, pray for the 70, 35 and 35. Would you Eric, would you just pray briefly for that with a loud voice, please? Thank you, Father, for the Carol and you study that we know the only thing about community as well. The word that we need to protect offering and I thought you wouldn't apart to people that really Amen. Thank you. Some people say, why is Japan so hard? Well run one race is a is a group society. The nail that sticks up gets hammered down. Our church now is about 220 worshipers. Started from zero, you know, so hard at first. Today be five worships in three locations, two pretty big ones, one of them's a bilingual worship. People are coming to faith. We think if the Lord would enable us to start some bigger churches, it's not people come and they say, well, there are other kind of normal people here except the pastor. You know, who uh that uh maybe I could come back, you know, and and I I sure don't like your God or believe in him yet, but I sure like you people and I'm gonna come back. And we see people but the group society is really hard. The opposition. Mr. Ishihama is a uh friend of mine. He's seventy-eight. His father, during World War II, was a faithful Christian. He wouldn't let his children uh bow to the emperor. He would not bow to the emperor. He would not acknowledge the emperor as God. The uh the police came and they said, you profess your allegiance to the emperor that he is God. And he refused. They put him in jail. Uh they put him in the deepest uh thick walled solitary confinement in his city. And his son tells how he, you know, they they exiled the the the family from their city. And he was just uh You know, God, what are you doing to our family and our father who is faithful to you? It seems so dark. And the city was Hiroshima, or as you say, Hiroshima. And yes, August of 1945. Mr. Ishihama's father was in Hiroshima right in the middle. in solitary confinement in that city. And he lived to be an old man. Because those walls of the solitary confinement saved his life. And he was a dentist, and actually as he came out, he began, you know, all his captors were killed, you know. And isn't it amazing? You know, and God delivered him. His son says, We saw the mushroom cloud. from our from where we had been exiled to a small town out from Hiroshima. And he said, and we thought our father was killed, of course. He lived to be an old man serving Jesus and telling the good news. So we have that kind of opposition was in Japan. It's not that way anymore. It's uh but there's still opposition. Mr. Nakai uh was a man in our church. His wife had not come to Christ. She would come every once in a while. And uh but she didn't believe and they had three little kids. Well when his when his father died and he was he went back to Western Japan, a very traditional family, and he called us And he said, please pray for me. My whole family and my wife are so angry at me because I won't bow and offer incense and worship my dead father. uh because I'm a Christian. And he said, especially my wife, she's she she she was a secular person, not really believing, but she was so You are so evil. I do not want anything to do with your Christian religion. I am never going to church with you again if your religion teaches that you can't. Honor your father and help for the comfort of your mother by just go, even if you don't believe it, just do it. And he didn't do it. Like Daniel, they could have just bowed down. They could have just done the wrong thing. He didn't do it. Isn't that hard? Now that that feels like someone's killing you or cutting your head off. When your family is that angry with you. Because you won't do false worship. Right? Can you imagine? It's a young 38-year-old guy in our church, you know? Well he came back, his wife never came to worship, never came to anything, didn't want anything to do with Christianity. And one day I'm leaving the second floor of our building and she's coming up the stairs weeping, dragging her her husband. She pulls him up and says, Pastor Dan, Don San, can I talk to you? And we went in the room and she's crying. She said, I'm a pharmacist. I've always been able to do the things I need to do. There's nothing I can do about this. He has stomach cancer and they it's advanced and he's young so it goes fast. He's dying. And uh would you pray for him? She wanted us to pray for her husband. I was very sad and very happy that she, how God took this and this woman who was so hard against her husband for not offering false worship to to his ancestors and to his father who he loved, you know. She uh uh she got in she got into Bible study and as he was dying and getting worse she came to faith in Christ Praise the Lord. She believed. They started coming to worship together. Pretty soon he couldn't come. He got sicker and sicker and in a house worship there at their home with him lying on a photon, or as you say, futan Uh as he's lying there and holding his hand, we baptized his wife, and then uh as she professed her faith publicly, and as he made uh and together they they took covenant promises for their children. The same one, pretty much the same ones we use here. And we baptized their children. And he could he didn't have the the strength to say, say Yakushimas. You know, I promise. He he he squeezed my hand, you know. And then, but at the end, after we baptize his children with his hardly any strength that he had, he said, hallelujah, in a weak voice. You know, and he died a week later and with the funeral uh his uh his family came, the mother who had been so angry at him came, her mother came. and father, and they were trying to get her to move back down to their part of the country, and uh she said, No, this is my family now. I love you all, but we have I have a good job here and she stayed and the second day after the funeral and we go to the cre you have to have to uh cremate in Japan, but they leave the bones and you pick the bones up with these big chopsticks. It's really weird. I mean Let me tell you. And you put them in the urn. It's just the family and the the the religious leader. So as a pastor, I go there and and they're taught and they're I'm talking to the two mothers. And they said, We we we understand now. We don't believe you're God. But wow, the way all the church members have loved my daughter, our daughter and our son and and everything we've seen the last several days And they were very moved by what they saw. They haven't come to faith yet. But we believe the covenant goes both ways. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved, you and your household. And we see that. Carol's family was from her to her mom and dad, and and many we see. God, the gospel comes to one, and then a second one, and then another. Another reason there's opp opposition. It's like one one this often happens, this kind of thing. In America the young twenty year old girl says, I'm going to uh I'm going to church, but she's really going shopping. In Japan, she says, I'm going shopping, but she's really coming to our church. Because there's family opposition. So Japan is hard. But Jesus is building his church. That's our church on a joint worship Sunday with kids being baptized. The three Japanese pastors with three little house churches that called us and asked us to come now by God's grace. We keep adding more churches and now there's 850 worshipers in Sheba in our presbytery. 19 churches if you count each site. There are two of our churches or multi-site. And now we're working in Tokyo City Center. I'd like to play this video. We're going to bring Tim Keller to speak today. And he's going to talk about why we need to plant churches in the city center of Tokyo. Uh did that not come on? Uh a number of friends asked me why reaching Tokyo with the gospel is so important to reaching the world. uh with the gospel? And my answer would be uh twofold, influence and need. Uh first of all, Tokyo is one of the three or four most influential cities in the world. It's a financial center, certainly, media center, cultural center, uh one of the keys certainly to Asia and the whole world. And therefore, you just can't try to reach the world with a gospel unless you go to the those key influenced cities. On the other hand, it's not only So it highly influential, it's also spiritually so needy. Less than one percent of uh Japanese people uh uh profess a personal relationship with Christ. It's one of the most uh One of the most priceless cultures we have in the in the world, certainly in the modern world today. A second question comes up then is what are the challenges of reaching Top Gate with the gospel? And again, my answer is twofold, and that is contextualization and cost. Contextualization means you can't just pick up and go into a place like uh Tokyo uh with a uh a gospel presentation that fits in South America or North America. You have to Make sure that the gospel that you're bringing from the Word of God is really connecting to the hearts of the people. It's really connecting to where they are culturally and personally. And contextualization is a huge The second challenge though is the cost. I'm in downtown Manhattan and I think Tokyo may be more expensive even than Manhattan. It is in which case it would be one of the most expensive places in the world to uh buy uh I mean to to purchase or rent property and and to do ministry and to live. And so contextualization and cost is huge. Now, lastly, uh this is a terrific opportunity. It's an opportunity not only for cooperation. of Mission of the World, Dan Iverson, the Presbyterian Church of Japan. But it's also an opportunity to uh encourage the entire world church because everyone in the world knows that uh reaching Tokyo is crucial and also reaching Tokyo is hard. And we're looking forward to Working in partnership with Reverend Fakuda, who is planting a church right in the center of Tokyo, right by Tokyo Station. It will be expensive. It will be a challenge. And yet if we American, if we the American Church, which is still the richest church in the world right now, if we don't help the Japanese church reach Downtown Tokyo, I'm not sure how it's going to happen. So we really have to step up. We really have to do our job. It's a terrific opportunity, a terrific challenge. It'll be a terrific blessing to everyone involved. Well now you heard from the Pope of Presbyterianism in uh America now. Uh he's for Japan. So uh I took more time than I should have another video about the tsunami. We'll show it tomorrow night. So please come back and uh maybe there's time for one question or not? No? Okay. So to pray again. Please. Robbie and I were able to worship at the church in Center City, Tokyo. We were able to walk around with a young man who uh you disciple and is now a church planter just across the bay, also in Tokyo. And the opportunities are vast. And it's going to be because churches are continuing to be committed to this kind of mission work. So we want you to know as a congregation, we want to hear from you. And you need to hear from us, this is something we are deeply invested in, not for short term, but because we've been called to worship the Lord and to make the nations the target. And so we're excited about this. We came back from that trip seeing more opportunities for partnership. Again, 12% of Christians are Represented in North America. The gospel is spreading faster in Asia than in many places in the United States. And so they are at the point of recognizing that stuff doesn't satisfy. Yep. And they are broken and they are needy. So we We want to continue to encourage you in the grace of giving. We want to broaden and deepen our vision for what God is doing around the world. This is just Just one example. He could go on and on about other places that you're visiting, your own family's involved in. We want to see what would that look like for Columbia Presbyterian Church to be partnering this way. So let me pray. Father, thank you for what you are doing, for the way in which, according to your purposes and your perfect timing, the gospel of Christ. Is changing people from the inside out. We thank you for giving the Iversons the vision and the heart for Japan. And we thank you for the fruit of that ministry. It is all because of you. And we continue to pray, open up doors for deeper partnership with Chiba For Center City, Tokyo, for Sendai, for Nagoya, other places around Japan, Lord. Give us a deep heart for making Christ known. And may you Glorify yourself. And we stand in awe and say, surely, this is the Lord of salvation. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Blessing God. Thank you. Yes. We'll see you in a few minutes if you're standing to worship with us. If you're not, may the Lord bless you.