Thank you so much. That was stirring. And recently I've been uh naming those thank you particular but I am not going to go through all the names of those that we're singing. Just want to thank you all for stirring our hearts with songs of majesty. Because this is a day to celebrate. Thirty years ago, when September the 17th, 1978, Columbia Presbyterian held its very first worship service. There were ninety-six people meeting in the Oakland Mills meeting house at that time. Since that time About 75,000 to 80,000 churches have closed their doors, and we're still here. Many more have split, and by God's grace, we have not suffered a church split. Since that time, we have grown to six full-time staff, four part-time staff, plus buildings and maintenance and grounds. Ten career missionaries have gone out from our congregation to the foreign fields to serve the Lord, plus many others short-term. Plus two more that are in training to go career foreign missions. We've seen one daughter congregation. Go from our congregation, 50 people, that's now over a hundred people worshiping? And is this because we're very capable people? Well, of course not. And I know that because I have known some very capable people. Working in churches that have closed or suffered tragic fallout Believe me, I am keenly, keenly aware at 30 years that it's by God's grace that I am still serving, that I am still married. That I'm still here. By God's grace, Steve Green has been here for twenty years Tim Flora, by God's grace, here ten years. Robbie and John, shorter time. But by God's grace with the team. Eric has been church administrator for, I don't know, five years or so. But has been here with his family for 25 years or so. We have seen in that time nearly 200 people come to Christ, not counting covenant children, like the six that would have been up here. That's not included when what I'm talking about And those that have come to faith. In fact, after the first service, one of the things we hoped to show you was to project the first worship service. And uh there's a picture we I can show you if the if you've been in Discovery's class, you've seen it. And there's a picture in there, and I showed Robbie this week and uh in the crowd, uh there's Dan McQueen. And Robbie said, that's Dan McQueen. He looks just the same. And I told Dan after the first service, you get the award for 30 years of the least change of anybody in the congregation. And he looked at me and said, but not here. And then he told me something I had never known in thirty years. I thought when he was in that first worship service he was a Christian. He said, no, I was far from Christ. He said I had gone to every single church in Howard County searching. And it wasn't until he had been part of Columbia Presbyterian, he said, for probably four years, that he gave his life to Christ. We have seen God by His grace and power do amazing things. And it and here we are now in a in a three and a half million dollar Building project to enhance this base of operation for more effective ministry in the next 30 years. And this thing was all birthed In a prayer meeting that led that was that met in the living room Of Ken and Maybeth Williams, who were still here and were in the first worship service. I'd have them stand up here now, but they were in the first worship service. They stood up and everybody applauded. Then I reminded everybody that it was at that same time that Covenant Church appointed Al Burchus, sitting back there with Judy, to be the elder to investigate starting a new church in this new town of Columbia. Not only are Alan Judy still here But Al and Judy, I mean, we're such a tight fellowship that one of the Bjork's sons married one of the Williams' daughters. And the families are still here. You guys stand up Helen Judy Durkis still here off only. And we've been celebrating our friendship and thinking of how good it is that the gospel knits our hearts together. keep talking about this thing that neither of us can leave before the other one does. We keep hanging on. Well, we could celebrate a lot, but it's time for Scripture, because at the very center of Columbia Presbyterians' life and ministry has always been the Word of God. So let's not look at people anymore, but we want to look at Scripture for a few minutes. And I want to remind us, first of all, of what our purpose was. Back when we began, the very first message that I preached on September 17, 1970, here it is, pre-computer, handwritten, you know And it was from Ephesians, believe it or not, chapter 1, verse 7, what we have in Christ. The second week that I preached, September 24, 1978, here's the message. God's purpose for the church in Columbia. Ephesians 1, 17-23. It has been from the very beginning our purpose. I want to remind us of that purpose, and then I want to go on to share something of what we see as we enter into our second 30 years to be our simple process for making disciples. So, first of all, the purpose from Ephesians chapter 1. You heard Tim read that. I want to remind us of a couple of things and have us reaffirm in our hearts our commitment to this purpose personally. The first purpose, you see there in verse 17, is, well, let's say them all together. I mean we you know if it's thirty years we should have it down, right? The three purposes of Columbia Presbyterian are to know him. to know our hope and to know his power. Good. That's pretty good. That's better in some of the amens, I guess. So we'll see, you know, how it goes through the message. First purpose to know him better. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. Some of you, like Dan McQueen, did not know Jesus Christ at all when you first came to Columbia Presbyterian. And I hope all of us can say that we know him at least better because of our participation. We had some people share in the middle hour how they have come to know Christ better. As a result of our ministries. I hope we can all say that if we have been here for six months or a year in our walk with Christ. and affirm together our passion for continuing to explore the inexhaustible, unsearchable riches of Christ that Paul talks about in Ephesians chapter 3. That we would continue to explore more of the unsearchable riches of his person, of his offices of prophet, priest, and king. Of his names and his titles, to see him like that inexhaustible fountain That we can continue to drink from and delight in to know more of how He satisfies. To see him as that inexhaustible mine of treasure that we dig and find that we're still scratching the surface to know the treasures of Christ. To see him like the sun, of which in all its radiance we receive just a small particle of its heat and its light, but to know there is so much more Than we have known or experienced to know him better. Secondly, our purpose is that we might know our hope The hope which he describes in verse 18, I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, so in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you. What the riches of his glorious inheritance in or for the saints. The word could be translated either way, and I think it intends both ideas. It's in us. It's a transformed heart that He's given you, and it is for us. It is a transformed world. A new heavens and a new earth that we look for as the ultimate expression and fulfillment of our hope. That hope becomes more precious to you That you find that by faith you are acting less like a Christian and finding your heart to be genuinely transformed. To have the mind of Christ in you. Less trying to appear like a spiritual Christian. It knows the language. And more seeing God work the gospel in all its fullness and power in us To subdue sin in your life and my life and to subdue sin in our community and in the county That leads to the third purpose that we would know his power, that sin subduing power And then when Paul describes this, he kind of gets carried away and he goes on from verse 19 all the way to verse 23. He says, I pray that you will know his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenlies. Above all, power and authority. Above all majesty, excuse me, all power, you know, if I get off and then I get off. All rule and authority. And all power and dominion and every title that can be named both in this age and in the age to come. That God has set him above all things and placed him over everything for the church. Which is the fullness of him who fills the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Have you ever tried to get those words, those verses in your heart to meditate on them, preach the gospel to yourself by means of those thoughts? To know his power. You know it was back in the late 80s that we didn't have any property. And we had set our eye on this property. We needed to come up with a half a million dollars to procure it. Only had about 200 people in the congregation at that point And we determined that so that we didn't get our priorities skewed, Glenn Mitzel helped to persuade us in this that we would uh obtain the property debt-free Had about 18 months to do it. But God's power built our faith together as a congregation, as we saw Him do that and provide. And here we are now in 2008, about 20 years later. And we want to expand And again, we need about a half a million dollars in the next 18 months. We're a little bit into the 18 months now. About the same amount of money, $555,000. twice more the size, three times the size of congregation, but the financial times are a lot more difficult. Are we gonna just say Guilt, motivation, dig in, get that money out. Just like before. It's to see his power. To see what God does in providing us as we cry out to Him. And so as we look to Him and we see Him provide, our faith together is built in His power. To see that he also is able to rescue us from the storms that we talked about last week in our own lives. And so we look to him to know his power. To know him, know our hope and to know his power. That's our purpose. But for the rest of our time, I would like to look very briefly at a process. that I'm offering to you, it's something that we have discussed the staff. The session haven't really had the opportunity to discuss this, so I'm simply offering to you a a schematic, a diagram that I've put together as a way of of understanding this. It's not a new philosophy of ministry. We're all behind it. But it's simply a way of grasping in simple terms what is it that when a person comes in the door They don't know Jesus Christ and they come and they give their life to Jesus Christ. What is it that we want to do in their lives? In simple process Or if you come in and you've been a Christian for 20 years and you've been in five churches before, what is it we want to do in your life to see you grow in the process of discipleship? This little diagram is an attempt to explain that to help us to grasp it in simple terms And you see that it has three steps, but it has one statement at the top, which is the overarching process that we are seeking to accomplish. namely to move radically self-centered people to radically God-centered people in word and deed. You boil it all down, that's what we're about. Seeking to move radically self-centered people to become radically God-centered people in word and in deed. And there are three steps in seeking to do that. The first is in learning what it means to worship God. Paul says in Romans chapter 12, the text that I've chosen to use to help us to see what is it that we're trying to do scripturally. Paul says there, therefore I urge you brothers in view of God's mercy to offer your brothers, offer your bodies as living sacrifices. Holy and pleasing to God, this is your spiritual act of worship. And where he says there, in view of God's mercy, he's referring to the first eleven chapters. the gospel. And so you see at the center of that circle, the triangle, the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what drives everything that we do at Columbia Presbyterian. It has for the last thirty years, may it be for as long as CPC exists until the Lord comes. If a person comes in that door and like Dan the Queen, they don't know Jesus Christ. What is the first thing, the most important thing that they need? Not a support group, not learning how to play upward basketball, the most important thing that they need is the gospel. That person becomes a Christian, they've walked with the Lord for 10, 15, 20 years. They stumble upon CPC They come to us first time, and you say, How can we help you? What's the most important thing? What is the primary thing that Christian of 20, 30 years needs? It's the gospel. We never get beyond the gospel. It's learning how to walk and live by the gospel, not by sets of rules, not by guilt. Not by subcultural norms, not learning how to be a Presbyterian that fits some preconceived notions. It's the gospel. So the gospel is what turns us from radically self-centered people to radically God-centered people. And there are two pairs of ways that we do this. The first is that we do it corporately and individually Tim leads us as he did this morning or delegates, sometimes somebody else will lead, but it is to capture your heart and my heart, taking that gospel So that our affections are drawn out in expressions of praise and worship to Jesus. then individually to help us to learn how to become living sacrifices. To learn how to offer our bodies in every area of our lives, family life and our callings and our employment and our relationships. And so on Sunday, the other pair is that we do this by not only word. You see, in each of these three steps, it involves word and deed, speaking, serving. So we speak his praise, and then we give our money as an expression of our being living sacrifices. So we praise and give. Then we go out and we pray and live. So that we learn what it means to be a living sacrifice with our affections. Focused on Jesus Christ. That's the first step. Worshiping. It infuses everything else, but it's where we must begin foundationally in the Christian life. We hope that as you become part of, as you learn, that we don't worship, that we don't serve as living sacrifices individually, alone. So the second step is to learn how to worship corporately, how to live in community. The second step then in your bulletin outline is the one-anothering. Worshiping, then learning, one anothering. The text I've placed on that because I think it describes pretty sufficiently, pretty definitively What that means is in 1 Peter 4, verses 8 to 11. Very briefly, let's go through the verses to see what Paul Peter says is the way we are to live in community. First of all, he says above all, love each other deeply, because love covers over a multitude of sins. Well that's one thing to learn love each other deeply, but then why does he say because love covers over a multitude of sins? Because when you start loving sinners and get close to them, you start learning that we're like sandpaper. We rub each other the wrong way. That person who was so neat to get to know the first couple of meetings now rubs you and you think, I just can't stand their personality or something about 'em or I just, you know, I think God's leading me out of this group or this community or whatever. And Peter says, no, you're just learning to start what community is. Learn what to me what it means. Love one another deeply because love covers a multitude of sins. So we learn to forgive. We learn to be together. You think that there hasn't been any forgiveness in the Burkes's and the Williams and me being here together for 30 years? But it's precious And so the second thing is he says you offer hospitality to one another without grumbling. Hospitality is love of strangers. You're giving your resources, opening your homes Because even though you haven't known this person for very long, they're in trouble, they have a need, and and you're not going to close your heart against them. And so it involves the very practical sharing of our resources. In verse 10, he talks about our gifts, and notice it says, each one should use whatever gift he has received. Each one. There's no asterisk that says that you don't have a gift for the others. It's every one of you. Steve keeps trying to promote that and convince you of that. Each one of us use whatever gifts he has received to serve others, faithfully administering God's grace in its various forms. So the means of grace are not simply scripture, prayer, the Lord's Supper. The means of grace includes your life and the ministering of your gifts into my life. I see through your life something of the character of God displayed in gospel transformation. So in our case, for instance, we're in Dave Shearer's Home Fellowship Group. And recently when I was talking to Dave about a meeting I had missed and talked about how I felt bad about not always being able to get there and some of the things that I was doing and sometimes man I just was tired Day's response of encouraging me to not feel obligated to say, I rejoice when you can take a rest. And ministering to me, relieving me of that guilt, and just ministering to me something of the way my Heavenly Father seeks to lighten my burdens. Brought me to see more of the gospel. Dave Shear to me at that moment was ministering, administering one of the means of God's grace. And if you don't live in community, you don't get to experience that treasure. So Peter says we minister God's grace to each other in community. And he says we do it again in those two ways, speaking and serving, word and deed. Because he says there in verse 11, if anyone speaks, he should do it as one speaking the very words of God. He don't just say, well, you know, my gut feel to your problem is we try to reflect scripture, gospel-based advice and truth. If anyone serves, he should do it with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. If you serve in your own strength, you're going to run out of gas. And people aren't going to appreciate the sacrifice that you made, and you'll resent them. But if you minister in the strength God provides, you're able to minister by grace. And then he says, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever. You see, this is supernatural stuff. And so when the world sees sinners living in community, then the gospel gains credibility that it hasn't had. People see that there is a safe place in order, a place where they can share their sins. One of the sharing testimonies in the middle hour Was well, I'll let you find out who he was, but there's a fellow who said, I came here and the thing that affected me was seeing men be honest about their sin. And see the reality of changed lives, not just talk. And when people see that in community And they see that, lived out, gospel-based answers that are real and not pious platitudes to the real struggles that we have. Christ is magnified. The gospel at the heart of that circle is seen as something that is powerful in transforming a large savior for big sinners. And the gospel gains credibility in our world. But we don't end there. Because you see, we go on. To the third part of that process, and by the way, let me just go back uh again and and Tell you that we don't require that second thing that you be in a community. We simply invite you to be part of that. But we do set aside particular groups to be open each month so that if you're saying, yeah, I think God's calling me to Taste something of this community. I'm willing. You got me, I'll I'll try it. This month, John Lyons Group. is the open group. Go there, they're open for any visitors. The other groups are too, but John's particularly expecting them. In November, it's Paul Chisholm. His group. So try their group. But If you want to pursue that, talk to either these guys or Steve or me to see where God might place you The third step in that simple process is the witnessing. Worshiping one-anothering, that is, practicing the one-anothering commands of the New Testament, and witnessing. In that case, we look at Acts 1. 8 as the basic text to help us in our process. You see there that Luke says, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you All of you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, in Judea, all Judea, Samarried to the ends of the earth. Those are the words of the Lord Jesus. Worshiping leads to one another, leads to witnessing. And again, they're all in word and deed. We witness in our words in sharing the gospel, we witness in our deeds, seeking to display. the justice and the mercy of God to our world. Let me just quickly point out three things about that verse to help us to understand its process at Columbia Presbyterian. You notice in the blue there that you will be my witnesses. The nature of a witness is a person who has personally seen and experienced something and talks about it from their experience. So unless you are continuing to experience Romans 12:1, the mercies of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ, then you will probably not witness. Let me ask you a personal question. When in the month of October have you personally seen a need for the mercy of God in your life? And how have you received it? See, if you can't think of any way that you have needed God's mercy this month Then there won't be any way you've really received it. And if you haven't received it, you're not going to witness because you're not going to have a first-hand, immediate, fresh sense of running to Jesus for help. That's what we try to do every Sunday is to call you to look at your heart and your need for Jesus. So that as you see that, then when you're talking to somebody, you're not looking for the opportunity with this mixed feeling of, you know, am I going to get an opportunity to share the gospel? Yeah, maybe, you know, I got this canned approach and I'm But you simply speak out of your experience the little bits and pieces of the gospel that are appropriate to that conversation. Yesterday when we were at the celebration here, one person came over and they started talking about somebody that they had shared the gospel with. Turned out to be a neighbor of ours. And so here's this person that we've tried to share with and others have tried to share with, and now this person from CPC talks at a taut lot. She shares the gospel. We say, you know, I think she's starting to feel hemmed in. God's after her. None of us gave the whole gospel in some particular four-point thing. It was speaking in conversation. Witnessing to the mercy and the power of Jesus in our lives. The second thing that's involved in a witness is just being willing to talk to him, being available, talk to the person that you that God places in your life to be able to do that. That's what we're about. Now if you hear that and you say, well, that still sounds beyond me. I've tried that. I get discouraged when you talk about that. I mean, I'm still working on community, let alone the witness part, you know, and all the rest of this. I'm afraid. Then my response to you is good. Because that's why he says in verse 8, when the Holy Spirit comes upon you. Because unless you feel inadequate in your witness, you won't cry out for the Holy Spirit to equip you. And one of the things that I am concerned in the remaining time God gives me at Columbia Presbyterian is to strengthen the prayer base and prayer life of Columbia Presbyterian. In our session and our staff in the congregation. So we have a Wednesday night prayer meeting that seems easier for many people to make. You're going to hear more about praying in your home fellowship groups. about not only the concerns of our groups, but the concerns of our church, the concerns of our community, the concerns of our nation, of our world, of our missionaries, because we are a needy, desperate people who need the Holy Spirit. Amen? And we need to learn more about crying out to a God who loves to hear the cries of his people and show his power in answering them. The Jesus who's in the boat to still the storm and to rescue us. And so we cry out to the Holy Spirit, Lord help us. Help us to remember you've placed Columbia Presbyterian here 30 years ago to be salt and light to this community. We want to be faithful to that. We want to be more faithful to see the best days ahead, not looking back, but to see what you will do in transforming this community through the witness. of Columbia Presbyterian Church. And you notice he outlines how that takes place. You see there in the green. You start in your home, Jerusalem. To all Judea, Samaria, cross-cultural, and to the ends of the earth. And so you begin in your own home and family. You move on to your neighborhood, the place of your employment, your school, Columbia Presbyterian's ministries, yesterday, the celebration that we had here. Neighbor came from across Ten Mills Road, just moved in, came over because there's a party. And so people talked to her. She she received uh some Christian literature And we got upward basketball just launching the season now. Over 700 kids are going to be playing basketball here. To be able to hear the gospel, the ministries that we have, ministries in Baltimore, Sandtown, and other things that we're participating in. seeking to plant a church in Washington, D. C. , in the Southeast corridor there. The other things that we're doing here, then beyond to the ends of the world, through our missionaries That's the process. Simple, three steps. But it starts with a change of our hearts and moves to the ends of the earth. And so you see that we've staffed ourselves as a church in order to accomplish that. Tim oversees the worship. To help us in being changed from radically self-centered people that come in on Sunday saying, What do you got for me? To become radically God-centered people, to come in to worship and to offer to Him our praise and ourselves as living sacrifices. Steve oversees the one-anothering part of this process to help us to learn what it means to live these things in community. To see God deepen our community, upgrade the level of our sharing our lives together. Robbie oversees the witnessing part of it to help us whether in upward or in events or just help us in many different ways to be thinking about lost people, caring about those that are outside of our circle to share Christ with them. John oversees the youth ministries and moving us into more effective use of 21st century technology and communications. Eric leads the administrative support team to help us to implement all the great ideas. We come up in staff meeting. That's a great idea. How are we going to do it? I don't know. Give it to Eric, you know. Ask the support team there. But you know, to work together, seven elders active currently to under-shepherd, help you in your walk with the Lord Jesus. Delighted to say six or seven more in training that you'll hear about before long that are also, by your ratification and God's grace, be adding to our session to see in the years ahead. But in conclusion, let me just ask you to do one thing. I challenge you to take these four scriptures And you would in the next four days look at one scripture each day. Today look at the Ephesians. Tomorrow Romans. The next day, 1 Peter. The next day, Acts. Then take one of those scriptures where you see God most speaking to you about where you need to grow in that process and the purpose and take the next three days, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, to focus on that one scripture and lay yourself out before the Lord. Lord, speak to me, use me, open me. Be willing to follow him in that process because ultimately it's not about programs around here. It's about your walk with Jesus Christ. Let's pray So Lord, each of us come before you. And we want to know you better. We want to know our hope. We want to know your power. We need your Spirit to come in us, to transform us from being radically self-centered people to radically God-centered. Learning how to be living sacrifices. And Lord, where you're speaking to people, I pray that you would use your scriptures in the next few days to speak specifically to what that means to each one of us. What it means to walk in community and to be available as your witness. Lord, you have done great things by your mercy and power in our church in the first thirty years. And we ask you to grab a hold of us more deeply and use Columbia Presbyterian to exalt Jesus Christ and to be so than light in this community. And even to the ends of the earth, far more fully and effectively in the next 30 years. Because that would please you and it would delight us in Jesus' name. Amen.