As the usher has finished taking up the offering, I do just want to make a quick statement of the context of these passages and sermons that we're going to do for the next several weeks. Tim mentioned that what we're doing is looking at community. This week we're going to look at the topic of created into community. It's the very nature of who we are. Next week we're going to look at what the quality of that community is from Ecclesiastes 4. Tim's going to look at our need for community related to the fact that in Hebrews 3 it talks about the reality that we're blind spiritually and we need people to speak. truth. So we need people to interpret truth to us. And then Alan will speak on on the 7th of October from the passage in Ephesians 4 where it talks about the fact that we're to live in light of who we are. It fits well with what I'm saying today. Because we're created as community. But it's also the truth that the body of Christ is only complete as each part plays its role. And so we need each other But as we begin this morning, we're going to look at Genesis 1 and 2, the passages that Tim's read. But I want you to think of a setting in your mind. There's a dad. And he's walking into his workshop, and there across the workshop is his son standing up high, he's a young son, and he's really working hard to screw something in. And the dad thinks, wow, A, my son knows where my workshop is. B, he loves working with his hands. He's putting something together and I I I'm I'm excited. Maybe we can do work together. Maybe I can teach him how to use tools. And and maybe maybe this will be a great time for us together. So the father walks over to try and get a better look at what the son is doing. And and sure enough, the son is there diligently trying to screw two pieces of wood together. And the father looks, and as he looks closer, he sees that the son has chosen his grandfather's antique chisel as a screwdriver. The passage we're going to look at this morning is a passage that describes what we are, who we are, what we're created to be. And the truth of the matter is, in this particular issue, we love to define ourselves. We have a lot of reasons not to accept what God has said about the fact that we are created in the image of God for community. And I want to challenge that. I want to look today at what God says about who we are and how He calls us to live. There's three things that I want to look at. Number one is why we're need why we need community. Number two, if if God created me to need community, why don't I want it? Why is it we rebel against community? Thirdly, what do we do? How do we go from here? If I'm created for community and I don't like community, what do I do with the tension that I live with? So number one, why why do we need community? It is who we are. If you look at Genesis 1, God said in chapter 1, verse 26, Let us make man in our image. In our likeness. God is community. It is the triune God in dialogue, or maybe even trilogue. But certainly not a monologue. God is not speaking to himself as an individual about creating man and creating man as an individual. Let us make man in our image. Male and female, he created them. Not only does God create us as a community, but He tells us that He's created us as a community. If you look in chapter 2, verse 18 I just want to make a quick point. In in chapter one, you have the creation days. You have days one through six. And at the end Of a day starting in day four, I think it is, God says it's good. God gives a commentary on his work. It's good. Day five, it's good. Day six, it's very good. But then he goes back in chapter two and he creates the story of day six in a longer version. He explains what happens on day six. And in the middle of day six, with the creation of man before the creation of woman, God says, not that it's good, and not that it's very good, it is not good for the man to be alone. So God not only creates us as a community, He tells us that to live in isolation, to live as an individual, cut off from who we are It's tragedy. I want to take you, though, to two places that speak because not good is probably one of the largest understatements in Scripture. We look at that and we think, okay, it's not good. He doesn't say it's bad. He doesn't say it's terrible. It's just not good. So it's not that big a deal if I want to live by myself. Matthew, chapter um twenty six Chapter twenty-six Jesus is going into the Garden of Gethsemane And if you if you listen, here's what's taking place. He's got Peter, James, and John. And he says to them, My soul is overwhelmed with sorrow. To the point of death, stay here and keep watch with me. He goes on, and he he spends time In relationship with the Father. I love the way that it's portrayed in the opening scenes of the Passion of the Christ. I'm not making a commentary on Second Commandment issues, I'm not trying to tell you whether to watch it or not But I think there's a a way that it's captured in that movie that shows the agony of Christ as he anticipated the next day. Jesus is in agony and he prays in agony. He weeps. He agonizes over what is about to happen to the point that it describes that his perspiration, his sweat is as drops of blood. And that's only in anticipation of what's going to come, because what's coming is a severing of community. Mark chapter 15. That community is severed. Verse 33. At the sixth hour, darkness came over the whole land. Until about the ninth hour. Creation itself knows what's taking place. Darkness covers the land as light flees. Because of the tragedy of what's about to take place. And the tragedy of what's about to take place, of the very nature of God, is being assaulted because Jesus is separated from the Father. At the ninth hour, Jesus cried out in a loud voice, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? We stop at Genesis One and we hear not bad. Just not good. It's not good for the man to be alone. Brothers and sisters, we're created in the image of God. And the image of God is community. And at the moment when that community was suffered, the wrath of God poured out on the Son, and he faced hell. God created us in his image to experience community. God created us in his image to experience community and tells us that isolation is tragic. In chapter one and two, he goes on and he lists a number of things, he speaks of a number of things that are the nature of the of the relationship and the community we need. I want you to see the setting. God is not saying that it's bad for us to be isolated from God. And that what we really need is a close relationship with God because it was God who spoke to man and said it is not good for man to be alone. God was already there. God goes on in chapter 2 and he accounts for the fact that it's not just that there needs to be another being with man, because he gives them the animals. And he brings every animal to man who names them. And at the end says, there is no suitable helper for man. Then God creates woman. And at that point, community, the image of God is revealed in the creation of man So there are things that we see. Number one, we see that we are created for a task. In chapter one, verse twenty-six, God says of man That he will create man in his image. And in that very verse, let them rule. We have a task. We have a task to rule. And so we need a helper to rule with us. Let them rule. So we need somebody who can help us to work. Now I know a carpenter. His name is Jeff. Honest to goodness, real story. I'm describing a guy that's done some work on my house. And Jeff never had a carpenter's helper. He didn't want a carpenter's helper. Jeff was the kind of guy who would do carpentry work large scale on his own. So he's working on a 12-foot piece of wood And and and instead of having somebody hold it up and him nail it and then go to the other end and nail it, he'd build a frame to hold it up, nail it. He'd come over, finish the job, nail it on that end, go back, fix the job over here because Jeff wanted to work alone. Jeff was a craftsman. Anybody else working with him wasn't going to live up to his standards. And so Jeff worked alone. I'm so like Jeff. When I first came here it was really hard for me because I was a seminary student and I I was not used to having staff to work with me and I was not used to having the people on a team to do stuff. So so when I came here You know, I I worked I would I would make all of the paper stuff I needed for EE and I would I would I would set up all the phone calls and I would I would keep my schedule and I would I would do all sorts of stuff that I could have had other people do Because I worked alone. I knew it was done. I knew when it was done. I knew how it would be done. I still find myself way too often making copies of things. I don't work. Like God created me to in a team. But I'm created to work on a team. I'm also created To fill the earth. Chapter 1, verse 28, God says that part of the task that He has given to man, be fruitful and increase in number, fill the earth. Let me make a comment about this. This is the one job we have that requires marriage, that requires family. One of the dangers we have as we look at this creation account is to think that what God is talking about is that the community that we need is family We need a husband, we need a wife, and if we don't have that, we don't fit. The truth of the matter is this one function create And Phil is the one function that requires a husband and a wife. I don't need Ann to work with me in the office I don't need to be married to Gina, to Pat, to Phyllis, to Corinne, whoever. They have their husbands. My work is something I do part of a larger community. There's only this one task, the task of procreation, to fill the earth that requires marriage. I also need someone to experience intimacy with me. Chapter 2, verse 25. The man and his wife were both naked and felt no shame. Stop with me for a moment there. That's a foreign concept. We're on this side of the fall, and we deal with sin, we deal with shame, we deal with distance. We aren't naked and unashamed. Certainly in in the context of physical nakedness, there are limitations. Again, husband and wife. But the issue here is that it's not merely a physical nakedness that we're talking about. We're talking about an emotional nakedness. There was no shame. There was a complete knowledge of one another. They knew each other to the greatest depths, and there was no shame. They knew each other spiritually. There was nothing hidden. It was complete intimacy. The same intimacy they shared with God. They were before God, naked and unashamed. God created us for that level of connection, for that level of intimacy. That's who we are. It's warped by the fall. It's warped by our sin, but we're created for that level of intimacy. And as we get to heaven, there will be that level of intimacy again, emotionally, spiritually. And we're created for that. That's who we are. There's a hunger in us for that, but there's also a fear. One of the things that we do in our culture today is is we long for that level of safety to be known that deeply And if you think I'm silly, then let me ask you this. How many of you have ever paid a counselor to help you? You pay the counselor and part of the contract is they know you and they promise not to reject you. They know you and promise not to spread tales. They know you and relate to you. There's a hunger we have for that level of connection with someone and we'll even pay for it. Okay, another another area where we see the need for a helper, for a helper suitable to us is in the area of interpretation. We're created not only in community as as as communal beings, we're also created as revelation receivers. God created us for relationship with Him and He created us to hear He created us to gain from what he tells us, so he speaks to us. He speaks to us even in the act of creation. He gives us tasks. Be fruitful and multiply. Rule the animals. Don't eat of this tree. And so he gives us his revelation, and we're created to receive it. We have ears, we have eyes, we process communication. But we also interpret. And one of the problems that we see in Genesis chapter 3 is that we don't always get good interpretation. God gave to Adam the command, do not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Adam clearly at some point had communicated to Eve, or else God had spoken to Eve directly, do not eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. The serpent comes. Chapter 3, verse 1. Did God really say? And now there's a new interpreter. There's a different understanding of what God has said. Adam was standing with Eve. as the serpent spoke to Eve and challenged God's revelation. We have a negative example of what should have taken place. I'm not sure whether the first sin was eating, whether the first sin was refusing to speak. Adam didn't tell Eve no. We today desperately need people who will be in our lives to the depth and to the detail that they can speak God's truth to us. That when we're going off and our theological understanding of God is one, but our functional understanding of God is another, they can know the two and come to us and say, I'm confused. I know you, I know that you know God. Why are you doing this? So they can come to us and show us our blind spots where functionally we've wandered from the truth that we believe. Let me read from instruments in the Redeemer's Hands Paul Tripp is talking in this passage about spiritual blindness. He's talking about opening blind eyes. It's a huge part of what we need as believers and what we need to give as brothers and sisters. Here is an example of Celia's wrong questions. She would say, I pray and pray, I read my Bible, yet God isn't helping me. He isn't answering my prayers. Then she would ask this question: Why isn't God working in my life? This is a bad question, based on an unbiblical assumption which cannot lead in a good direction. Celia's question led her to two answers. Sometimes she would conclude that God wasn't active because he simply didn't love her. He had better things to do than to worry about her puny life. On other occasions she would conclude that God was not active in her life because she was such a miserable sinner. And his inactivity was punishment for her iniquity. Bad answers to a bad question will produce a harvest of bad fruit. Like Job's infamous counselor, Celia did not build the bridges from her theology to her situation. That would lead to a biblical interpretation of life. To ask Celia's question biblically, we must start with the following biblical assumption: God is ever active in my life. God is ever active in my life. To ask why he isn't working is to assume something that isn't true. True conclusions cannot come from a false assumption. A better way of asking the question is to say, God is redemptively active in my life, so what is he doing? And why don't I recognize it? This question can lead to greater insight, biblical change, and a harvest of good fruit. We need people who will help us to see the truth. And for them to help us to see the truth, they need to know us. well enough to know where we wander, which is exactly what we want to hide from them. And that leads us to the second issue. Number one, why do we need to be in community? Number two, why don't I want to be in community? What about community do I find distasteful? What do I find problematic? Why am I isolated? It's not rocket science. Look at chapter 3 verse twelve Adam and Eve have been in the garden, they've been tempted by the serpent, they've fallen into sin, they've recognized their nakedness, felt shame, and now God comes down. And God finds them hiding. And God says, What's going on? Who told you you're naked? And Adam's first response, the woman you put with me God, she led me wrong. Here I am, I'm naked and I'm unashamed. I'm in community, I'm doing all I'm supposed to do. Wrong. And she leads me wrong if I'd only been alone. The woman, she does the same thing because she had been in relationship with the serpent. God says, What did you do? And she says, Well the serpent, the serpent told me that I should eat. And I did. One of the things that leads us not to want to be in community is the fact that people will hurt us. And if we're really honest, we'll hurt them. There is pain in fallen world with fallen people in biblical relationships. But there's also my fear. Because when I allow My distaste for pain to prevent me from entering into the relationship God creates me for, God calls me to What I do is I I live with unbelief because I'm not trusting God If my greatest desire is to escape the pain of relationship and avoid community, what I've said is a couple of really significant sinful things. The first of which is I don't need pain. God is wrong to put me in a situation where I'm going to have pain. God failed I'm now living with the failure of the fall, and so I don't need to do what I'm created to do. It's unbelief. Secondly, I don't believe that God will protect me. So that the pain is God's failure to protect me. I shouldn't hurt. God let me hurt, God failed. It's unbelief. It's unbelief. And lastly, I don't believe that there's a redemptive purpose for my pain. God can't use my pain in a way to advance his kingdom and to build me up. I shouldn't hurt. Let me look to the story of Joseph. In the story of Joseph as a young man, that God has said, you're going to do great things. You're going to be an amazing leader. Your family will bow down to you. Joseph's stupid enough to tell his family that they'll bow down to him, and Joseph gets sold into slavery, which is a step up from where they were gonna do. They were going to kill him But instead they sold him into slavery. That's a pretty painful consequence of relationship. He sold into slavery, and he's in Potiphar's house. Potiphar recognizes his abilities and makes him a steward. Okay, well it's not quite so bad, and I'm I'm at least in a wealthy home and you know I have real opportunities. I'm gonna I'm gonna make a a good thing out of my life, and then Potiphar's wife says, You're so good. And she threatens him with prison if he doesn't do what she wants. He can't do what she wants, and he doesn't. And as a consequence, he goes to jail. He goes to prison. Now he's in prison. I mean, his brothers failed him, Potiphar failed him, now he's in prison. He stays in prison until Pharaoh brings him out. Pharaoh brings him out and puts him in second place in all of Egypt. His brothers come back at the end of the story, and his brothers don't know who this Joseph is, this ruler of Egypt. until they meet him. They meet him and they realize that they have their worst nightmare. They've abandoned their brother. They've forgotten all about him. They they've destroyed their father's heart. And now judgment faces them square. But Joseph is a man of faith. Joseph believes, and at the very end of Genesis, Joseph makes a tremendous statement. What you meant for evil, God meant for good. Brothers and sisters, God is redemptive. He is ever active in your life. And the pain that you experience in following his created order. Is a pain he will use for you and for the kingdom. The right approach is to say, God created me for community. God will work through my suffering, and God will accomplish my good, because that is tied to his good. Another reason we don't want to be in community with people is because it means I have to be known. Genesis 3 verse 7 Then the eyes of both of them were opened and they realized they were naked. No longer is there an absence of shame, now there's the pleasance of shame. They're naked and ashamed. They're naked and afraid. They're terrified Brothers and sisters, we face that. When we think of being known, we think of rejection, we think of judgment, we think of condemnation, and you know why we think of those things? Because when we know others, we give judgment, we give rejection, we give condemnation. We don't want to be with people who don't measure up. Look again at Adam's comment to God. That woman God, if you just left me alone, I'd have been okay. No God says one of the greatest tragedies that can exist is for his created people to live against their created identity. God calls us into community. God equips us for community. God gives us The blessing of being known, because when I'm known, then I have the gift of seeing myself from another's eyes And those things that I justify, those things that I defend, those things that I deny, they're up front. They're in my face. And I can't hide, and I have to deal with my sin. Which means I have to go back to God. I'm either going to hide, I'm going to be naked and ashamed, and I'm going to try and find a tree to hide behind, and I'm going to try and find fig leaves to cover myself, I'm going to live in denial. Or I'm going to honestly face my sin, repent, and receive forgiveness. And we have the opportunity, living in biblical community, to give that gift to each other now, to know and to love one another. Okay, so truth of the matter is I'm created for community. That's who I am. I want to run from community, that's also who I am as a fallen creature. What do I do? What do you do? What do you do? Number one, you believe Jesus. You are redeemed. He loves you and he calls you first and foremost into community with himself. He says, I will never leave you nor forsake you. You'll never experience from Jesus what he experienced on our behalf on the cross. We'll never cry out, Jesus, why did you forsake me and speak truth? We may cry it out because it may feel like we've been abandoned. Jesus will never abandon you. Never. He can't. It isn't who he is. You're redeemed. You have the capacity to grow and to change, to become the man and woman of God that he calls you to be. And part of that, living your identity is living in community. And so if you want to draw closer to Jesus, you need to draw closer to one another. You have to. It's who you are. And to not draw closer to one another is to refuse to draw closer to Jesus. That's the way he created it. So, let me just conclude with this. Remember, we talked in the beginning about that wonderful old antique chisel being used as a screwdriver. Because the boy, in his ignorance, didn't know that it was a chisel. He saw a task, he saw something that would fit the task, and he decided to use it. You know your created order You know who you are. You know what God says about who He had made you to be. Will you live as a chisel or will you live as a screwdriver? Are you going to leave today thinking that you really are glad that sermon's over and maybe you should go to a different church for the next three weeks because you really don't need to hear any more about being in community? Or will you leave today recognizing that God has made you as a glorious being in his image to experience community? Not just with God, not just in your family, community And will you trust him to lead you to the experience of that community? Let's pray. Jesus, you are amazing. You love us so well. When you create us, we wander. When you redeem us We wander. When we wander, you love us and you restore us. You give us the spirit and you call us home. And we're yours. Jesus, give us eyes to see, ears to hear, and community to hold us close Give us a love for you that we will do anything. We will become who we must be to hold close to you. And we'll love the work you do in us and through us in the process of experiencing intimacy with you. In your most precious name we pray. Amen.