Chapters two and chapter three. And let's open in prayer. Almighty God, we do thank you that you have brought us here this morning. Lord, I realize that you have brought us for different reasons and that you have brought us in different places. But we're here together, and we're hearing your word, and we pray, Lord, that you would speak to our hearts And that you would accomplish that work that's already been mentioned. New hearts, new spirits, a new relationship with you, a deeper relationship with you. Lord, please accomplish your purposes through this time, and in us we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we are concluding a series of five messages on Ezekiel chapter 3. We have looked at what it is for Ezekiel to be called as a watchman. His unique position, but also the fact that the watchman is one who is called to listen to God and to speak to God's people with whom he identifies We came the next message to look at the fact that that calling was not only for Ezekiel, but it is our calling as well. That because of what God tells us of how we are to live as believers, as children of the Most High God The New Testament gives to us all of the functions that Ezekiel had as a watchman. We looked at who it is we are called to watch over. And last week we looked at the message that God has given us to tell, which is a message of redemption. An incredible message of God's power at work to make us new men and women. Many of you have through this series of sermons been asking me, well, what about those dangers? I mean, it doesn't sound exactly easy for Ezekiel to be a watchman because God says, I will hold you accountable. Or he says to the faithful watchman, You have saved your life. You have saved yourself. So what are the dangers to the watchman? Most of the questions that I've heard have really looked particularly at the question of what is my danger should I fail to be a watchman. But I want to look this morning at the whole package. I want us to look not only at the dangers to the unfaithful watchman, which we will get to, and we'll end on that, but I want us also to look at the dangers to the faithful watchman because there's reasons that we will not be. And part of those reasons for not being a faithful watchman is the dangers that exist for one who does what God calls him or her to do. So I want to look first at the dangers to the faithful watchman. What is it that is a danger for me? Why am I at risk if I do what God says? And the thing to recognize about that is that those dangers do not come from God. They come from those who will hear you. It is those who are listening That are likely to be dangerous to the watchman who does what God asks. Listen again. To the words that Ezekiel hears from God. And you, son of man, do not be afraid of them or their words. Do not be afraid, though, briars and thorns are all around you, and you live among scorpions. Do not be afraid of what they say or terrified by them, though they are a rebellious house. You must speak my words to them, whether they listen or fail to listen, for they are rebellious. God never says that it is not dangerous. God never says to Ezekiel as he's telling him not to be afraid that they will not wound you. If you take upon yourself faithfulness to God and realize that you are a watchman If you leave from here this morning, committed to the well-being of those you are called to care for, you will be in danger. And that danger is real. What are some of the things that we are in danger of? We're in danger of rejection. People do not like to be told when they're doing something that is offensive to anyone else, especially to God. They will reject you. They have already by choice or by ignorance rejected God. For they would not be in sin. They would not do something offensive to God if they were striving to please him. So they've already chosen to reject God. Now it may have been by choice, in which case they know the consequences and they know their actions. It may have been by ignorance, in which case we have a greater plea from God to teach them. But one way or the other they have rejected God. And they will reject us. For a time at least, because the emotional action of self-defense says I don't want to know that I'm doing something wrong, and if I am told that I'm doing something wrong, I will find an excuse that what I'm doing is really right. And it's really okay, and you're the one that's wrong for misunderstanding what it is I'm doing. And as God begins to work, they will either harden in their rejection or they'll break. But they may want to reject us as well, for we're the messengers. And messengers never farewell when they bring a difficult message. They may attack your credibility. There is a statement we have that people who live in glass houses ought not to throw stones. Now I want you to think for a moment, does that does that fit to this context? We all know that we're sinners. We all know that each of us have things that we really need a watchman to confront us with. We all know that there are things that we're doing that are distancing us from God. So are we people living in glass houses who are casting stones? As you go to your friend, to your wife or your husband, to your child, to your neighbor, to somebody sitting next to you in church this morning, and you alert them to something that they're doing that is not pleasing to the Lord. Are you casting a stone Does this analogy fit? I'm going to tell you no it doesn't. It doesn't fit at all While we do live in glass houses, and we are men and women and young men and young women and children of sin, and it would be good for us to have people bring that to our attention. And for us to desire to fight that sin in order to please our Lord, we're not casting stones. If you think of being a watchman as being one who will cast stones at somebody who needs to be woken up, you're wrong. That is antithetical to what a watchman is called to do, for a watchman is not called to break the window. A watchman is called to heal the soul. And the message we heard last week as we spoke about the redemptive plan of God was one that said, You are to care deeply for the well-being of those to whom you are speaking. You are not called to log grenades. To shoot off a few rockets or to cast a few stones. Alan mentioned in the prayer this morning for the children who were baptized that we not come thinking we have all the answers. And that's an excellent point, because we don't. What we come when we take these children into our care is as watchmen. We are here for one another, for our well-being, and for our wholeness, because that's what God desires of us. We talked about the log and the splinter last week. And I want to reiterate that that parable does not end with paying attention to the log in your own eye. It says, deal with the log in your own eyes, so that you may see more clearly to help that one with a splinter. The goal is redemptive, not self-defensive. Pride can stop the work of a watchman. Either my pride as I come trying to tell you that I've got it all together and therefore you ought to listen to me, because then you're going to know that I am lying. And if I'm lying about how I'm doing, then I'm probably lying about how clearly I understand what you need to do. The pride on the receiver's part can also end the effectiveness of the watchman. Because we will not listen and we will not change. It is so easy for us to come up with explanations for what we do and why we've done it. But it is not only rejection, it is also rebuke. The danger to the watchman is rebuke. How can you come to me? You who have done this, you're going to come to me and tell me I've got to stop this little thing? And so I'm frightened. I don't want to deal with your small sin because you know my large one. But you know what? That is not a bad thing. Because there is a mutuality of being watchmen When done right, a watchman is able to give the message and to receive it. And as you share your love for others by helping them to address areas that God has called you to address, And they in turn help you. It is not a tragedy for you to recognize your own sin, it is a blessing. And so if they come to you with rebuke, don't let that be the end. They may mean that in order to shut you up. But they may also mean that because they love you. And they want you to be whole as well. Either way, God is the one at work in them and in you, and He is the one who is giving you that understanding of your sin as well as theirs. And if you come as a watchman believing that you need to be perfect. before you say a word, or you believe that you are perfect before you've said that word, then you need to listen again to God. Because he is at work to complete in you the work that he has begun, as well as in those that you you care for. But not only is it rejection and rebuke, but it's also physical danger. There is a physical danger to being a watchman. To being a faithful watchman There's a passage where Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees, and he speaks of how the nation of Israel, the very household of God that Ezekiel was called to care for. Had killed the prophets. And he says to that generation, as he's speaking to the Pharisees personally, that they will be held responsible for the blood of every prophet that has been killed. It was not a rare occurrence for a watchman to die in the line of duty. There may be physical danger for you. I think of Jim Elliott, as he died in the 50s in South America. Going in to share the gospel with a group of people who were known as headhunters. He had no reason to go to them except to be faithful to God. He had no reason to To give up so much that he had. He was an effective leader. He was a man of great vision. He was a man who could have led the evangelical church. But he was a man with a conviction, and that conviction was he is no fool to give up what he cannot keep in order to gain what he cannot lose. And so in I believe 1955 as he was on the edge of a river going in the next day to speak to a group of Indians that we at that time called the Akas, and today call themselves the Waoriani They came. They killed every one of the men on that river's beach. But through that And through the families that were left behind, God brought the gospel to these people, and now they are basically a Christian tribe and will worship together with us in heaven as we face the Lamb. There is a physical danger to being a watchman. But there's also a corollary where God says to Ezekiel I will make you as unyielding and hardened as they are. I will make your forehead like the hardest stone, harder than flint. Do not be afraid of them or terrified by them, though they are rebellious ouse. Chapter 3, verses 8 and 9, preceding the call that he gives to be a watchman. God promises to protect his people. If you want an example of that, look at Ezekiel himself. God spirit Ezekiel and kept him effective in ministry. But a better example, as we've talked about in the last couple of weeks, is the story of Daniel. For remember, Ezekiel and Daniel are taking place at the same time. Ezekiel is revealing God's heart as he is enacting his redemptive plan. Daniel is the story. Daniel recounts the events. And tells us the narrative. Daniel in the first chapter decides for himself that he will not eat the food that is offered by Nebuchadnezzar, because it will defile him. Before God. Daniel is one of these exiles who's been taken into Babylon. He's watched as the Israelite armies and in the minds of everyone, God himself have been defeated. by the Babylonian armies and by the Babylonian gods. He has seen the defeat and the exile of his people, including himself, for he was a noble He was dragged off to another place. And in that place he's offered tremendous opportunity, for he's taken into the very household of Nebuchadnezzar to be trained as a counselor for Nebuchadnezzar. To be assimilated into the culture and to be a wise man with great potential for riches and comfort. And what is it that Daniel refuses to eat? He refuses to eat the very food set before Nebuchadnezzar, the choicest of meats. The choicest of the vegetables, the greatest of wines. And he refuses to eat these things because he still knows that God is there. And he still knows that he is to worship and to obey God. And so what happens? He is healthier, sleeker, and more coherent in his thoughts than any of the others who've eaten this great food. What does he eat? He eats vegetables and water. God rewards his obedience. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, friends of Daniels, who were in the same situation, brought into Babylon, are told that they will either fall down and worship a golden statue. In order to show that they have assimilated into the Babylonian culture and the Babylonian religion and have forsaken their God, or they'll be cast into a furnace. And so Nebuchadnezzar brings these three who know him personally because they have lived in his house, and he's furious with them. And they are in danger because Nebuchadnezzar intends to kill them. They're in danger for being faithful to God and proclaiming the news that a watchman must proclaim, even to Nebuchadnezzar himself. And so Nebuchadnezzar says, don't you understand that if you do not bow down to this statue that I have made, I'm going to throw you into the furnace? And do you know what Nebuchadnezzar hears in return? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego come to him and say, well, we don't have to defend ourselves before you. I'm sorry. This is the king of Babylon whose armies have defeated the armies of Israel who has now taken the temple instruments from the temple in Jerusalem. Who has destroyed the temple and destroyed the city and they don't have to make a defense of their actions before him? For you know our God can save us Well, wait a minute, your God's been defeated. Your God isn't a factor here. I have the soldiers, I have the furnace, and you're gonna die. No, no, you see, our God can save us. But even if he doesn't, he's still God. They are watchmen without the stated calling. God protected them. And as Nebuchadnezzar heated the furnace seven times hotter than normal. And as he had them tied by the strongest of his soldiers and taken up to be cast into the furnace, the fire is so hot that before they can even be thrown into the furnace, the soldiers who are bearing them up died. And Nebuchadnezzar sees not three men burning to death in the furnace, but four, the fourth of which is like a son of God. Walking and talking, and enjoying fellowship God can and promises to protect his watchmen. So there are dangers to us if we are faithful. But this morning, the concern that we have, the concern that we focus on for the last four weeks is what is it that motivates me to be faithful? Why not simply continue as I am? Why should I change? Well, chapter 3, 18 through 21 speaks powerfully Of the choice that we have. When I say to the wicked man, chapter 3, verse 18, you will surely die. And you do not warn him or speak out to dissuade him from his evil ways in order to save his life. That wicked man will die for his sin. And I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the wicked man and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his evil ways, he will die for his sins. But you will have saved yourself. Again, when a righteous man turns from his righteousness and does evil, and I put a stumbling block before him, he will die. Since you did not warn him he will die for his sin, the righteous things he did will not be remembered, and I will hold you accountable for his blood. But if you do warn the righteous man not to sin and he does not sin, he will surely live, because he took your warning, and you will have saved yourself As I look at this and I look at why it is easy not to be faithful, the first reason that leaps out to me is because I don't have the calling. Now that doesn't mean that I'm a believer who doesn't have the calling. It means that I am not in relationship with God. And I recognize that many of you have come this morning to be here for a baptism and you have to tolerate the message. And you're not coming in having heard the first four messages to help make sense out of all of this. But the issue is, if you do not have a relationship this morning with God, whether you're a gaster, whether you're a regular, you're not a watchman. And your issue is not the need to be faithful to the watchman because you cannot. The issue is you need a watchman. Everyone who does not have that relationship with Jesus and cannot hear what he says cannot speak his warning. You need to hear it. You need to know that there is that redemptive plan available that God has said, I will take away your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. I will wash you with clean water and you will be clean. You will be my people, and I will be your God. That is available. And if this morning you don't have that confidence, I urge you to talk to somebody that you know that does. Surely you know somebody that you know has a relationship with Jesus. And if you don't, talk to them before the day is over. But the second reason that I might not be faithful is because I fail to hear God. You recall that he says to Ezekiel, hear the word I speak. And give them warning from me. When I say to a wicked man, and you don't tell him. When I say to a righteous man who has turned from his righteousness to sin, and you don't tell him The message you give must not be your own, for that's casting stones. The message you give has to be the message God has given to you. And for you to have that message, you have to hear it. So let me ask this question. How do you hear the Lord? How does he speak to you? How does he give you that intimacy with himself? You'll find in your lifetimes when you're just convinced he's not even talking. If you're in one of those times, then I encourage you to turn on the radio and listen to him. Because it's not an issue that he's not speaking. It's an issue that you've turned off the medium. You need to hear him from his word. That means listening in worship. That means reading the Bible. That means responding in prayer. You must be intimate with him, deeply enough to know what he's saying before you have anything else to offer. Take the time to listen. We might fail, and I might fail because of fear of men. You see, the dangers really do exist. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were thrown into the furnace. Daniel was thrown into the lion's den. Jeremiah was killed. Peter was crucified upside down. Being a watchman is not an easy task and there will be dangers. Will you be a watchman when it is not politically correct? Will you be a watchman when your livelihood is at risk? Will you be a watchman when the relationship you have with your neighbors might be jeopardized? You see, I see the dangers that people can pose to me. And I forget the dangers that God has promised. Jesus says in Luke chapter 12: I tell you, my friends, do not be afraid of those who kill the body, and after that can do no more. But I will show you whom you should fear. Fear him who, after killing the body, has the power to throw you into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him Indeed, the very hairs on your head are numbered. Don't be afraid. You're worth more than many sparrows. I tell you, whoever acknowledges me before man, the Son of Man, will also acknowledge him before the angels of God But he who disowns me before men will be disowned, before the angels of God. There is a greater danger than the danger that men can give to you. There is a greater threat to your well-being than the threat of men. There was a guy who used to be here before he moved away. He was in the Air Force and he was given an interview for a position to teach at Colorado Springs. It was a Cush job. It was a wonderful job. It was a career-building job, and he could have stayed there for the rest of his career and retired in Colorado Springs. Easy hours. No risk. So he'd gone through all the levels of the interview process, and finally he was speaking to the Commandant in the Commandant's office high up in one of the buildings, looking over the Air Force Academy. And he knew he had the job. Until the commandant opened his mouth and asked this question. Just so we can get to know each other. What is the most significant event that's ever taken place in your life? He told me that this verse passed before his mind, those who will acknowledge me before the Son of Men. The son of those who acknowledge me before men, the son of man will also acknowledge before the angels of God. But he who disowns me before men will be disowned before the angels of God. And he knew that this job just didn't matter. And so he went to the commandant of the Air Force Academy. I believe he was a general at that point. And this major Looked him in the eye and said, Sir, the most significant thing that's ever taken place in my life is to come into a saving relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Can I tell you about it? All he had to do was make sure that he could speak without stripping over his tongue. And the job was his He left that office knowing that his career had been placed at risk, that he would never be a member of the faculty at the Air Force Academy, and that he had just insulted a general But he'd been faithful to Jesus. He didn't get the job. Those who acknowledge me before men, the Son of Man, will also acknowledge before the angels of God. He was a faithful watchman. We might also fail to be faithful as a watchman. Because we have failed badly in the area that we need to address with the ones that we're caring for. David is a great example of this. David failed badly in adultery and in murder as he took Bathsheba and as he killed her husband. And David failed to discipline his children in specifically the area of rape and of murder. Because David had not yet at that point in his life dealt with the sin that God had forgiven God is not calling you to be perfect. He's not calling you to be right before you can love The issue is if you're casting a stone and somebody can come back at you and say, you've got a bigger window than I've got, you've got no business to speak But if you're going to someone you know that is in jeopardy of their relationship with the Lord, and you go to them willing to risk your own embarrassment because you want them not to make the same mistakes that you've made. It is a different matter. If David had gone to his sons, if he had gone to Absalom and said, Listen, I understand how badly you feel, I will discipline your brother Amnon. I understand because I've been there. And I don't want you to continue. Amnon would have been dealt with, Absalom would not have committed murder And Amnon would not have died. A related issue is we may think that we simply don't have the expertise to be able to help this person through the issue. If I simply even raise the problem, I'm going to make it worse. Well, yeah, you may not have the level of skill to resolve the problem. You're not called to resolve it, you're called to care You're called to make people aware. You're called to love. There may be some who have greater skill in this area than others. But you're not called to be a counselor to make things better. The Messiah's job is to heal. Your job is to care and to speak. You are not called necessarily on the basis of your skill. You are called as a child of God. To love. Jesus says, The new commandment I give to you, that you love one another even as I have loved you. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. You're not called to make it better. You're called to love and to commit yourself to the process. The greater the gifting, the greater the responsibility, but God has called each of us to the process. Well the thing that's frightened most of us as we sat here wondering about what it is that God wants us to do is the thing we have to turn to now. And I wish I had a longer message to give. Actually I have a longer message to just have a longer time. What does it mean that I am accountable to God? What does it mean in verses 19 and 21 that I've saved myself when I'm faithful? What does it mean in verses 18 and 20 that I have made myself accountable before God when I fail? The question it seems to be before us is the issue of will I die? Will I lose my salvation? If you turn to the back of your outline, those questions are there. If I am unfaithful as a watchman, and if I refuse to speak to the one that needs to hear God's word, God says to me, I will hold you accountable for his blood. What does that mean? Many of us will look at Genesis chapter 9, verses 4 through 6, and believe that what it's saying is that I will die. God says, and for your lifeblood I will surely demand an accounting. The same words I will demand an accounting from every animal, and from each man too. I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. And then he continues, and this is where it gets a little complex. Whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God has God made man. And so there is a fear on our part that when God says, I will hold you accountable for his blood, that God is saying to us, we will die. We extrapolate that and might even come to the conclusion that what he's saying is, I will die spiritually. But I will lose my relationship with God. Paul takes this challenge seriously enough that when he is greeting the Ephesian elders as he's on his way back to Jerusalem for judgment. He says to them, Now I know that none of you among whom I have gone about preaching the kingdom will ever see me again. Therefore I declare to you today that I am innocent of the blood of all men. For I have not hesitated to proclaim to you the whole will of God. Acts chapter twenty, verses twenty-five through twenty-seven Paul takes it so seriously that he says to the elders as he's leaving, knowing this is his last words to them, that he has given them a model of a faithful man who is innocent of the blood of all men Point blank. Does God holding us accountable mean that we will lose our salvation? No. Wipe the sweat off your brow. No, it does not mean you will lose your salvation. Jesus says in John chapter 10 My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one can snatch them out of my Father's hands. If you have that relationship with God and then consequently have that calling of the watchman, you will never lose that salvation. Jesus doesn't say no one except for their own sin could snatch them out of the Father's hands. The passage in Ezekiel chapter 36 says, I will take away your heart of stone and give you a heart of flesh. God is not an Indian giver. My wife heard that phrase recently and said, Well no, you really ought to say he's not an American giver. Regardless God will not take back salvation that He has given to us. He will not give us back a heart of stone. God has made us new creatures. The issue is not a loss of salvation. And the accountability for the blood is not an issue of losing a relationship with God, not for Ezekiel and not for us. But what does it mean for the salvation of those to whom we are called? Well, they can't lose it either. But they may not gain it. And while we're good reformed thinkers and we understand that God will call those whom He will call and cannot be kept from doing so God calls us to faithfulness as messengers. And you are to speak his gospel and his grace to everyone to whom he calls you. Or you'll answer to God. Does that answering to God mean that I might lose my life? They might. In chapter eleven of First Corinthians, there were those that Paul was describing as having died because of the depth of their sins. They're believers. There are people that God was going to restrain from their sin by discipline. He had made them ill. He had led them to the point of needing to know their repentance, and they'd not repented. And God, to restrain their sin, took them home. I am not saying that this is a common event, but it is clearly taught. That God will do this if necessary. But the greatest issue at hand is my question of where do I stand with the Lord? For if I am callous and unwilling to be a watchman, if I am unwilling to accept the calling that I clearly recognize is mine, If I am unconcerned about the well-being of those people around me that God has called me to care for, then the issue is not one of loss of salvation or even necessarily loss of life. The issue is where do I stand with the Lord? How can I be so callous? How can I be so self-focused and not focused upon either God or the ones He has called me to care for? And the danger for us as unfaithful watchmen is that we'll have to answer to God. We will have to face him and acknowledge what we've done and not done. God graciously may bring you to that point here in this life as you have to face him and say, I've sinned. But the message of grace and the message of redemption that God has given to us to proclaim is the same message that comes to us. God wants us to draw close to Him. And the greatest danger bar none to the watchman who was unfaithful is distance from God. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you have revealed to us your truth, that you have called us to a relationship with yourself, and there is a message from you we have heard. And Lord, I pray that we would be faithful to proclaim it. Lord, I pray that we would please you in how we live, what we say, what we do. I pray, Lord, that you would give us a heart of compassion and of love for those around us that will not tolerate silence. When there is a need to speak. Lord, I pray that we would not be watchmen who cast stones, false watchmen. Watchmen who are simply defending themselves. I pray, Lord, that we would be men and women of love who would fulfill the command Jesus gave to us the night he was betrayed. And Lord, if there are any here who don't have that relationship with you, I pray that you would bring them to yourself. For the message of redemption and the message of grace is the greatest that can ever be given and the most costly. Lord, I pray that Ye would bring it to bear. And that we would be whole, that we might serve you more effectively and bring pleasure to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.