This sermon is the second in a series on Daniel. Now, if you weren't aware of that, I'm informing you now. The first sermon in this series was preached last January on Daniel chapter two, in which we discussed the Church Victorious. The sermon today will be preached on Daniel chapter nine. And the topic will be Daniel's prayer, a topic certainly appropriate to this day of prayer. The sermon will be divided into four parts. The first part will consider the circumstances of Daniel's prayer. Prayer, followed by the contents of Daniel's prayer. The third part will be the characteristics of Daniel's prayer, and then last we'll talk about the applications of this prayer to our own lives. Let us begin by reading the text. Daniel chapter 9, verses 1 through 19. Daniel chapter nine, verses one through nineteen. Let us hear the reading of God's Word. In the first year of Darius, son of Xerxes, Amede by descent, who was made ruler over the Babylonian kingdom, in the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, understood from the scriptures, according to the word of the Lord given to Jericho. Jeremiah the prophet, that the desolation of Jerusalem would last seventy years. So I turned to the Lord God and pleaded with him in prayer and petition, in fasting, and in sackcloth and ashes. I prayed to the Lord my God and confessed. O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant of love with all who love him and obey his commands, we have sinned and done wrong. We have been wicked and have rebelled. We have turned away from your commands. We have not listened to your servants the prophets. We spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. Lord, you are righteous, but this day we are covered with shame, the men of Judah and people of Jerusalem and all Israel, both near and far, in all the countries where you have scattered us because of our unfaithfulness to you. O Lord, we and our kings, our princes, and our fathers are covered with shame because we have sinned against you. The Lord our God is merciful and forgiving, even though we have rebelled against him. We have not obeyed the Lord our God or kept the laws he gave us through the servants the prophets. All Israel has transgressed your law and turned away, refused. To obey you. Therefore, the curses and sworn judgments written in the law of Moses, the servant of God, have been poured out on us because we have sinned against you. You have fulfilled the words spoken against us and against Our rulers by bringing upon us great disaster. Under the whole heaven, nothing has ever been done like what has been done to Jerusalem. Just as it is written in the law of Moses, all this disaster has come upon us, yet. Yet we have not sought the favor of the Lord our God by turning from our sins and giving attention to your truth. The Lord did not hesitate to bring the disaster upon us, for the Lord our God is righteous in everything he does, yet we have not obeyed. him. Now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and who made for yourself a name that endures to this day, we have sinned, we have done wrong. O Lord, in keeping with all your righteous acts, turn away your anger and your wrath from Jerusalem, your city, your holy hill. Our sins and the iniquities of our fathers have made Jerusalem and your people an object of scorn in all those around us. Now, O God, hear the prayers and petitions of your servant. For your sake, O Lord, look with favor on your desolate sanctuary. Give ear, O God, and hear. Open your eyes and see the desolation of the city that bears you. your name. We do not make requests of you because we are righteous, but because of your great mercy. O Lord, listen. O Lord, forgive. O Lord, hear and act. For your sake, O my God, do not delay, because your city and your people bear your name. Thus far, the reading of God's Word. As we begin, let us consider the circumstances in which Daniel found himself that brought him to this prayer. This impressive prayer that is perhaps as impressive as any other prayer we find recorded in Scripture. Daniel was hoping for the restoration of Jerusalem. Why was he hoping for that? First of all, he was hoping for that because Daniel was an exile in a foreign land. He was a man separated from his land who longed to be back home. But that, I think, is not the most important reason that brought Daniel to this prayer. This was a year. 539 BC, probably. This was the first year of the Persian Empire. Remember that Daniel was taken captive in the year 605 BC. That means that 66 years had passed since that day. Daniel was an old man now. Remember in Daniel chapter 2, where he interpreted the vision of King Nebuchadnezzar, he was a young man. he's old. Daniel knew well what the prophets had said about this exile. Daniel knew that the prophet Jeremiah had said that this exile would last for 70 years. In Jeremiah chapter 25, verse 11, we read, as Daniel was able to read: This whole country, Jeremiah says, will become a desolate wasteland, and these nations will serve the king of Babylon seventy years. Furthermore, Daniel knew that Jeremiah had sent a letter of encouragement from Jerusalem to the exiles taken during the first raid on Jerusalem. Jeremiah wrote to those Israelites in Babylon and said, This is what the Lord says, when seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will come to you and fulfill my gracious promise to bring you back to this place. Daniel must have realized that the end was near. He felt perhaps like some of you kids might feel the last week of school. You know that in just five days you're going to be out of school for the rest of the summer. Become very anxious. As you know, the teachers have little they can do with you during that week and time is spent kind of milling around, just putting in the time. Some of you who have been uh in the service or have been in similar situations know that just before you're ready to get out, you become known as a short timer. And you behave differently than you did when you were not a short timer. I'm sure Daniel felt something of this anxiety, something of the excitement of knowing that almost now the 70 years would be up. Soon God would be doing something. He must have thought, Lord, it's about time. When's it going to happen? When do we go home? But Daniel also knew that this was not an automatic thing. A clock did not start the moment the first captives were taken to Babylon. When that clock reached 70 years, the people would not automatically go back to Jerusalem. There would not be something sudden happened. Rather, Daniel knew that the people were in Babylon for a very Good reason. The people of God were in Babylon because they had sinned. He knew that repentance must come before God would restore the fortunes of his people Israel. Daniel knew that only an acceptance with God would bring a restoration of the kingdom and a return to their homeland. Therefore Part of the circumstances of this prayer was the seeking of God that Daniel was doing. Daniel was seeking the presence of the Lord. He was seeking acceptance with God. Where did Daniel turn? We see in verse 2 that Daniel had turned to the scriptures. This is one of the first mentions of the canonized scripture in Scripture. We know that the prophets wrote things down, we know that Moses wrote things down, we know that the psalmists wrote things down. This is one of the first mentions of that collar. You'll find if you have the King James Version of the Bible or the New American Standard Version that the word used is books. The Hebrew word really is that word for books. The NIV has gone one step further and called it scripture, which is certainly all right because that's what those books were. Remember that the people of God in Babylon were a people in an unusual circumstance. They did not have their temple. They did not have that place to which they had gone to worship their God. The place where the priests gave sacrifices for the sins of the people. The exiles in Babylon had only those scrolls that they were able to bring with them, on which were recorded the words of God. These books were the books which for them maintained their traditions, their theology, and their worship. Although they did have living prophets with them, probably their primary source of information about God were those books that they had, those scrolls on which God's word was recorded. Daniel had turned to Scripture initially to find out about these seventy years. We read in verse two there that Daniel understood from the scriptures, according to the word of the Lord given to Jeremiah the prophet, that the desolation of Jerusalem would last seventy years. He had gone there seeking an answer to this question, but more than that, Daniel had gone to the scriptures to draw near to God. This was the place where he knew he would hear God's word, the place where he could meet God. The people in exile in Babylon there discovered that as they read Scripture, and as they heard Scripture read to them, that they were hearing God's voice ringing. down through the ages, down the corridors of time, to them as they sat in exile in Babylon. They were then in the presence of God, as they heard his word. In a way very much like the priests in Jerusalem had been in the presence of God in that temple. What did this lead Daniel to? As Daniel poured over the scriptures, trying to understand. The promises that God had made to the people. The thing that happened to him was what should happen to us as we spend time in Scripture. We are moved to prayer. Verse 3. Says, so I turned to the Lord God and pleaded with him in prayer and petition, in fasting and in sackcloth and ashes It's interesting that as Daniel goes to prayer, he seems to have forgotten about the 70-year question. There's no mention of that in the prayer. The prayer as it tumbles out of his mouth. Is simply a spontaneous utterance of the words of Scripture he has been pouring over and studying over. His prayer is an overflowing of his heart. The words that have been stored there from his memory. From his study of Scripture. Those books which he had been studying had become such an intimate part of his life that they came out in his prayer. That leads us then to the content of this prayer. Just what did this prayer contain? We'll go rather quickly over this section of the message because I want to spend more time on the last two. But we need to understand the content in order to fully understand some of the characteristics of the prayer. First of all, in verse 4, we see The Daniel is reminding himself that God is a covenant God, a God of his word. It's interesting to note that in Nehemiah chapter 1, verse 5, there is a similar prayer, this prayer prayed by Nehemiah, as he contemplates The rune of Jerusalem and the way that this rune reflects on God's name. Nehemiah begins his prayer with almost the identical words that Daniel begins his prayer, reminding himself and God that God God is a covenant God who keeps his word to his people who love him and keep his commandments. That seems to indicate that the people in exile had Come upon certain standard liturgical forms that they used in their prayers. They began their prayers apparently many times with these same words, which incidentally are words of Scripture, which we'll come back to later on. Daniel was depending in this. prayer, upon God's word, upon God's reliability. Daniel then goes on to confess the sin of the people, his own sin as well. That confession contains quite Quotations from the book of Deuteronomy and the Book of Jeremiah. Daniel then goes on to appeal to God for mercy for the people of God. He intercedes for his people. This prayer is, in a very real sense, a we prayer and not an I prayer. Daniel is not praying for himself, he is praying for the people, which includes. Himself, but he's primarily praying for the people of God. In verses 15 and 16 of his prayer, Daniel lays the groundwork for the appeal for mercy that he is going to bring to God. This appeal is Based upon God's reputation as a holy, as a just God. Then in verses 17 and 19, we find many excerpts from Scripture. All you need to do to convince yourself of that is to find a Bible which has all all the references in the columns and see all the cross references to other places in the Old Testament from which Daniel got these words. It's interesting to note that Daniel's appeal here for mercy is not founded upon the people's righteousness. He says that. He says he is not appealing to God on the basis of the righteousness of the people, but he's appealing to God on the basis Of God's mercy, upon the basis of the honor which must come to God's name and which was not coming to his name. We'll come back to all of this later, but I wanted to summarize the contents of the prayer for you so you could see the basic structure of it. structure from which we'll uh determine the characteristics now. So what are the characteristics of this prayer? Well this prayer contains many things. It has many characteristics. We will choose now to consider only three of those characteristics. characteristics. The first characteristic that we want to consider is the characteristic that this prayer is basically a weaving together of scripture as Daniel pours out his heart to God. As Daniel had read those books, and as he had let those words sink into his being, This prayer was simply a rebreathing of those hopes that the patriarchs had had. It was simply a rebreathing of the laments, of the prayers, of the confessions. Of the prophets, of the kings, of the psalmists, and even of the common Hebrew man, down through the ages, as these men had reflected upon God's people, upon the strange behavior of God's people as they turned away from God time and again. This prayer was a reflection on the shame that God's people had brought to the name of God. On the perplexity that the people of God had had over this whole kind of behavior. Just to give a couple of examples to show that in fact this prayer comes from the scriptures that Daniel had been reading. Look at two comparisons. One of the reasons I want to do this is that it turns our attention to another prayer in Scripture, a prayer that Solomon prayed upon the occasion of the dedication of the temple. Turn with me, with one finger kept in. Daniel 9 to 1 Kings chapter 8. Let me read for you Daniel chapter 9, verse 4. Daniel prays, O Lord, the great and awesome God who keeps his covenant of life. Love with all who love him and obey his commands. Turn now to first Kings chapter eight, verse twenty-three, Then, starting with verse 22 to set the stage here. Then Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in front of the whole assembly of Israel, spread out his hands toward heaven, and said, O Lord, God of Israel, Israel, there is no God like you in heaven above or on earth below. You who keep your covenant of love with your servants who continue wholeheartedly in your way. Practically a restatement of that prayer comes to us in Daniel 9, verse 4. Again Let's look at Daniel chapter 9, verse 5, and compare that with 1 Kings 8, verse 47. First we'll read Daniel 9, verse 5. Daniel prays, We have sinned and done wrong. We have been wicked and have rebelled. We have turned away from your commands and laws. And then turning to first Kings chapter eight, verse forty seven We read, And if they have a change of heart in the land where they are held captives, and repent and plead with you in the land of their conquerors, and say, We have sinned, we have done wrong, we have acted wickedly. There those same words occur again. Daniel has found that as he was praying, his prayer consisted basically of a collection of quotations from Scripture, from those books, interwoven with with his own words as he prayed. A second characteristic of this prayer is the humility of Daniel. In verse 3 we see that Daniel dressed himself in sackcloth and ashes. This was a custom of the time symbolizing important things. The sackcloth symbolized mourning. Daniel was mourning for the people of God. The ashes symbolized Penitence. Daniel was coming to God as a repentant sinner. As one who was acknowledging his sin so clearly. This garb of sackcloth and ashes certainly did not make one appear to be one that you would hold in high regard. You can imagine someone dressed in sackcloth and ashes, you'd probably walk away from him. uh you would avoid him, you certainly wouldn't hold him in high honor dressed in that apparel. So his dress even depicted humility. But more importantly than that outward external appearance of humility is the humility of his heart. Throughout this prayer, we see revealed a deep dependence on God, a recognition that God is God. and that man is man. A recognition that man depends on God for all things. This is shown by the fact that this prayer is not a self-centered prayer. This prayer is not filled with eyes, it's not filled with my, but rather this prayer is filled with references to God. We see in verse 16 that Daniel refers to Jerusalem as your city, your holy hill. He doesn't say my city or our city. He refers to the people of God as your people, not my people or us. In verse 17, Daniel says, For your sake, O God, not for our sakes, but In verse 17, Daniel specifically says that this plea, this appeal, is being brought to God based not upon the righteousness of the people, but upon God's mercy. He says, We as a people do not decide. Deserve to be treated with mercy. We are not righteous. In verse 19, we find Daniel again. appealing to God for your sake, not for our sake. Daniel says that the city of Jerusalem is your city again. He says the people are your people again. And he says they bear your name. This is a prayer to God, centered on God. It's not a prayer to God centered on Daniel. It's not a prayer that is full of I want this, we want this. You must do this for us, but it's a prayer that's centered on God. Daniel doesn't make this prayer from an elevated pedestal upon which he's placed himself because of his self-importance. But rather he is praying to his God, who he knows holds all the affairs of men in his hands. This is true humility. This is humility of heart. There's no self-help here. Daniel doesn't have a method to bootstrap himself up to importance and to acceptance with God here. This prayer is one of a man who is absolutely, self-consciously dependent upon God and says so in his prayer. The third characteristic of this prayer is that I'd like to call your attention to is the fact that in this prayer, Daniel presents an extremely well-argued appeal to God. He doesn't just say, God, I really wish you'd bring me back to Jerusalem. I really wish you'd do nice things for me. But Daniel comes to God with a well-argued appeal. As with any appeal, be it a legal appeal, appeal in court of law, or an appeal to your parents, or an appeal to your supervisor at work, or an appeal to anyone. That appeal must be brought with grounds. And let me point out some of the grounds Daniel uses in this prayer. Now he doesn't say I'm coming to you with this appeal, these are my grounds. Rather, those grounds are incorporated into the prayer. The first ground that Daniel mentions is in verse 4. God God is a covenant-keeping God. He is a God who made a covenant of love with his people. If they obeyed him and loved him, he would bless them. And, on the flip side, if they disobeyed him and did not love him and honor him, he would curse and judge them. The second point Daniel makes is an acknowledgement. That the people of God are where they are because they have sinned against God, and that God, in his justice, has punished them. That's in verses eleven to fourteen. Third, Daniel confesses his sin to God. He acknowledges that he and the people of God have sinned. Verses 5 to 11. Then in verses 15 and 16, Daniel tells God that because of their sin and rebellion, Jerusalem and the people of Israel are objects of scorn in the nations around. Fifth, in verses seventeen to nineteen, Daniel tells God that his name, God's name Is being disgraced by all of these events. He appeals to God's honor. On the basis of this Daniel appeals then to God's mercy, to God's honor. He even makes the point in his appeal that this appeal is not based upon the people's righteousness. It is based instead upon God's sheer mercy and upon God's honor and God's need to keep his name honorable among all people. He concludes this prayer with the final appeal in verse 19, which is one of the most earnest pleas that have ever been uttered by the lips of men, I believe. Picture in your mind's eye the situation. That we have here. Picture this man, Daniel, an old man now. Sixty-six years have gone by since that time when he revealed the meaning of the dream to Nebuchadnezzar. He probably is Stooped, he probably has white hair. He comes as a man highly revered by the kings, the rulers of this foreign land in which he was exiled. He is a man Who was probably financially secure, a man who had been paid well by the rulers for whom he had served. He was a man humanly speaking who had it all together, a man humanly speaking who was secure. And yet this man comes with sackcloth and ashes on him to God, bringing this appeal for mercy for God's people. He comes bringing bringing this appeal in a way that we find expressed so well in verse 19, where Daniel comes and he says, O Lord, listen, O Lord, forgive. O Lord, hear and act. Are these the words of a man who is so self-secure that he needs to go to no one? No. This is a man who knows who God is and who he is. Daniel continues and says, For your sake, O my God, do not delay, because your city and your people bear your name. This is a man who was truly humble before his God, a man who recognized the facts of life. What now does this have to do with us? It's a nice story. It's even a moving story. It's a moving prayer. Reread it three or four times, and you'll discover it's a very moving prayer. But what in the world does it have to do with us? First of all, let's look at the way this chapter applies to our seeking God's presence and acceptance. Remember, we began by considering how Daniel was seeking God's presence as he went to the scriptures. Daniel found God in the scriptures. But you say, huh, that was 2,500 years ago. What in the world does that have to do with us today? Well, let's move forward 500 years and hear the words of Jesus. What did Jesus say was the way to approach God's presence? Jesus said things like this, Follow me. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Jesus said, Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you. There is no way to God that bypasses the atonement Jesus made on the cross for your sins and mine. Recall Isaiah chapter 40, verse 1, those famous words of comfort to God's people. Isaiah says, Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and proclaim to her that her hard service has been completed, that her sin has been paid for. How was that sin paid for? Was that sin paid for by 70 years of exile? Uh-uh. That sin against God was an infinite sin. That sin against God was a sin against a holy God. years of exile anywhere couldn't have paid for that. What was the prophet saying? The prophet was saying that that sin was paid for, but that payment was only understood in the light of Christ coming. The rest of Isaiah 40 makes it pretty clear that that's the case. That exile that Daniel experienced was only a weak picture of the price that Jesus would pay on the cross one day for the sins of his people. pay that price so that they could come out of the exile of sin into the light of the gospel. In John chapter 14, the disciple Philip Asked, Lord, show us the Father, and we will be satisfied. Jesus replied, perhaps, a little mournfully. He said, Have I been with you so long? Long, and yet you do not know me, Philip? He who has seen me has seen the Father. In Matthew we read the words of Jesus as he spoke unto his disciples: Blessed are your eyes, and for they see, and your ears, for they hear. Truly I say to you, many prophets and righteous men longed to see what you see, and did not see it, and to hear what you hear, And did not hear it. Daniel longed to see God's presence. In a very real way, Daniel found God's presence in Scripture. But there's a way that we today can find God's presence. even more richly. As we seek Christ, as we seek Jesus. To be in God's presence, we must be in Jesus' presence. How do we find our way there? We find our way there in Scripture. The same way that Daniel found God's presence in exile in Babylon. He found it in the scriptures. Today, too many Christians Seek Jesus in some spiritual experience of ecstasy or inspiration not even connected with God's Word. Today many Christians feel that only a vision religion Offers the excitement and reality, which for them is important, the so-called dry book religion is not for them. Daniel, however, showed us a much more excellent way. He showed us that the religion of the Heart is a book religion, a religion that stems from an immersion in Scripture. This applies to all people. It applies to the believer and the unbeliever. If you're here today, And you have not yet placed your trust in Jesus. And you are casting about in life for meaning, for something to hold it together. You need Jesus. The only place you can find Jesus is in Scripture. Turn to Scripture. Only Jesus' atonement, as described in the Gospels, can cover your sins. Only Jesus can bring you into God's presence. Only Jesus, as you find him in Scripture, can bring you peace. Only Jesus, as you find him in Scripture, can bring the reconciliation with God that you seek. In fact, only Jesus, as you find him in Scripture, can bring the reconciliation between people that you seek. God has given a rich promise. Promise in Scripture. The promise was first made in Jeremiah chapter 29 to the people of Israel in Babylon. The promise was that if you truly seek me, you will surely find me. That promise Is a promise I believe valid today for those who are seeking Christ. You seek him in Scripture. The promise is you will find him. For the believer, this search for Christ should take us. To Scripture again. We should not be tempted to seek Christ's presence in all kinds of other places. Rather, we should return to Scripture as we seek Christ's presence. It is in Scripture that we hear God's voice ringing out through the ages to us. These pages, these pages are life to us, for in them we find Christ. They are God's very words to us. We must seek God daily there. Something we all don't do. I know I don't always do it. But we must seek Christ. Christ in the pages of Scripture and do that daily. The second application is the use of Scripture in our prayers. We see Daniel here by example. Teaching us an important lesson. Just as Daniel was caught up in the prayers of God's people down through the ages, so we, as we spend time in Scripture, will be caught up with the prayers of God's people. As we see in Scripture the concern that men of God God have had for God's people and for the people outside of God's fellowship, we will become less self-centered and will look outward to others and not just inward to ourselves. In fact, as we pray, for For ourselves, we will find, if we are immersed in Scripture, that we will spontaneously begin to pray for others. Others' needs will come to our minds. We will begin to intercede for God's people simply because Scripture is so full of that intercession. Living in Scripture will make us community conscious. It will make us church conscious. It will make us conscious of our brothers and sisters and their needs. Daniel's language of prayer arose from the books he had been studying. Some scholars, in fact, Look at this prayer and say it had to have been added to this book later. The language of this prayer is such good Hebrew that it stood out from the Hebrew of the exile. So we see here, even there, the testimony of David. Daniel, that his prayer language came from Scripture. What does this teach us? How can this help us in our prayers? First of all, Many times we find that we need to pray when we least want to pray. If we turn to Scripture, the promises and challenges we find in Scripture will produce in us a prayerful response. Read the Gospels to refresh your memory on those things that Jesus did for his people when he was here. Those are the same things he can do for his people now. Read the epistles to see the way God worked in his church in those days gone by. Read the prayers of Paul as he intercedes for God's people. Read the Psalms as they praise God. Read the prayers of men like Daniel and Nehemiah as they sought God in earnest intercession. For God's people. These prayers will all prompt us to pray. The second thing we can learn from this prayer of Daniel is that we can use the prayers of Scripture as our own prayers. Now, Now, some of you will say, hold it, that sounds like the liturgy of the church that the Reformation did away with. Not really. The liturgy that becomes so dead is the liturgy produced by men. The prayers compiled. Organized by men that are repeated vainly and repetitiously, week after week, year after year, in so many churches. The prayers I'm talking about repeating to ourselves are the prayers of Scripture. These prayers are not men. prayers. These prayers are God's prayers. The words of Scripture are God's words, not men's words. The words of Scripture have the power to carry the hearts of men along with them into the presence of God. Let me read you a quotation from a book written by a pioneer missionary to Mongolia. In this book, he relates an experience of his, several experiences, actually. James Gilmore writes, When I feel I cannot make headway in devotion, I open the Psalms and push out my canoe and let myself be carried along on the stream of devotion that flows through the whole book. The current always set towards God. And in most places is strong and deep. Finally, the last application I'd like to draw here is the application to how we make our appeals to God. Let's remember as Daniel did to make our appeal to God carefully and thoughtfully. Make our appeals or supplications to God based on God's character, based on his promises, based upon God's name's honor. And glory and righteousness, not on our own merit. In conclusion, if you forget everything else that I've said this morning, I want you to remember as you go to prayer for your own needs for the needs of God's people. I want you to remember three things. The first is seek God's presence in his word. Remind yourself in the word of God's character, his promises, his mercy. Second, when you go to prayer, use the words of Scripture whenever you are able. Third, base your appeals and supplications on God's promises, on his mercy, on the glory and honor of his name, as it's reflected in his church. Church. Let's pray. Oh Lord, the great and awesome God who keeps his covenant of love with all who love him and obey his commands. We have sinned and done wrong. We have been wicked and have rebelled. We have turned away from your commands and laws. Father, we have ignored your word. O God, we have been cold toward it so many times. O Lord, we have ignored prayer so many times. Warm our hearts, Father. We have been cold, Father, also to our brothers. We have strained the relationships between each other. Warm our hearts to each other, Father. We pray that you would forgive us. We pray, Father, that you would hear us not because we are righteous, but because Jesus is righteous and because you are a God of mercy. O Lord, listen to our prayers. O Lord, forgive us. Oh Lord Hear us and act. For your sake, O God, don't delay your answer. Because your congregation and your people Bear your name. Raise it up in honor among us, Father. Amen.