I trust that you're all prepared to worship God after the leading and and I appreciate what He's done. Um As we begin this morning, though, I want us to be taking a couple minutes to think about something briefly. This week, as every week, I'm sure we're facing our own crises. Last week we spoke about David and his passion for God in spite of the crises that Israel was facing, and probably in a sense because of it. But this morning I want you to take those crises that you're facing. Acknowledge them and then put them aside. I don't know whether it's finances or job demands or health or Children, parents, all of us are facing some sort of crises, and it doesn't matter whether it's large or small, the largest of our crises looms massive in our eyes But as we begin the service this morning, put it aside. Reflect with me upon the crises that Israel faced. Because this morning's message won't be a dramatic retelling of David and Goliath with with David and God's victory. What it will be is reflecting upon the theme of hope. As we look at David and Goliath, I think there are three types of hope that are represented. And so as we begin this morning, reflect upon hope. What is your hope in? In whom or in what are you trusting and hoping? And as you reflect on that, let's go to prayer. Lord, I ask that you would calm our hearts, that you would clarify our minds, that we would have this time to focus upon you, upon your faithfulness. Lord, upon your goodness. Help us this morning, Lord, to become more like you, to be conformed by your Spirit and your grace more closely into your image. Father, I pray that you would speak through the words, that you would touch the hearts, and that we would be your people this morning. Help us to learn from David. Lord, as we reflect again upon him, I ask that we would be as he was, men and women after your heart. Be with us now that we might praise you, that we might know you better, and that we might love you more fully. In Jesus' name. Amen. I want to take the moment to read The text that will be the focus of this morning. It's 1 Samuel 17, verse 45 through 47. If you have your Bibles open, follow along. David said to the Philistine, You come against me with sword and spear and javelin But I come against you in the name of the Lord Almighty, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. This day the Lord will hand you over to me, and I'll strike you down and cut off your head. Today I will give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and to the beasts of the earth. And the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. All those gathered here will know that it is not by sword or spear that the Lord saves. For the battle is the Lord's, and he will give all of you into our hands. Bold words for youth. As we reflect upon this past There are three types of hope that are presented. Through three different characters. And this morning we're going to go through each of those characters and we're going to look at the hype of hope that they had. Saul and the soldiers had no hope. No hope whatsoever. Goliath had false hope. He had hope wrongly placed. But David, David had true hope. And because David's hope was true and it was placed in a worthy object, David was the victor And it was David who gave Goliath to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field, instead of Goliath triumphing over David and the Israelites. It's been said that a man can live forty days without food. I'm not about to try. Four days without water. Four minutes without air and four seconds without hope. Four seconds without hope. There was an Austrian psychiatrist, Viktor Frankel, and he observed that a prisoner did not live long without hope. But the slightest ray of hope. A rumor of food? A potential escape? And these prisoners could suffer the most horrendous situations. As you reflect back on your own situations, when when has been the bleakest? Did you have hope? I'm sure there are all times that we look back on and smile these days and think, well, I'm glad it's over with. But as you're going through them, the question is, do you have hope? The trials that you face today. Have you got hope to face those? Is it a worthwhile hope? As we look back at Saul and the Israelites, again, we're reflecting on the fact that he had no hope. He was sitting in his tent because he was frightened of the situation. What was the situation? Well, the Philistines had come to attack Now in our mindset we think of the Philistines and and we always remember that they got beat But take a moment and think back the ways that Saul must have faced these enemies, because these were the dreaded sea people Egypt, mighty massive Egypt, with with the chariots and the soldiers and the pharaohs and the pyramids. Egypt trembled at the name of the Philistines. They were the sea people who had even beaten Egypt. On top of the fact that they were a massive and powerful nation, they had a monopoly on iron weapons. In 1 Samuel 13, verses 19 and 20. We look back, and we're told, not a blacksmith could be found in the whole land of Israel, because the Philistines had said, otherwise the Hebrews will make swords or spears. So all Israel went to the Philistines to have their plowshares, mattocks, axes, and sickles sharpened. Israel did not have weapons. The Philistines did. It's like facing a machine gun with a s with a shovel. We're told further on that the only two swords that existed in all of Israel were Saul's and Jonathan. They didn't have weapons. The army was massive and they had chariots, they had spears, they had swords, they had iron. The Israelites had bronze. Iron goes through bronze fairly easily. On top of the fact that the Philistines were a massive army, now they have a particular person named Goliath, nearly 10 feet tall, coming up every day to insult and to challenge them. They were facing an an enemy that they had no hope of beating. It's like my son Jonathan when he comes up to me He's gonna have his third birthday this month. And he tells me he's gonna beat me up. He has hope. He has hope wrongly placed The Israelites didn't have a friendly enemy. Goliath wouldn't pick David up and give him a hug. Goliath was going to cut his head off and feed him to the birds. And he would do that to any Israelite. But the big problem that Saul had wasn't that he was facing a terrible enemy. We share that. We face terrible enemies all the time. Sometimes we look in the morning and face our wives or our husbands, and they seem like terrible enemies Other times it's our employer. But there's always somebody that we class as a terrible enemy. That's not the problem. That's not the debilitating factor. We have to remember that Saul had no God. Think about that for a moment. How would you face life without God? Saul was facing Goliath without God. You see, God had left Saul because Saul had turned from him. Saul had committed a series of sins which said, I'm boss. I'm the one in charge. Yeah, you can give me suggestions, but I'll do what I want. Does that sound familiar? As a response, we're told in 1 Samuel 16, verse 14, that right after the Spirit of God went into David Now the Spirit of God, the Spirit of the Lord, had departed from Saul. Saul was without God. He had no hope. Saul knew that God had told him he was no longer king. Saul knew he had no hope in God. As a consequence, Saul was rightly frightened, hopeless, and terrified. You see, Saul spent his forty days as Goliath came morning and evening to challenge in his tent, hiding. He couldn't face himself, he couldn't face his men, and he certainly could not face the lion. That's no hope The problem was that that spread from Saul to his soldiers. His soldiers had no hope, because their hope had been wrongly placed. It wasn't that God had deserted them. They had placed their hope, their faith, in a faithless king. They were there, they were ready to fight. They stood on one hill opposite the Philistines. They were ready to fight, but they had no leadership. They had no motivation or morale. They had trusted in the king that they had demanded to save them. You recall last week we talked how the Israelites had said to Samuel, Give us a king so that he can have an army, so that we can stand secure. And God had given Saul. They had an army. They were the army. They could not stand secure. In response to the challenge that Goliath gave, if you look in verse eleven of chapter 17, You'll see that when they heard the Philistines' words, Saul and all the Israelites were dismayed and terrified. They ran. They fled. They stayed on the hillside and stayed away from the valley. But along with trusting their king, the Israelites did something that we too often do today. They trusted in a general sense of God's favor. They were the Israelites, the chosen people. Are we not Americans? Are we not the nation that fights for God? Isn't God sort of our secret weapon? We're the nation that's upholding Christian values. We uphold the true religion. And as a consequence, God is bound to uphold us. You see, we often hold to a general sense of our destiny, what God will do through us, and we fail to serve The God that we now take for granted. Isn't that like what Israel did? Hadn't they held the promises that they failed to keep up? And so when a Goliath came, they realized the bankruptcy of those promises, the bankruptcy of their hope. But instead of turning to a true hope, they melted. They became ineffective They were destroyed. That is the problem with no hope. When you face a situation and you have a problem or a crises and they come, they always come. This week has been one loaded with crises But it's also one loaded with hope because we've seen God work. We've seen Rachel Chisholm come out of a coma. We've seen God answer all sorts of prayers that we've been praying for months and even years. And so there is hope. There's reason to rejoice. And we need not be somber. But before we get too ecstatic, let's look at falso. While you're still in the mood here and everybody's quiet and sitting in their chairs and looking at me. Because false hope is something that we oftentimes put ourselves into as well. Goliath is a perfect example of false hope. There's also been a statement made which says, nothing gives you more false hope than the first day of a diet. It all depends on what you're hoping in. There's another story that comes from Colorado. Of a woman named Baby Doe Tabor, which is a perfect example of false hope. Right, the right quality of hope, but wrongly placed. You see, Mr. Tabor was a famous man in Colorado's history. He was a successful mining man and he'd made millions in his mines. He had one particular mine that he had called the Matchless Mine, located near Cripple Creek, Colorado. At one point in his life he was tired of his wife, had found somebody else, so he divorced his wife and married a woman who had been divorced herself named Baby Dell. Shortly after he had married baby Doe, his his fortunes reversed, and he lost his money, he lost his health. And as he was dying on his deathbed, he said to his wife, Baby Doe, trust, masterless mind. Don't give it up. It's going to give you everything that I lost. So for 36 years, this widow lived in a shack outside the mine and fought every attempt to remove her. And in 1935, she died penniless, miserable, in a shack. You see, she'd placed her hope in a mine, in something that couldn't satisfy her needs. What do we place our hope in? As you sit there this morning and you think about the crises that you face, if it's financial, are you trusting your job? If it's with somebody, if you're having problems with somebody, are you trusting in in your ability to smooth things over? If it's your children, are you trusting that they're going to grow up and and see see the truth and have some common sense? What's your crisis and what are you trusting in? Goliath trusted himself. Why not? He was ten feet tall. He was the most powerful man in the Philistine army. He had incredible strength. And given a hand-to-hand combat, nobody would defeat him. Nobody. That's like thinking of my son coming at me again and thinking that my son would beat me. Goliath had experience in war. If you look at 1733, Saul and David are talking. Saul is looking at David the same way I'd probably look at Jonathan. And he's saying, No. You're not able to go out against this Philistine and fight him. You're only a boy And he has been a fighting man from his youth. The fact that he was still there meant he was good. Who knows how many enemies he'd fought and defeated. He hadn't lost because he was still there. He could look back on his experience and think, nobody's going to beat me Because he had all those victories in mind. He also had the confidence of his fellow soldiers. They were the terrible sea people. They were the ones who had defeated Egypt. They were the ones who had no opponent who was able to stop them. But you know what? Goliath was the best of the best. He had no match. He was a champion. That's what it meant. It meant out of the entire Philistine army. They knew he was the best. And so they let him fight. They were willing to gamble their success on him. That's what it means in verse 4 when it says a champion named Goliath. That army was willing to wager its entire faith upon his prowess. That has to be pretty heady stuff Think in your own work. What kinds of of wonderful praise you get and how that affects you? For you women who stay at home and raise your children, the praise that you get when your children behave well and how that affects you. Or how well you keep your house. For your men who are out working and you women who work, for the promotions you get and the good evaluations, and how that really gives you confidence. That gave Goliath confidence. It was heavy stuff. An entire army, the most dreaded army in their area at their time, thought he was the best. But along with trusting in himself, Goliath trusted in his weapons. Now remember how important these weapons were. In the Israelite army, there were two swords. Two. As a matter of fact, Goliath probably had more weapons on himself than the Israelite army had in its entirety. There were only two swords, Saul's and Jonathan. He had a sword, a spear, a javelin, shield, a shield-bearer. Armor. He was covered head to toe. He had a bronze helmet that protected him As I think of Goliath, I'm reminded of the Titanic, the unsinkable ship. The ship that nobody feared to be on. You almost didn't need to have a life jacket to go on board. On its maiden voyage, it sank What are we trusting in? Are we trusting in the God who can slay a Goliath and sink a Titanic? That no matter how you protect yourself, no matter how well you do, is not a factor. Hope in yourself, like hope in Goliath, was wrongly placed. As we read in 1 Samuel 17, 4 through 7, it lists his weapons. He had a bronze helmet on his head. He wore a coat of scale armor of bronze weighing five thousand shekels. It went probably down to his knees. So it covered from his neck to his knees. He had bronze greaves. Those are shin protectors. If you're familiar with soccer, it's probably the same sort of thing, but bronze to protect himself from being hit there. He had a bronze javelin, a spear that was like a weaver's rod, a shield, and a sword. In his eyes he was safe. Not in God. Not in David Lastly, Goliath trusted his God. Now listen to this. He's trusting himself. He's trusting his weapons. But now finally he gets to trusting his God. And this is this is a very important point as we look at the challenge issued by by Goliath to David and returned by David to Goliath. In 1743, that's the verse, not the year. In 17 verse 43, he says, He said to David, Am I a dog that you come with me with sticks? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. And here's the curse. Come here, he said, and I'll give your flesh to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field. It seems innocuous enough He's just speaking with bravado. But if we look at the Bible, turn with me to Revelation 19. Verses 17 through 21. And we'll look at the challenge that's going to happen at the end time. What God says will happen to his enemies. We'll start at verse 19. He says, Then I saw the beast and the kings of the earth and their armies gathered together to make war against the rider on the horse and his army. But the beast was captured, and with him the false prophet who had performed the miraculous signs on his behalf. With these signs he had deluded those who had received the mark of the beast and worshipped his image. The two of them were thrown alive into the fiery lake of burning sulphur. Now pay attention here. The rest of them were killed with a sword that came out of the mouth of the rider on the horse, and all the birds gorged themselves on their flesh. They were unburied. That was a divine punishment, a curse. And see, that's what's being issued back and forth between David and Goliath, because David says the same thing. In verse forty six, today I will give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. The point he's making is that God is going to vic vanquish The Philistines. And by that curse they will know that God is in Israel. In Deuteronomy 28, we see the same curse given to the Israelites if they were to wander from God. In twenty-eight verses twenty-five and twenty-six, God is speaking to the Israelites, and he says The Lord will cause you to be defeated before your enemies. You will come at them from one direction, but will flee from them in seven. And you will become a thing of horror to all the kingdoms on earth. Your carcasses will be food for the birds of the air and the beasts of the feet of all the earth, and there will be no one to frighten them away. When Goliath is issuing this challenge to David, he is not speaking of himself. He is speaking Of a challenge, a trial by ordeal between the gods of the Philistines and the God of Israel. You see, for the first time, Goliath sees rightly what this battle is all about. It's not a battle between a human champion for the Philistines and a human champion for Israel. It's a battle between God. Goliath is sure of himself and sure of his God. But it's optimism, not hope. There's a difference. Optimism is what I puff myself up into. Hope is what I place my faith in. Goliath strikes me very much like General George Custer, as he was coming to the battle of the little bighorn. The words he is reported to say at first sighting the Indians. Listen to this. Hooray, man, we've got him now. Custer was filled with optimism. He thought that he had the enemy, the Indians, right where he wanted them. But we all know that there was not one soldier. To survive the battle in Little Bighorn. They were wiped out. As we reflect on the situation, we see that Goliath had false hope. Saul had no hope. Well let's turn now to David. Because you see David had true hope. And along with true hope came victory. David had hope in the right place. He had it in God. There's a story. That happened in 1988. It was even reported on the evening news. In April of 1988, the evening news reported on a photographer who had been a skydriver He had jumped from a plane along with numerous other skydivers and filmed the group as they fell opening their parachute. On the film shown on the telecast, as the final skydiver opened his chute, the camera went erratic. The reporter came on and mentioned that the cameraman had fallen to his death. For you see, as the last skydiver had opened his chute, the cameraman reached for his cord. And it wasn't there. In his haste and his excitement, he had forgotten to put his parachute on. And he fell to his death. Now in reflecting on that, it must have seemed just normal and fun and exhilarating as he was jumping down and filming the show. The camera didn't seem to have any problems until he realized that he didn't have a parachute But if you realized that he had nothing to place his hope in, he knew his fate. It's not a matter of the faith or the hope that you have, it's the object that you place that in. You can't puff yourself up. You can't pull yourself up by your bootstraps. You have to have a firm anchor to hold on to, and that's God. You see, Jesus is the only place where true hope can reside. Jesus is the only source worthy of that hope. And as we look at David, we realize that even though he had not met Jesus, who was his descendant, that he had his hope in God, who had promised deliverance. And that deliverance was Jesus. And in verse thirty-nine of first Samuel seventeen, we see that David did not place his trust in weapons. Saul had fitted David with his own armor, had given him his sword and helmet. And in verse 39 it says, David fastened the sword over his tunic and tried walking around. Because he had not gotten used to them. He'd not proven them, is the way it's said in the Hebrew. He hadn't tested and seen them to be worthy of his of his of his hope. I cannot go in these, he said to Saul, because I'm not used to them. I haven't proven them. And so he took them off. David, contrary to Goliath, didn't trust his weapons. David also did not trust himself. We see that in verse 37, where he says, The Lord who delivered me The Lord who delivered me. You see, David had fought lions and bears and come up victorious. He knew he could be delivered from animals that could shred him to bits. But he didn't attribute the victory to himself. His faith was in God. In verse 46, as David faces Goliath, his most terrifying opponent. David doesn't say, I'm going to defeat you. David says, this day the Lord will hand you over to me. See, David's faith wasn't in his own power. And that's why the contrast is so beautiful. David the shrimp against Goliath the giant. It was spectacular. There was no reason to hope in David. And you know what? David didn't hope in David. As David looked at Goliath, we see that it was really an issue of perspective. The Israelites and the Philistines both looked at Goliath as a giant ten feet tall that no one could defeat. Do you want to know how David's Agoliah? Let's look. Because in verse 26 As David has come to visit his brothers and to take back a report to his father. David looks at this Goliath, this giant, that everyone else is frightened and immobile in the presence of. And David says, Who is this uncircumcised Philistine? David doesn't mention his size. See, David sees reality. David sees Goliath, not in comparison to the armies of Israel, or even in comparison to the armies of the Philistines. David sees Goliath in comparison to God. Who do you compare your troubles to? My hope is that you compare them to God, and you see how meaningless and insignificant they are in comparison to the God of the universe. David also didn't trust in some vague general relationship with God in which God would have to save him. Again, we can't do that. If you're here today because you believe this is Sunday, an Americans should be in church, I urge you to speak with me or with an elder afterwards Because that's not what gave David victory. And that's not a relationship with God that can save. David based it instead upon a close personal relationship with his Lord. You'll remember in his anointing. The last thing that is mentioned is that the Spirit of God descended upon David. David had a saving relationship with God because God initiated it. God gave him his spirit. If you have that same relationship with God, if you have his spirit in you, you have the same basis of hope that David had. You can trust in God to overcome all the trials that you face. Because God promises Let me read a story about George Mueller, one of the great giants of faith. He was a missionary to England and he established a series of orphanages. And he was known for his prayer and his faith. And this story will illustrate that. Things looked bleak for the children in George Mueller's orphanage at Ashley Downs in England. It was time for breakfast. And there was no food. A small girl whose father was a close friend of Mueller was visiting in the home. Mueller took her hand and said, Come and see what our father will do. In the dining room, long tables were set with empty plates and empty mugs. Not only was there no food in the kitchen, but there was no money in the home's bank account. Mueller prayed. Listen to this. Father, we thank thee for what thou art going to give us to eat. He doesn't mince words. He's sitting with all the children in the orphanage, and there is no food, there is no time, there is no money, and he thanks God for what he's going to give them to eat. Immediately they heard a knock at the door. When they opened it, there stood the local baker. Mr. Mueller, he said, I couldn't sleep last night Somehow I felt that you had no bread for breakfast. So I got up two this morning and baked fresh bread. Here it is. Mueller thanked him, but gave praise to God. Soon a second knock was heard, and it was the milkman. Who else? His cart had broken down in front of the house and he wanted to give the milk to the kids so he could empty the cart and repair it. Can you believe that? Isn't God good? Why could George Mueller pray with such faith? Because he'd seen God work before. The same as David had seen God work to destroy the lions and the bears that took his sheep. The same way that we, if we correct our memories, can reflect upon God's faithfulness to us in the past. Have you seen God work in your life? Have you seen God answer your needs? When you have, do you remember them or do you file it away? When you face your trials, do you reflect upon the goodness of God who has met your needs in the past? C. H. Spurgeon, the famous Charles Spurgeon, once said, It is not to be imagined that God, who has helped us in six troubles, will leave us alone in the seventh. Reflect upon God's goodness. Because if you're not blind, it's there. You see, salvation comes only in the name of the Lord. David's hope was in the name of the Lord. Acts four, verse twelve. Turn with me. This is a comfort and a challenge. It's a comfort because those of us who are in Jesus can rejoice that there is salvation. It's a challenge to those who are not in Jesus because if you if you're seeking salvation in any other place, it will not be found In Acts 4. 12, we're sold that salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to men by which we must be saved. The name that is given is Jesus. John fourteen six tells us, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. 1 Timothy 2. 5 tells us there is one meteor between man and God, the man Jesus Christ. Where is your hope? If it is in God, is it general? What's its basis? Is it because you're an American? Or because you go to church on Sundays? That's not enough. If your hope is not placed in Jesus, because he hath come, he hath died, and risen again to pay for your sins. Then you are in the same situation with Goliath and with George Castro, and anyone else who places hope anywhere but in Christ. But see, we're able to trust in God, not only because salvation is in the name of Jesus, but because God Himself promises to meet our needs. Turn with me for a moment to Philippians 4, verse 19. For those of you with the authorized. A NIV study bible, I'll tell you the page number. That is if I don't get there after you do. Page 1809, please. In verse 19, this is Paul who's in prison at the moment, facing a potential death sentence. He's been stoned, he's been beaten, he's been shipwrecked. Listen to his faith. And my God shall meet all your needs according to his glorious riches in Christ Jesus. Like Joshua, Paul at the end of his life could say of God that he has not failed to keep one promise. Where is your hope? Romans eight twenty-eight. Saint Paul Writing this time to the church in Rome says, and God will cause all things to work together for good, for good, to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. Where is your hope? Psalm thirty-seven four says, Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart. You see, it's that God has promised to meet our needs, and not just our needs as a general group, but my needs and your needs as specific individuals. God is faithful. He is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should repent. His promises are yes and amen. Do you have a crisis that you're facing today? Where's your help? Let's pray. Father, thank you for this story, this truth, this historical account. But Lord, thank you so much for David's home. And the reflection that is to us, how we ourselves can hope because of the promises that you give and because of the relationship that you establish. I pray that today we will be able to trust you and to see that you are larger than any problem we face, and that you are more loving than any friend we could have. Lord, give us your presence. Give us a sense of hope that we might know that you are with us and that you will care for us. That we can trust in your faithfulness. In Jesus Name