If you would turn to Second Samuel chapter six, we'll be reading verses one through fifteen. David again brought together out of Israel chosen men. Thirty thousand in all. He and all his men set out from Balah of Judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name, the name of the Lord Almighty. Who is enthroned between the cherubim that are on the ark. They set the ark on a new cart and brought it from the house of Abinadam, which was on the hill. Uzzah and Ahio, sons of Abinadab, were guiding the new cart with the ark of God on it. And Ahio was walking in front of it. David and the whole house of Israel were celebrating with all their might before the Lord with songs and with harps, lyres, tambourines, sistrums, and cymbals. Now, when they came to the threshing floor of Nakon, Uzzah reached out and took hold of the ark of God, because the oxen stumbled. The Lord's anger burned against Uzzah because of his irreverent act. Therefore God struck him down and he died there beside the ark of God. David was angry. Because the Lord's wrath had broken out against Uzzah, and to this day that place is called Perez Uzzah. David was afraid of the Lord that day and said, How can the ark of the Lord ever come to me? He was not willing to take the ark of the Lord to be with him in the city of David. Instead, he took it aside to the house of Obed-Edom, the Gittite. The ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-Edom, the Gittite, for three months, and the Lord blessed him and his entire household. Now King David was told, The Lord has blessed the household of Obed-Edom and everything he has because of the Ark of God. So David went down and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed Edom to the city of David, with rejoicing. When those who were carrying the ark of the Lord had taken six steps, he sacrificed a bull and a fattened calf. David, wearing a linen ephod, danced before the Lord with all his might, while he and the entire house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouts and the sound of trumpets. As we hear this story, it strikes us that there's something terribly wrong. Something offends our sense of righteousness. What offends us is that God punishes Uzzah And we're not alone. As we're offended and angered, so was David. David was mad at God. He was mad because this man who seemed to be doing something right was struck down. Certainly God could not have wanted the ark to fall. But Uzzah, as he put his hand out to steady it, was struck dead. Something has to be going on here that's not immediately visible. It reminds me of of one of the scenes in James Clavell's story Shogun, which is a story about the an Englishman and some Dutch merchants coming into contact with the Japanese in the 16th century. As the Englishmen and Japanese enter this foreign land, they're shipwrecked, and they become guests, so to speak, more likely prisoners of the Japanese samurai in the various villages where they're where they're wrecked. And as as they are getting used to being on soil for the first time in in in almost a year. And as they're getting used to a new culture, all of the peasants line up And some samurai, the rulers of this village, come walking past in order to investigate what it is that's gone on. And the Englishman watches as the peasants stand, and as the samurai comes down, the peasants bow. All but one. And one peasant looks at the samurai and refuses to show his respect. In one swift and smooth action, the samurai draws his sword and cuts the head of the samurai. We're offended. We're astounded. So are the Englishmen and the Dutchmen Their sense of honor has been attacked. And as they begin to go to fight with the samurai, the Catholic priest, who serves as an intermediary, explains this man had brought his own death upon himself. In the same way, Uzzah brought his own death upon himself. We are to be outraged as we come across this story, but we're not to be outraged with God. For you see, even though Uzzah might have been ignorant of a law, that was not a defense As we've driven across states, I did a lot of it last January, you find out that laws differ from state to state as to what's appropriate for traffic laws. A long time ago, I won't tell you how long, because my wife was in junior high, her family moved from California to New Jersey. And in in in the first weeks that they were there, her father got a traffic ticket for doing something which was legal in California. But wasn't legal in New Jersey. And so he thought, well, I'll explain that to the police officer that I'm new, that that that that it's just something I don't understand. And so he tried to explain and get out of the traffic ticket But the police officer looked at him and said, ignorance of the law is not a defense for breaking it. And you gotta take it anyway. In Usa's case, ignorance of the law is not a defense for breaking it. In our case, ignorance of the law is not a defense for breaking it, especially when it's God's law. We have to understand that what's really taking place here, what's really going on with David, is not a righteous act. David wasn't doing a good thing half-heartedly. You see, we look at this and we think it wasn't up to standards, but that's okay. You know, we'll accept the motive. How often do we do we take our job less than seriously, or or our home less than seriously, or our schoolwork less than seriously? We know we could get the A, but we decide, well, there's other things, and I'm going to do it a little bit less than my best. That that's a standard thing for us. But there is one place that's not acceptable, and that's with God. David was doing less than his best. In fact, David was rebelling against God. That's this that's the point one A, B, or one B outline point there. David rebelled against God. You see, this is not just some light infraction. David rebelled against Christ. God. How? Well, the first thing was he was not submitting to God. Because you see, he didn't ask God at all Whether he should bring the ark or how it should be done. If we look in the beginning of chapter 6, we see that David brought 30,000 men together. And began to do his task of bringing the ark in. If we look instead at 1 Chronicles 13, it becomes even clearer. This is a parallel passage, an expanded passage of the same activity. And it tells us there that David conferred with each of his officers, the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds. He then said to the whole assembly of Israel, every person in Israel. If it seems good to you, and if it's the will of God, let us send word far and wide to the rest of our brothers throughout the territories of Israel, and also to the priests and the Levites who are with them in their towns and pasture lands. To come and join us. Let us bring back the ark of our God back to us. For we did not inquire of it during the reign of Saul. The whole assembly agreed to do this because it seemed right. To all the people. David asked everybody He asked his officers, he asked the people, he asked the priests, the Levites. The one person David did not ask was God In fact, he points that out in chapter fifteen where he says 1 Chronicles 15, verse 13, the end of the verse. We did not inquire of him, meaning God, about how to do it in the prescribed way. David asked everybody, but the one person that it was important to ask. David decided to offer a gift to God. Do you remember back earlier we talked about Saul and how he decided to offer a gift of sheep to God? Saul was told to kill and to destroy the Amalekites, not to leave anything. But he brought back choice sheep because he felt that he could offer that to God as a sacrifice. David in his same way decided that he would offer to God bringing the ark into the capital of the land. He wanted to enthrone God. But he didn't ask God whether he should or how he should. Now, when you and I offer a gift, when we have a birthday or a Christmas present to give, we don't think. What do I want to give? We think, what would the person like to receive? Now I have a three-year-old son, Jonathan. If you're not a visitor, you've met Jonathan. But when he gives a gift, he likes to think, what would I like to give? His mother's birthday is coming up, and I bet you if he has any say, she's getting a Batman cape Maybe a toy sword. Do you think that's what she really wants? David offered to God a gift that was given in the way and in the decision of David. That cost Busa his life. By God's grace it did not cost David his kingdom or David's life. God could have taken David at that point. For the same sort of sin, the same principle of sin, when Saul offered his own gift to God, God took away his dynasty. David hadn't made a small mistake. David had rebelled against God. He'd made himself judge That's point B2. He'd made himself judge. You see, David was a king. By this time, he's now been anointed and put on the throne. And one of the things we know about kings is that they are responsible to know the law of God. They are responsible to lead the nation in righteousness. Remember, this whole series has been pointing out how God wanted David to be the king who would lead Israel in renewal. The first act recorded in Samuel after David is king is of David's rebellion. He's not leading in renewal. What was David's rebellion? Well, beyond the fact that he'd made himself the judge and that he had not asked God What to do. The specifics of his sin were that he decided to move the ark of God in ways God had not said to do. It doesn't sound big, but you've got to realize what the Ark is. The Ark is the throne of God. Remember, verse 2 of this chapter The Ark is being described here, and it's telling us that the Ark is called by the name, the name of the Lord Almighty. Now listen to this. Who is enthroned? That's his throne. Between the cherubim that are on the ark. This is the place where the God, the creator of the universe The sustainer of all that is, has chosen to meet and speak with his people Let the significance of that sink in. This is not just a religious object. This is not just a pretty trinket to sit in a temple that you can use to think about God. This is the throne, the place where God has incarnated in himself Has physically made himself present. To treat this with less than complete respect and honor is to insult God. And you do so at your own peril. David moved the ark, not in the way God had prescribed. God prescribed that there were to be two poles and that the Levites were to carry this on their shoulders. David instead did something less. Granted, he made a new ark, a new wagon. It hadn't been used before. And he had he had cows that had never pulled things before. And he thought he was showing sufficient respect. But if we reflect back to the return of the ark from the Philistines, what had they done? What had the enemies of God done to bring the ark back? They put it on a new o new wagon. And they put cows that had never pulled anything before on the cart to carry the the ark David was doing the same thing, showing the same respect to the ark of God that his enemies had. And they didn't have Exodus, which told them how to deal with the ark. David did not show respect to God. He was careless, and he didn't seem to understand the subtlety of sin. There's a story that I think tends to illustrate this fairly well. And it takes place on Stone Mountain in Georgia. You see, Stone Mountain is a large boulder. It's probably the world's largest boulder. And it has a really imperceptible curve. And one day a young man was walking on this mountain. And all of a sudden he realized that he did not have the ability to turn around and go back up. He'd gone too far. And he yelled for help. Save me! Nobody could. And the people on that mountain watched as he fell to his death. Sin is subtle We can't afford to be careless as that young man was. We can't be careless with God. You see, David had sinned, and it was necessary for him to repent. Now unlike the peasant who lost his head, and unlike the young man who died falling from the boulder, there is with us a means of escape. There was for David a means of escape. That's repentance. Now we need to understand something about repentance, though. Repentance is a turning from and a turning to. You see, it's not enough just to turn from and to leave a vacuum. You've got to turn to. Having young children, I'm well aware of what it is for the kids to say sorry. They learn these special magical words. Please, I'm sorry. These words that take everything wrong and make it wide again When my son does something wrong, when I tell him, Jonathan, don't eat the raisins and he goes and he hides behind the cabinet, pulls the door over him, so he's hidden behind the wall in the cabinet, and I can't see him because I know that there's only one time the dead door is in that position. I know that he's back there eating the raisins. I pull the door open and I say, Jonathan, did you disobey dad? Mm-hmm. I'm sorry. In goes the hand for the next grab of raisins. You see, he's he's turned from almost, but he hasn't turned to. You see, he hasn't turned away from that that that wrong action David had to turn from his rebellion to God. David had to turn away from making himself judge. But he also had to turn to he had to turn to God as his king. Saying I'm sorry isn't enough. It's not enough. As we reflect on our own lives and we look at the things that we do wrong over and over and over again. We have to ask ourselves, am I really repenting? Some things take a long time to get over. There are habits that you've built up over a period of years that are tough to stop. And so I'm not saying that if you do that again, you've not repented. What I'm saying is you need to turn from and to turn to. The Spirit will tell you whether you've repented. But I want to read a quick story of a man named Al Johnson. At 19, Al Johnson had joined two other men in robbing a Kansas bank. The case was closed when two convicts who had had a traffic accident and died were identified by the banker as the men who'd robbed the bank. Al felt sure he would never be caught. He married a Christian girl. He pretended to be a Christian before her. She knew nothing of his past life or crime. Then someone sent him a tract in the mail entitled God's Plan of Salvation. Reading it, he noticed one of the Bible verses said, Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. The realization finally struck Al Johnson that salvation was for him. He knelt in prayer and accepted Christ and was freed of his guilt. His life changed. He stopped a habit, a lifelong habit of lying. And after much thought and prayer, I'm sure he agonized, he confessed his crime. His confession made television newscasts and newspaper headlines all the way to Canada. Under a Kansas statute of limitation, he was free. Although he chose to repay his share of the money. Today, Al Johnson is the manager of a service station, the father of three adoring children, and an outstanding Christian layman. You see, he didn't have to say he was sorry. He was scot-free. But he did. And he didn't have to go to jail or pay back any of what he had taken because he was free. The limitation had run out. God's limitation had not run out He turned from his sin to Jesus. But more than that, you see, in his love for Jesus, he turned to a righteous life. And he paid back money he probably didn't have access to. That's repentance. To repent you have to understand that sin is bad. You have to understand that it is not just something God happens to say he doesn't like. Sin is wretched. But what we tend to look at is, you know, we're it's okay. Eddie Martin is an evangelist, and he's met all sorts of people And he says in one place, I have met a few people who tried to convince me that they were not bad sinners. Does that sound familiar? I met one such lady in Bluefield, West Virginia. She was a well-dressed woman who came forward on a salvation invitation. I took her hand and prepared to give her a prayer to repeat after me. The prayer I usually give is, Dear Lord, I know that I am a no-good sinner. I know I cannot save myself. I do need forgiveness for my terrible sins, and I can't do without you. Please forgive me now for my many sins. I hear and now receive you into my heart as my Savior. I'll try to live for you from this night on. I pray this in Jesus' name. Thousands of people seeking to be saved have prayed this prayer with me. As I took this woman's hand and began to give her the prayer to repeat after me, Dear Lord, I know that I am a no-good sinner. She never uttered a word. I looked at her and said, Don't you want to be saved? She said, Yes, Eddie, I do want to be saved, but I'm not a sinner. Then you can't be saved, I said, for Jesus only died for sinners. But Mr. Martin, she replied, I'm a good sinner. Good sinner? Lady, there are no good sinners You're going to have to take your seat because God cannot save you till you become aware that you are a no-good sinner and need his forgiveness. But Mr. Martin, you don't understand. I'm really not a bad sinner. I told her to go back and sit down. She held on to my hand with a vice like grip. Finally she looked me in the eyes and said, Oh please, forgive me. I know that I am a no good, hell-deserving sinner I am a proud, no good sinner. I do need Christ to forgive me of my sins Wonderful! Now you are ready to deal with God. We prayed together there in front, thousands of people looking on. That lady came clean with God. God saved her. But you see, she would never have been saved if she had not changed her attitude. Editorial comment, I have to say this. If God had not changed her attitude. None of us are good sinners. We're all big sinners. We're all bad sinners. We even today are hell-deserving sinners. But God's grace offers us a way. You see, David did repent. And that's shown. Not so much by what he says in this text, but it's shown by his actions. That's the the next blank. And his actions are twofold One is he continued to seek God. I'd like to read a brief part of Psalm 32, which is not from this time in David's life, but it's characteristic of David's relationship with God in times of sin. In Psalm 32, we find David talking about his sin. He says, When I kept silent, my bones wasted away, through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my strength was that, as in the heat of summer. I acknowledged my sin to you And did not cover up my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave me the guilt of my sin. Therefore, let everyone who is godly pray to you, while you may be found. Surely, when the mighty waters rise, they will not reach him. You are my hiding place. You will protect me from trouble. And surround me with songs of deliverance. David continued to seek God. David continued to love God in spite of his rebellion. But David also continued to act for God. You see, it's clear in s in the Chronicles account that between this first bringing of the Ark in And the second, there was a battle with the Philistines. And David would not go into battle without inquiring of God. See, David inquired and said, Should I go and attack the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me? And God said, go. And God not only gave David victory, but he gave David victory in a way that made it clear that God was the one who beat the Philistines. He had an army of angels walking over the tops of the trees above David to defeat the Philistines. You see, David repented. And he continued to turn to God. Not only is David's repentance shown by David's actions, it's also shown by God's Because God did send the army. God did give the victory. But more importantly, God allowed David to bring the ark to Jerusalem. Now we're going to have to examine this for a minute because this is something we can't pass over quickly. It's not just a little thing. This is the final act of showing to Israel that God is her king. Remember this whole section is grouped together under the theme of God being the covenant king of Israel. In the same way that God is the covenant king of the church. David was the visible king. God was a real king. Saul had lost his kingship because he had not acknowledged God. David, because he did acknowledge God was made king, but in his first act as king, he slipped into Saul's attitude and made himself king. But God gave forgiveness. God allowed David to enthrone him in Jerusalem. Again, the ark is the throne of God. Jerusalem was the capital of God's kingdom. And David was given the privilege of being a human agency by which God was crowned. We so often lose sight of the tremendous distance between man and God, between God's holiness, his power, his purity. And so to think of of bringing in a holy object, or even Solomon later on being able to build the temple, to build the palace of God, seems minor But we're talking about the God who created all that exists. And if you lose sight of how significant this is, think back to Uzzah What we call a minor infraction costs him his life. That's how seriously God takes them. And so when God allows David to bring that ark in To Jerusalem, it is a serious act of forgiveness. It is the best privilege of David's entire life. It pales everything else in significance. It pales being king. It pales his victories over the Philistines, the Amalekites, the Ammonites. It makes it all puny. I imagine if you were to ask David what was the most special thing he did in his entire life, it would be this, bringing the ark to Jerusalem. God gave that to David after his rebellion and demonstrated his forgiveness. If you want to think about how David responded, look at the story. Turn back with me to verse twelve. Now King David was told, The Lord has blessed the household of Obed-Edom and everything he has because of the ark of God. So David went down and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the city of David with rejoicing. He was a happy man. But he was a bit frightened. I imagine as he went down from Jerusalem to the house of Obed-Edom. He was tense. Has God really forgiven me? I mean last time I wiped out and it cost somebody his life. Am I really content to bring this instrument of destruction into my Am I really content to be there? Maybe I should just send some people to go and do it for me. No. David went But you'll notice the way it starts here. See, David didn't begin with rejoicing. David wasn't quite sure. David waited till those Levites had taken their first six steps He went wild. He offered sacrifices. He danced The people of Israel rejoiced in a wild abandon. They felt the joy of God. They felt His forgiveness. As you read First Chronicles fifteen It talks about the joy, the celebration, the psalm that David wrote. They had a national party They feasted, they danced, they sang. They had a good time. As you think of God, do you feel his joy? When you come to worship in his house, are you aware that he has forgiven you? Do you think of church with a smile, a frown, or just kind of a straight face? When you think of God and the fact that He's here And that you have a chance to enthrone him. You see, he isn't just here to listen to how well we sing or what sorts of things we pray about. He's here to be enthroned. He's here to let us show him we know he's king. And he's here to give us forgiveness Why could David be forgiven? David had broken the law. Uzzah had broken the law. Uzzah died. David was forgiven. Why? It wasn't because David was any better than Uzzah. It was because David knew that forgiveness was possible. He knew God had promised things that required God forgiving him. He promised deliverance. David didn't know how that was going to happen. He knew it would be from the seed, the descendants of David, but he didn't know the specifics. We today know that the reason that David was forgiven was because Jesus came. See, David repented, and he knew that he was a no-good, hell-deserving sinner. And he turned from that and he turned to God. But the reason that he could do that was because Jesus came. Because Jesus, the descendant of David, came, was incarnated, God who became man. He lived. He lived a perfect life that needed no payment for sin. But he paid for our sin. Yours, mine, and David And he took that sin and nailed it to the cross on his body. And dying, he paid that debt. But he was raised again from the dead. He was raised again from the dead. And the debt, having been paid, was now transferable to us. It was transferable to David. And David was only forgiven because Jesus died for him. That same forgiveness is available to us today. God promises in 1 John that if we confess our sins He is faithful and just. He will forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You can be forgiven. There's no question that you rebel. There is no question that you rebel. The question is, do you know that you rebel and that you're a no-good, hell-deserving sinner? We don't like to think about that. We like to avoid that as a matter of fact. But do you know that you have the grace of a loving Father who loves you so much that he sent his son to die for you and he has wiped out your sin? In closing, I'd like to read one more little story. It takes place in the Korean War. During the Korean War, a South Korean Christian, a civilian, was arrested by the communists and ordered shot. But when the young communist leader learned that the man was in charge of an orphanage caring for small children, he decided to spare him and to kill his son instead. So they took the 19-year-old son and shot him in the presence of his father. Later on, the fortunes of the war changed, and the young communist leader was arrested. He was tried by the United Nations forces and convicted and sentenced to death. But before the sentence could be carried out, the Christian, whose son had been killed, pleaded for the life of the killer. He declared that the killer was young and really didn't know what he had done. Give him to me, said the father, and I'll train him. The United Nations forces granted the request, and the father took the murder of his own son into his own home and cared for him. Today that communist is now a Christian pastor. We have a father who can do more than this Christian could. This forgiveness, this sense of forgiveness astounds us. But it astounds us because he's a human. We don't recognize how great the forgiveness of God is Because we attribute it to God. He's able to do that, it's not taught. God forgave your sins and has removed them as far as the east is from the west Because of Jesus. An interesting thing. If you go north, ultimately at some point you begin to go south. North and south meet. You can't say that God has removed your sins as far as from the north and the south. But you know, if you begin going east, you never stop going east and begin going west. Never. East and West don't meet. God has removed your sins as far as the East is from the West. If you come to Christ, if you come to God through Christ, you are forgiven. And I want to see some smiles. A few, not many. Come on. Let's go to God in prayer and thank him for that forgiveness. Lord, we are astounded. We ask that you would give us a real awareness Of how great your forgiveness is, of how much your grace means to us. And Lord, we pray that we would, in response to that, offer you our smile, our hearts, and our joys That we would be able not only to enthrone you upon our praises, upon our hearts and our lips, but also, Lord, that we would enjoy you. That we would delight to come to worship you. That we would delight to be with you. Father, we pray that if David was forgiven for his rebellion, that we would also realize The rebellion that faces us, that's part of us, that we so easily offer to you. Lord, cleanse us from that and give us that clear sense of your pleasure That as we give you our worship, you enjoy it. Be with us now. Fill us with your presence. In Jesus' name. Amen.