In the past few weeks, we've gone through a number of topics. Topics to challenge you, topics to stretch your faith. We've talked about the missions, what God's doing in that and our place in it. We talked about the problem. of self love, what we see today, what the Bible says about that. We talked about tithing. We talked about open hearted generosity. We talked about uh leadership in the church. We've talked about speaking the truth to a secular culture. Talked about a number of topics. Now we want to take a break. I want to move as we move into the holiday season to more once again focus upon the person of Jesus. To focus on Jesus and the greatness of the gospel, so that we might be refreshed once again by looking to Him. So that as we seek to apply the things that God is showing us and teaching us, we might be encouraged. in his sufficiency and in the hope of the gospel. You may remember that uh those of you who have been around, I began a series on messianic prophecy back in nineteen seventy nine and I warned you it was about a fifty year series We're now in the seventh year and on our seventh prophecy. So we're already about a seventh of the way through this this uh series after today or after next week. We're up now to 2 Samuel chapter 7. Going from Genesis to Malachi. The seventh prophecy now is 2 Samuel chapter 7. God's covenant with David. Don't take two weeks on this prophecy. This week I'm going to deal with the blessings of this promise. Next week I'm going to be dealing with the unlikeliness, uh unlikelihood of the fulfillment of that promise. So let's take a look at God's Word, and let's hear, as we consider, that this is God Himself's speaker. Speaking to us now from 2 Samuel chapter 7, beginning with verse 1. After the king was settled in his palace, and the Lord had given him rest from all his enemies around him. He said to Nathan the prophet, Here I am living in a palace of cedar while the ark of God remains in a tent. Nathan replied to the king, Whatever you have in mind, go ahead and do it. For the Lord is with you. That night the word of the Lord came to Nathan saying, Go and tell my servant David, this is what the Lord says. Are you the one to build me a house to dwell in? I have not dwelt in a house from the days that I brought the Israelites up out of Egypt to this day. I have been moving from place to place with a tent as my dwelling. Wherever I have moved with all the Israelites, could I ever say to anyone? of their wounds whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, why have you not built me a house of cedar? And now then tell my servant David, This is what the Lord Almighty says. I took you from the pasture. And from following the flock to be a ruler over my people Israel. I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I Will make your name great, like the names of the greatest men of the earth. And I will provide a place for my people, Israel, and will plant them so that they can have a home of their Own and no longer be disturbed. Wicked people will not oppress them anymore, as they did in the beginning, and have done ever since the time I appointed leaders over my people Israel. I will also give you rest from all your enemies. The Lord declares to you that the Lord Himself will establish a house for you. When your days are over and you rest with your father's house I will raise up your offspring to succeed you, who will come from your own body. And I will establish his kingdom. He is the one who will build a house for my name. And I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he will be my son. When he does wrong, I will punish him with the rod of men, with floggings inflicted by men. But my love Will never be taken away from you, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will be established forever. Legan reported to David all the words of this entire revelation. I want to notice three parts to this blessing, if you see in your bones and outline. God promised us three things here in this covenant. First of all, he promises a place of eternal rest. Second, He promises an eternal house, a kingdom. And thirdly, he promises an eternal covenant. What's the situation? David is about 40 years old, a young fellow. But it's just the first time since he was just a child's shepherd in the hills of Bethlehem that he's known rest. No longer is Saul harassing him and chasing him up and down through the hills of Judea. No longer are the marauding bands uh going through Israel to threaten and to destroy as they did at Ziklag when David came back and found that his wives were taken and all of its things stolen and burned. No longer are the Philistines, the menace that they used to be, and they're attacking and destroying at will. The land is at rest. David's no longer living in caves, now he lives in a palace of sea. Peter. And so he can relax. He can take a vacation. When we come to a place where we finally can relax, there we find sometimes the greatest danger to our spiritual well-being. Because it's at that time that we can incline to apathy, to indifference, to treat ourselves and say, Well, I've owned the rest. I've been throughout away, I've been struggling, I've been sweating. to relax. Now I can treat me to something. Now I can finally enjoy myself. And that can be a subtle trap for just simply indulging ourselves. But what do we see with David? As soon as David can relax, what's he said? The Lord has been so good to me. What can I do for him now? Here's an opportunity to show my love for the Lord in a greater way. Here I am in a palace of Cedar. I'm going to build a temple for the Lord. His presence. And that's the response of God. God comes back by saying, David, you think you're going to do this for me? Let me tell you what I'm going to do for you. I think it's a principle of the Christian. life, whenever you and I determine we're going to do something special for Jesus to show him our love, it's at those times that he reveals to us more than ever the very special things that he has done for us and will do. For us in our lives. And so as we express our love for the Lord Jesus, be encouraged. It is at that time when you pour yourself out to Him that He's going to take the opportunity to reveal to you in a special way, perhaps more than you'd ever. seen before how much he loves for you and what he's going to do for you. And that's exactly what we see here in the Vedic covenant. That's a this opportunity to give to David a promise that's beyond anything that we've seen so far in Scripture. The most specific prophecy of the messianic kingdom and king that we've seen so far. David says to Nathan, Nathan, here I am in a palace of Cedar. I think I'll do And Nathan responds, Go for it. That's sort of a rough paraphrase of what it says here, but it basically comes out that way. And then Nathan is stopped short that night and God speaks to him, perhaps in a dream. And the Lord basically says to him, uh, Since when did I ask for home improvement? Uh basically God is saying, I've lived in a tent all the time that I've taken my people through the wilderness. When did I ever say that that wasn't good enough? That's what I commanded. Now in fact, David, your son will build for me a temple. But then God uses this opportunity to describe a whole new promise and covenant for David. The first thing that he promises of this notice is an eternal place of rest. What a beautiful promise. Look at that in verse 8, beginning there at verse 8. Now tell my servant David, this is what the Lord Almighty says. I took you from the past. And from following the flock to be ruler over my people Israel. I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies from before you. Now I will make your name great. Like the names of the greatest. men of the earth, and I will provide a place for my people Israel, and I will plant them so that they can have a home of their own and no longer be disturbed, for the people will not oppress them anymore. did at the beginning and have done ever since I appointed leaders over my people Israel. I will also give you rest. Rest from all of your enemies. Rest. Israel hears that they must think. When they were slaves in Egypt, they had no rest. Constantly they were pushed harder to work longer hours, suffering under oppression. And God, by his mighty hand, brought them out of Egypt and redeemed them. He brought them into the wilderness where the Amalekites, the Moabites, the Midianites, and others marauded them and attacked them, and they had no rest in the wilderness. constantly being attacked by their enemies. They come into Canaan and they have seven years of great victory as they conquer through the land and they take the southern section, the central section, the southern section, and the northern section. And they conquer all these cities. But as soon as they think that they've established some rest and peace, we read in Judges that the nations are back up again. And because of the sin of the people, God enables them to continue to harass Israel and sometimes to subject Israel to their power. So constantly there is this struggle, this striving with their enemies, never having any rest. With Saul's regime, it was constantly the Philistines who were giving them problems, always attacking and subduing them. And finally now. There's rest. I believe that chronologically chapter seven comes in the midst of chapter eight. Chapter eight is kind of a summary of all of David's victories. And I believe this after the basic victories, particularly The Philistines or some of the other prominent nations, but we now have chapter seven placed. And so now there is for the first time not the threat of being subdued by any other nation. But even in that Even in the beginning of that rest, we're reminded, aren't we, that while we have some rest in Jesus, there's still the struggles, there's still the attacks, there's still the marauding, and we're reminded that we're struggling. We've just celebrated Pilgrim Day, Thanksgiving Day. We reminded Aaron, a congregation of some six hundred Puritans who had their church at an unlikely place called Scrooge. Yeah, you'll wonder why you never hear where the pilgrims came from. Well if you came from Scrooge, England, you probably wouldn't publicize that as a very big part of the Thanksgiving story yourself, would you? It couldn't probably help their PR as a church. Much, you know, the first church of Scrooge, but that's where they were from. But in Scrooby, they were persecuted, they were harassed, they lost their jobs, they had no rest or peace. And so, in desperation, the majority of them fled in undergrown. Of duress and storms and being attacked, beaten, arrested, and all the rest of it. But the most of those 600 made it to Holland in Amsterdam. And there for a number of years, six, seven years, they also had great difficulty making a living. They had no They had left everything, sold everything that they had. And so finally they decided that they would try to make it in the New World and they went back to England. They got two ships, the Speedwell and the Mayflower. Finally the Speedwell was unseaworthy, and so they were reduced to the Mayflower. Down to less than a hundred of them, but they built with a few others to make a total uh passenger list of a hundred and two coming over to the new world to try to have rest. And they come over to the new world and they find that nature's against them, and it seems like they don't have enough. provisions and there's hardly enough to eat and many of them starve and get diseases. So that by the next year, that next summer, there's less than half of them still living. And then God gives them some rest. And we read through their history and we see The ups and downs, the falling away from the Lord, the discipline, the coming back, the revival. And that's the history of the church, isn't it? Moving on as pilgrims, seeking for rest. Perhaps this morning, you're seeking and love. so much in your heart for rest. You're longing for that time when you don't feel guilty about the things that you've done. And you'll be able to, with your conscience, just be able to rest in the Lord's peace. You think of the sins that seem to overcome you and overwhelm you, and you're so tired of fighting against them. And the great enemy of your soul, Satan, seems so often to have the victory over you, and you so long for rest. class a few weeks ago, I asked the people in the class, when you think of home, what's the place that you think of the most? One person in that class immediately responded, Heaven. The only place that I can really think of his hope is heaven. Because it's in heaven that I'll have my rest. That really is true, isn't it? And what you have to see here, brothers and sisters, is this is a promise. God says, I will give them Rest from all our enemies. You and I have that promise of rest. And that's what enables you and me to continue on in the struggle of all the things that we're fighting against. You think of the world that we We prayed for I read just this week of three pastors in China who are simply seeking to meet and to pastor congregations of people. Over a hundred people meeting with this one pastor, seeing God's work in a one mighty way. All three of them arrested. One given a prison sentence of about two years, another about three years, one given a sentence of fifteen years in China, today, 1985, for preaching the gospel. China's a maybe a quarter of the entire population of the earth. And there the Christian Church has been described in um the publication China and the World. The Christian Church is in precisely the same situation there as the Church of the first Century, seeing God's work in expansion, but also suffering a great deal of persecution. The one man who's been given a 15-year sentence prayed, got a group of believers to pray with him, and believe it or not, when they had Appeals of a higher court, a higher court reduced the sentence from 15 years, and it's not known right now what a sentence will be. But they're commuting it down to a much lower sentence. And if you're in China today, you sense that struggle of light and darkness. long for that place of rest where the kingdom of God will be established and consummated. It is no rest. You're a pilgrim. Even here, we read constantly of the struggle, the spiritual struggle that's going on. The struggles that are going on on at our schools. We read of Title X, the thing that Ruth's uh making known that you'll perhaps get to hear a little bit more about tonight afterwards, after the service, of the uh attempt to uh fully fund the planned parent so that uh abortions will be uh more fully federally funded. And then there's this uh Hatch and Orin amendment uh to seek to overthrow that, to prohibit it. And we see the struggle, we see the the difficulty, the tension, we we see this conflict. conflict going on. We're long for the rest. We see the pornography struggle with all that's going on, the effects of that and grief and child abuse. And we see the tension and the struggle, the conflict as registration cease. to stand against these things and be roam for rest. But you know when I read this, the thing I think about is when I was a student. Now, you know, whatever capacity you might have been a student, do you remember? As you had first exam time, I don't know about you, but you know, to me, exam time was not a challenge to show how much you knew. It was an endurance contest to see how long you could survive. You know, it was meet against the system. And you know when it came to exam time You know, I'd get all the stuff that I knew and man I would go day and night. You know, I would change my whole sleep stuff. You may get all along in less sleep if you sleep in small snatches, you know, so you sleep quicker and you eat quicker and you do everything. Why? Not because it looks That lifestyle, but because you know that in two weeks you'll have rest. And so you can endure anything for two weeks. Because after those two weeks is coming vacation. And I can remember that so vividly. I'll do anything because it'll be worth it then. Because after I finish it, I'll be satisfied with what I did. And you see the promise here. God says, you, my people who are pilgrims, you will have the First fruits of the rest that I've given, I'm going to establish a place of eternal rest for you, where there will be no more conflict. My people, I will give to you rest from all your enemies. So, brothers and sisters in Christ, can't we put up with anything? In redoubling our efforts for Jesus because the vacation time is coming. And Jesus is going to come with that kingdom, and there's going to be rest. And so what we do now will be seen as soul grief in the light of eternity. And why is it that we'll have that rest? Because of the kingdom. Because Jesus is coming to establish an eternal house and kingdom. You see, there's just time to notice two things about this, but I want you to see the contrast. David is saying, Lord, let me build for you a house. And what David has in mind is a dead house of wood. God turns around and he says, David, I'm going to build for you a house. Only the house I'm going to build for you is going to be a living house of people. This is the house that you and I are part of. Do you know you're a walking brick? You're a walking stone, a living stone in God's house. That's what Peter tells us in 1 Peter chapter 2, in verse 5. Peter says, You also, like living stones, are being built into a stone. spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. God says, I am going to build my house. And that house is a living house, built up a living spiritual stones of my people that I'm going to call to myself. And that house is going to be a kingdom. It's going to be an eternal kingdom. And so you see that on the one hand, David says, I'm going to build a house for you, Lord. But that house would have to be a temporal house because it was an earthly house. God says, No, I'm going to build for you a house and a kingdom. That kingdom is going to be an eternal house and an eternal kingdom. The temple that Solomon finally built after David was built. For a period of seven years on lavish, beautiful construction. And yet, less than 400 years later, it was burned to the ground and destroyed. After that, another temple was begun after the exile, and heroded enlarged and re-established that temple and that temple took about eighty years. Now if you read so much about the Old Testament temple that took seven years to build, imagine what that temple looked like. That Herod took eighty years. He finished uh much of the construction was under his direction. Eighty years, so that it is said that no one has seen beauty who hasn't seen Herod's temple. Eighty years in construction of that temple. Did you know how long it lasted? Less than ten years. After it was finished, he was destroyed by the Romans and burned to the ground. Not one stone was left upon another. The most magnificent structures here on earth are temporal and earthly, but God says, I'm building an eternal. And no one is ever going to raise this structure to the ground. This structure is going to last forever because it's the kingdom of our own Son Jesus and his house of his people. Will stand before me forever. You and I will be before the face of Jesus with rest forever. Nothing will ever destroy them. When Mary was told by the angel about the birth of the Son. It was announced by the angel as a fulfillment of this particular prophecy. Luke chapter one. We read in verse thirty, but the angel said to her, Don't be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And you will be with child and give birth to a son. And you will give to him the name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give to him the throne of his Father, David. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever. And his kingdom will never end. You think of that promise that was given to David. God says 2 Samuel 7, I will Establish your throne and your kingdom forever. Verse sixteen. Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will be established forever. And you see there, uh the intimation that this king Must be a supernatural divine king. For no king or his kingdom can last forever. But God is saying this king, his kingdom, and his house is going to last forever. And the reason? Because of the covenant which will last forever. It's only because of the covenant that these things could be fulfilled. And so you read in verse thirteen that he is the one who will build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he will be my son. And when he does wrong I will punish him with the rod of men, with floggings inflicted by men. But my love will never be taken away from him. As I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you, your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will be established. Forever. Do you see there the contrast with Saul in verse 15? My love will never be taken away from him as I took it away from Saul. And with this promise, you have a contrast. Between Saul and David. God said that for Saul, he had established a place for Saul. But what happened to that place? Saul never was established in any one place. Saul moved around all the time. He was always being haunted and tried to be able to do that. And David And the contrast, lived in Jerusalem, a settled place that God had given him, because he gave him rest. Saul never had that rest. He never had rest from the Philistines. He never had rest even from David. David was his enemy until the jealousy for David drove him mad. And finally, at the end of his life, he was killed by the Philistines that God wanted to use David to destroy. And Saul never had rest. But you read from this and then go on to change. Chapter 8, when you see the rest that God gave to David. Because twice in chapter 8 you read, the Lord gave David victory wherever he went. And so God gave to David rest because of this covenant. Saul's house was a house that was that could have lasted forever. But because of Saul's disobedience when God said, Great seven. Seven days here before you attack the Amalekes, Amalekites, Art City, Philippines. Wait seven days here. And Saul couldn't wait. Se He waited all those seven days. Just at the end, when it just took a little bit more faithfulness, Saul gave up and he made the sacrifice himself. And Samuel came and he said, Because you have been disobedient. Your house is not going to continue. I'm going to take it away from you and give it to another one. But Saul's house did not continue. But David's house, God says to David, your house is going to continue forever, even though they will be as sinful. I am going to establish my covenant for them, and I will chasten them. It's going to hurt, they're going to suffer. You are better than your neighbors, and they suffer, and you suffer. But God's covenant of love is with you. And God says, I'm going to establish Saul's kingdom didn't last forever. After he went out against the Amalekites, and God says, Give me all the sacrifice of all the animals for myself, destroy them, save nothing. Saul couldn't quite bring himself to destroy all those good he's couldn't. And so he takes the best of them and he saves them. And then Samuel comes and he says, Have you been obedient? I said, Oh yeah, I've done everything you said. He says, Well wait a minute. Put that believing out here. That sounds like a bleeding and disobedience, all. And because of that, your kingdom is going to fall. You've got to take it away from you. I'm going to give it to another one. But David's kingdom has survived forever. Breakdown through the exile, his line was unbroken. God says there will always be a ruler in the house of David. And so along comes this little maiden up in Nazareth with a carpenter for a husband, for a fiance. And God takes from them who can trace their lineage back to David and He says, This is the one. Here's the rule. And his kingdom is established forever. Do you see the point? Saul failed. Saul failed miserably. He had never submitted himself to God and to his covenant. But the covenant with David didn't succeed because David succeeded. Because David failed. David lost out in the rest also. David lost out in his peace. he had established all these victories. We see him yielding to temptation, taking Bathsheba, another man's wife, for himself. And then killing her husband Uriah, we see his moral integrity and credibility lost, so that when his son Amnon rapes his sister, David doesn't punish him. And Absalom seeks to overflow his kingdom. David's too weak to carry out the justice against Absalom that he should. And David dies with a man who's lost his rest. David's lost the house and the kingdom. Jerusalem, the place that God Established for his kingdom. In 586 was destroyed. And although there was no ruler on the throne of David, and they were taken away into exile, just as God had promised here. You see that hundreds of years before it happened, God says they're going to do And I'm going to use the nations to bring chastening. And so Israel was chastened, because David's house was not David. And then David was brought back, uh, the house was brought back to this one, Jesus, who came to reign, and he was the one who was successful. Jesus alone. Jesus alone succeeded as the king to bring the rest, to establish the house, to be king of the kingdom. And so if you look at all these promises this morning, you say. Oh, how I'd love that rest. Oh, how I would love to be part of that kingdom. But I can't do it. I'm not good enough. I'm not able to be good enough as the Bible says that I should be to be a Christian. And didn't you see the good news here? That's exactly the point. David wasn't good enough either. None of us are good enough. Saul failed. David failed. You failed. I failed. We've all failed. But there's one who succeeded. Jesus. And he's brought in the rest. Jesus brought in the kingdom. That's why Hebrews, reflecting on this, tells us, but it quotes three verses. Hebrews 1:5 says, God has said not to the angels, but to his own son, I will be his father and he the father. Will be my son. That's quote in 2 Samuel 7:14. God says, I will be his father. So that in verse 8, Your throne, O God, will last forever, and righteousness will be the scepter of your kingdom. God is going to establish his kingdom. And he goes on then a few verses later to tell us that he's bringing us into that kingdom. In bringing many sons to glory, it is fitting that God, for whom and through whom everything exists, should make the author of the world. Their salvation perfect through suffering. Those the one who makes men holy and those who are made holy are of the same family. You see that? You don't make yourself holy. God makes you holy. holy. If you're ever going to have that rest, it's gonna be because you come to Jesus to get that rest. If you're ever going to be part of that house, it's because it's going to be because Jesus, through his father, adopts you into that family. going to be part of that kingdom. It's going to be because the kingdom is given to you through the righteousness of Jesus. Because he died and took your sin. Because he's the one who has risen again to establish that kingdom. And so it's free. Now you may be even saying to yourself, I know that. But my final question to your brothers and sisters, the one that God had to convict me of this week is I study the Stadges myself is, do we really believe this? You see we're familiar with it. But do we really believe the gospel? Do you really believe that there's a rest coming for you that is total and absolute and eternal? That you're part of a living house of God's own family. That you're part of his kingdom, that kingdom that will rule and reign forever in peace. Do you really believe that? Because if you and I really believe that, then we'd be a happy content people. Take anything else away. And nothing can take away from you the rest and the kingdom and the covenant through Jesus. Because he has said, I will never take away my love from you as I did from Saul. And if you really believe that promise through Jesus, then you're a happy person. You're a person who has peace because you have it in Jesus. Oh Lord, I'm I'm concerned because these things are familiar to us. And yet, Lord, they can be so familiar Yet we forget that there's a difference between knowing it and believing it. We can rehearse and we can recite the promise and we can think of that which was offered as a promise to David, fulfilled in Jesus. And yet find that we really don't believe it. It really hasn't controlled our thinking this past week. We good as orphans. We're good as people who have to fight it out on our own. This is those who think that if we're going to have rest, we've got to establish it here. If we're ever going to enjoy things, we've got to make all that we can to do all that we can to enjoy it here because we've lost sight. Of the vacation after the exams. We've lost sight of that eternal rest that you're giving us in Jesus. Oh Lord, only you can warm up and change them to believe this. Lord, I can't do it. I can rehearse the facts, I can speak, I can plead. But not only you Can cause us to believe the rest, the house, the kingdom, which is ours because of the covenant of Jesus. Lord, how we thank you That is so free. There's nothing that we can do or have to do to earn it. We pray, Lord, for any who are here this morning, who are in turmoil. Who are feeling the guilt of the conviction of the sin, of the disobedience before you, who long for that rest, who long to be able to know that you will adopt. them into your family. Lord, we pray that you would break down the resistance, that you would lay a hold of that person with the beauty of the promises of the gospel. That they would see and that they would believe. Give us believing hearts, Lord, that we might have happy hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen.