As we begin today, I want to let you know that we're actually embarking upon a four-part series of sermons on the subject of David. And before you get concerned, no, it's not my son David. I've had several people ask me, is uh are you are you going to be teaching on your son? No, no, this is on David the King. Today, if you want to turn to 1 Samuel 16, we're going to be considering the story of David's anointing or his selection by God. But before we begin, let's pray. Father, we do thank you that you have taught us of yourself. That as we come together to worship you, we worship a God that we know. We worship someone with whom we have an intimate relationship. That the praises we offer, Lord, are not empty, they're not formal. Lord, they're from the heart. Father, we ask this morning as we consider the story of David and his anointing and of his love for you. That you would infect us with that love. That you would fill us with your spirit. And Lord, that you would be surrounded and enthroned with our praises. Be with us this morning, Lord. Draw us to yourself. In Jesus' name. Amen. The reason we're going to be considering David is because he plays a very pivotal role. In the coming of our Messiah. In one sense, he is the forefather of Jesus. He is the earthly ancestor. In another sense, he is the clearest individual picture of what David will be and what David will do, or what Jesus will be in Jesus will be. He is David. But he's the clearest picture of what Jesus will do and be. And he's very important for us to understand. But also, in the four-part series we're going to be beginning today, we're looking primarily at David and how he restores the covenantal relationship between Israel and God. What is his role in leading the nation back to God? And that's something that we need to have too. We need to be close to God. As the story begins in 1 Samuel 16, we find that Samuel, the prophet, the leader of Israel, who had anointed Saul, is weeping. He's mourning. He's not mourning Saul's fate. He's not mourning the loss of Saul. He's mourning for Israel. God tells him to stop his weeping, to take his horn, fill it with oil, and go to the house of Jesse. That there at Jesse's house he'll find the new king, the king that God has chosen. Now, Samuel, being a wise man, realizes that if he's about to dethrone one king and place another one on the throne, he's in real danger. Nobody wants to be in the middle of a civil war. But God says to Samuel, No, don't worry, go. Take an ox, offer a sacrifice, and as you do so I will point out the man that I want you to enthrone. The man I want you to enthrone And so he does. He goes frightfully with great trepidation. But he goes to Jesse's house. And there at Jesse's house he spies these sons. And he has the sons pass by. And Eliab looks like a really neat guy. He's the firstborn, and Samuel says, Well it's supposed to be a son of Jesse, so Eliab looks good. Let's anoint him. God says no. And in verse 7 of chapter 16, the Lord says to Samuel, do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The Lord does not look at the things man looks at. Man looks at the outward appearance, but the Lord looks at the heart. And so Samuel has to go through the first six of Jesse's sons, and each time God says no. And there are no more. Samuel being a man of faith asks if there's another, and indeed David does come from the field. God says, This is him. This is the one. Anoint him. Samuel anoints David, and all of a sudden the Spirit of God descends. There's a number of questions that this text raises. There's some things that we have to understand in order to understand what's going on with David and why God is choosing David. Simply put, the questions are why is there a need for a new king? Why is David that king? And what is David to accomplish? Well, to understand the situation Why another king? It's because there was a crisis in Israel. That's the first blank. There was a crisis in Israel. Israel was surrounded by enemy nations who were trying to take them over. There were the Philistines, the Amorites, the Amalekites. There were a number of people who would like nothing better than to drive Israel to the sea. And Israel was frightened Now, under the judges, they had turned from God. You see what was going on in the foundation of Israel was that God had made what was called a theocracy. That's a land which is governed by a deity. The laws are divine laws, they're not human laws. The king is a divine king Now there can really only be one theocracy, and that is with the Creator of the universe as God, as King, and as ruler. Only Israel spat that ever ever had the chance to fit that in the past. And that's the way God had set Israel up as a picture of what would come when the kingdom is finally established. But Israel as a nation had rebelled. They had turned away from having God as king. They had turned to other gods. They had turned away from the divine laws and made their own And now, when they saw these nations attacking them under the judges, they said, Let us have a king. In 1 Samuel 8 Verses 19 and 20. The people refused to listen to Samuel, and they said, No, we want a king over us. Then we will be like the other nations, with a king to lead us and go out before us and fight our battle. They had looked at the circumstances, seen the problem, and come up with their own solution. It's summed up in Judges 21, 25, where we're told that the people did not have a king, and everyone did what was right in their own eyes. The circumstances were that they were in grave danger. Their interpretation of those circumstances was that they needed a solution. They looked at their neighbors. They saw that their neighbors had standing armies, long-term kings, where succession was clear and there was no problem with who was going to appoint the next ruler. They didn't have to trust in God. They had a form, they had a program. You see, they blamed their circumstances for their problems. They blamed the fact that they didn't have a king For the fact that the enemies were upon them. We have circumstances that we look at too. Each of us here, we were reminded this morning as Jerry began the service of things that that are oppressive to us. They might be our jobs. They might be our finances. It might be our family. It might be our children. It might be our parents. There are things which are oppressive to us and we have a danger. We might look at those things. We might look at the problems that face us and decide we can come up with a solution. We're creative people. But that's the wrong approach Because as the people did what was right in their own eyes and sought a king, they got a king. Saul. But Saul, instead of turning the nation back to God and re-establishing that covenant relationship and turning their eyes from their problems to their Lord. Saul compounded the problem. Now they weren't doing what was right in their own eyes. That part was true. They were doing what was right in Saul's eyes. They weren't doing what was right in God's eyes. You see, Saul disobeyed God, and that's the reason that the new king was necessary, because God had deposed Saul. In 1 Samuel 13. Saul had been commanded to wait for Samuel to come offer a sacrifice. The setting is that Saul is preparing to fight the Philistines. Saul's doing what the king was supposed to do in the eyes of the Israelites. He was leading the army to protect the nation. The enemy was here and they were coming in. The Israelites were here and they were preparing to fight. But what happened is there was this three-day span. The Philistines kept coming in. And Saul and his army kept watching as the Philistines became more and more numerous. And Samuel hadn't come. They hadn't asked God for his blessing to fight. Now Saul, realizing that he had to follow the formula that he had to do what was right, offered the sacrifice. He wanted to make sure that the men knew that God had been consulted. But he had not been obeyed. Samuel did arrive as the sacrifice was completed and and told Saul at that point that he would not have a dynasty. That the kingdom would be taken from Saul. And in verse 14 of chapter 13 Samuel says, But now your kingdom will not endure. The Lord has sought out a man after his own heart and appointed him leader of his people, because you have not kept the Lord's command. Saul was not a man after God's heart. Saul was not a man who would restore the relationship between God and Israel In chapter fifteen, Saul goes even further and he directly disobeys the command. He's told to deal with an enemy in a certain way, and instead of following that command and destroying the enemy, he brings back the best that the enemy has in order to offer it to God. Instead of obeying, he tries to outdo God. And at that point God says, You're not even king now. You see, the kingship had been taken. And Israel was without king. Saul would continue to reign for a number of years on the throne. But he was no longer king from that moment on. And God knew the people needed a king. That's why God gave David See the crisis was that Israel was to be destroyed unless they were to be obedient. They would not be obedient unless there was a king who would lead them in obedience. Because they would face their circumstances and pose their own solutions. God preserved Israel by anointing and appointing David. But why David? That's the second question that we have to deal with. Why David? And that's the blank. The one true reason is because God chose David David was the right one because God chose him and anointed him. Now, anointing Simply means the selection, the consecration, or the setting aside for an office. And it's always done by the picture of anointing with oil on the hands. As the kings become part of the government of Israel, they're always anointed by God through God's man And what's happening here is that God is saying, this is the one. But it's not just a selection, it's also a blessing. In Psalm 89 that we looked at earlier, It talks about anointing David in verse 20 and following. It says, I have found David my servant. With my sacred oil I have anointed him. And then it goes on and talks about what is the result of that anointing. My hand will sustain him. Surely my arm will strengthen him No enemy will subject him to tribute. No wicked man will oppress him. I will crush his foes before him and strike down his adversaries. My faithful love will be with him, and through my name his horn will be exalted. And it goes on and it continues to talk about the blessings that come because he is the anointed. In later weeks we'll look at how serious that anointing is and what it does and how it sets aside a person. But for today we want to concentrate more on why God chose David and what that has to do as far as teaching us about our relationship with God. Well, there are two reasons that God had to be the one to choose David. The first reason is one which really should be very understandable to us today, and that's the issue of loyalty. You see, no other person, no other factor could be between God's selection of David and David's understanding of that. Samuel could not be the agency to choose the king, because there had to be undivided loyalty to God. We have a problem today of political action committees. Here in the DC area, I'm sure that that's really something that we we are very acquainted with. You have a political action committee that that has a particular agenda. You have pro-choice, pro-life, pro-guns, uh anything And these agencies have a function. That function is to raise funds and to incur debt. They want that candidate to know that without them they would not be elected. So that they know that next time if they don't accomplish what that committee wants, they will not be elected. And so instead of being loyal to the people who have elected that representative, now that representative has a loyalty to that committee. And he can't do his job. There can be no political action committee between God and David. None It has to be the fact that David knows God has chosen him, and that David's loyalty will remain solely with God. Because David has a task to undertake. He has a task to lead the people back to God. Secondly, only God had the ability to choose. Again, in verse seven, God sees the heart. Man sees the outside. Man had chosen Saul. Man would have chosen a lion, or Abinadab, or Shamah, or the other three older brothers God chose David. And God chose David because he was a man after David, after God's heart. You see appearances can be deceiving. Saul, when he was first chosen, it was pointed out how great he was. He was a king that people could follow. He stood a head and shoulder above everybody else. He was big. He was somebody you could be intimidated by. We short people get intimidated easily But the problem is that that that Saul was not the man who could do the job. Today we've undergone a number of stresses in our churches. We've we've seen televangelists who had Hundreds of thousands and millions of people following them. They've been leading in a direction that looks godly, and all of a sudden we find out about their inner lives. And it crumbles We look at we look at ourselves. We come Sunday morning in our good clothes. We come Sunday morning with our big smile We come with our pious and godly demeanor. But we know the inside We know that we don't love God as we should. We know how many quiet times we've had this week. We know how often we've spoken to the Lord. You know how often we spoke into things other than the Lord. And we know what our passion is for. See, we can see our solves, but we're we're thankful that most people can't. And we can see the weaknesses that we've got. And God sees those. And yet He works through us. David was a man after God's heart. And that is very intimidating to me. And yet it's also something that I rejoice in. Because God gave David that passion. As we look, we see in 1 Samuel 13:14 again where it says, David is a man after my heart. In Acts 13, 22. We have Paul speaking of David. We have him speaking of this exact situation where where Saul had been dethroned. And Paul says of the situation, after removing Saul, he, meaning God, made David the king. And he testified, God testified concerning David. I have found David, son of Jesse, a man after my own heart. He will do everything I want him to do. Can you imagine if God were to say Think about it for a minute. God Himself were to offer that praise to you That you were a person, a man, a woman, after God's own heart. And that you would do everything God wants you to do. Can you imagine that? I've always thought in my own heart that what I want God to say to me after I've died and I've gone to heaven is that I've fought the good fight, kept the faith, finished the Course. But I I think even more so. I want God to say up to me that my heart was after him. Well, what does it mean that David had a passion for God, or that his heart was after God? Well, as you look at David, Psalm 92, verses 1 and 2, David talks about his attitude toward the Lord. It is good to praise the Lord, to make music to your name, O Most High, to proclaim your love in the morning and your faithfulness at night. You see, David was consumed with speaking to and praising God. I won't ask for a show of hands of how many people will set their alarms to wake up in the middle of the night in order to pray. David woke up in the middle of the night to pray. David had a passion for God. In Psalm 130, verses 5 and 6 Those of you with a military background should appreciate this one. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits in his word. I put my hope. And in his word I put my hope My soul waits for the Lord. Now pay attention. More than watchmen wait for the morning. More than watchmen wait for the morning. He says it twice. You have to understand that in Hebrews, stress is given by repetition. He's stressing how much he waits upon God. I remember one time I really waited for the morning. I was camping in Texas with the Boy Scouts and and it was a hot night, it was humid, it was much like Maryland summers. You couldn't get inside your sleeping bag. And yet the mosquitoes were ferocious. The only way to get away from the mosquitoes is either to be inside the bag where they couldn't follow and hope the chickers wouldn't be there first. Or else to get in the smoke of a fire, which was impossible because it was too hot to be close to the fire. And if you were too far away from the fire to to be hot, you were too far away from the fire to get the benefit of the smoke. And round about two o'clock in the morning, I was dying for daylight. David longed for God more than that. David longed for God so much that we have a difficulty in understanding. I cannot conceive of that in some ways. I'm challenged. And yet I don't feel guilty. And I don't want you to feel guilty this morning that you don't have that passion because David didn't earn it. It was not something that he could come to by himself. As we reflect on the story of his anointing, remember it was after he was anointed that the Spirit of the living God came upon David. See, God gave David that passion. And it's not up to you to stimulate that passion in yourself. I think what our responsibility is, is to get to know God, to draw close to Him. Because as David drew closer to God, David loved God more. As I reflect upon my marriage, the more I know my wife, the more I love my wife. The more she's a figment of my imagination and that I I assume things about her, the more I take her for granted. The more I know God, the more I love Him. The more I know of what He's done for me, the more I appreciate and have a passion for For him. It comes from knowing him, and God gives you that desire. Another example of a man of God who had a passion for God was Martin Luther. Now Martin Luther was one of the first reformers to have a successful reformation back in the mid the Middle Ages, time of the of the Renaissance and after afterwards. And he was an excessively busy man. I would venture to say that his schedule would stack up to the busiest of yours But he had made a commitment and a habit of spending time with God every morning. Now his time was two hours. He would spend daily two hours in prayer Busy as he was. Now granted, some days were busier than others, and he'd have to adjust his schedule. But Luther Thinking about how he had more that he needed to get done, thought, I have more I need to pray for. And so instead of doing what we might do and cutting back on his prayer time, he extended it. The busier he got, the more he prayed. That's a passion for God. I look at my measly time in the morning and think, oh my But perhaps the best example, and the one that David points to, of a man with a passion for God, was Jesus Christ. For you see, in John chapter 4, we get a really wonderful picture into Jesus' relationship with God. John chapter four and verse um thirty-four. Jesus has been busy Talking to and healing people. And his disciples come to him and urge him, Eat. You're going to wear yourself out. You're going to starve. You've been working non-stop. Now listen to Jesus' passionate response. His love for God. My food, said Jesus, is to do the will of him who sent me and to finish his work. Jesus would rather do God's work than eat. It would have to be an awful, terrible dish that you set before me that I would turn away from in order to go do God's work. It wouldn't be because the food was bad. Good. It would be because the food was bad. My passion doesn't reach that. And again, in Mark one, there's another thing Jesus finds more important. In verse 35, it says, very early in the morning, while it is still dark, Jesus got up, left the house, and went off to a solitary place where he prayed. Now if you were to stack up food and sleep, those are two pretty important things in my life. And I probably say they're pretty important to most of you as well How do they rate in your passion for God? Will you get up? Will you go without Now again, I think we have to realize this is not something that's being given to us in order to make us feel guilty. God gave David his spirit. Jesus had the spirit. If you are a Christian, if you've placed your trust in Jesus Christ If you accept what He has done for your salvation, then you have the Spirit of God too. And God will give you that passion. You don't earn it. You can't earn it. If you're not a Christian, you'll never have it until you have Christ And perhaps those are the ones that should feel guilty. Because you're not living up. But the good news is you don't have to live up. It's not you that does it, it's God. And he desires to do that for you. God gave David the Spirit. Well lastly, we've looked at why a new king, we've looked at why David, and we've looked in David at the passion that he had for God. But what was David to accomplish? What was David to do? Why? Why was the kingdom even set up? Well, the first thing we have to see is that he was to return the nation to God. They had wandered. He was to lead them in a renewal and a revival. Does that sound familiar? Are we are we praying for a renewal and revival here today? We are. We have been. We will continue. How did David do that? He led in worship. He led by government. He established the temple. He brought the ark back into Jerusalem. And prepared all the groundwork that the temple would need, so that there was a focal point of religion, of worship of God, in the temple, which was in the capital of the country. David also was an example. He wrote Psalms for worship. He was passionate and visible in his love for God. Are we passionate and visible in our love for God to those around us? And he also was to rid the land of God's enemies. He was to defeat the Philistines. The people were right. They needed a king, and David was that king. David did defeat the Philistines. He did defeat the Ammonites. He established safe borders from which Israel could pursue its relationship with God. But David did it knowing that God was the force. The final battle that David did to establish the kingdom before he he took over Jerusalem and made it the capital. David sat back and waited under the trees as God's army marched over the trees and destroyed the enemy. David didn't have to fight. God fought More importantly, more importantly, even than leading the nation in renewal and revival, David was to be a picture of the Messiah. You see, David is a living example, in a sense almost a motion picture of what the Messiah would do and be. David was in in this series of sermons to establish the covenantal kingdom with God. That's what he did, but he did it temporarily. As long as the king was right and the people would follow, there would be a relationship with God. But there is a Messiah coming who has now come, who did that permanently. Jesus. You see, what David did for the country, Jesus does for mankind. He pays the debt, he establishes the relationship. And restores God as king. God is king. And David could do what he did only because Jesus would yet do what Jesus would do. That's how David got the Spirit. That's because Jesus accomplished his mission. And one way that today we can see that that David is a picture of Christ is the very fact that he was anointed. The Hebrew term for anointing is Messiah. So when we say David the anointed, we say David the Messiah. The Greek term for anointing is Christ. So as we say David the anointed, we say David the Christ. David is a picture of Jesus. And as we see David drawing close to God, we see Jesus' work. And we see an example of what Jesus will do. Thirdly, the work that David was to accomplish was to be an example for us. He is to stimulate us. He is to enhance our worship. His Psalms Which we focus upon, teach us of God, of God's love, of our love for God, of his goodness. His passion for God is a challenge to us And the fact that he as the king, who could like Saul have turned away and made himself the ruler, David as king, continues with God as king. So I would ask you this morning, what's your passion for? When you have that two-hour period of time and you can do anything you want, what do you do? As you find yourself thinking of things through the day, what is it? Who is it? As you have that little bit of money that you don't have to do anything with, where does it go? Who's your king? Let's pray. Father, as I contemplate David, as I think upon him and am challenged by his relationship with you, Lord, I ask that you would free me from guilt. I ask that you would free all of us from guilt, that we would not look at that and allow Satan the opportunity of drawing us further from you by feeling our sin. Lord, I ask that instead you would give my heart and give all of our hearts that passion for you. It can only come from you. But Lord, I pray that we would see your goodness, that we would delight in your love. That our hearts would be drawn to you Lord, change us. Make us your children. Build us up that we might be able to honor and to enjoy you. In Jesus' name. Amen.