And uh just been talking about the use of um focused praying and praying scripture not only for those that we're meeting with to encourage, but also in general in our lives, um learning how to pray scripture uh on any of the requests that we make before the Lord so that we're praying the promises of God. Anything anyone else wants to say about praying scripture or focus there on that? Focusing on scripture is helping you to learn passages and everybody to speak about praying them regularly for somebody. And also to keep praying for somebody that's not a Christian. I just really thought it's best to read a certain scripture about proverbs out loud and ask the Holy Spirit to somehow relate that and even if she doesn't know the scripture, to speak to her heart and mind that particular And that was something I'd never started in before. And that was I was really excited. Great. Yeah. That's neat. That's neat. That's very encouraging. Some of the verses go apply for so many people too. That kind of thing you pray at one group for one person and then you think of the next person as the same thing. Especially the ones about Loving Allah. I think that meditating from Allah seems very small. Right. Right, that's true. You just reminded me about the other specialized verses that was another handout and stuff. Personal needs, yeah. You kinda tailor make this person. Okay. I think that was all but it's just those two last weeks I think. Yeah. That's true. Um and you do pick up scripture then as the ones you pray more frequently, uh become more and more a part of your praying in general. So I find that I often uh use uh Ephesians one sixteen to twenty three to pray for our church, the one that I have on our visions and goals, because to me that is the best statement, the most succinct statement that the Lord gives us as to what the purpose of the church is and is given us. in terms of of prayer. So to when I pray for Columbia Press I try to uh bring my praying back to not just praying about a facility to be praying for, you know, more elders and deacons and you know, things like that. But to be We pray that the Lord will give us the spirit of wisdom and knowledge in knowing Him better, that He will give us a uh He will enlighten our eyes to know our calling and our inheritance, which is the riches of His glory, that He will increase our understanding have this pretty uh surpassingly great, glorious power, which was the power to raise Jesus from the dead and sees them all in heaven. And going through that you really you get you know, you really get lifted up and think, you know, this is what you want us to know. And that's what you say say. You know, I'm not just saying, well, wouldn't it be nice to have a church like that. No, you say that's what you want. That's what you want. Thank you so much for singing that. I that is one of my favorite Christmas anthems. I know of very few anthems that portray the majesty of the pre existence of Christ that is coming to earth as that one does. Every time I hear that last line bear their faces to the presence and with ceaseless voice they cry. I always have to chill what's going up my spine. Thank you so much for not only bringing that to us, but also making the words available because the words are so precious in that that is a tremendous champion. Let me just uh add one thing to what Ken mentioned about uh uh Anne Clifford. When I saw her, one thing that uh you ought to know is that She saw the list of those who had uh signed up to pray for in the times and all that. And I want you to know that besides the blessing that you had, and I've heard of people who have mentioned a tremendous blessing was that To focus on prayer for her at a particular time. And the way that God simply objectively used the prayers, this wasn't simply a psychological subjective exercise. God was using this to accomplish something. It also, on Dan's part, was a tremendous. tremendous encouragement. She would think at certain times. It's such and such a time now and so and so is going to be praying for me now and uh you know uh George McCoy signed up for a lot of time in the evenings because of working in the evening and George oughta know that she thought you took on so much that she was praying for you that you'd be able to hold out praying for her. And it was just a tremendous experience of the body ministering together and that was a tremendous encouragement for her at a difficult time. Let's pray together now. Lord, as we look at your word now, we pray that you will encourage our hearts with your faithfulness. Lord, help us to feel this. Help us to see not only The data and the facts here, but Lord, we pray that you will grant to us to see the application of this to our own situations, to our own lives. Lord, forbid that we would uh Look at this as something religious and true in the Bible and it's nice to see here in the stone house, but then to not apply it to those struggles that we have this afternoon tomorrow, to our struggle to seek for you to provide property for us as a congregation and the other things that we struggle with. Holy Spirit, take these things, make them practical and helpful to each of us we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. But Luke, Chapter One, beginning with Verse 26. In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a virgin pledged to be married to a man named Joseph. a descendant of David. The virgin's name was Mary. David went to her and he said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Mary was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child and give birth to a son. If you are to give him the name Jesus, he will be great. He will be called the Son of the Most High. But our God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign. over the house of Jacob forever, his kingdom will never end. One of the hardest things about the Christian life is to keep praying and to keep trusting Christ when there appears to be a mocking discrepancy between what you're experiencing and what the promises of Scripture seem to offer. How do you reconcile God's love and his wisdom in leading Anne and Larry to the fact that in her mid-twenties, married only six months, Anne Clifford has a tumor the size of a small kennel in three? Moved from the chest. How do you reconcile the promises of Scripture and the picture of Mary portrayed in the Psalm of Solomon with what often seems to be the case in your own relationship? Why is it so hard? for your husband to love you like that? Why is it so hard for your wife to love you the way the scripture would indicate? Where's God's work in that person? And what about Your own life? What is the victory that the Scripture promises over sin and the defeat that seems to so often mock you and overwhelm you concerning Christ's power? singleness. When it seems that he so evidently fitted you for marriage. And yet the right person just never seems to come along. And it's so obvious and evident to you that you could serve Christ better with a mate. And God doesn't even seem to care. Well, what about the advances of secular humanism and all of the suddenly fruits that we see around us concerning the victory of Christ? to be a mocking discrepancy between what we see with some AFA's people praying and working, and yet we continue to see the mailing toll of abortions, pornography, spousal abuse, child abuse, and all of the things that go along with that. As a congregation, it's perfectly obvious and evident to us that we need property. We need to have a facility in order to be more effective in reaching Colombia and not be constrained in so many ways. And yet, does God know that? Is he aware? If he is, why is it that he seems to close door after door? Those of you who come for this afternoon will find out the latest developments and what God's doing with that. We pray about that. But what about that? Why is it that we see the needs and yet there seems to be such a discrepancy between what God says He's able to do and cares to do and what all Often we're experienced in actually doing in our own lives. So my point in all this is that I think we sometimes miss the fact that in these verses of the Christmas story is a powerful message addressed to Christians. Precisely this evening in our lives. I want for us to see how God is eminently faithful to his promises. Just at the point when things came to be the darkness. Darkest and most hopeless. And when he fulfills his promise, the fulfillment is more wonderful than anything that we could have possibly hoped for while we were seeking to create the promise. Now, in order to appreciate that, we need to go back to the promise, and that's the one in 2 Samuel 7. So take a look at that, would we? And let's review again God's promise to David. Remember the situation? David is For the first time now in his life, since his child, in a period of rest. Israel is for the first time in a period of rest. David is probably somewhere in the midst of his victories that are catalogued in chapter 8. But there is now the first fruits of some real rest. And so now David in this rest has determined to build a house for God. And God's response to him is, You think you're going to build a house for me? Let me tell you about the house I'm going to build for you. I'm going to build for you a living house and a kingdom that will never end. And so let's pick up that promise that gives us it, David, from 2 Samuel chapter 7, beginning with verse 8 this morning. Then tell my servant, David, this is what the Lord Almighty says. I took you from the pasture and from following the flock to be ruler over my people Israel. I have been with you wherever you have gone, and I have cut off all your enemies. before you. And now I will make your name great, like the names of the greatest men of the earth. And I will provide a place for my people Israel, and will plant them so that they can have a home of their own. And no longer be disturbed. Wicked people will not affect them anymore, as they did at the beginning, and have done ever since the time that I appointed leaders over my people Israel. I will also give you rest from all Your enemies. The Lord declares to you that the Lord Himself will establish a house for you. When your days are over and you rest with your fathers, I will raise up from your offspring to succeed you, who will come from your own body. and I will establish his kingdom. He is the one who will build a house to my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father. He will be my son. What he does wrong? I will punish him with the rod of men, with flogging inflicted by men. But my love will never be taken away from him, as I took it away from Saul, whom I removed from before you. Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will be established forever. So we need to see this prophecy from prophetic perspective. You remember when we first began this series we talked about how after man's first sin in the garden, God after the curse came also The beginning of a promise, the promise of salvation. It came to Adam and to Eve. And at that point, God was saying that from the woman, that is, from Adam's race, from the human race, there would come a Messiah who would crush. the serpent the serpent's head and you bring salvation. When we come down to Genesis 9, this narrows down a little bit. You see the funnel. That's supposed to be a funnel there. You're not a divining laws or anything else there. It's a kind of a funnel in the You see that narrowing down from the human race to Genesis 9, now the the new human race with Noah beginning once again. Noah has three sons, Shem, Ham and Jacob. And God says that the Messiah is going to come through Shem's line. And so now that's narrowed down from One part of the human race. Then you get to Genesis twelve and God says, From Hem's mind is going to come from Abraham. And I will make from Abraham a whole race of people, the Jewish race, and so the Messiah is to come from among the Jews. And I'll tell you that tribe, God says, it's going to come the Messiah from the tribe of Judah. And so we know now that uh the Messiah. Messiah must come from the tribe of Judah. Now, over 600 years after that last revelation, God is narrowing down the Messiah to whose family he's to come from. And so he says now to David, this Messiah, the one who This picture I will establish will come from your family. Do you ever stop to think of that? Look at what God says. Verse 12. He says, This one who will come from your body, I will establish his kingdom. He's the one who will build a house to my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Verse 16. Your house and your kingdom will endure forever before me. Your throne will be established forever. That was written about a thousand years before the birth of Jesus Christ. And did you ever stop to think that no matter what prophecies Jesus fulfilled, no matter what Miracles he performed. No matter how he fulfilled all Old Testament prophecies, there was one prophecy that once he was born, he had no way of controlling. And that was there was What his image was. And so anyone who claimed to be Messiah at that time could come along and they could produce whatever credentials they would want. But unless they were from the line of David and could demonstrate that. They were immediately excluded as a false Messiah. They could not be the Messiah. So, whatever else Jesus did, he had to be from the Lord of David. And that's precisely the record that we have. And it was never contested. In his life. Wouldn't you believe that if the Pharisees went if you discredit them, one of the first and easiest things they could have done is said that he thought from the line of David. But everyone knew that you could trace Mary's line and Joseph's line. back through David. And so Jesus fulfilled that prophecy perfectly. And it was one that he could not maneuver. He couldn't manipulate that one. That was written a thousand years before his birth. But so now David and after all these wars is sort of like a situation after World War Two in our country and there's an upheaval and all of life has been disrupted and things have been lost in battle. And now God comes to David and he says, Now I'm giving you peace. And I'm going to raise up a son for you and his kingdom will be established forever. So put yourself in that position. What effect would that promise have had on you as a believer at that time? Use your imagination alone. What would you have thought? Take away everything that you know since 2 Samuel seven. It seems to me quite evident that if I was in that situation, I would have simply taken it at base value on Iris said, That means that David's kingdom should have been a permanent kingdom. Nobody is ever going to upload us. And thrust us out of the land again. Once we finish mopping up the Philistines, the Moabites, and the Ammonites, and all the rest of them, they're never again going to be a threat to us. This kingdom will be established forever. That's what he said. Very simple, right? No question about it. Solomon comes along and that is confirmed. When you see Solomon expanding the words, there is no threat to Israel at that time. Solomon is seen as the king of kings of all the earth. People come to him for his riches, his wisdom, his power. Hey, God's fulfilling that promise. There he is. Look at that. Just what God said. Isn't that great? You ever see Christians, you know, they'll take some promise of scripture and they see the first influence of some sort of an indication of fulfillment. They say, I claim that that's what God has given. See, we're sure now this is the answer the prayer. And we can be very sure about what God's doing when we see the first evidence of something. And then find that we're very surprised and disappointed. But that's not what God had in mind. Because after Solomon, came Maraboam. And in Meriboam's reign there was civil war. And the civil war split Israel asunder. From top to bottom, split Israel right in half. Israel to the north half, Judah to the south. The people begin Hey, wait, what's going on? Okay, now Rare Boom's gonna he's going to have obviously have the victory because this is what God said, and so it's just a matter of putting down Jeroboam's rebellion. But then after Rareboom things get worse. And you have a fellow by the name of Abijah comes along and he and too hot a rule. He doesn't follow the God of David in any consistent way. But what do you read in First Kings chapter fifteen? You read in encouragement. First Kings fifteen, verse three and four. Talking about Amica, he committed all the sins that his father had done before him. His heart was not fully devoted to the Lord his God, as the heart of David his forefather had been. Nevertheless, for David's sake, the Lord his God Gave him a lamp in Jerusalem by raising up a son to succeed him and by making Jerusalem strong. Hey, that's just what we thought. No matter what happens, you see. God is going to make Jerusalem strong because He's blessed Himself by promise to be. David, this kingdom's gonna last forever. And then the succeeding generations go up and down and up and down. But generally it's a downward trend. Ahaziah, a real wretch of a king. Manasseh, Taur. A fellow who has no respect for the laws of God. And on down and down and down things go until you finally come to uh and by the way, during all this time, the Davidic promise is being reaffirmed. being reaffirmed. Number of places you look in the promises, uh in the prophets where you'll see that this good covenant is reaffirmed. And I've listed for you. There are a number of them. Take a look at them when you get home. Don't look at them now. You'll miss the whole rest of the message. But let me just read a Couple to you to get the favor of what God has promised you. Isaiah chapter nine, we read it every Christmas. But notice it in connection to this promise, verse six and seven. For unto us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his children. And he will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne. And over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness, from that time on and forever, the zeal of the Lord Almighty will accomplish this. That's the promise. This one, in all the trouble that we're seeing now, in these wicked. Isaiah says that promise is still going to be fulfilled. Say, hang on to it. We can't lose the land. Because God has promised that. Just over a couple chapters in Isaiah 11. You have people so many hear everything. time at Christmas time about the branch and the root and the lot of Jesse and all this kind of thing. Well it comes from Isaiah eleven and other passages associated with it. Isaiah eleven one, a shoot will come out from the stump of Jesse from his roots. A branch will bear fruit. Well what's that? Jesse's David's father. Instead of saying this one's David's line. You know, they just use Jesse's name to show it's from the same family, the same line. Jeremiah chapter 23. You have another such thing. The days are coming. declares the Lord, when I will raise up to David a righteous branch, the stem, this rod coming up, shooting up out of the dry ground, a king who will reign wisely and will do what is just and right in the land. In this day, Jesus Israel will be saved, and Israel will live in safety. This is the name by which he will be called the Lord our righteousness. And these were the kind of promises that both sustained the people of God but also made them very presumptuous. Because they say God has pledged himself here now, and whatever happens will never be uprooted from the land. How can you imagine the impact in 722 BC, when all of northern Israel is destroyed and scattered to the fourth? of the Assyrian Empire. They didn't come down to five eighty six BC and Jerusalem is sacked. The temple is burned to the ground. They didn't survive the carnage. Most all of them, except those who are worthless to even move, are taken away in exile to Babylon. Imagine, looking at the promise of God in 2 Samuel 7. And would seem to mock you as a slave in Babylon. I will establish the throne of David forever. Where is God's promise? And where is God's faithfulness? How can you reconcile it? And it's not a death. Context is Psalm eighty nine that we read part of in worship was written. Take a look at that for just a moment. Psalm eighty nine is an extremely unique and precious portion of scripture. Because if there's ever a time in your Christian life when you are struggling You're saying I cannot reconcile what God says should be true in my Christian life, and the promises that He gives to me and what I'm experiencing. I can't make sense out of it. That is precisely the situation of the Psalmist in Psalm eighty nine. Notice verse 3 and 4. He says, Lord, you have made a covenant with my chosen one. This is what you said, Lord. I made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David, my servant, I will establish your mind forever. And I will make your throat burn through all generations. This is what you promised, Lord. And then he uh goes on, verses thirty to thirty seven to talk about uh how God has given this promise. He would never lie, he would never go back on this promise. Verse 36, that his lying will continue forever, his throne is pure before me like the sun. He will be established forever like the moon, the faithful livers in the sky. He he even adds for the promise. He the quote here and the reference to it is longer than the promise itself in 2 Psalm 7. I mean this Psalm was really lying on. Lord, this is what you said to David. And then in verse 38, there's a button. And the butt is saying, let's get curious. I mean, let's stop pretending. You know, have you ever had somebody say to you about your Christian life, you know, Christianity is nice for those that need it. You know, it's sort of that implication, it's nice that you have that faith, you know, and the idea that's involved in that is kind of like well. You know, for for those weaklings that can't face reality and need some, you know, plaques to put on their walls, smile, God loves you. you know, and all things work together for good and all these kind of things, you know, sort of boosts your day a little bit, you know, but man, life's face reality. You know, life's not like that. And you know, I can tell you lots of things that haven't worked together for good. And on and on and on, and you hear all the cynicism and the dalets and the sarcasm, and you say, come on now, stop pretending that these promises are really true. Face reality. That's all wrapped up, and that's what a verse. 38 because he says, but you have rejected. You have spurned. You get very angry with your anointed one. The covenant with your servants, and you defile the crown of the dust. And then he goes on in the next verses to talk about the shame and the disgrace and the defeat of David's life. And there is nothing left. There is no one on the throne of David now. God people are ashamed and exile. Dave mocked me with this promise. With his own facing everything, the worst that can be described, just as low as the height of the promise that he's just gone over. And then he cries out in verse forty six, How long, O Lord? Will you hide yourself forever? How long will your wrath burn like fire? And then he says, where is it? Verse 49 months, where is your former? Great love. Which in your faithfulness you swore today, where is it? And there's no answer given. That's what's so remarkable about this song. There is no Archived, except the echoes of the promise of 2 Samuel 7 ringing in the silence of the Psalmist despair. But that promise had God's character. Are enough. Because he finishes the psalm in verse 52. Praise be to the Lord forever. Well, you want to say that guy's off the wall. I mean, he just talked about this great promise, but he talked About how God has renounced and denied every part of that promise, and he finishes up saying, Praise be to the Lord forever. No, that's how he started the song. I will sing with the Lord's great love forever. With my mouth I will make your faithfulness known through all generations. I will declare that your love stands forever and that you established your faithfulness in heaven itself. Where's the evidence of it? The evidence is only in two things. The promise itself and God's character. And that's enough for the psalmist. And so when you're feeling those kind of feelings, look at that psalm and say, that was enough for the man who couldn't understand. But he trusted God's promise and God's character. And it wasn't long after this that there was a glimmer of hope. Cyrus allowed the people to go back to their land. And the Babylonian exile was finished. But in fact, only a Small portion of the millions that were in Babylon went back. Only about 50,000 bothered to return. And they built a second temple, the temple of the renewable. And there was a renewal there. There was a sense the prophets were speaking again, and there was a sense that Maybe God was going out of all this bitterness and the difficulty to bring something that would flower once again. Then in 333 BC, all hope was dashed when Alexander the Great came sweeping. And when Arizona conquered and went through the Middle East and conquered through Canaan and all the Syria, Egypt, and all the lands to the east beyond that, he brought along behind him Greek colonists and Greek culture and they established cities, Greek cities, they infiltrated within the existing cultures, and they brought all the Greek culture, which to Alexander's way of thinking was far superior to all the barbarism that he was conquering. And with the Greek culture they brought the Greek gods, Greek religion, Greek philosophy, Greek worship. And Israel at that time became a battleground between Syria and Egypt. The two wired for their power to live. As to which one was going to rule Israel. And so you have Greek culture and Greek religion infiltrating, watering down the worship of God. You have no longer a king over Israel, but the high priest. Priests are the governors of the local jurisdiction, and the high priests were settled out to the relativistic Greek culture. In fact, the spirit of relativism had so infiltrated them that in one seventy three the high priest That one who was given the privilege of honoring the Holy of Holies once a year with the blood of the Day of Atonement for the sins of God's people. That one who is to be most holy before God, along with the sacrifice. To God, sent money to the Greek kings for a sacrifice to Hercules. And he had so relativized the religion of God's people that they were disgusted. They were selling out on those that had any sensitive consciences left were absolutely discouraged. But it was at that time that an amazing thing happened. You know, sometimes when in our own situations things seem like they're so bad, they can't get any worse. makes them much worse because that's the only way they'll get better. You ever experienced that? That's exactly what happened to Israel. Along came a fellow by the name of Antiochus IV, king of Syria, over Israel. They called him Antiochus Epiphany. And he didn't think this process of Hellenization or the infiltrating of Greek culture was going fast enough. And he was also frustrated with some ways some wars were going in the other place and some hassles he was happening with the Romans. And so he's kind of a foul mood and he took it all out on the Jews. And he said, I am going to invest Greek culture and then to eradicate any of that Old Testament religion. And so Antiochus forbade circumcision, the scriptures, sacrifice, any of those things. He sacrificed on the high altar of God, a pig to Zeus. And that was enough. Finally, God's people reacted. If it had been slow, you see, infiltration, it never works. But persecution is always an inferior tool of Satan, because it mobilizes God's people. And that's exactly what happened. God raised up a fellow from the family of the Maccabees, a fellow Judas and his brothers, Judas the Hammer. And they reacted and they mobilized together in a series of amazing, supernatural victories against the Syrians. They've reestablished a degree of independence, and there was hope. Is God going to do something in this promise now? But that hope was again turned to ashes. The Maccabean household decayed, so that those who now the high priest were coming from the Maccabean family. And those high priests were more degenerate and corrupt than the high priest who had been before the Maccabees. In dissoluteness. They persecuted the people of God. And they ruled in an iron curry. So the peep God's people were reduced to hopelessness once again. And then in sixty-three BC, then it seemed like things couldn't get any worse. Moved in and Rome took a hold of Israel. And they just moved in and they were disgusted with the whole mess. And so Pompey came in and he destroyed Jerusalem. Twelve thousand people butchered in the cottage of Rome's destruction of Jerusalem at that time. The priests were cracked. Cut down at the altars while they were seeking to sacrifice to God, those who are still faithful. Cut down and slaughtered. So Rome is now in control. 2 Samuel 7 seems an absolute mockery if you're a body. of believing, follower of God Jehovah. And then just again when it seemed like things could not get any worse, a fellow by the name of Herod in 37 B. C. , Carker His own kingdom. He was so hated that when he was declared the governor, the people so rallied against him that he had to conquer his own kingdom. And so he came in and he butchered left and right. But Henry was such a madman that He even killed his own wife in a totally unfounded paroxy of jealousy. Killed his own friends for logical consistency. He was a man who was an absolute tyrant and totally unpredictable. And it's in that situation. And things seemed absolutely hopeless and as if God did not care one bit if God even existed. We read in Luke 1, did the angels claim to a teenage girl, Mary. in Nazareth. And now can you understand something more about the weight of what that must have been when the angel said, Don't be afraid, Mary. For you are found favor with God and you Will be with child and give birth to a son. And you're to give him the name Jesus. He will be great. And he will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his. His father David. He will reign under the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will never end. So in a period where things seem so Absolutely hopeless. The angel comes and the angel says, You really didn't understand that promise, did you? I mean, that promise that seemed like he was simply saying the biggest earthly kingdom would be made permanent was nothing compared to what God. God had in mind in fulfilling that promise. It was a spiritual promise about a spiritual kingdom. And you and I have such difficulty, I think, when we always try to materialize and make urgently the promises that God wants in their full glory. To be spiritual, promise was to us. And so the angel says it's going to be a spiritual kingdom. And you and I know that this was a kingdom, not simply of geography, but of a transformed people. A people that we're going to have. have a new heavens and a new earth as their kingdom. And this king is not going to simply establish his territory here. He's going to transform the universe. Can you see 2 Samuel 7 doesn't be into open up the fullness of all that's involved in the promise that God's given in Him. He's going to bring down this kingdom is going to establish a new heaven and a new earth to transform people and the only way that he can bring them into that kingdom is for deeper himself. To take the punishment that those people deserve to have because of their own sin. And so this king, the most glorious king who ever lived, is a king who's going to humiliate himself more than any king ever did, and suffer and die. Why? For your sin, for my sin, so that in receiving his forgiveness we can be transformed and brought into that kingdom. Isaiah chapter fifty five is a reference To the Davidic covenant by way of a promise. And notice what it says: because it's for you. Come, all you who are thirsty, come to the waters. You who have no money, come. Come and buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money and without cost. Why spend money on that which isn't bread? And your labour on that which does not satisfy you. Listen. Listen to me. And eat what's good. And your soul will delight and bring riches with bear. Come, come on, give ear, come to me, hear me, and your soul may live. I will make an everlasting covenant with you. With you, my faithful love promised to David. See this? How is the faithful love promised to David fulfilled? So my faithful love fulfilled. promise to you. Acts chapter thirteen, verse thirty-four says that that promise was fulfilled in Jesus Christ in the offer of the gospel to you. So what I'd like to do right now is to take a moment. In the conclusion of this, take a look at the back of the bulletin outline. And I would ask for you in a moment of silence to write down honestly right now. What is the most difficult promise of God for you to claim? And yet the one that you have a heart most longs for. I want this to be very practical and personal for you. When you look at this what is it that seems to mock you in your experience? And just drop down something for the You'll be able to remember it right now because when we finish the service, we go on to something else by this afternoon or any other time, you may forget all about that. But I want the Holy Spirit to be able to take that and to nail it down into your life right now. Got something well, I'll give you a moment.