Welcome and good morning. My name is Pastor Bob, and it is a privilege to come before you this morning and read God's Word for you and preach from it. If you have your Bibles with you, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 7. I'll begin reading at verse 24. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we come before you so grateful for all that you've done for us and the fact that the heavens declare your glory. And Lord, your word also declares not only your glory, but your great compassion and love. For it is in the Bible that we read about a Savior who came from heaven. The second person of the eternal, everlasting Godhead, who became like us and lived for us and died for us. Lord, it is in the Bible that we read these glorious accounts of the life of our Savior that help us to understand not just the God of creation, but the God of redemption. Father, as we reminded by our missionaries, Paul and Becky Childress, Lord, help us to value Your word. Help us to remember that you have exalted it above all things but your name. Help us to count it our dearest treasure. next to only you. And Father, we ask then that you bless the reading of your word to us. And Lord, in the preaching that follows, in as much as it is faithful to what your word says, we ask your blessing on that as well. We pray these things in Christ's precious name. Amen. The Gospel of Luke, chapter seven, beginning with verse twenty-four, the Word of God When John's messengers had gone, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? What then did ye go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who are dressed in splendid clothing and live in luxury are in king's courts. What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet, this is he of whom it is written Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. I tell you, among those born of women, none is greater than John. Yet the one who is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he. When all the people heard this, and the tax collectors too, they declared God just, having been baptized with the baptism of John. But the Pharisees and the lawyers rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by him. This ends the reading of God's Word. Sometimes when I read the Bible, I'll read a section of the Bible that everyone understands. Every Bible scholar, every commentary, every translation that divides things into paragraphs with nice little subheadings. Remember they're not a part of the Bible. They're just editorial aids for us. But I'll read these sections and sometimes I think How does all of that hang together? What is the point of all of that? I can understand maybe some of the things that are happening there and and derive little nuggets of wisdom, as one of my favorite Sunday school teachers used to say. But in terms of understanding that text and what God intended, that passage of Scripture within the flow of that chapter or that book or that testament, that I'm always not always so clear on. Let me challenge you with a question. What is it about Jesus helping the crowd to understand who John the Baptist is? What is it about Jesus saying that he who is least in the kingdom is greater than John? What is it about that that made all these crowds of people in front of him Either declare him just or resist his purpose. Because that's what this text comes down to. There are three sections to the Gospel of Luke's discussion about John the Baptist's ministry of Christ interaction with Jesus. The first is his messenger's coming and passing along to Jesus, John the Baptist's burning question, are you the one who was to come, or should we expect another? And Jesus, before he gives his answer, performs miracles, engages in ministry just as he'd been doing up to that point. Then he says, go back and tell John what you've seen. And he gives that wonderful list of the lame being able to walk, blind seeing. Dead being raised, the gospel being preached to the poor. And so then we're to take it that John's disciples leave Because we immediately pick up in verse 24 the second conversation, if you will, that Jesus has on that great day. When John's messengers had gone, Jesus begins to speak to the crowds. You see, the crowds had seen all this happen. The crowds had seen these emissaries of John the Baptist come. And John the Baptist, he was a big deal. Everybody knew who John the Baptist was. And can you imagine them wondering what's going to happen now? Because this is two of the heaviest hitters in the spiritual realms of Palestine or Israel during the days. of Jesus Christ. And are they at odds? Are they going to stay on the same team? Or is this going to be another break? And now there's going to be two camps instead of one. So the first thing Jesus does is he tells the crowd by using rhetorical questions. That John is indeed a prophet. And as we look at this text and understand how it hangs together, that's the first of four questions we're going to consider. What did you go out to see? Presumably Jesus knew that many, if not most of these people, these were the spiritually interested people that came to hear Jesus, many, if not most of them, had within the last couple of years also been to see John and been baptized. They'd heard him preach by the rivers of the Jordan in what they called the wilderness on the eastern shore. What did you go to see? A reed blowing in the wind? Someone dressed in luxurious soft clothing? And think about what those two images must have meant to the ancient mind. Did you go to see someone blown this way and that by every wind or wave of doctrine? Did you see someone who is constantly trying to finesse their doctrine and their message to meet with cultural expectations, somebody who is so flexible and wishy-washy that they'd go whichever way the wind blew? Did you go to see a reed? No, you knew differently. He was iconoclastic. He was one of a kind. He stood against the flow of history itself and its secularizing tendencies. He deliberately echoed the very ethos of Elijah and Elisha, wearing simple clothes, eating simple foods, declaring a simple message. Repent, for the kingdom of God is near And he also didn't flatter. He's not one of those preachers that worked his way into the inner circles of those who had power. He didn't show up wearing a nice suit. I say that humbly as I'm wearing a very nice suit. Got it at Cole's. He didn't come to try to ingratiate himself with Herod. In fact, he was in prison Because he had dared to confront Herod for having relations with his brother Philip's wife. He was fearless, and he cared not. What the wealthy and powerful thought of him. He was utterly rugged and simple and honest with respect to his ministry and theology. compassionate in his offer of the cleansing of baptism. And yet he, like many of us, was perplexed and had doubts about the nature of the kingdom Jesus Christ came to establish. Like his own disciples, who are at this point in Jesus' ministry already commissioned to be apostles, He was expecting something different. He was expecting Rome to be confounded, Herod to be reformed or replaced. He was expecting A kingdom as he understood kingdom, something of this world. Jesus reassures him that the fact he is performing miracles, fulfilling the prophecies in Isaiah, and that the good news is being preached even to the poor. That is sufficient to prove beyond doubt that he is the Messiah, the expected one. The Gospels continue to unfold for us with the book of Acts that his kingdom is very different from nation-states today. Its rules and laws, its code of conduct, its ethos, its citizenship, very different. Heavenly, not earthly. Eternal, not temporary. So John the Baptist is a prophet. And the second question that is rather suggested and implied by this text. than explicitly thrust before you is fascinating. Jesus says This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. You might think, what in the world? Well, he's just quoting Malachi chapter 3, verse 1. And I mean that's a scripture we all have memorized, right? That's not Malachi 3, verse 1. Malachi 3, verse 1 says, Behold, I will send my messenger before me, and he will prepare the way for me. And whenever Jesus interprets scripture and applies it in a way that amends the vocabulary of the scriptures he's citing, we should s we should s sit up straight and take notice. Because what Jesus is doing here is he's kind of giving a very pastoral photo-negative of Malachi chapter 3, verse 1. See in Malachi chapter 3 verse 1, God through his prophet is saying that that prophet to come, Elijah redevivis, or Elijah returned, if you will, the one who comes to fulfill his mission. John the Baptist is going to prepare the way for Jesus. He is going to remove all the obstacles before Jesus so that he can Be reconciled to his people who have wandered far away. He's going to prepare the way, literally clear the roads, remove the obstacles. The obstacles between you and Jesus are your sin. And John the Baptist came to lead you to repentance so that those obstacles could be cleared away, so Jesus is able to come to you. That's a very important point. That's the point Jesus is having made on his behalf in Malachi chapter 3. But when Jesus refers to that text, He says to the crowds who were beginning to wonder what's the deal with John the Baptist. He's doubting. He's what's what's the deal with him? Maybe we should discount his ministry. And he's saying, this is the one who came to prepare the way for you. In a world in which pronouns are so loaded and heavy and concentrated, we should pay attention to that. Jesus is basically saying, John the Baptist, with his declaration that we can repent and be baptized. That is enabling you to recognize that your sin, your great obstacle, that which separates you from the love of God, your Maker. can be removed. Your way is prepared before your face for you To have peace with God through the ministry of Jesus Christ, whom John the Baptist came to announce. Has Jesus prepared the way? Has John, pardon me, prepared the way for you? That's the second question that Jesus is suggesting implicitly to those who are wondering about John now. What did you go to see? What who is John? Why are you beginning to wonder about John and think, ah boy, John's just like us after all? Has John done great things for you? He's the greatest prophet that ever lived. And then the next question, again, implicit, is, are you the least in the kingdom of God? Listen to the next thing Jesus says. I tell you, among those born of women, none is greater than John. And think about how wonderful it is that Jesus, right after John's great crisis, Before we even have definitive evidence that John accepted the report of his disciples, Jesus absolutely affirms his relationship with John, just as he will with Thomas. When Thomas doubts, just as he will with you when you doubt. And Jesus says, he is the greatest ever to have born of women, but I tell you this, and this comment is unbelievably extra. Jesus to this point has been trying to assert the legitimacy of John the Baptist's ministry. And now he says, but The least in the kingdom is greater than him. What does that mean? And wouldn't that make you wonder, what in the world? I want you to think about something Wayne Koch, who was leading worship earlier, said respecting the people. Under Joshua's leadership, their fathers, their mothers, their grandparents would have seen the greatest miracles ever performed up to that point. Short of creation itself. They would have seen the deliverance from Egypt with all the mighty acts of God. They would have seen God's provision in the wilderness. They would have seen the Cloud and the pillar of fire. They would have seen all of that. But yet wouldn't it by far be better? To have a simple home in the promised land than to be wandering through the wilderness, and to experience the fruit of God's mighty acts. in the peace, the pastoral life, the established, settled reality of the promised land, than to be a sojourner. All of ancient biblical history drives us towards the fact that God is working in his people to establish a place for them. He's bidding us to follow him to the country he has prepared. And it is certainly the case that the closer we draw to the return of Christ, and the longer and the deeper his Spirit's influences have been working in us, the better off we are. And so it is absolutely the case that the least person in the promised land, living in a house with his own fields, is better off in some respects. Than the best and the most superior wandering through the desert. And in the same way, the least Christian, able to look back on the finished work of Jesus Christ on the cross. The least Christian, the most immature, most brand new, most doubt-riddled, most Pathetic Christian who is able to look at the finished work of Jesus and glory in the empty tomb and the ascension of the Son of God to heaven. has more clarity, has the Holy Spirit after Pentecost has more and surer grounds for assurance than any Old Testament prophet. That's the point Jesus is making. He's not in any way denigrating John. You may be sure John the Baptist will be in heaven with us. That's not what this statement is about. But this statement is about the blessed privilege that we have of being able to look with clarity and see things John himself could only imagine. Remember, John the Baptist, he did not live to see the greatest holy week in the history of God's people. John the Baptist, because he dared to challenge Herod for his relationships with Herodias, the wife of his brother Philip, he was beheaded We will see him in glory, of that I am sure. But in the meantime, on this side of heaven, we are so much more privileged even than he. Because we know that Christ was raised. And we experience his kingdom in ways John could not. Doesn't that make you wonder, are you part of that kingdom? And that leads to this fascinating editorial description of the effect of this second great conversation dealing with the relationship between John the Baptist and Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus has just certified and authenticated the ministry of John the Baptist to all of the crowds who all of a sudden became aware that John the Baptist had doubts too. And Jesus has exalted him to the greatest born of women, and yet said, even the least who is in the kingdom will be greater than he. And all of the people who had been baptized by John justified God. Well, what in the world does that mean? Doesn't that just kind of make you think, yuck? Who in their right mind would think it's their place to justify God? The whole concept seems to be a little presumptuous. To justify God, as the old translations put it, simply means to declare God just. It is basically to say, Amen. You are right. Even the least in the kingdom of God is indeed greater than John, the greatest of all born of women, the prophet. Who came before the Messiah and prepared the way for us. You see, those who had been baptized Said amen and yes. And those who had not been baptized, we read a fascinating phrase. They rejected the purpose of God for themselves, not having been baptized by Him. Now I want to connect two ideas to help clarify this verse. Baptism in the kingdom. These are terms that show up, and you begin to suspect as you read your New Testament that they're a little bit loaded, and indeed they're a lot loaded. When Jesus talks about the kingdom in the Gospel of Luke, he is in every case, and there have been only three cases up to here where Jesus uses the word kingdom, There's only one other occurrence of the word kingdom in the prophecies concerning the coming of Christ in chapters 1 and 2. But whenever Jesus talks about the kingdom, it is intimately connected to the poor. I want you to notice with me in John chapter 4 We read that Jesus, after his temptation, preaches his first great sermon that we have his text for, and he preaches out of Isaiah. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. And if you read about this In verse 43, he's referring back to all of this message and the signs that accompanied it, and saying that Jesus said to his disciples when they had to leave that region, he says. I must preach the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns. You see, the kingdom, the preaching of the kingdom is preaching good news to the poor. In his Sermon on the Plain, Jesus uses the kingdom of God for the second time as a term, and he says, Blessed are you who are poor, for yours is the kingdom of God. Intimately connected to the poor. And as Matthew describes it more fully, he's talking about the poor in spirit, not simply the materially impoverished people of ancient Palestine. He's talking about those who know themselves to be spiritually poor, many of whom were indeed spiritually poor, some of whom were very wealthy by the terms of dollars and pounds and shekels. And here we have the third place, the least in the kingdom. And notice who is specifically described. When all the people heard this, and the tax collectors too, some of the wealthiest in that culture, they declared God just You see, the entrance to the kingdom of God necessarily requires you to recognize the poverty of your spirit And the recognition of the poverty of your spirit would compel you to receive the baptism of John. Let me put each this way. If you are living, say, in 27 A. D. , and you are in the region of Jericho, and decide to take a little half days walk down to the banks of the Jordan River and you see some crazy preacher who uh eats weird food and dresses in weird clothes preaching about the sins of people just like you. And if you are convicted and realize, God help me, I'm a sinner. I have nothing to offer God. I am impoverished. Whether you are a millionaire or whether you are in debt a million dollars, you recognize that nothing in your hand you bring. You can't offer God anything. To pay a ransom for your soul. You can expect nothing but the judgment of a holy God who is beautiful in his holiness. Whereas you are sordid and broken, you are impoverished. Therefore, when that same raggedy-looking preacher says, be baptized. It's a baptism of repentance. It is a cleansing in that context, understood that way by the Jews in the time of John the Baptist and Jesus. And know that God is the God who can forgive through the great sacrifices that will be fulfilled in Christ. John knew that Remember what he said on the banks of that same Jordan River in the Gospel of John chapter 1. When he sees Jesus, behold the Lamb of God who takes away his people's sins. And when you submitted to that baptism, you were saying the preacher is right. John the Baptist is telling the truth. And I am poor in spirit. And you heard that proto-gospel, that early echo of what Jesus would live and do and preach. And you embraced that baptism. And you clung to the thought that perhaps I can be the least in this new kingdom. in which I simply come for the forgiveness of my sins. But the Pharisees and lawyers They rejected the purposes of God for themselves, not having been baptized by Him. You see, they rejected John's message. They did not believe they were poor in spirit. They believed that they were as wealthy as they were, in fact, by material earthly terms, wealthy. And they rejected the purpose of God for themselves. I know there's a number of folks here who have looked at Greek. seminary students currently, seminary graduates, graduates, pastors. That word purpose of God is a word that is very significant in the sequel to the Gospel of Luke. It's the only time that term occurs in the Gospel of Luke, but it occurs significantly. in the book of Acts. And I list those out for you. In every place, God's purpose is the redemption of people. And have you ever thought that God's great purpose in history is to redeem people just like you? And that simple purpose That God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believed on him might not perish but have everlasting life. That's God's purpose in redemptive history. And through preachers like John the Baptist, and all the way by the grace of God, I hope and pray people even like me Our single commission is to declare that gospel, that purpose of God, that any who would come with a poverty in spirit Claiming the redemption, the forgiveness, the cleansing of sins offered by this Jesus who is the Son of God and Savior of sinners, that is for you. And this text calls you to declare God just and say, God, you are right I will submit to your assessment of my character. I know it's true. False and full of sin am I. You are right. But I heard that you are merciful, and therefore I will be baptized. I will come to you for the forgiveness of my sins, the washing of my very soul. The cleansing away of the stain and the stink and the guilt and the shame of all my sin. And brothers and sisters, it is great, is it not? I tremble to think what you would think of me as a man if you could look into the deepest corners of my heart. Jesus washes that. He pays the penalty for it. And all I can do is say, God, you are just. Forgive me. Here I would be baptized and cleansed. I would be the least in your kingdom. But woe to all of those Pharisees. Woe to those lawyers, the teachers of the law. Who reject that purpose and say, no, I'm a good person all on my own. I need no baptism. I need no Savior. I don't even need a God. Woe to such as they. Whenever Jesus speaks, whenever he speaks. When I read the Bible, I see an invitation. And when Jesus speaks here, he is offering you an invitation. He's saying to you, come and be baptized. Not simply with the baptism of John. but the baptism and the actual blood of Jesus, who cleanses away everything eternally and removes sin as far as the east is from the West. And for those of you who know that baptism, I would charge you this day to rejoice in it. I am a Christian man. I have no excuse on this side of heaven to ever say that I'm having a bad day. Because Jesus loves me. Can I get an amen? And I know that seems simplistic, but brothers and sisters, it's true. I was personally reminded of that when I heard one of my favorite hymns just minutes ago. Abide with me, fast falls the even tide. The darkness deepens. Lord, with me abide. You know, those words mean something to a man with a degenerative eye disease. Because God abides with me even as the darkness deepens, I cannot have a bad day. I can be ungrateful, but I cannot truly have a bad day unless I have let my perspective and the horizon of my imagination Drift away from the glorious panorama of the heaven that awaits. And I'm focused simply on the problem of the day. And I've forgotten that there is a God who wills And I have reduced my world to a person, me, who is frustrated Rejoice, dear Christian. The theme of every worship service should be joy and celebration. At the end of the day, we are more than conquerors in Christ, the beloved of God Himself. And if you're here today and you have not Come to Jesus Christ with repentance and faith. I would plead with you as someone who would be your friend if I have the chance. Choose whom you will serve. Will you serve the God who tells you the truth about yourself? Or will you choose the world that flatters you Will you choose the God who dares you to look into the deepest parts of your own heart and soul, the recesses of your mind and imagination, and calls you out for what is truly there and offers you actual, real? peace because he says, yes it's true, but fear not, for I am with you. I will never forsake you. Be my child, and let me carry the burden and pay the penalty, and let me help with that. Oh dear friend, would you hear the voice of Jesus saying, Come? Come and become the least in my kingdom, which means the greatest ever to walk this planet. Almighty God, we ask your blessing. Father, I pray that you would help me to remember the greatness of your love. The power and the might that you have exercised in the resurrection of Christ and all of the authority you have given to the Lord and King Jesus alone for the church, for people like me. In all of my frailty, my feeble unworthiness, Lord, my faltering obedience, my John the Baptist and Thomas-like doubts, Lord You are faithful, you are true, you are good, and you are worthy of service. What a worthy God we serve. And Father, it is our prayer that any who are here today and experiencing any conviction that you are calling them out of darkness and into light. out of despair and into hope, out of hate and into love. Oh God Almighty, we pray that you would finish that work in them Lord, draw them out of themselves and into you. Lord, may you, by your grace and by your use of the ministry of all of us here, prepare the way for them. to be united with you. We pray for the success of your gospel in Christ Jesus' name. Amen.