So now we uh come to our annual month of missions. And that's a great song to have there because you notice it said about how you saved me with millions out of millions lost. So we are coming to that time of the year when we are reminded again that there are millions who are lost And we need to have our eyes open to see the world, to see God's global purposes, to understand more fully what it is that He is doing. And we started this morning just by looking locally at what God is doing in Sandtown. Sandtown, which is a ministry, the uh Santown Evangelic uh Economic Development Mission is a mission of New Song Church, which gets its Um name from Psalm ninety-six verse one, sing to the Lord a new song. Are Antoine and Gary still here or did they have they gone We had a couple of brothers visiting from Sand Town from New Song Church and to see the tremendous vision that uh our congregation has for uh bringing the gospel. and economic development to that area. Next week we'll be looking uh over to Africa and Eritrea. Eritrea is a place where the Spirit of God has been working in revival and renewal, and yet you May not be aware that there are two thousand citizens currently in prison in Eritrea because of a government crackdown on Christianity 95% of those in prison are Christians, many of them pastors and elders None of them have had any charges brought against them. None of them have had a court trial. They're simply in prison. And we're going to hear from a missionary to Eritrea, what God is doing there, get another perspective of what he's doing in the world. Then we'll hear from our own Mark Hartzel, who was uh on staff with us some years ago. Now heads a team in Southeastern United States for the Ministry to Homosexuals and Those in Sexual Addiction Bondage. and see what God is doing through that. Then we'll go abroad again, look into China, what God is doing in mainland China and other parts of the world, what God is doing through world relief. And then we'll finish it up by hearing from Carl and Debbie Dortzbach. Now, how many of you remember Elmer and Marjorie Dortzbach? Yes, yeah, here is a tribe that still knows the Dortz box. They were here late 80s, early 90s on staff. Their son, Carl, and his wife Debbie have a unique, unusual ministry in Africa on peace making in war-torn areas and Debbie one of the Church Universal's uh great experts on AIDS. In fact, 2006, University Press just published her latest book, The AIDS Crisis, What Can We Do And uh Carl and Debbie will be here both in the morning, bringing the word, sharing some of these unique ministries that they're involved in. And then we'll be having our banquet that evening, February 25th, and uh they'll be telling their story also there. All of that is in this booklet. Hope you pick up a copy that's on the back chair and back door there, one per family, to see some of the things that we're going to be looking at in the next month. And you'll see at the beginning of that first page a reminder of the three purposes that we have for this month of missions. The three W's, first of all, God's word that we will be once again reminded have been grounded in what does the Scripture teach about missions? Why is it that you and I should be passionate about global missions and understand uh God's purpose that every person on earth Would have the opportunity to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ and to believe in Jesus for eternal life. What does the word say? Secondly, then to look at God's world, give you just a brief overview of what we'll be looking at to see what He is doing in the world today, and um open our minds to that more, so that thirdly we will know God's will. Particularly to know, what, Lord, are you calling me to do? How do I fit into this great purpose of yours? Whether I participate or not, you are doing an amazing thing among the nations. But we don't want to miss out on that, do we? So, how does God want you to be involved in that? And that's something to be praying about through the month. So we're going to begin right now with His Word, going back to one of the great missions texts in the Scripture. One that you may be familiar with from Psalm 96, as Tim mentioned, you can never read this psalm in a normal tune. It would be to violate the very spirit of the psalm. It's a psalm which is a song and a shout. Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord. Praise his name. Proclaim his salvation day after day. Declare his glory among the nations. That's the theme of this month of missions. Declare his glory. among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples, for great is the Lord and most worthy of praise He is to be feared above all gods, for all the gods of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and glory. are in his sanctuary. Declare his glory among the nations. I want to look at those first six verses of that psalm in particular, and I'd like to ask four questions of those verses as we begin this month of missions. First question. What are we called to do? And it's very simple. Right there in the first line. Sing to the Lord a new song. That's where it begins. That's where missions begins. Sing to the Lord a new song. Now, you notice it's not a statement. It's a psalm. And there are three things that I would like you to notice about that. First of all, three things to notice about Sing to the Lord, a new song. The first is that it is not simply a statement, it's a song. Do you ever wonder why we sing in worship? I mean, for some of us, that's not our forte. And so why do we sing? Why don't we just chant or just read verses like we did antiphonally there? Why don't we just say what we believe or state our praise? When you think about it, the answer is sort of obvious, isn't it? Because singing engages our hearts. You just take what's what Tim just went through here, uh, you know, he doing haven't you been good? Well I mean you could we could all say that. Well let's say together well haven't will you been good? It's different, isn't it, from haven't you been good? You know, to to linger on it, to have a tempo, to Singing engages your heart. It engages your emotions. I've told you a number of times that on Tuesdays, when I go out to pray, beginning of the work week, Um, I will take a psalm and I'll read that. And a number of times, as I read the psalm, I will make up a tune to sing the psalm only to the Lord. Now let me suggest to you that if you're reading a psalm, particularly a psalm, not just other scripture, but if you're reading a psalm, it's a great thing To make up your own tune and sing it to the Lord. There's probably in all the years I've done this only one or two that I've ever done that I thought was worth anybody else but the Lord hearing But it changes me. It affects me by singing it to him. Or sometimes take a hymn book. And read the poem, a hymn is a poem, and and just sing the hymn to the Lord. Or if you don't know the tune, If you can read some music, sometimes you'll read some of the notes and you'll realize you have heard the tune, or just make up a tune to sing to the Lord. But singing engages the heart Sing to the Lord a new song, the psalmist says, not make to the Lord a statement or recite to the Lord a creed. Sing a song. It engages your heart in worship. And it's a joyful song because look what he says in verse 11. Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad, let the sea resound, and all that's in it, all creation singing here. Let the fields be jubilant and everything in them. Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy. A chorus of trees. They're going to sing before the Lord, for he comes, because he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness. And the people's in his truth. He's going to set everything right. And we celebrate that in anticipation of that. Now last week I talked about giving cheerfully, which Tim reminded you of Giving with joy. I got an email this week from someone that said, So is it okay if we clap when we give and click our heels when we're actually putting the money in the offering? Now that's not such a silly idea, after all. I was reading a book this week by a Christian that referred to Presbyterians as constipated Now I realize we may not be known for our exuberance in our worship, but I want you to know that it was Wayne Koch that told me that at New Song Church one time in an offer in a worship The deacon danced down the aisle with the offering, right? So, you ushers be glad that the offering has already been taken. Okay? You can relax. You know, it's not something you can ever force, is it? Okay, from now on, deacons are gonna dance down the aisle when they take up the offering, you know, especially at the Lord's Supper. But you see, it's something that moves in your heart. So whether you dance or whether you clap or whether you lift your hands or whether you remain pretty still, the point is that when you worship the Lord, it must engage your heart. If it doesn't You walk out of here unchanged. Your heart must be reached for the good news of Jesus so that it creates a song that you want to express. That's where missions begins. with a song in your heart to the Lord. Now notice that this song is to the Lord It's not just to make us feel good. It's not just about enjoying yourself in worship. That's one of the great dangers, I think, in the church today that the church in many times has so reacted against this dead kind of worship that now it's kinda like after the worship you everybody holds up a card, nine, nine point five, you know, how did you feel about the worship today? But the psalmist says here, sing to the Lord a new song. It's for his pleasure. It's for his delight. Again, uh this Tuesday when I was out praying, I had one of those precious experience is all too rare, I'm afraid, uh, when I was reading something about um our purpose, wasn't this psalm, wasn't scripture, it was something else, and the thought occurred to me Lord, I simply exist for your pleasure And that thought captivated me. In fact, I thought to the degree that I am not consciously involved in bringing glory to you. The very purpose of my existence is set at naught. We are so self-centered That a statement like that can sound radical, can't it? I mean, come on, my whole existence. But the thing that was so beautiful about that moment was as I thought about that I thought, and that is so good. And I was just able for a few fleeting moments to revel in the delight of blending my pleasure with his. In fact, it had occurred to me that it's like his pleasure From my existence, bringing glory, is like various colors, and my pleasure is like various colors. And when you blend all the colors together, what do you get? White. Brilliance of glory. And to just be able to think about that, revel in it, delight in it, sing to the Lord a new song. Brothers and sisters, mission begins with that perspective. My existence, the existence of all created. Are for his pleasure, for his delight. And you notice, thirdly, that it's not an old song. It's not the same old song. It's a new song. Now you see, when we look at Psalm ninety-six, lest you think that I'm going over the top talking about the dancing and the singing and all that in in our worship. Psalm 96 is also in 1 Chronicles 16, verses 23 to 33, it's the same thing. So we know the historical context of Psalm 96. And what was it? It was when David was bringing the ark up into Jerusalem. And when David brought the ark up into Jerusalem, there was singing, there were tambourines, there were the horns. And what was David doing? He was dancing. Remember? In fact, he was dancing so shamelessly, so exuberantly, that Queen Michael was offended She said, You've made a fool of yourself today. He said, I can't help it. The Lord's done a new thing. And my heart was engaged in it, and I couldn't keep from dancing. Now, for some of us, it would take a grenade or something to set us off dancing. But again, in our hearts. There is that response. He has made me a new creature. His mercies are new to me. They have transformed me. And so you sing. But he is also bringing new mercies again and again. In verse 2, he says, proclaim his salvation day after day. So part of this new song is the declaration of salvation. I'm a new creature. But I think more than that, the Lord puts you and me in circumstances where we are humbled We are desperate. We say, Lord, I need you financially, health, relationships, some disappointment, something. I cry out to you. And when his mercy is revealed, that's a new song. It's a new discovery of the depths of his kindness. I was talking to a brother just last week after worship. And he said, last week, last year was was rough. He said, and I talked to you about my being out of work and you told me pray about it. Well, I guess he was hoping for something else in addition to that, but we'd talked about that, and he said, you know, I went home and I prayed about it He said, funny thing, he said, while I was praying, the phone rang, and I was, you know, kind of annoyed because it's interrupting my praying. I picked up the phone, it was a job. He said, you know, I haven't been out of work since that day. That's a new song for that brother, a new reminder. We don't know what God will do in those circumstances. That was a dramatic, tender display of the Lord. For him. But God is constantly in new and different ways revealing to you what he is like for you. His tenderness, his care. As you as I and I see that, there is a new song that wells up in our hearts. Mission begins with a new song. in discovery of the new mercies, new revelations of the perfections of our God. Well Second point, who is called to do it? Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. You see, this is not just something for Columbia Presbyterian to sing. It's not just something for the Orthodox Presbyterian Church or for American evangelicals. This is for all the earth. That's what he says. He's not content until all the earth joins in with this song. All cultures, all peoples. Have you ever imagined the blending together of the praise of all the nations? The reverse of Babel. One language now, probably not English, who knows what it'll be, but a language that we all enter into and understand, but all different cultures. Still distinctive in their expression. And all before the throne singing a new song of salvation and mercies and glories and perfections. And as we sing, there is not one culture that is dominant and superior, but all the cultures form together to the delight of his glory. Europeans and Africans, Mideasterners and South Americans, Albanians and Australians From Bangladesh and Belarus, Canadians and Cambodians, from China and Chad Denmark and Djibouti, from England and the Easter Islands, from Finland and Fiji From Germany and Guyana, from Haiti and Hungary, from India and Iraq And on and on and on you could go through the alphabet. A hundred and ninety-three sovereign nations, hundreds of cultures. Thousands of people groups, all the earth, singing the new song of praise and thanksgiving and salvation to our God. That's what missions is about. That's what we enter into, brothers and sisters, in this next month. That's what should fire your heart and my heart as we remember the statement and promise from Ephesians chapter 1, verses 3 to 10, that one day all things in heaven and on earth. Earth will be placed under one head, Jesus Christ, three times, he says in that chapter, and it will all be for the praise of the glory of his grace. Amen? That's our shout. That's our song. And that's why the Scripture says so very little about forms of worship. Because to our great God A Bak chorale and an African drum are equally delightful in his presence from the heart that honors and glorifies him. It's not the culture. It's not the expression. It is the singing to the Lord a new song with all of our hearts, giving the best expression, not saying that there's not better or worse. But the best expression that is culturally appropriate to us to express praise to Him. So thirdly, what must we do? Verse 3. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all the peoples. You see, the singing of the song drives us to the declaration. The gospel declaration among the nations. It says, declare his glory. Now, what is his glory? Remember, we've said before, his glory is how he reveals himself to his creatures. How he reveals his perfections. And he does that in two ways. He does it through his name and he does it through his deeds. Verse 2: Sing to the Lord, praise his name. Verse 3, declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. His name is his character. And that reveals what he is like. His deeds, what he has done, in two ways show his glory. The two ways the scripture again and again shows us are through creation and through redemption. Through creation, how he expresses his glory in the heavens and on the earth. And often when you hear me talk about God's glory and creation, you immediately think here comes Harris in one of his star stories. But it doesn't always have to be on the macro level. You can go to the opposite. Think on the micro level. Now we got this last week, our first snowfall for this year, a little late, but we got it finally. Let me tell you kids, have you ever have you ever taken a black glove or something black and just looked at one snowflake? And even better, take a magnifying glass and look at that one snowflake. I'll be outside so it don't melt. Look at that one snowflake and think about that. Now we got just maybe an inch this last week, so how many of those snowflakes were alike? You know you take a snowflake, it's just an infinitesimal particle that crystals attach to Till it forms a flake, which is a perfectly symmetrical. You saw when we were singing the song, some pictures of snowflakes up there. And those are perfectly symmetrical And one snowflake, if it's a one of the larger snowflakes, they're different sizes, one snowflake Could contain ten sextillion molecules. That's more than a billion, trillion, or yeah. Sextillion. Ten sextillion molecules. How many different ways can you arrange 10 sextillion molecules in a crystalline pattern? Scientists say And if you took all the snows from Maryland, took all the snows out in Colorado, daughter and son-in-law are out there, they got five feet of snow outside. Take all that snow, take all the snow from the Arctic, from the Antarctic, from all the winters, since the beginning of time, and they say the odds of any two snowflakes being exactly alike. Are almost impossible. And one snowflake, that unique snowflake Declares his glory. And you look at that and you say, I don't have to have an astrophysics degree to worship. His wonders are displayed every day. Sing to the Lord a new song. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds. Among all the peoples. But what he has done in creation is outdistanced, is eclipsed By the display of his glory and redemption. For you and I are such self-centered creatures That the psalmist goes on, Great is the Lord and most worthy of praise. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the nations are idols. But the Lord made the heavens. He recognizes, you see, that most of us are so self-centered. We have our own little idols. We have our own gods. Superstitious gods, gods of our own manufacture, to bring us immediate gratification or a sense of control That I have over my life. It's very interesting. James Boyce points out in his commentary on this that Where he says for all the gods of the heavens, the Hebrew word for gods is the same word for God, Elohim, it's a plural. Elohim, God is gods. For all the gods, all of the Elohim of the nations are idols. And the word idol in Hebrew is Elohim. Just changing one little, it's not even a letter, it's a little mark, a vowel mark. So all the Elohim are Elohim. It's a play on words. And you know what Elohim means? No thing. Nothing. All the gods of all the nations are nothing. They all have their own insights to bring, and we sort of combine them together. You know, you go out to Marriott's Ville and Bon Secours there. It's a Catholic um it's kind of like a monastery. It's a a um it's a home of for you know religious order. And you go out in the back and there's a Buddhist garden for prayer. You know, you combine them, you know, you get a little insight from this, a little insight from that. If you don't grasp the gospel, you combine the nothings And all the nothings put together are still nothing. All the gods of the nations are nothing. And we trust in nothing. We worship nothing and we give our lives to nothing. And God sent his Son, Jesus. And his life was a perfect song of worship. His life was the perfect expression of praise to bring glory to God. And God accepted and received his life. And the Son said, I will for you. Substitute my perfect record and die on the cross, cursed as the chief idolater. So that you could receive my record of righteousness, the curse removed, the new song of salvation. Transforming you so that your heart sings with the mercy of God, the song of redemption. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds, the song of redemption, the song of salvation to all the peoples. Because that song has first begun in your own heart. And that's what this month is about. This month is for us to see that even more than the need of those who are absolutely lost, lost under the judgment. You notice the last verses. And he will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his truth. And every one of us will stand before him in that last day, either with a record of Jesus Christ. And his righteousness and being received into glory or the dispatch to part, I never knew you. Statement of judgment because of our own life and its record. It's abysmal record of failure. And so the song of salvation is the recognition that you and I and all without Jesus Christ are lost. Eternally lost. Our generation is losing that so quickly. Lost under the judgment of God, apart from the redemption of Jesus Christ. No other way. Do you really believe that? All the nations I just read, of all the people and all those nations. And you think of yourself, maybe one percent, two percent of the congreg of the Of the population of that country that are Christians, you say, could really 96, 97, 98, 99% of this country be going to hell because they don't have Jesus as Savior? And that overpowers you. You have to remind yourself he didn't owe salvation to anybody. But he's called out a people to himself. And he's put that song in your heart, in my heart, so that even more than the compassion for the lost Fourth, why we ultimately do this is because he is worthy. Verse 4. For the Lord is most worthy of our praise. And as I say, quote there from John Piper's book, Let the Nations Be Glad, worship is the fuel and the goal of missions. It's the fuel of missions. Worship begins. It's what fuels our desire for the declaration of the gospel. It's the goal of missions. Missions is simply the means to the end of God receiving his supreme place in the hearts of a redeemed people. It's our passion for Him that fuels our passion for missions. And missions is simply the overflow of our song to Him. Remember a couple weeks ago, talked about Jesus' joy filling your cup? Let my joy be in you so that your cup would be full. Missions is the overflow of the cup of your joy and my joy. Missions is the declaration among the nations. There is a God who cares about you and your lost condition. There's a God, the God of snowflakes and galaxies, who sent his son, his one and only son, to die for lost sinners. And for those of us that see it and capture it. That becomes the passion of our lives. May the Lord increase that this month. But I give you at the end here some suggestions, practical suggestions. But once the song grips you to say, well, how do I make the connection between that and The things that we're going to be talking about in this next month in missions. So there's some suggestions. Now notice that I'm saying in these ways that you can grow in that. Don't try to do them all All you do is get discouraged, oppressed, resentful, you know. What is this guy? He's crazy. Choose two or three of these things. Just two or three. I know it's like, you know, being in a Address store and you got all these great things you'd like to pull off the racks. You just just c you know, constrain yourself. One rebooks, articles on foreign missions, go to our library. Bunch of good stuff over there. Just pick one Or maybe another idea for you would be to pray more than weekly for particular missionaries, get their prayer letters. And just pray for them specifically. Follow what they're doing. Or maybe if you've never done it, get to know somebody from another culture. Just knowing somebody whose native language is different from yours broadens your understanding of, you know, there is a world out there beyond what I'm normally thinking about. And it expands what's on God's heart to me to understand And somebody is a friend, uh, how big the world is. Plan to go abroad, expose yourself to another culture, whether in the short term is you know, fifty people signed up a couple weeks ago for the Tex-Mex trip. Some interest of some kind. A number were interested in going. Number of people interested in going to Ukraine, some for going to Japan. Number of opportunities we have. But I also mention here a thought that I think we should pursue more, and that's the idea of going on short-term experiences as a family. It's a very different kind of experience when you're not one person out of the family going, coming back, but a whole family going together. So that you let God speak to you about, well, what does this mean for us together? It And then to give regularly to some foreign mission and follow their progress. To have your cell or your small group adopt a missionary from our church. Number of church uh small groups have done that. I don't know, some of maybe have sort of drifted off, but uh one said after the first service, I think we're gonna do that, gonna bring it up to our group and adopt a missionary again, find out their birthdays and Keep in touch with them on a more personal level so that they can email us special requests and we'll follow and pray for them. Determine to give your testimony at least once to Upward Basketball. K Make the connection between the home mission and the foreign mission. When I gave a testimony last week, that uh one of the things impressed me was I almost I I almost did not recognize anyone who was listening to me Det They're all unfamiliar faces, uh with few exceptions. So here's an opportunity to say, well yeah, I want to declare his glory. Well, you know what can I do? Well, you know, four minutes, just talk about something God's done in your life, declare his glory. Talk about his mercies, the new song of what he has shown you, of his perfections and his goodness. And if you can't get there, even talk to Robbie about doing a video. You know, and do it at home and have it shown. Speak to Somebody this month about Jesus Christ. Somebody you've been praying for. Just think about that. Make the connection. Pray. About this month. What do all these things mean for you? What are the different missionaries, the different reports, all the different Lord, what does that mean for me? What are you saying to me from this? We were talking about Sand Town in the middle hour and I saw my wife jotting down some note. You know, I get a little nervous when my wife jots things down in missions conferences I think we're gonna have a talk when we get home. You know, but jot down thoughts, ideas, things to pray about. What are you gonna do? What does this mean for you? Just begin by praying about that You say, well, you know, I don't have a whole lot to offer. What can I bring? How do I declare his glory? You see that little page toward the back of the booklet, read that. Person that wrote, you know, what do I have? I haven't been to seminary, don't have all the training. And then I realized, Lord, yes, it doesn't take training. It takes a transformed heart. That's all he's talking about here in Psalm 96. Sing to the Lord a new song. All the earth, you included. How much training do you need? A couple weeks ago, upward basketball, seven-year-old kid prayed to receive Christ. Say, well that's very nice. Hope that was real. He went home. Mom was a Christian, dad's not. Went home, took his upward cross, and shared the gospel message with his dad. He said, Dad, I've become a Christian. Let me tell you about Jesus. His dad listened politely, very nice. That was it. It was the end of the discussion. The next day, kid comes back again. Dad, look what happened. I mean tell you, this is about Jesus. Father, listen again. How long is this going to go on? After the kid left that night, father talked to the mother who was a Christian. After the conversation, the dad prayed to receive Jesus Christ. Now here's a seven-year-old, one-week-old Christian declaring his glory because God had changed his heart. Can you do that? Can I do that? Let's pray. Oh Lord, Lord, how walking with you and we we kind of turn to say, Well, yeah, what does this mean? It becomes something that gets distant until you, Holy Spirit, fire in our hearts again that new song of salvation, the new song of your mercies. The new song of your glories. The new song of our realization we simply exist for your glory, and there is nothing better that we could think of. So, Lord, blend our pleasures with your pleasure, that out of the overflow of our joy, our hearts would long for every opportunity This week, to simply say, I, you know, that the whole gospel message, I just want to say something about my Jesus, something about your glory. And that you would use us as a congregation. Use each individual who is open and ready to you that our hearts Our lives would be available to Jesus Christ. We want to sing that new song. Holy Spirit, form it in our hearts and lips for Jesus' sake. Amen.