The church that I grew up in had an annual week-long missionary conference It was spanned by two Sundays. And I remember thinking, if I could just get through those two Sunday sermons without getting hooked on missions, you know and uh ad adopting the kind of attitude that made people abnormal, you know, losing your normalcy because you bec become a mission's nut, then I would be safe for another year. Well, we do a little different here. We have a weekend missions conference, but the Sundays involve four Sundays. And the idea and the hope of that is that by the fourth Sunday of all of you coming together for worship and hearing about God's global purpose Sunday after summer, Sunday, that um Perhaps by the fourth Sunday, after hearing these issues addressed from Scripture and current events, that you'll begin to become really interested. in what God's doing to bring all the nations to Jesus Christ, that you will in fact find that it's rather exciting To think about what God's doing throughout the world today. In these final days of what could be the countdown, the final countdown of history. And that as you hear this, it will dawn on you, we're going to win. You know? I mean, there's something about missions that when you understand it, affects everything else you do. Because all of a sudden you have a bigger understanding of who God is, what his purposes are, and what he's doing throughout all of history. And it's going to dawn on you, you know, we're going to win this. One day, every knee is going to bow before Jesus Christ. And he is going to bring from every tongue and tribe and nation and people group. The confession of Jesus Christ as Lord. And so you begin to hunger to get in on the action. You begin to say to yourself, you know, I don't want to miss out on this. I mean, God's really doing a great thing. How can I get in on it and be part of it? That's what we're hoping. And so, my part in this of the four messages will be given is to declare to you this morning the theme of our conference From Psalm ninety six three. You see it right there on the banner. And uh I want to promise you that banner's not gonna be there just this Sunday. Uh I want especially to thank Lorena and I don't know who else was involved in all that of uh uh getting together and planning that thing, designing it and sewing it. But I hope that any Sunday that that's up there that you see that You'll remember Psalm 96. 3. You'll remember that our God is a global God who has a great purpose. And that we as his people are to declare his glory among the nations. Psalm 96. 3 reads. In total, declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. Now, I want to suggest that as we look at that verse, that probably two questions, consciously or subconsciously, occur to us if we think about it. The one question is, how do you do that? How do you declare his glory? And the second is, who should do it? Who's this speaking to when it says declare his glory among the nations? What does that mean? How does that work out? Who's called to do that? To understand that, I want to divide this text into two parts. I want to speak first of all on what we declare his glory and then where we declare it among the nations. First of all, then what do we declare? His glory. Now, how do we do this? Well, remember when we looked at James chapter 2, verse 1. Some weeks ago, when we took a look at the Lord of glory, that we saw there that God's glory was his reputation as he is revealed to his creatures. God's glory is his weight, his honor, his majesty, his presence, what makes him impressive to his creatures. Now, this tells us that there are two things that make God impressive. To his creatures. The context of this verse. Verse 2 tells us there are two things: his name And his salvation. See their verse 2? Sing to the Lord, praise his name. That's the first thing. Proclaim his salvation day after day, and then declare his glory among the nations. That suggests to you that to declare his glory is to declare his name and to declare his salvation. And that's what's involved in it. Now, what is God's name? Well, God, as you know, has many names in Scripture, but there are two names that stand out more than all the other names that God has in Scripture The first is the name Elohim. We declare his glory when we declare that he is Elohim. The word Elohim is the word that's translated in our Bibles as God, capital G small O D. And Elohim literally means the strong, faithful one. It's the very first name of God that we come upon in the Bible. Genesis 1 is full of that name. In the beginning, God, Elohim, created the heavens and the earth. And so the psalmist goes on in verses four to six to speak of his creation. See what he says: For great is the Lord and most worthy of praise. He is to be feared above all the Elohimes. For all the Elohimes of the nations are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. Splendor and majesty are before him. His strength and glory are in his sanctuary. Why? Because he made everything. Well, now you know, as you're sitting here and I say, we give God glory, we declare his glory among the nations because his name tells us that he's the God that made everything So see how glorious he is. That's rather vague in general to you, and so it's rather unimpressive. And since we don't have time to go over the whole creation this morning, you know, it's sort of like the exam question, describe the universe and give two examples. Well, you know, you really just can't cover it. And so what I want to do is just to focus on one tiny thing about his creation In order for us to get some sense of his glory, I'd like to give you a rather timely example in the light of the last month. Consider snow. Consider, in fact, one tiny snowflake. One snowflake made by Elohim Is just one little accumulation of a number of molecules in a crystalline structure That little crystal may contain ten sextillion molecules. And you put all those little O's up there, you know, and that's a lot of molecules. Ten sextillion molecules, all arranged in particular formation of perfectly symmetrical crystalline shape. Now, how many ways can you combine 10 sextillion molecules in crystalline forms? To give you some idea, what are the odds of two of those snowflakes, of all the snow that fell in Maryland in the last month, about two feet? What are the odds that just two, any two of those snowflakes, would be exactly alike? Or what would be the odds that any two snowflakes that have fallen in all of the United States this winter? Would be exactly alike. Or what would be the odds that any two snowflakes that have fallen in the entire world in the last year, including all the snow in the Arctic and the Antarctic? Would be exactly alike? Or what would be the odds that exactly the two snowflakes would be exactly the same in their structure and design Of all the snow that has ever fallen in all the world, including all the glacial ages, when the snow fell so thick and so dense That the ice that was compacted reached five miles high in the northern United States. What are the odds that just two of those snowflakes would have been exactly alike? Mathematicians tell us that the odds against it are enormous, that any two would have ever been exactly alike. What glory. And who even notices them? You know, the very core of a snowflake is not fully understood. The best I understand from what I've read. Somehow, the core of that thing, in some way that isn't fully understood, attracts tiny infinitesimal droplets of water Droplets of water that are too light to fall to the earth, and so they're suspended. Now, how small are these little droplets of water that come together to form a snowflake? If you were to take 10,000 of those droplets of water and line them up end to end, they would cover the distance of the head of a pin. 10,000 of them. Now, as these little droplets form in a crystal around this little core, that creates a field of energy that attracts more droplets. And so in its own minute little storm, this snowflake is born, and as it gains weight, it begins to fall, perhaps as far as six miles. Down to Earth, changing shape as it accumulates and forms and reforms and is reshaped all the way down until it lands on Earth, its own unique journey, forming its own unique pattern. And who cares? But that's how glorious our God is. That He designed snowflakes. With such care and such beauty. If you've ever wanted to see him, I mean you can just get one of those little radio shack. We got these things, you know, a little 30-power microscope, you know And just take a black glove and watch them as they fall in a snowstorm. And think, what glory, what power Declare his glory and his splendor among the nations. No wonder the response that he gives in verses 7 to 9 says, Ascribe to the Lord, O families of nations, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory that's due to his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts, you see The glory that's due to his name, Elohim, the strong, faithful one who designs the snowflakes, the stars, and all the rest of it. Worship the Lord, he says, in the splendor of his holiness. Tremble before him, all the earth. Worship. Prostrate yourself before him. Tremble before him as you realize the extent of his glory. And is that what we do? Many of us don't give a snap of fingers to the glory of God. And we live as if he's entirely dispensable to our lives. And so the psalm goes on to remind us of this God. And it says in verse 10 and following, say among the nations that the Lord reigns. The world is firmly established. It cannot be moved because he will judge the people with equity. Let the heavens rejoice, let the earth be glad, let the sea resound, and all that's in it, let the fields be jubilant and everything in them, and then not all the trees of the forest will sing for joy. They will sing before the Lord, for he comes. He comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his truth. And so this Psalm says, hey, you can't ignore this God. You can't take or leave this God of glory. If you in fact dare to ignore him and live as if he is dispensable, except in times when you're scared or in grief Then remember that this God is going to come to judge the earth. He is going to judge with absolute righteousness. And that should make you and me, as verse 9 says, tremble before him. Tremble before the Lord of glory. The Lord of such power and splendor, who in his righteousness will judge with exacting justice And so it's a good thing for us that his name is not only Elohim, the strong, faithful one who is just and powerful But it's also Jehovah or Yahweh, the strong, eternal I am. The God who revealed himself to Moses as the eternal I am, the eternal, faithful, covenant-keeping, self-existent God. The one who is totally dependent on no one but himself, totally self-existent, not only the creator, Elohim, but the Redeemer, Jehovah. Nobody knows how those four Hebrew letters are to be pronounced. Some say Jehovah, some say Yahweh. In our English Bibles, we see it designated by the The large L and then the small capital O R D. Whenever you see that, that is this word Jehovah or Yahweh, which is referring to the covenant name of God. And in this name, he describes himself as the God of salvation to us, the God who keeps the covenant of grace with his people. And so we move on to the second thing. You see, not only do we praise his name, verse 2, but we proclaim his salvation day after day. His deeds of salvation are glorious, as well as his name. You see, his people were slaves. In the most powerful nation of all the earth, held in bondage. And God freed them with his strong arm, he says. He humbled that nation and he brought that nation to its knees and he brought his people out. So that on the opposite side of the Red Sea, as they see their enemies drowned in that sea, what do they sing? I will sing unto the Lord, for he has triumphed. Gloriously declare his glory among the nations. The horse and the rider he has thrown into the sea. And so God says that I have borne you on eagle's wings, and I have brought you to myself. I have made for you a land, a fruitful, wide, spacious, beautiful land of soul. Springs of streams, well forested. Don't think of Canaan as it is today. Think of it in forests and streams, lush and verdant. A fruitful land flowing with milk and honey. And God says, I have brought you to myself, into this my kingdom. And so Israel becomes a great nation. And they erect a temple there, a temple in which God's glory dwells. As a sign for all the nations to come and to see that this is the God of glory. But Israel forgets their God. And they no longer walk with him. And the cloud of glory over the temple becomes the smoke of destruction and doom for them. But out of that destruction, out of that wasteland, God says, I'm going to raise up a remnant. And that remnant, from that remnant is going to come a shoot that will declare my glory. He describes that in Isaiah chapter 40 He says, a voice of one calling in the desert, Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the wilderness a highway for our God. Every valley shall be raised up, every mountain mountain will be made low, the rough ground shall become level. And the rugged place is a plain, and the glory of the Lord will be revealed. And all mankind will see it together. The mouth of the Lord has spoken it. And so from this barren wasteland, God says, there comes a shoot, a little green shoot, the Messiah. The Messiah who is going to come to deliver God's people not just from their enemies, but from sin itself and all its effects. And we look at him and we say, this is God's glory. And the Bible says we look at him and we say, we see nothing in him that appeals to us. In fact, we see him marred more than any man. We see this one scarred and bruised and beaten. And we see him hanging upon a cross, and we say, This is God's glory. And the scriptures say yes. This is glory of glories. Jesus says in John 17, this is the hour of my glory. Why? Because it's at that point that God is made most impressive to his creatures For the Lord of glory, the Lord of righteousness, power, and splendor, because of his great, infinite love. Becomes the scorn, the mocking of the vilest of men, and gives up his life to save you and to save me. To take our sin, to take the wrath that we deserved, so that in his rising again He would bring to us new life so that as Psalm 96, when He comes to judge the earth in righteousness, you and I will have His righteousness. And we will face him unashamed because we will have the very righteousness of Jesus. For he's taken our sin and he's given to us his righteousness. And so you see, as the psalm speaks of this, it says, this is a song. It's a new song. Sing to the Lord. Sing a new song. Sing all the earth. Sing to the Lord and praise his name. Proclaim his salvation day after day. Declare his glory among the nations. Do you see why you can't mumble that? You can't even say it. You've got to say it Nobody can sing it. Hey, have even one little amen. Declare his glory. What glory he's given to us. You see, now you've got to see that in order for the rest of it to make any sense. You see, if you don't understand something of that glory that's revealed in his name and his salvation, You're never going to want to declare that to the nations. See, because that's the where of it. And where do we do this? The Psalm says we do it among the nations. Among the nations. You see, his glory is a global glory. His salvation is a global salvation. Verse 1: Sing to the Lord all the earth, and therefore We declare his glory and his salvation to all people. That's his intention. It was his intention right from the beginning. In Genesis 12:3, when he called Abraham out in the beginning of this covenant, what did God say? He said to Abraham, My promise to you is that through your family all the nations of the world will be blessed. In Isaiah 49 in verse 6, when he described that Messiah to come through the line of Abraham, he says that he is not going to come simply for the salvation of Israel. But he is going to come as a light to the Gentiles, not all nations of the earth will see salvation because of him. And you come to Daniel chapter seven. A remarkable passage in the light of God's global purposes. You remember in Daniel chapter 7, Daniel saw that image of the one who was like the Son of Man. Coming with the clouds of heaven. And he approached the ancient of days and was led into his presence. He was given authority, glory, and sovereign power All peoples, nations, and men of every language come to worship him. And his dominion is an everlasting dominion That will not pass away, and his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. When was that fulfilled? It was fulfilled on a hill in Galilee. About 40 days after Jesus rose from the dead, when he called his disciples together and he said, In effect, Daniel 7 has now been fulfilled right here. All authority, he said, has been given unto me. Therefore, go and make disciples of all the nations. Declare my glory among the nations. Do you see that the reason that we declare his glory among all the nations is because Jesus has been enthroned over all the nations. We serve a Jesus now who is not simply king of those who acknowledge him here and there in little pockets of resistance. He is the Lord of all the nations. And he's saying, Therefore, go to it. Bring the nations to come and to acknowledge that I have been enthroned and rightfully have gained inheritance to the nation. Psalm two as we looked at back in Christmas time. And so, what does this mean for us? Well, first of all, let me say three things that it does not mean for us. before I mention what it does mean. First of all, it does not mean that when you look at Psalm 96. 3, that that verse has a label on it that says for missionaries only. You know, I think that there's a danger that we can look at that verse and we can say, well, you know, it says, uh, declare his glory among the nations. That's what missionaries are called to do. And that must be a very precious verse for them. But you see, that verse really isn't for me because I'm not called to be a missionary. But you see, the psalm doesn't say anything about that. The psalm is the song of God's people. This is our song. This is your song. If you sing that new song by which you praise his name, then part of that song is this stanza. You see, declare his glory among the nations. That's your song and my song, as well as any missionary who's gone anywhere in the world. And so we've got to block out that division in which we see missionaries are called to the Great Commission and the rest of us are called to other things. That somehow we see that the Great Commission is calling all of us as entirely the sent church. Different places, different capacities, but that all of us feel at home. Singing Psalm 96. 3 See, that's what I want us to see. That somehow you feel at home when you sing, declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deeds among all peoples. That's your song, and you identify with it. Second thing that it does not mean is that it's simply a fond wish that has no practical implications. Declare his glory among the nations, his marvelous deed among all peoples. I don't know what that means, but you know it sounds nice to sing it because it'd be nice to think that somebody's doing that But it somehow has no practical implications for me. I'll touch on that in a couple of minutes on the positive side. But the third thing that it does not mean is that all of us are therefore to go abroad. You see, it's not somehow, you know, I think we come to missions conferences and you got this idea that, you know, this guy really has a hidden agenda because he says come to the missions conference. Because, you know, not all of us are called to go, but we want you to just come and find out. But you see, down in that pocket there, he's got this little agenda that says, if I really had my way, you'd all go. And of course, some of you aren't really going to be obedient, and so we'll settle for second best, but we'll take what we can get, and the more that go, the better. That's not what we're saying I personally, and I know the session would speak for this, wouldn't want all of you to go. Not just because we wouldn't have anybody left in the church, you know. But it's we believe that it's not God's will for us to all go abroad. God has a different purpose for the different parts of the body. We don't think that in fact when you look at the different uh imbalances of who's working among the different families of the nations of the earth, that in fact all parts of the body are being fully obedient. But we do not say that all of us ought to go abroad. But all of us must be willing to go abroad. Because, as you've heard here many times before, if you're not willing to go, you're not qualified to stay. And so I must be willing to go anywhere in order to find out where the Lord wants me to go. And once I have settled that with him, then in peace I can do whatever he's calling me to do in my part in the Great Commission. Now, what does it mean positively? First of all, it means that our evangelism is doxological. What do I mean by that? I mean that when I look at Christians and we consider this matter of the Great Commission, I find that Christians in general are dripping with guilt. You know, you you look at a a Christian and and particularly for us who have had a lot of Bible teaching, if you've been around here for a while or in other churches that preach the Bible, you already know a lot more than you're doing, right? And so because you already know more than you're doing, there's always this little uneasiness of the things that you know that you could be doing, but you haven't yet implemented into your life that the Lord's shown you. And so when you bring up the Great Commission and the fact of declaring his glory among all the nations, you say, there's another whole area, you know. And I know if I really thought about that, I'd just probably feel more guilty about that. And so I really don't need to think about that a whole lot. And I wish this was two Sundays instead of four Sundays, you know? But you see, what I want you to see is God never called somebody by guilt to declare his glory. You can't do it. You see, you declare his glory because you have seen his glory. And when you have seen his glory and fallen in love with Jesus Christ, Then you simply are open to where he wants you to be. But you don't do it out of guilt. So relax. If you feel guilty, then we want you to go anyway. Because what you need to do is you need to re-look at how you see Jesus Christ. And as you look at him May the Lord lighten and free you up from that load so that in your love for Jesus Christ, He brings you to the place of new freedom. To declare his glory. And that you see that whether it's with your neighbors, the people you work with, whoever it is, that declaring his glory is a song, not the mumblings of a guilty conscience. Declare his glory. Sing the new song. Our evangelism is doxological. It's full of praise. And it's motivated by praise. Secondly, What I want to say that this does mean is that we are all, whatever our calling, called to the Great Commission. Now, you see, again, what I want you to see, what I hope you'll see, particularly this next weekend, is that we are involved in the most exciting enterprise that's going on in the history of man. I mean, God is doing some exciting things now. And if you don't believe that, just read anything that's being put out by the U. S. Center for World Mission. You know, missions has really come a long way in the last ten or twenty years. We used to look at all the peoples of the world and we'd just say, look at them all out there. You know, there's two billion people out there There and most of them have never heard. And then it got to be three billion people, and most of them, and then four billion people, and most of them. Now it's over five billion people, and most have never heard. So at that point, you've got to think up a new strategy, you know? And God has given us one. You see, because now what missiologists have done is they have said, it's not, it really doesn't help to look at them as just a mass of people. Psalm 96:3 says, What? Declare his glory among the nations. The word nations there is the word for the Hebrew that means people groups, distinct ethnic people groups that have a distinct self-identity. And missiologists have identified a number of these in the world today. You know how many? About 24,000 people groups. Of those 24,000 people groups, about 7,000 have heard of Jesus Christ and have active churches within their midst. That's the bad news. 17,000 do not have any viable witness within their group. The good news is the 7,000 comprise about half the world's population. So now you're only talking about about half the world's population that doesn't have any witness within it, of those 17,000 smaller people groups. But of those 17,000 smaller people groups, strategies have now been designed, if you can believe this, that say that if we were to mobilize the resources that we right now have in the church. The other 17,000 people groups could be reached by the year 2000. You believe that? Take China. Before the communists came, many parts of China, the church was 3% of the population or less. Some of those same parts of China now have over 80% professing Christians. Since The purge to eliminate Christianity from China. Do you know how many Chinese there are that are Christians right now? The best estimates of missiologists say that there are 50 million evangelical professing Christians. in the Chinese mainland today. God is doing a fantastic work in our day. And so all of us When we begin to see what's going on, get excited about being part of this to declare his glory among the nations in various ways. I don't have time to tell you the ways now. We'll talk about that the weekend. But there's one last thing, two last things I want to leave you with. One is, did you got to be informed in order to be obedient. And so if there's one practical step of obedience I want to take, want you to take from this whole thing, it's to come this next weekend. To come Friday. To come Saturday, to come Sunday, to learn what God is doing in our midst, behind the Iron Curtain, in Europe. Harvey Kahn speaking about in the cities of the world next Sunday morning. Come and find out what God is doing and how He's calling you to be part of that great enterprise. And there's one last thing that I want to share with you as a step of application for just some of you. God has called me to declare morning after Sunday morning after Sunday morning his glory here in Columbia. To you, to those that God brings here. And I've been recently made aware of my absolute weakness in doing that. The fact that I am profoundly a sinner And that I need Jesus Christ to break me, to fill me full of faith and confidence, in order that I might declare his glory. And this is so far beyond me, because I am such a sinner, that I've come to see that I can't even depend on my own prayers. And so I would like to seek for a committed core of a dozen or so people who would say, I will pray for you twice a week. That God will enable you to declare his glory. One time during the week while you're preparing, and one time before or during the Sunday morning worship. Twelve or so people that would commit themselves to pray that God would make me more fearless, more bold, more broken. Not trying to please you. But the Lord Jesus. You know, that's a subtle thing. Being willing to be a fool in order that I might bring Christ to you and you to Christ. bolder, more confident of the gospel, of God's transforming power in the gospel here on Sunday mornings. If you would be interested in that, see me afterwards during the break. I'll just jot down your name. We'll get together later about it. You and I are called to declare his glory among the nations. Let's seek for God to show us what that means for each of us in this next week. Let's pray. Lord, we pray. Show each of us what this means. Bring us, Lord, to become an informed congregation, excited about what you are doing in this day. As your glory is declared among the nations, your marvelous deeds among all peoples. Amen.