I was sharing with some between the services this morning about my struggle this week with this sermon. And it's particularly because of this that I um I've struggled because I've recognized something about my own history of preaching. Then as I look back this week over just generally speaking the many sermons that I've preached, I recognize something of a trend, and that is I never confine preaching the cross of Christ to Good Friday. I often refer to what Jesus did on the cross, hopefully every Sunday. But what's interesting is I've recognized in the trajectory of my preaching of how often I've confined the resurrection and preaching the resurrection to Easter Sunday morning. Why is that? I've often wondered that, and I think it's because this week I've struggled with this because I'm humbled and I'm saddened that I have not preached this more frequently. And to that end, a part of the preparation we were planning on preaching through First Peter, when I recognized when we talked to the pastoral staff, well then we should preach the the letter of 1 Peter after Easter, and the theme is Living the resurrection. And so that's what we're going to do. Living the resurrection in the letter of 1 Peter. But of course that's not where I am this morning. What I want to talk about is what do we do with Easter? This week in preparing, I ran across a wonderful essay by Frederica Matthews Green. She's a wonderful writer And she talks about what to do with Easter. And she says, we don't know what to do with Easter as Americans because when was the last time you ever heard of a Toyota dealership uh promoting empty tomb discounts on Toyota Corollas? We just don't respond to Easter the same way. Her suggestion is not that we somehow commodify Easter like we have Christmas. But her point is well taken. And it was really driven home when she received at Christmas a letter from a friend who is Jewish. Who does not believe in Jesus, but he sent her a Christmas card, and in it he included this letter. And he said these words Looking at Christmas, And looking at it as an event, as a man raised in a Jewish home, the big celebration in Christianity should be Easter. No Easter, no Christianity. So all the focus on Christmas can, at least to me, seems misdirected. Why Christians don't whoop it up more at Easter is a mystery to me. How inspirational, exclamation point. How joyful, exclamation point. That is the time to toast each other, lay on gifts, attend worship services, pack in the rich food, something really substantial and holy to remember. Frederica Matthews Green concludes, No Easter, no Christianity. Mitch has a point. If Jesus didn't rise from the dead, who cares whether he was born in a manger or a 7-Eleven? If he didn't rise from the dead, Christmas is meaningless too. This day ought to be the beginning. Of the rest of our year spent celebrating resurrection. And so this morning we turn to a familiar passage, one of the gospel accounts of the resurrection, drawn from Matthew 28, verses 1 through 11. And here we find women deep in wonder. And as we conclude this series, The Road to Jerusalem We've been highlighting the work of Jesus Christ and as he came into contact with people, how those people were changed. Here we find no less the story. People coming into contact with the risen Jesus who are left changed. But that change looks different depending on the person. Let's see what happens. After the Sabbath at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb. There was a violent earthquake, for an angel of the Lord came down from heaven, and going to the tomb, rolled back the stone and sat on it. His appearance was like lightning and his clothes were white as snow. The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men. The angel said to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know what you are looking for, Jesus, who is crucified. He is not here. He is risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he lay. Then go quickly, tell his disciples He is risen from the dead and is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him. Now I have told you. So the women hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy, and ran to tell his disciples. Suddenly Jesus met them. Greetings, he said. He said. They came to him, clasped his feet, and worshiped him. Then Jesus said to them, Do not be afraid Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. There they will see me. Pray with me. Lord, by the power of your Holy Spirit and the truth of your word, I pray that you would greet us this morning with the truth of the resurrection. And just as these women were transformed into worshipers from those preparing a body in its tomb. May you transform us. Make us a people of wonder. Deep in wonder. That we might live the resurrection. And that we might be witnesses to you in the world. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen So I lay before you this morning you see the outline, and I want to look at this text recognizing it could be looked at from a number of different ways. I want to look at it this morning in with two ways. One, I want you to see the wonder. And number two, I want you to see the fear. Both the wonder and the fear are the result of the risen Christ. And I want you to see the ingredients of the wonder. And I want you to see the two kinds of fear But first, let's begin with wonder. Wonder is not a word that we use very frequently. But let me just give a stab at a definition. Wonder is the response of being caught off guard by something completely other, something new, something altered. But coming into contact with something that is wonderful changes people. And as I said, that is what happens in this passage. But to be able to enter into this kind of wonder, what I will call biblical wonder. Requires that we deal with the ingredients of biblical wonder. The ingredients of biblical wonder is a belief in the death and life of Jesus. As well as a wonder filled with reverence and intimacy. The ingredient of wonder is a belief in the death and life of Jesus. As well as a reverence and intimacy with him. Let me begin with death and life. I did phrase it just that way because this is life after death. Or, if you will, it is life after life after death. This is Jesus who prepared and explained to all of his disciples. And even these women who attended his disciples, and we learned from the chapter before that these women were a part of the group of women who actually provided for the needs of Jesus. Jesus and his disciples. So they were traveling in the same company. They will have heard Jesus explain what was going to happen. And he explained that he was going to a cross willingly, offering himself as a sacrifice. As an offering to God to receive God's wrath, that forgiveness for sins might be achieved, that God's wrath would be completely satisfied. That the debt that human beings owe because of sin before a holy God would be paid in full. And then he said, On the third day I will be raised from the dead, I will rise again, and you will see me. So what Matthew is doing in this part of the chapter is he's coming to the end. And what I want you to remember is those who are at least this morning. Following along with me. I don't know if you read the Bible very much, but if you do, I want you to remember that we do believe it to be the holy, inspired, and without error truth of God. But that doesn't mean it's not literature. The Holy Spirit, guiding these authors, understood that they were telling a story to a particular audience. The audience that Matthew was writing to was different than the audience that Mark was writing to, or that John was writing to, or that Luke was writing to. They had different personalities, they had different concerns And if you harmonize and look at all the different accounts of the resurrection, it adds up to what real eyewitness testimony looks like. There is similarity in the story, the basic General theme of what happened at the resurrection is recorded for us in the four gospels, but you also see different eyewitness accounts. You see different elements brought out. And here in Matthew, he's getting to the end of that which we take for granted. If you will, he was getting to the end of his paper. Scrolls were only so long. The Gospel of Matthew and Luke and John actually measure out to be the standard length of a scroll used during that time to record events. Mark's is about half that long. But what we find is that Matthew's getting to the end of the story, so therefore we need to be attentive as readers. That means as an author, he was paying attention to every detail. He was not just throwing things out there for just for the sake of writing it. He cared about the detail. So that which we read, we need to understand that when Matthew is writing He understands it to be, and he's recording these who are witnesses, that the resurrection of Jesus is both historical and body, bodily resurrection. It was real. It really happened. But here's what I want to say. Biblical wonder is filled with first belief in the death and life of Jesus. You will not understand biblical wonder unless you believe what this scripture says is actually true. So let me address that for just a brief moment. I recognize that there are many here this morning, or at least plenty for sure, who may not even believe that this event recorded in this part of the gospel or any of the gospels for that matter is even true. There are many arguments that I believe are leveled against the scriptures, which every Christian ought to be familiar with and be ready to receive. But let me just bring up two very common arguments against the historicity of the resurrection. One is this. That the people of this time believed in myth. The world of first century Judaism was full of myth. myth from other cultures surrounding them, and all this was was a group of people carrying into their story the myth of the cultures around them to simply give legitimacy To what it is they believe, to give their religious movement enough power, enough oomph, enough reason to exist. So really all that we have here in the Gospels is just another myth. Now that is a very substantial, very serious argument, one that needs to be respected and need one that needs to we dec need to come to grips With. But I will tell you that one of the finest, if not the finest, book ever written on the historicity of the resurrection was written six years ago by N. T. Wright. It's called The Resurrection of the Son of God. And he deals with this particular argument. And here's what we know: that if you believe that the gospels simply are another form of first century myth making. We will have misunderstood the history of myth making in the first century. Never ever would those seeking to write a myth have included this kind of detail. First, there would not have been eyewitnesses, and if there were eyewitnesses, I will tell you, there would not have been, and let me say this, and I say it on good authority There would not have been a Jew living in the first century who would have written this story about a Messiah rising bodily from the ground and used women as a witness. I say not that not in humor. I say it in reality. Women's testimony did not hold up in any court of law. Any form of testimony from women must be substantiated by men. And yet, in all of the gospel accounts Who are the first witnesses to the resurrection of Jesus? Women. First of all, that tells us what God thinks of women. Second of all, it tells us that something really happened. Because myth doesn't read like eyewitness accounts I mean, go to John, for example. In John, what we hear? We hear Jesus appearing to his disciples, and do you know what he asked them for? He says, Can you give me some fish? He takes the fish and he eats it. There is not a myth of a resurrected Messiah that includes that kind of mundane detail. It's more sensationalized. It's more like angels bursting through gates and Screaming about some just incredible eschatological event of some amazing glory. What do we have? We have a risen Savior with scars on his hands and a hole in his side. scars on his feet and he says, Can you give me some fish? Let's have breakfast It would not have included that kind of detail and it would not have included women as key witnesses Secondly, another argument that is often used is that, well, actually, what's interesting is the fact that, well, they all believed in resurrection of this time. This was just sort of using one of those resurrection stories and applying it to Jesus. Another very good argument. Except for the fact if we go back and really study it, we will learn that not everyone, and certainly not every Jew, believed in resurrection. The Sadducees, who are a major part of the religious political structure, Did not believe in resurrection. The Pharisees did, but their view of resurrection was based on largely Daniel chapter 12, verses 2 and 3, that tells of a great resurrection at the end of history. And it was going to be a large group of people, not one individual, and it doesn't mention a Messiah. What's interesting is no other form of idea or belief about the resurrection within Jewish thought ever, ever included a dying Messiah being raised from the dead in the middle of history. And certainly not appearing to human beings to prove that it happened. In fact, we don't have the time here But NC Wright unpacks seven different ways, major ways, that every view of resurrection but in first century Judaism completely was turned upside down by this one of There's no way of explaining that change in a whole culture's thought about resurrection unless it really happened. And there is an empty tomb. Now here's what I recognize. I do not expect, because I'm not a lawyer And because I can't reach into your brains or into your hearts and flip a switch, that you're going to somehow suddenly be convinced by these arguments. What I do want to ask you is this If you do not believe them to be historical or true or whether it was a real bodily resurrection, I would simply ask you to take the opportunity to have take your doubt to take your arguments and go and study the different accounts. Put it to the test. But what I will say is this if you don't believe it to be true, biblical wonder means nothing. All that we're doing here means nothing. But what I will invite you to believe and to think. Is that if you're willing to doubt what I have said, if you're willing to doubt what the scriptures claim about this resurrected Savior, would you be willing to doubt yourself? And give it a chance. Because what I will tell you is that the doubt that you bring with you this morning You're in good company in the Gospels. His disciples doubted These women, who were just one chapter before, bystanders to the crucifixion, are now moved to the center of the drama of the resurrection. And what I want you to see is that when the angel appears to them, they begin to see the dawn of a whole new wonder take over their lives and what do they do? They run. Look back at the passage. So the women, verse eight, women hurried away from the tomb, afraid yet filled with joy, and ran to tell his disciples. So they were running. Before they didn't even seen Jesus. They were running to tell the disciples, and yet Jesus suddenly appears to them and he says, Greetings. I'm very thankful for Eugene Peterson, who's written a contemporary translation to the scriptures. He he translates greetings as good morning. He he he doesn't frighten them. He greets them. He welcomes them. Greetings. And then notice what they do. They came to him, clasped his feet, and worshipped him. What I want you to see is that biblical wonder That dawns on the soul of those who believe that Jesus was really raised from the dead after dying for our sins and is now victorious over sin and death, that leads to reverence and Do you see the reverence? What do they do? It says they worship him. Now it gives us another detail. It gives us this. It says that they clasped his feet. What that tells me is in that moment they were on their knees and they reached out and they grabbed hold of his feet and they worshiped. And what that tells me is it's not just reverence, it's also intimacy. And when we in the human life comes into contact with the resurrected Savior, what begins to happen is both. There is an acknowledgement that this is the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, the one who is above all things, and he is also. My Savior. He's not far off. He is close. He does not say, What's your problem? He says greetings. And you know what's so amazing as I began to really peer into this text and I wrestled with God on this text. I rode my bike and when I was riding my bike, I was like, Lord I know there's something so wonderful here. Where is it? There's something you're trying to tell me. And then I began to see, and it just it Lit up for me, and I want to see if it lights up for you. Maybe not, but let me get all lit up, okay? And it's this I see in their reverence and their intimacy, in the clasping hold of the feet of Jesus, an element of surprise. They were running to tell the disciples, yet Jesus appears and they respond with in just innate worship and reverence, and they grab hold of him, and that tells me, hold on, wait a second. Wait just a second, and I backed up a minute and I thought, how many times did Jesus tell his disciples, and we therefore can assume because they were in the crowd, these women heard it too, how many times did Jesus actually tell his disciples that this is exactly what was going to happen. Once, twice, at least three times in one gospel In fact, it's so pronounced that one of them says, Are you Peter says, No, this is not going to happen to you. He says, No, get thee behind me, Satan. He rebukes his own disciples. So we know they heard it. And we know these women heard it. And yet, and yet Even though Jesus had taught it once, twice, three times, they, we would think, would have expected this. And yet, what I find in the midst of their wonder, in believing the death and life of Jesus, in grasping hold in reverence and intimacy, is a profound wonder that says you said it, but now it's so That means that could it be, as I looked at their reverence and their intimacy, I began to turn the text as a mirror to my own heart. And I began to wonder: do I fall into this kind of reverence and intimacy? Am I caught up with this kind of wonder? Or has my reverence, my doctrine, for example, of believing that God is in control of all history, that he knows the beginning from the end and the end from the beginning? Has my belief in that very biblical doctrine led me to not think that God can surprise me? Is God done surprising us? I mean, think about it for just a moment. Jesus told them this is what's going to happen. And yet they grasp hold of him. And they are amazed, filled with biblical wonder. And I wonder in my own heart: am I so caught up in my own daily routine Am I so satisfied with my button-down theology and doctrine and being a pastor and studying the scriptures that I have forgotten to be a man at the feet of a savior who is not done doing surprises. And I've begun to ask the question, and I ask you this question If they were taught this and yet they were still surprised and amazed and filled with wonder, can you imagine what kind of blind spots that we might have? What has God taught in His Word that are promises, yet we are not praying those promises? Because, well, do we really believe it? Because I tell you, if Jesus Christ died on the cross for my sins and was raised victorious over sin and death, then how much more is He not going to do greater things? Greater things of thee are spoken. May God by his spirit fill us with this kind of reverence and intimacy. May He awaken our souls not only to what He has done, but what He's going to do. Do you believe that Do you know he has said he has given you his spirit? Do you know that he says that he lives with you if you are a Christian and live by faith? That you carry within you the very presence of God, that He will give you the power and the strength that nothing will separate you from His love What surprises could he have in store for us? I, for one, after reading this and studying this text, I want that wonder. But I recognize That I need him to transform my fear as well. Not only does He Jesus' appearance give wonderful and incredible transforming of wonder, he also transforms fear. There are two kinds of fear in this passage. There's a fear that cripples and a fear that energizes. Look with me, if you will, chapter 28, verse 4. Notice the fear of the guards. The guards were so afraid of him that they shook and became like dead men. I'm very thankful to Eugene Peterson who taught me this. This kind of fear that cripples in this passage is a fear that locks these guards up in self-preoccupation. They are caught up so much in what has happened, not being drawn to Christ and what he has done, but they begin to wall themselves off from what he's done. Done. They're so preoccupied and afraid of what's going to happen. We could see it unfolding, couldn't we? In chapter twenty-seven, we hear that in fact the Pharisees and the chief priests actually went to Pilate and said, Look You better post some guards at the tomb because of this. So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day, otherwise his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead, this last deception will be worse than the first. Do you hear the fear? You hear the preoccupation with self? You hear the walling off? They're wanting to wall off everybody because they are afraid of what Jesus is going to do. And then the guards, they see this happen. They practically faint, act like they're dead. And then what we have just after that, the report of the guards. It says while the women were on their way, some of the guards went into the city, reported to the chief priest everything that had happened. When the chief priests had met with the elders and devised a plan, they gave the soldiers a large sum of money. Telling them, you are to say, his disciples during the night stole him away while we were asleep. If this report gets to the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble. So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed, and this story has been widely circulated among the Jews to this very day. Do you hear the fear that cripples? They're trying to wall themselves off from a God who's just been raised from the dead, victorious over sin and death. And as I contemplated that fear, I began to wonder: is the problem of belief first and foremost that we don't believe in the historicity? Of the bodily resurrection of Jesus? Or is it that we're really afraid that if we do believe it, what is God going to do with us? If this is what he can do to these women, bringing them from bystanders to the center of the drama, then sending them out as the first apostles to tell the disciples of what have happened, what will he do with me? If this is how people's lives are transformed, what is he going to do with me? Maybe, just maybe, I I want to submit to you this morning. Our biggest problem with Jesus is not that he The problem is historicity. The problem is maybe he will do to us exactly what he said he would. He will make us his children and he will make us new. And our lives no longer belong to us. They belong to the risen Savior. I no longer belong to me. I belong to another. And maybe, maybe, that's just what I don't want. Just a thought. But there's another fear here that doesn't cripple, it does the opposite. It energizes And and here I I want to say from the words of Eugene Peterson, it's this. It's it's a a fear that energizes because it abandons self. Do you see that in the women? It tells us. Again, I I absolutely love and I know we're getting Let me hurry here. But I love this crisis. Afraid. That's the very same word that they just used about the guards who are afraid. Same word. But it's a different kind of fear. Afraid yet filled with joy Let me submit to you. The fear that these women felt is the same fear that the guards felt, except the guards were scared. This fear, God removes the scary and puts in the reassurance. These women are not scared. They are joyful because they are reassured. That Jesus is the Messiah. He is no longer dead He is alive. Biblical fear removes the scary and infuses fear with the joy of reassurance. Is that what describes our faith if you are a Christian? The resurrection has a deep and profound hope that takes fear Fear of circumstances, fear of the future, fear of the past, fear in relationship, fear in work. It takes all of those fears, it takes all the bad, and the hope of the resurrection infuses it with the truth of a Savior who who is victorious and because he was victorious, he doesn't forget the bad, he enters it, but he does so with victory, which is why Paul could say, Nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. I want that kind of fear. Afraid not of my circumstances But in awe and reassured that my risen and victorious Savior is the King over everything. Do you have that kind of fear? Does that fill you with wonder? I think we, if you're a Christian, I think we need to take more time. And I say this self-professingly As a very busy, because of my own work, very busy, quickly moving, not very good at reflecting, not always good at going deep. I need to go deep. Deep, deep in the wonder of these verses. Because Jesus is alive And if he is, that means as we enter into each day, we can do so. Saying You are alive. What are you going to do today? And just as he sent out these women To be the first prophet of his resurrection. And what does he want us to be? For those deep in wonder, for those whose fear has been transformed into a self-abandoning grasp of the Savior, He intends all of us to be witnesses to this resurrection. Not just for ourselves, not just for our families, but for the world, for your neighbors, for your friends. And for To you this morning that don't believe, consider this one. And may the Lord deliver you with a great wonder. Let's pray. Father, help us to believe But help us to trust. We confess, Lord, that we want to be our own Savior. That we would ask By your Holy Spirit and Word, transform our self-occupation to be abandoning to you Because you in the resurrection have entered back into the living world and are making all things new. Will you begin with us? That we may be witnesses to your power. Deep in wonder. In Jesus' name. Amen.