Today uh by your pd wanted it to be christmas your missions committee wanted it to do to be missions So we're doing both of those from Isaiah, which has more in it about missions than Messiah, actually. I've counted up. My Bible says 65 M's in the margin for mission. But it's about both. So we want to look at Isaiah 9. It's just so good for Carol and I to be able to be here with you today. It was very formative for us being here at Columbia Presbyterian Church as interns. We uh were how many here were part of the Mother Church? Down 29. Okay, a few people. All right. And uh and we were there. We came to Fort Me back when Marines guarded uh that place over there And uh any of you heard those stories about those days. And we joined uh the mother church of Columbia Presbyterian Church, came here with newly married, no kids. We had our first and then went to Camp Lejeune, but came under care of the Presbytery here to go to seminary. And then we're we went to seminary, you sent us to sem as Mother Church sent us to seminary with Three kids came out of seminary with four kids, came here with four kids to our actually number four was born here, and we went to Japan. with four and we were tempted one day coming back from session meeting Elder Al Bierkus I would drive him home after session meeting And he said, you know, Dan, you really you and Carol really fit in well here. Maybe you shouldn't go to Japan. And we got to Japan and learning that language and all the struggles and uh many things that I should have listened to Al and not gone to Japan And But that was you sent us December 6th, 36 years ago, this week. Thank you. Heard a Japanese uh missionary say, instead of telling the the taxi driver, Oroshekasai, let me out right here, he said, Koroshurasai, kill me right here. And another missionary wanted to say, We need more vision. And instead he said, We need more Beijing, which means beautiful woman. He told her, We need more beautiful women, or I can't be your pastor. Our church needs more beijing. And in those, and mine are worse than that. And I'm so thankful you all sent us to Japan because I am a proud, boastful person and and became like a little baby. And we had committed to 12 years and it was so hard those early years with no fruit, with it was just So difficult. Wanted to quit all the time, but your prayers, your giving sustained us, and the Lord began to bless. A presbyter who was born and um 36 years this Tuesday. So thank you for sending us. And I hope today, as we read this text and think about Christmas and missions, that the Holy Spirit would work in me and in you as we read this together. Let's hear God's word. Uh Isaiah chapter 9 verses 1 through 7. Deep darkness, great light, agonizing gloom, increasing joy. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Nephtali. But in the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest. As they are glad when they divide the spoil, for the yoke of his burden and the staff for his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor You have broken as on the day of Midian, for every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult, every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. For to us the child is born, to us the son is given, and the government shall be on his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government, and of peace, there will be no end. on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from this time forth and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Let's pray. Lord, as we come to your word now this Christmas season, think about Christmas and the Messiah who came that this text speaks of. And as we think about Him being the Savior of the whole world and our part in that. Would you come speak through me, Lord? I'm jet lag, woke up at 3. 30, just wide awake and tired. Pray you'd help me and my weakness to bring this message. Pray for my brothers and sisters here. As we look at these scriptures and think about this, that you would work in all of us, O Lord, our own walk with you, our joy in you, and our part, what you're calling us to be. How to be a part of what you're doing in Colombia and around the world. In Jesus' name. Amen. Deep darkness, great light, these verses speak of. Agonizing gloom, increasing joy. You see this picture here? Could you think of these people here? Twelve boys and one man. Haven't eaten for a week. They have had no light for a week. They think they're dying. They've lost all hope. And right when you, this picture right here, they are full of joy. Anybody know when this, remember this? The boys in Thailand, the whole world was captivated by this story. They went in a cave with their soccer coats, right? If I remember And as the water came in, as the as the rain came and they kept going back, they were four kilometers, two and a half miles back. in the cave. They their their flashlights gave out, of course. They had no food. They had plenty of water. But they they just you know think about being in talk this this text speaks of utter Darkness, you know, deep darkness. To think of the how the the despair as they I I've often as I've read that story and heard of it recently, read more about it what it must have been like in that coach trying to keep them together and keep them alive. But that second When those British divers to the whole world came, you know, from scores of countries. Hundreds and thousands of people were trying to figure out ways to get, you know, Elon Musk was going to try to dig a tunnel to get to them, but you know, impossible. But when those divers kept going further and further and they came out of the water, can you imagine what those boys thought when they saw that light? Come out of the water. And there was hope of rescue for them. What what joy there is. There is joy. In the light and joy that comes from knowing our Savior Jesus Christ. We want to think about that today. Just think first about these first verses, this deep darkness. This agonizing gloom. We live in Japan. So, you know, it's I come back to America, I think I'm in a third world country because Uh stuff doesn't work. Japan everything works, you know. Japan wanted to it's it's amazing. I said how can this country uh make everything work so well? J it's like the trains, the telephones, the Everything's clean and they were so such a proud country. Really wanted to show off the w the the Tokyo to the world when uh Uh, often I you know, I I I just think, why can't can't uh can't Amtrak come and study how we do our trains here, you know? And our in I all these years, Carol told me recently in Japan that she finally had a coke machine not work in Japan. I still have 36 years and and never not ever stole my money One time I was on a in a train station up in the Northern Island and I put my money in and I thought it stole my money, the ticket machine. And I said, yay, it was about the twenty year mark. Yay! Wiley, they're not perfect. Something brilliant the Japanese pastor says, no Dan, uh Chigai Musk, they're they're the machines are different up here. You did it wrong. You know, I made a mistake, you know. You know, this this incredible country, but as you look, if you if you research the the the joy index in the world of different countries, Japan Is really, really low. People are very sad. Depression is rampant. You would you would even think that, well, uh after World War II, beaten down two atomic bombs dropped on them. And I often ask and I remind Japanese people of this and this is sad to talk about uh suicide, but but this is real, this is life and death and in Japan, you know, which do Do you think was the highest suicide rate now when Japan is very, very rich and everything works and uh, you know, low way lower infant mortality rate Than America and all kinds of other things they beat us on. So do you think the suicide rate was higher after World War II when Japan is dirt poor, beaten down? Burned to the ground so many cities, or now? And the answer is now. Doesn't that tell us that seems counterintuitive? It shows us that that wealth and Edu 100% literacy rate and health care for everyone doesn't work. To give the joy that every single human being longs for. This promise here is about no more gloom because the light is coming. We look in verse 3, four times, it uses the word joy here. Uh this is like it it gives the example of like a harvest in the USA. This is hard for us to to to picture this. Yeah, really no food and the difficulty of no food. uh is in a third world country, poorest country in Asia, and they they see people that don't have food and that are really, really struggling. But we we just celebrated Thanksgiving. Do you remember how many people died? the first year of the pilgrims, half of the hundred and three or four that came died the first year. And why did they do Thanksgiving? To give thanks for the harvest. And that's what this verse 3 is about here. This this joy of a harvest. That's the kind of joy that as we head toward verse 6. that this Messiah is going to bring to us. There's this joy. You have multiplied the nation. You have increased its joy. They rejoice before you as with the joy of the harvest. as they are glad when they divide the spoil. This is this this theme of joy is is all through the Bible. It's uh it's something that to me has has has uh the the in more recent time I've become very excited thinking about the joy that that comes from that. Now this in verse four and five we see the joy that comes from someone defeating your enemies. Look at the end of verse 3. They are glad when they divide the spoil. Now, we Americans don't like these verses in the Bible about war. But I think what's going on in Ukraine will help us understand the last line of verse 3 and verse 4, the yoke of the burden. These are, you know, the the defeating the enemies. And if you look at this picture, you know who these people are? But when to guess what city they're from, it's a picture from the news these last weeks. They're from Carson. Why are they rejoicing? They are you know there are a bunch of pictures of the people in Kherson, Ukraine. Why are they rejoicing? Because of this kind of thing this text is talking about. When evil oppressors who raped and killed and hurt are defeated, there's great joy for the people in some of those other cities we've been reading about. in Ukraine, right? After they're driven out and defeated, after the enemy is driven out and defeated. There's this this promise of great joy. Westminster shorter catechism number one, do y'all still say that here sometimes at the church? What's the chief end of man? Glorify God. Okay, anybody want to say it in Japanese? This is from a sermon two weeks ago in Japan. I just put this slide in here. You know, to glorify God and enjoy him forever. Petey, don't tell our Presbytery this. But you know, sometimes I actually question this one was I get glorified God For sure. If you're going to pick two things, the first question, to say this is really central to what God calls us to be and do, is to glorify him. Yeah. But enjoy him forever? Is that biblical, everyone? Yeah, the last couple years I start read a psalm a day, go through Psalms twice a year, and I started circling in my Bible all the times it says joy, gladness, stuff like that. Showed you a picture of it. So you can see my uh my Bible. When I went to seminary, I never knew that my Bible would be English on the left side of every page and Japanese on the right side of every page. That was not That was not my plan. Our plan was to come back to Maryland and start a daughter church somewhere up here. But uh as you see that, you see it all, I've been circling all the places In Psalms and now in my whole Bible, that it speaks of joy. It is very central to the Bible. Do you believe that? I'm going to show you a couple Uh put put it next slide up here. You know, that I will rejoice and be glad in your steadfast love because you have seen my affliction, you have known the distress of my soul. So many of the places you'll notice. Start doing it. Circle the places. Talks about joy and gladness. are connected to distress and hardship. That somehow, in the midst of this fallen world where we have sickness and calamity and war, There can be there there's this joy that trumps all of a sudden, like those boys in that cave that the joy of being rescued trumped no food, trumped all the hard things they had just gone through. Or another uh uh I I love the picture of uh those uh folks in Kabul who are look really sad, but then you blow up the picture and they're full of joy, even though they haven't eaten for days. They've been living in a sewer because they're that 850 was it on one airplane being rescued from Kabul Airport. You remember that And and you see and the shout that goes up when the plane takes off, what trumped There, no food living in the sewer all those days, passing babies over the wall trying to get you remember that Why were those 850? I wonder, how do they go to the toilet on that? You know what picture I'm talking about, right? On the one of those big Air Force planes, you know, being rescued from there. Because rescue trumps everything. Trumps everything. And that's what we have in this. And all through the Bible we see this. Psalm 70, verse 4. You know, the same thing. All who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Verse Psalm 28. 7, and there are tons of them. I'll just, this is the last one I'll get. And I love this one in Japanese. Anybody want to guess what the Japanese is for exalt? I didn't notice this until this past year, you know, reading my quiet time reading English and Japanese. Dance, actually little dance. But you think exult in English, you kind of got to move a little bit. I saw some of the worshiping moving a little bit. We're Presbyterian, but you know, we can move a little bit, you know? You know, dancing. There's, you know, the the this the the joy of the Messiah and who it salvation being rescued trumps everything. Can I believe that? From my friend in Japan, Caroline with him three weeks ago. I think the mom cried for three hours of the three and a half hours we were together. Because their son committed suicide recently. And just praying for them as Christians, can they, in the agony of such a thing? Can they in their tears rejoice? And look, the Bible says we can't, we cry, we weep, we struggle. But that there can be, there's this joy. Carol and me, I think this has been the saddest year of our life. For sure. Saddest year of our life in our marriage ever. It was some hard a very hard thing. And I and I as I thought about that and thought about preaching a sermon from uh Romans 5 on we rejoice in our salvation. Not only this, we rejoice in our what? Verse 3? Afflictions, our suffering. You know, and thinking, you say, okay, cancer, yes. You know what I can't, I rejoice. But this, yes. God's caught in the agony and the struggles of this fallen world. that there's there's something greater that trust in our sovereign Lord and the Jesus who who this text speaks of, our Savior That we can rejoice even in these sad things. Maybe that's one of the applications for you today. Praying for yourself. Telling your small group, would you pray for me? But I can rejoice in that. And who is the one that brings that joy? It is the Messiah of verse 6. Jesus is the one, the promised Messiah here. He's the light. Jesus, he's the light that comes out of the gloom. He said, I am the light of the world. He's the wonderful counselor for all of those who are depressed. He's the best counselor. Yeah, we need to go to others to help us go to him. But he is the one. He is the mighty God, as a worship leader said. That was great. He's the God-man, the only one who could obey the law in our place. Keep the law in our place, die on the cross for our sins, and ever lives to make intercession for our sin. He's the everlasting father in Japan often as I one of the first in baptism class. The first one I do is in the prodigal son story and the love of the father. And the father running, running to welcome back his son. What I came to see, and I think it's true here as well, not all of us have a picture of a father who really is a I have a very loving father. Have away he's ninety-four, he's might still my mentor, love him so much. And uh really loved me, loved our loved, loved my mom, uh, loved us kids so well. There is not all of us have that here And but as I began to teach and preach a lot on that and the the the love of our Heavenly Father, the the joy for for folks who know of a Father like that or those who don't know of a father like that that we do have. We do know of the Father's love. And here it calls the Messiah in the mystery of it all and of the Trinity. The everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, how we need the peace that Jesus brings. He's the Messiah for all nations. Let's think about that now. Okay, I'm now mission committee. Sandy, I'm going to salute and obey what you want to salute. Now, where are we going to have to we're going to have to do eisegesis or can we do exegesis here to help this text help us see about missions? And this gospel, this Jesus being for the whole world. Right in verse 1, it's interesting, Sandy, a commentary you have on your desk, I noticed it more, Isaiah. And I looked to see if he saw this too, and he did, and that he speaks of Galilee of the nations, Galilee of the Gentiles. There's a hit here of the theme that Isaiah addresses a lot is hit in this passage, this great passage about the Messiah who's coming, Jesus was Jesus of Galilee. Galilee of the nation. In verse 3 it says, you have multiplied the nation. And we say, okay, what does that mean? You have multiplied the nation. We let Scripture interpret Scripture. And I am just amazed, as I mentioned at the beginning, of how Isaiah is so full of all of these passages. About the world, and that this gospel is for all the nations. In Matthew Henry, famous Bible commentary in his introduction to Isaiah, he calls Isaiah the fifth gospel. Because it's so much about the gospel. And I read very carefully, getting ready for this, looking to see if he if he says anything about it being a book about the gospel for the whole world. And he doesn't. Now he does as he speaks about this text and other places, but in his introduction, he didn't. But as you go through Isaiah, as I mentioned, I have 65 M's in my Bible. I went through them again this morning, so I got up really early with my job. In Isaiah, did I put uh one of them up here? Uh you know, for the earth shall you all of you know this verse, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. In that day the root of Jesse. Friend, who is the root of Jesse? It's Jesus who's coming, the Messiah who's coming, will stand as a banner for whom? For all peoples. They asked peoples. I thought peoples was bad English when I went to seminary. You know what peoples? Carol and I went to seminary, sent by Mother Church. I had not thought for one second about being a missionary to another country. Not for one second in my life. My first friend on campus was a Japanese pastor studying there. Missions Conference, the first semester, the preacher went from Genesis to Revelation. Showing that Abraham, in your seed, who will be blessed, everyone? All the nations of the earth will be blessed And you know, and he marched through the whole Bible, the Psalms and the prophets and the New Testament, and ending in Revelation, those gathering before the throne from where? Every tongue, every tribe, all peoples, all nations, you know, that began to see, man, we, I was a missing S Christian, had missed this S that this this is a promise of the whole Bible. And a promise we see especially in Isaiah. It is all through Isaiah. Let me just read a few of them to you. Don't have time, but this is very connected to John Piper's book. Let the nations be glad. Psalm 674. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for you judge the peoples with equity and guide the nations upon the earth. There's this theme of joy for all nations, is all through the Bible. Isaiah 2 verse 3, many peoples shall come and say, Come, let us go to the mountain of the Lord. Isaiah 25, 5 and 6, on this mountain the Lord of hosts. will make for whom? All peoples, a feast of rich food, a feast of well-aged wine, this feast, this bread of life Is for all peoples. Isaiah 42. Sing to the Lord a new song. His praise. From where? From the ends of the earth. You who go down to the sea and all that is in you, you islands, I'd love that, being a missionary to Japan, you islands and all who live in them, let the let them give glory to the Lord And proclaim his praise in the islands. Isaiah, I'll skip through to some other Psalm fifty or Isaiah fifty-six, seven. My house will be a house of prayer for All nations. Friends, this is not peripheral to the Bible or to Isaiah. Psalm si or Isaiah 60, verse 3, the nations will come to your light, this light we speak of at Christmas. And Isaiah ends in chapter 6. Chapter 66, I am about to come and gather all nations in tongues, and they will come and see my glory. Do you agree? The whole the whole all of Isaiah, the whole Bible, this is what God calls us to be a part of as we go, this gospel is for all nations. What is my part in doing and being a part of that? Our response. To Jesus the Messiah and his rescue of us. Let's think about that for a few minutes here as we end. Worship first. What do you think those boys in that Thai cave thought of their rescuers It's guys who came from all over the world. It was two, I'm sure Sandy likes this, British guys who finally got far enough in to find them. Did you know that? Or British guys that came to rescue them. One guy died, a Thai seal died. They had found the boys And they were trying to to figure out how to get them out. You know, it was really quite a difficult thing, of course, four kilometers in, two and a half miles in to get them out in the water, you know. And this picture is the picture of the Thai seal who died. Do you think those boys And their families did everything they could do to go and honor him at his funeral Are you here? Hello? Would they not have reordered the business of the day and everything else? to go say thank you to his family, to honor the one who gave his life to rescue them. I use that in other illustrations in Japan, because in Japan there's not, in Buddhist and Shinto worship, there's not the idea of gathering to worship. It's people just go, they throw their money in and they leave. You know, it's just and and so there's not a sense people come to Christ of this idea of what do we do when we want to honor George for turning 90, or what'd we do when my dad turned 90? We we gathered lots of people to remember him. To celebrate him. Friends, that's what we do coming out of COVID here. This is a good thing to remember. I'm glad we can do things online, but together, together To say Jesus came, this Messiah came and gave his life for us. God, the mighty God did this for us. And we say, we want to gather, we want to order our events to remember. Often I tell people in Spain, a lot of times you're not going to want to come be a part of work. Worship. But here, you tell me if I'm right or wrong. Ninety percent of the time after you come, enjoy in worshiping God. That you say that was good. That was honored God, but it was good for me too. Right? When you say that, that's the same with us too. To order worship is one of our applications. Another application, trust Him. Do you know how they got those boys out of the cave? Anybody remember? It is incredible. Yeah, the the British g diver who found them and who and a bunch of they were just kidding, do we teach them how to scuba dive? But the the water's coming higher with the monsoons, we gotta get 'em out fast. He called A friend actually told Thai government workers to find a friend that he knew in Australia who was an anesthesiologist. Anybody remember this story? And the guy who is an anesthesiologist who also does cave diving flew him in from Australia You know what they did? They put the coach and all the boys under and brought them two and a half kilometers to safety. What would you have said? No one fought them. Everyone. I mean, that's pretty scary. Let me read what uh One of the guys says, when they when the anesthesia, his name is Richard Harris, I'm Australian, when he uh when he heard it, my immediate response was, absolutely not. I can't think of a more certain way to sentence those boys to death than give them an anesthetic and then try to bring them out underwater two and a half kilometers Isn't it incredible? When did you change your mind? The interviewer asked him. Well, really it was during that day. I think it was probably that morning that Craig and I did our first dive. That after the night of meetings and discussions with the British divers and all the Thai rescue authorities, it really seemed like there was no other option for bringing the kids out unless they were sedated. What in the world does this have to do with this sermon? They fully, none of those boys said, I got this. We can save ourselves. Isn't that a great illustration of what when we come to Jesus, any of you here that haven't come to Jesus yet? This Messiah who came and gave his life for you. You don't say, let me just try a little harder. In Japan, that's everybody says they start coming to to Bible study or worship or black gospel singing group or something and they say Let me get, you know, I just am not good enough yet. So you're never going to get the more you come and read the Bible, the the more you're going to realize how far away you are. And you have no hope except to try. To say, Jesus, take me. I'm yours. There's no other hope. Except Jesus We give ourselves away. Maybe some of you today, or maybe some who do believe in Jesus, but you're trying to do it all on your own, to say afresh, Jesus, I'm yours. Take me I want to follow you. I want to trust you with this part of my life. And last application, I think, is to be a part of this worldwide rescue effort. You know, I had some other verses in Isaiah that talk about this to go and tell, take the light to the nations, because of time here. I mean, just look at 6, 8, 3 chapters back. The famous here I am, send me. When Isaiah the prophet sees the thrice holy God and sees his sin and how what a desperate sinner he is before the thrice holy God. And the the seraphim comes and there's the coal and he's re he's his sins are forgiven. And God says, who shall I send? And Isaiah's answer in response to that gospel is, here I am, send me. And that's what today I'm asking you. This is that this this there's so many places in the world people have not got a clue of what Christmas means. Last Christmas in Japan I started asking, because they say medi kudismasu. They say it. So I started asking, I if you're a foreigner, one of the advantages of being a foreigner in Japan is you can get away with talking to people on the trains and buses and taxis and everything. And our one of our Japanese pastors said one day we're talking to somebody on the train Don San, if I did that like you did, they would call the police on me. You know, it's not not part of the culture, but I get away with it. I started asking, do you know what medi kudismasu means? I I could not I probably fifteen or more people I asked. Not one person knew Mary, because Mary they say it they say it from English but they don't know the the word joyful And Christmasu, because they come from English instead of Christmas, it doesn't sound the the name Christ is not in their word for Christmas. And no one knew that Christ is the center of Christmas. And there are so many places out there in the world, friends. That has almost nothing. I think, you know, in all the time here in America when I'm back here I just meet Christians, one time on a plane, there were two guys on each side of me. Both of them were serious gospel-believing Christians. We had having fellowship together on the plane. And in Japan, I think now, in 36 years, Tuesday, I think it's happened to me maybe 10 times that I've met a Christian out and around, you know, not in our church or in our town where I know people. So there's a world out there that is saying, Would you how might God call you? Like those The world came to help rescue those Thai boys. No one commanded them to. It was like Isaiah 6. God doesn't say, I'm sending you. He says, who will go for me? in response to this grace. Who will go for me? And one of the things the mission committee wants us to think about, would you prayerfully think to say, Lord, what can I do to be a part of it? They needed to rescue the tieboard, they need an anesthesiologist, they needed people to bring food to the They needed, there were thousands of people involved in the rescue and the the rescue of the world to take the good news of Jesus Christ to the world needs all kinds of gifts All kinds of people to come and be a part of that. Not just pastor church planners like me, like this picture of this table. Here's our dining room table. George, this was my dad's 90th anniversary. And Carol and I were desperate to go back to celebrate his 90th anniversary. But we had all these interns living at our house. to that someone needed to take care of and be there. This couple, an elder and his wife from a PCA church in Nashville, they said, we'll come And they came and they filled them for two weeks. They lived in our house. They drove them. They mentored them. They loved them. I bet there's a lot of people here who could do things like this. All around the world, there's any day, you know, in their 70s, came and did, isn't that wonderful? There's a ton of things to do around the world. I'm telling you about the other people. Kathy at the end of the table, 17-year-old girl, at a missions conference, she heard about our team and we need teachers, intern teachers, teaching three, four, five kids in our little school. She came and she served for six months. Said, can I be extended? This is this really fits me and stayed a year. The girl, see, short-term missions is a great way To test your gifts and to see if this if this is what God is calling you to be. Some of you young guys, see you listening right here. Maybe when you're 17 or 18, you can come, you know that uh that uh the the good Lydia on the far right corner Lydia had heard uh at a missions conference that where I preached she heard about the idea of coming for a year and being an intern and she came and serve and and help one of our, she's a musician on the worship team at her BCA church, and she uh wanted to go help one of the new church plants. playing the guitar every week and that's what she did for the whole time she was there on Sundays. She went and helped a brand new church plant, learned to sing in Japanese, you know. You know, Lydia from Palm Bay, Florida. The next gal is Rachel on the right there. Rachel, PCA pastor's daughter, she said, I don't really want to go to a first world country, and I don't really want to be a school teacher, but this is the only place that will take me right now. I'll come. Six months through her time in Japan, she lived at her house, twenty-four-year-old, fine young lady, Rachel says, Dan and Carol, could I talk to you tonight about sta coming back? Yes, you can. And Rachel is back in Japan now as is one of the teachers and leaders in our school, being used of God in the lives of lots of people and a part of a local church there, helping a church. Now the other across the table was another 24-year-old girl, Rainey. Rainey said, I want to be a teacher. in a mission school overseas. And she came. And about six months into it, faithful young lady loves Jesus, she said This is not for me. And the short-term mission, she now is involved in campus ministry in the States with folks from other countries. But she saw how God was calling her. through her experience with missions. This next this picture, this next couple, uh retired in California. He's Chinese American, met his wife in Japan when he was they were in their twenties. She's Japanese. They came to Christ in California when they were forty. It's Charlie and Yumiko. And in a good church, discipled, but n he was sure when I retire. From sales. I am gonna go to the Bahamas and surf. Or wherever down in the island somewhere. He was a surfer. That's what he was gonna do. And then he read John Piper's book, Don't Waste Your Life. Don't read that book, baby. You need to tell it no, please read that book. You know. And he read that he and his wife read that book. They showed up on our doorstep in Japan one day. They've been on our team there for four years now. Saying, how can we use our gifts? They teach English, they love people, hospitality, just serving people. sharing the gospel and they are so happy. He says, I still love surfing and it's not as good in Japan as where I wanted to go. Friends We say the same thing. We were hesitant missionaries and we say thank you, CPC. And all our other who sent us to Japan. We had the great privilege of starting a church in a town that had no church. You know, the the joy, wow, hardships, struggles, and so much more joy than we ever could have imagined to be apart. of what God is doing in Japan. Thank you for sending us. So the last, Isaiah 6. 8, your response today. Might you say, Jesus? Would you pray this? How are you calling me to be a part of mission? Thinking today particularly about the whole world, but everywhere. Would you take one of these little pieces of paper? I'm never coming back and I'm going to tell the Missions Committee, cut off our support if uh all these pieces of paper are not gone. Okay, no, I'm not just I wish I had the faith to say that How about be willing to commit one hour? To t to to take a piece of paper, consider prayerfully committing one hour. We're going to have three meetings, one on Zoom and two live meetings next weekend. I'm coming back up to Chapel Gate Sunday. And we're going to have meet where you can watch a 20-minute video, hear some things about call, opportunities around the world. And then Q<unk>A time, and I promise we will end in one hour. Now, those who want to stay and talk, I'll stay as long as you want. But we'll do that. To consider. How might you be a part? Or here's another way. I I couldn't do that then. How about to join one prayer meeting for an hour? to pray for the world that needs this what a great what a great all the gifts that Jesus has given us and all we have and a great church Say, I'm gonna give an hour. Take one of the papers, say, Sandy, mission team, help me know how I could join for an hour in a Zoom prayer meeting or something to pray for the world and for lost needy places in the world. That sense then a reasonable request to say, in response, remember to what Jesus has done for us This joy we have in Him this Christmas as we celebrate what Jesus has done. Remember the taking that joy to the whole world as we sing. I was hoping you'd sing it today. Joy to the world. It probably will next week or the week after. Last, close with this story. Sorry for a long sermon. I don't get to come very much. So this was two or three put together here. Vivid memory seared into my mind that I've told a hundred times in Japan of worship at Columbia Presbyterian Church When we were in the Stonehouse, and I was an intern, and one of our dear sisters here had lost her son, and it happened before, baby, after birth. And I didn't think, and the whole church was praying for them and their struggle and had this this hardship, this losing. uh a son for a another time after you know after birth it was so hard and I didn't think she would come to worship that day And and she did. And I was standing behind her and after the message and thinking, oh, this is so this is hard to be here. This is, you know, the agony, the struggle. And and and uh and we the sermon after the sermon the song was Jesus What a Friend for Sinners. Remember that song? You know that song? In the Trinity Hymn? I I was looking for one because I wasn't sure about one of the words. Jesus, what a. I looked ahead to verse 3, and I'm thinking, how is she going to respond with the agony that she has been through? Said, Jesus, what a help in sorrow. When the billows o'er me roll, even when my heart is breaking, He my helper comforts my soul. And I thought, how is she going to sing this in the midst of maybe the greatest agony any of us can have and losing a child, you know? I was standing right behind her there in the stone house. And she was singing along And when we got to the chorus, hallelujah, what a savior! Hallelujah, what a friend. She threw her hands into the air, even though we're a Presbyterian church. To praise Jesus, our Messiah, who comes to bring joy and light to us, to Colombia. And to the whole world. Let's pray. Hallelujah, what a savior. Hallelujah. What a friend. Jesus, forgive our sins that we don't rejoice in you. We let the this Little stuff take us away from your joy. Lord, teach us about your joy. A fruit of the Spirit. We can't work it up ourselves. It's a fruit of knowing you. Holy Spirit, work this joy in us. Help us to spread this joy, even in our tears, like our sister did that day, worshiping you. Lord, we have so many struggles and challenges. We're living in a fallen world. Would you show us more this Christmas of the joy of knowing you, that you came? To bring light in the darkness that you came, to bring joy from that gloom that this sad world is in and the people around us. Pray for the kids who are here today. Maybe today's the day. Say, mommy, daddy. I do want to trust Jesus. Believe. Put my faith in him. Profess my faith publicly in Jesus. Hallelujah. What a Savior. Hallelujah. What a friend. Lord, would you continue to help Columbia Presbyterian Church? Taking this joy of Christmas to Colombia and to the ends of the earth, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.