I wanted to say while you're opening your Bibles that I'm real excited that Re and Craig got to share with you this morning things that have been brewing in their lives. look forward to being a part of their efforts this summer uh as we join together in sending them out. Isaiah chapter one, verses ten to twenty, we'll be looking at again this morning. Isaiah chapter one, reading from the New International Version, let's hear with attentive hearts the reading of God's Word. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Listen to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah. The multitude of your sacrifices, what are they to me? says the Lord. I have more than enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of fatted animals. I have no pleasure in the blood of bulls and lambs and goats. When you come to meet with me, who has asked this trampling of my courts? Stop bringing meaningless sacrifices. Your incense is detestable to me. New moons, Sabbaths, and complications, I cannot bear your evil assemblies. Your new moon festivals and your appointed feasts my soul hates. They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them When you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. Even if you offer many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. Wash and make yourselves clean. Take your evil deeds out of my sight. Stop doing wrong. Learn to do right. Seek justice. Encourage the oppressed. Defend the cause of the fatherless. Plead the case of the widow. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your skins, though your sins are like scarlet, they will be white as snow. Though they are red as crimson, they will be like wool. If you are willing and obedient, you will eat the best from the land. But if you resist and rebel You will be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken How did you like all that snow on Thursday? Looks like uh we may be getting some more of it today. Flurries were coming down even as we came in. Some of you are probably saying, like Alan Harris, what snow? This isn't snow. If you're from uh if you've ever lived in New York, you think this is nothing. But by Maryland standards we had a lot of snow this week, folks, the worst storm in four years. And um did you have some time to reflect on that snowfall? Some of you might have had a lot of time. If you couldn't get to work, you were you were home all day. Though it causes inconveniences for most people and backaches for many of us and and um trauma for some, I I, for one, was very thankful for the snow on Thursday. Thankful not for the backache that I got and not for all the inconveniences that I had, but the snow reminded me of the Lord. And um It reminded me specifically of his holiness, his greatness, his power, his majesty, and his purity. his purity. As I watched all those flakes fall down and cover the drab earth with a very thick blanket of pure white I was able to understand these verses in Isaiah a lot better. And I was thankful that the Lord uh helped me to see in a new way what it means to have scarlet sins become snow white. It sure was nice of God to bring a fresh snowfall in the very week I planned to preach on this section of Isaiah again. But why am I preaching on Isaiah 1 here for the second time this week? Those of you who were with us last week know that last week was Sanctity of Human Life Sunday. And we here at CPC, along with churches all across the nation, observe the 14th anniversary of the Roe v. Wade decision legalizing abortion for any reason in this country. And we looked last week at uh this chapter in this section in Isaiah about what it means to defend the fatherless in the in terms of the fatherless unborn, the unborn children who have no protection. Not even the right to live is protected for them. But you see, defending the fatherless extends far beyond The abortion issue. Defending the fatherless is an issue that has implications far beyond just seeking to stop abortion, important as that is You see, I think in recent years we've come to think of the sanctity of human life and whenever we have Sanctity of Human Life Sunday on uh January in January, we've bec that's become synonymous in our thinking almost with the anti abortion movement. And we come to think that, well, that's really what it boils down to, isn't it? I mean the sanctity of human life really comes down just to um to the pro-life movement, to uh getting rid of abortion in this country. But I think that's an oversimplification. You see, this pervasive biblical theme has far reaching implications far beyond the pro-life movement. You see in fact to be truly pro-life is to be concerned about defending the powerless wherever they're found in society. And so we're going to look at one more implication of this section of Isaiah for us today, as we consider one more strata of powerless and often helpless people in our society. And so this week we look here in Isaiah at God's word as it applies to the issue of single parent families in our society, in our society today. Last week we had almost three R's in our outline. You remember we talked about how Isaiah describes the Lord's wrath and the Lord's requirements and the Lord's reasoning. And our three R's were supposed to be back again in your bulletin outline this week. But uh through an error in my communication with Pat, only two of them are there. But nevertheless, let's return again to look. at what the Lord reveals of his wrath, his requirements, and his reasoning. First then Let's remind ourselves of what the Lord displays about his wrath in verses 15, in verses 10 through 15, rather. He's speaking to Israel and he's calling Israel the spiritual equivalent of Sodom and Gomorrah here. Now you remember Sodom and Gomorrah. Those of you who familiar at all with the Old Testament will probably know of that story, there was total destruction wreaked on that ha on that town. God's wrath was poured out on them. They were spiritually bankrupt. And so God is equating Israel with Sodom and Gomorrah. I mean that's how low they sunk. And he's talking and he says there's a glut of mere sacrifices. He says, I have more than enough of burnt offerings of the ram and fatted the rams of rams and the fat of fatted animals. There's a there's an overabundance of mere sacrifices. It's uh For that reason that God says, stop bringing meaningless offerings there in verse thirteen. And he means by meaningless offerings that Israel was trying really to manipulate their God By bringing certain offerings, by going through certain rituals, you see, they'd hoped to push the right buttons, so to speak, and they saw God as some kind of cosmic vending machine. That if they just put the push the right combination of buttons, offered the right sacrifices, they'd get whatever they wanted. And God's calling that for what it is. He's calling it hypocrisy. And he's revealing his wrath against such meaningless sacrifices, against sacrifices that really amount to trying to manipulate God. And so God says that They are detestable to him. In verse thirteen, even their incense, which he have commanded to be offered, is detestable to God. And then he goes on to talk about all their meetings, all their um worship assemblies, the new moons and sabbaths and convocations that they have, as he talks about in verses thirteen and fourteen. All of those God had originally commanded. But now he says, My soul hates them. He cannot bear these assemblies because they've been contorted and misused, and so they become a burden to him. God is weary of the meaningless ritual of the peoples. of the people of Israel. It's as if God is uh carrying some shovel of ten inches of snow around with him, you know, for for days on end. I mean that's how weary He would be. Um, God is tired of Israel's superstition. He's weary of their meaningless sacrifices. They weigh him down, as he describes it here. And therefore, he says that communication will be cut off with him. In verse 15, he says, When you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. It's as if the Lord is closing his eyes when this people is is crying out to him because of their disobedience. His wrath is is displayed in turning a deaf ear to his people and cutting off communication totally. So what's all this mean for us today? While God was speaking to Israel as an apostate people, as an unbelieving people, people who were to be condemned for their hypocrisy because they tried to get away with just easy actions without costly actions. They tried to get away with mere ritual and cheap sacrifices instead of deep obedience. And today there are a lot of folks that try to get a away with the same type types of things really. Today many people call themselves Christians. And bec because they call themselves Christians because they go to church where they offer certain prayers or they give so much money to the church or they volunteer time whenever somebody really presses them into something. And they're really trying to manipulate God. They're trying to, by these, by these rituals or by these sacrifices, they're trying to please God. They're trying to manipulate him. But if that's all there is to your religion, then you're really just fooling yourself. And you're certainly not fooling God. You may be fooling other people, but you're not fooling God because God sees you as a hypocrite if that's all there is to your religion. If all you s all you do is uh ritual obedience, uh God sees that as meaningless, and his wrath rests upon you. He reveals his wrath. as resting upon you here. God cannot be mocked, my friends, and God cannot be manipulated. And so God condemns mere formalism or easy action here in verses 10 to 15. But if he condemns this kind of formalism or ritualism, what kind of costly action is he looking for? Well, he makes that very clear. as he describes in verses sixteen and seventeen, is requirements of his people. Not easy action, but very costly obedience. Very costly obedience. And so, as we saw last week, the Lord reveals his requirements, his demands for Israel in verses 16 and 17. The general statement opens it: wash and make yourselves clean And then he goes on to say, put away your evil deeds and cease doing wrong. Those are two things in parallel that Israel is to stop doing, to put off, if you will. And then God goes on to talk about the positive actions that Israel is supposed to take, the put-ons, if you will, the behavior they are to adopt. And he says, learn to do right, seek justice. And those two things again are in parallel to sort of open up this section of positive behaviors that Israel is to put on And then he goes on to say, to give three examples of doing right, three examples of seeking justice. And the first example, remember, is setting right the oppressor. Some translations put that rebuke the oppressor. The NIV turns it into encourage the oppressed. The best translation, as I shared with you last week, I think, is reprove or set right the oppressor. Rebuke the one who is doing the oppressing. And then God goes on to close this section. By saying, by giving two more examples of seeking justice and doing right. And he says, defend the cause of the fatherless and plead the case of the widow. You see, in Israel, orphans and widows were to be given very special care, particular attention. Why is that? Because God Himself has a concern about the powerless in society. You see, widows and orphans were the underlings, the underclass of society. They had no economic power and therefore virtually no influence in society. They had no protector. They had no um defender, no provider. Orphans had no father figure on earth, and widows had no husband for which to provide uh for them, no head of the household. So these types of people have no provider. And so they're often the poor and the hungry in society. And so God is calling Israel to take action. Because God Himself is concerned over the powerless. God is concerned over those who have no provider on earth. God, as Tito revealed uh in his reading this morning God reveals Himself as a father to the fatherless, a defender of widows, one who cares for those who have no father or husband. In Psalm 68, we see this beautifully described, and you want to probably want to look that up sometime, especially verses 5 and 6. God says that he himself is a father to the fatherless, a defender of widows. And then beautifully in the very next verse he says, God sets the lonely in families. God is concerned for those who have no head of the household, for those who have no provider, no protector. No defender. He himself is their defender. And so God is here calling Israel to mirror and reflect his own heart concern for the widow and for the fatherless. And he's calling them to action. Now, today there are many types of widows, many types of orphans in our society. Many types of folks who basically are powerless in our culture, who have no protector, no provider. And as we discussed last week, unborn children are in that very situation today. Because the laws in our land make abortion on demand commonplace and thoroughly legal. And hence four thousand unborn children every year, that's almost three children every minute, are murdered because they have no father, they have no protector, they have no provider. The annual fur life march on Washington took place this last Thursday, and um for those of you who haven't heard, it uh was a pretty slim turnout compared to past years, but uh I'm amazed that there was a turnout at all in the midst of that snowstorm. And I was encouraged, in fact, to see that two thousand people gathered there in the midst of the worst snowstorm in four years in of uh Maryland's history, and two thousand people gathered to defend the cause of the fatherless to publicly display their concern for those who have no protector, for those who have no power, no rights in our culture. Unfortunately, as many of you know the buses from the Columbia churches here were canceled. And my wife and I, along with many of you, uh couldn't make that march. And I was profoundly disappointed, and and many of you probably were too. But the battle wages on The battle is far from over. It if you couldn't go this Thursday, as many of us couldn't, you can still demonstrate and publicly declare your concern. To defend the fatherless. You're concerned for those who have no provider. Last week I mentioned a sign-up sheet, sign-up chart actually, that Ruth Olson put together for us And I'd encourage you to consider signing up to give two hours of your time this year on a Saturday from 10 to noon to publicly demonstrate. your concern to defend the fatherless at the Hillcrest Abortion Clinic up on Route 40. Many of you are familiar with that. If you're not, there's a chart, there's a map on the back of the chart actually here I'll be sending I'm bringing this chart around in the LAF communities in our second hour this morning. And a number of people have signed up already, but if you haven't, I encourage you to do so today, to give just two hours of your year in 1987. to publicly protest the murder of the fatherless unborn. If you uh have a family, I would want to encourage you to bring your whole family. Don't think you have to get um babysitters for this kind of thing. It's a great family project. Bring the kids along and strollers and and whatever else you need. Make it a family outing. And uh I'd encourage you to uh commit yourself to sign up for uh a slot. We have all the months marked out here through the end of 87 and even January of 88. If you missed today or if you really can't commit yourself to today to a specific date, this chart will be on the back table next week. But after that, um I can't say. So try to make your commitment soon. And if you can, sign up today when the chart comes around in the near laugh communities. Indeed. Ask yourself, it's two hours a year that much of your time. Two hours of your year. Lastly, concerning the abortion issue, I also want to suggest that you consider economic bearing bringing economic pressure to bear on those who perform abortions. Perhaps you could refuse to go to doctor groups who perform abortions. Some of us here at CPC are wrestling with this very issue and I'd encourage you to wrestle with us on this. To bring some real uh solid economic pressure to uh to hurt the abortion movement right where Um, they're sensitive to it in their pocketbooks. So consider bringing economic pressure to bear uh in defending the fatherless. But there are many other types of people besides the unborn. who are the underlings of our society, who are without fathers, without protectors, without providers in a very real sense. Namely, those growing up in single-parent families today. This really is a major issue for our church today because it's a major issue in our society all around us More and more children are growing up fatherless in a very real sense. They have no father figure in the home, no husband uh in the household, no male role model, and often they have very little or no economic power. And that's because more and more mothers are functionally widows today. Now, certainly, of course, there are many women who are literally widows who have uh experienced the death of a husband and so have um our husbandless in a very literal sense. But the real growth today is in the number of women Who are trying to raise children on their own, either through divorce or through never having been married. That's where the real increase is coming today, and it's frankly startling Some are also widows, of course, in a spiritual sense because they have a husband who's a non Christian. And so they have the burden of trying to raise godly children on their own without a male role model in the home. They're spiritually widows, you might say. But indeed, the statistics are startling when you think of all those who are either through divorce or having never been married are trying to raise children on their own today. The figures I've seen list Baltimore as the second highest um city in terms of the number of in terms of the percentage of births out of wedlock. the second highest in the entire um Northeast corridor, and that was at 58. 1%. It was second only to Newark, New Jersey. which had just fifty nine percent. Fifty eight percent of the births in Baltimore are out of wedlock. And that number's growing and growing rapidly. Even indeed bringing it a little closer to home here in Howard County. Some of you may have noticed that last month the Flyer had a cover article on the striking increase in number in the number of teen pregnancies and teen births here in Howard County. It's a growing phenomenon, it's a growing concern that we must address ourselves to. And all the almost all, of course, of those teen pregnancies in Howard County are without uh without um a father figure in the household. Most often those are unwed mothers. And so they're trying to raise their children without any father figure in the home. You see, women who rear kids on their own are especially vulnerable to poverty. In fact, the statistics, the statisticians will tell us that two out of every three poor adults in this country are women. And that's for a lot of reasons. But it's not surprising when you realize that women earn much less than men. in our culture. In fact, women earn on the average 63 cents for every dollar that a man earns, even for the same job. That is significant inj injustice. And if you add to that that low if you add to that lower earning power, the sole responsibility for feeding, clothing, and providing housing for children You can see how a crisis situation comes about very easily in a single parent family. And as the separation and the divorce statistics continue to mushroom in our country, so do the number of single parent families, most of whom have mom as the head of the household and trying to be the sole provider for the entire family. And I wasn't surprised when I heard, although I haven't been able to confirm this figure or uh this um fact, that Colombia in particular has the highest percentage of single parent households. Of any city in Maryland, of any area in Maryland. That's pretty striking. That tells us something about our mission field out there. We have more single parent families in Columbia than any other area percentage wise. And so we have a significant opportunity, a significant challenge in that. How can we seek justice? How can we defend the cause of the fatherless and plead the case of the widow here in Colombia? That's the question that we must face. I'd offer you several ways that you could be involved in doing just that. First, you can pray for economic justice. And you can, more than prayer, you can write our legislators concerning this issue. You could contact an organization like Bread for the World. That puts out newsletters. And you can stay informed on public policy decisions that would incur that would decrease segregation by race or sex in the job market. And try to get the earning power of women in our society raised to a decent level, equal pay for equal work, as some call it. You can also give of your time or your money to such organizations as Bethany Christian Services. Many of you are familiar with Bethany. It's a well-established, reformed social service agency. And they are providing creative alternatives for unwed mothers and uh indeed for those who would contemplate abortion. And I'd encourage you to see um the December issue of the New Horizons magazine, which hopefully is out on the back table here for you. There's an article in there by Susan Felsch that is very helpful. and giving you some practical ways to be involved in the alternatives movement, as it's called, within the pro-life movement. And I'd also encourage you to consider acting. Thirdly, to act through CPC. Now you can do this in a number of ways. Our church already has a boys' brigade and a pioneer girls ministry, and those ministries are going to be particularly strategic as our church grows. Because they had the potential to care for children of single parent families, of which we have such a high percentage here in Columbia. I'd encourage you to consider being involved in these ministries. They provide important role models for children who have one or the other of their parents missing in the household, in particular for boys who are growing up without male role models in the family. The battalion ministry, uh as a part of our boys' brigade ministry, led by John Isaac and Tom Sixie is sp especially strategic in this. And John and Tom are doing such an excellent job. They encourage they deserve all the encouragement that we can give them. But battalion has a specific need right now for one or two men to commit themselves to being involved every Wednesday night with these middle school guys to provide them with a father figure, with a role model. A number of those uh boys coming currently don't have such models in their home. And many more don't have a Christian father spiritual uh role model. And even if you can't be involved every Wednesday night You can at least perhaps share a hobby or something that you do um that you could you could share with the guys as a project. Uh they have special projects in woodworking or um or uh car maintenance or any type of thing like that. Some kind of skill perhaps you have that you could share with uh middle school guys in the battalion ministry. And I encourage you to talk to John or Tom. And talk with them about how you can be involved in these kinds of ways. But not only our Boys Brigade Ministry and our Pioneer Girls Ministry, we have those ministries underway at least But there's another way we can be involved in CPC to show support for the fatherless and the w and the uh those without husbands. And that is to start a single parent support group through CPC. Now this is a dream of mine and some of others of you that I think perhaps is reaching fruition and ripeness now. But there's a huge need in Colombia for a Christ-centered, a distinctively Christian support group for single parents Perhaps God would want CPC to re to start such a group. Ken Dalpera has an interest in being um a part of this uh team that would start this support group for single parent uh families. But we could really use one, just one couple from CPC to commit themselves to be an encouragement and models for single-parent families not just in our church but throughout the community. One couple who would commit themselves to care for uh single parents and for their families. Perhaps the Lord wants you to be that couple. One other way that we could um provide support for the fatherless and for single mothers is a very specific one. You'll see it in your bulletin here this morning. There's an immediate need right now of an unwed uh an expectant mother. Um, see your bulletin for that, but she needs a home immediately. And perhaps God would have you open up your home and your heart and your family to an expectant mother in that kind of way. But I think if you can't be involved in all those these wa all these ways, all of us, I think, can be involved in making single parent families feel more at home here at CBC. You can do that through inviting a single parent family over to your home for dinner or family planning a family outing that would include a single parent family, a single parent and and his or her children. All of us could be involved in some way in encouraging single parents in our midst and their families and making them feel welcome, especially as our church grows and changes. Have you not done all that you could to seek justice, to rebuke the oppressor, to defend the fatherless? Have you not done everything you could to plead the case of the widow? Have you ignored the fatherless or conveniently avoided contact with single parents? Or perhaps you're here today and you have a lingering guilt over some other sin, some secret sin. Well then read on in Isaiah here and let's notice again the marvel of the Lord's reasoning. Because God not only displays his wrath and his requirements, but also his reasoning with Israel and with us. This indeed is a tender invitation here in verse 18, as God says, Come now, let us reason together. Let us reason together is not again to be taken as as if two equals are getting together to compare notes. But God is stating the facts the way they are. And he's encouraging in a very shepherd-like, a very tender way, his people to respond. And he says, Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Though they are red as crimson, they shall be like wool. God, the author of reason here is He he who m indeed sets the standard for reason is here describing what is reasonable to him. He's describing the way that he che seeks to deal with sinners who come to him. And here are the facts, folks. The facts first that we are all sinners. That man is a sinner, his sins are as scarlet, as red is red. As red as the deepest crimson. That is how guilty each of us is. And yet the second fact along with that is the beauty of the Lord's grace and how God seeks to deal with. with sinners who come to him. You know, new rule, as I was reflecting on this this week. Um It's not the whitest thing you've ever seen. Some of you may have seen wool as as as it's just come off a sheep's back. But even though it's not the purest white, it is it is pure in the sense that it's unstained. It hasn't been dyed yet, it hasn't been processed yet. It's unstained wool. And so in the same way, God seeks to make sinners unstained. He seeks to take away this the stain of those who are guilty because of their rebellion and make them pure, pure as new wool, and pure as the whiteness of the snow that fell this past week. That is how pure God makes sinners who come to Him. This is, of course, a beautiful Old Testament picture of justification. Justification by grace alone As blood red becomes snow white, whiter than the snow that fell on Thursday, whiter than the snow that perhaps will fall today or tomorrow. You see, God freely pardons those who come to him. God delights to declare the guilty innocence. He delights to pronounce the rebel forgiven He delights to take the sinner and make him holy, make him pure, pure white as snow, pure as virgin wool. That is God God's plan and his the way he chooses to deal with sinners. You see, God has made it clear in the New Testament that He does this through Jesus Christ. Jesus is the pure Lamb. He's the one of whom this new rule can remind us. He's the spotless Lamb who was slain, who became sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Jesus is the one that makes this pardon possible. He who was pure white became blood red, that we might be pure in him. Indeed, Revelation chapter seven, verse fourteen, says that the saints have washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb. And they've been made white in that blood. Jesus is that unstained lamb. He is the pure, innocent one whose atoning sacrifice is able to make scarlet sinners. as white as the purest snow. If you have trusted in Christ and you're here this morning, but you feel guilty over some sin, I'd encourage you to look to Jesus Christ this morning. He is the pure one. He has done it all for you. You can't please God on your own. You can't do enough to earn his favor. Jesus has earned God's favor for you. He's paid the price that you couldn't pay on your own. And so as you come to Him, you are acceptable before God, not for your zeal over defending the fatherless. Not over your concern for single parents, but because Jesus Christ has made you acceptable before God. Jesus, the pure white lamb. imputes and transfers his righteousness to you as you trust in him. And so I encourage you to look anew to him this morning. But perhaps you're here this morning and you've never come to transfer your trust from yourself to Jesus Christ. And you're really trusting in your own good works to please him. Well then, my friend, the Lord's wrath remains on you. God's hatred indeed will rest upon you until you are resting in Jesus Christ. And so to you, the Lord says, Come. Come now, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow, though they be red as crimson, they shall be as new wool. If indeed you are willing and obedient, you will eat of the best of the land. But if you resist and rebel, you will be devoured by the sword. Let's pray together. Lord God, we praise you for the marvel of your reasoning with sinners. We praise you, Lord God, that you sent Jesus to be the one, to be that sacrifice of atonement. That pure and innocent Lamb. And we praise you that our sins are removed as we trust in Him. That we receive His purity. We receive His righteousness. As we are redeemed by him, as we trust in him alone. Lord, give us your strength and your power to defend the fatherless as we should. Lord, mobilize our congregation even to minister to single parent families and to fight against um the tide of abortion in this country to in fact turn that tide around. Lord God, we call on you to do that by your Spirit. And we pray that you'd make us sensitive to those who are without fathers, to those who are without protectors, without providers. And help us to be creative in designing ministries to meet their needs, that they would see Jesus, that they would see him and know his power and know his purity transferred to them. And Lord, for any who are here today and who are not trusting in Christ, I pray that they would come and not delay, but come now and know the delight. Of being washed pure white, of being forgiven of all their sin, of having their guilt removed through Jesus Lord, we commit these things to you, and we trust in your power to work within us. And we praise you in the name of Jesus, our Redeemer. Amen.