Turn with me, if you have a Bible with you, to Isaiah chapter one. Isaiah chapter one the greatest of all the Old Testament prophets will be speaking us to us today. Isaiah chapter 1, I'll be reading from verses 10 through 20, but looking particularly at verse 17 this week and as well as next week. Let's then hear with humble hearts the reading of God's Word. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Listen to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah. The multitude of your sacrifices, what are they to me? says the Lord. I have more than enough of bird offerings, of rams and the fat of fatted animals. I have no pleasure in the blood of bulls and lambs and goats. When you come to meet with me, who has asked this of you, this trampling of my courts? Stop bringing meaningless sacrifices. Your incense is detestable to me. New moons, Sabbaths, and convocations, I cannot bear your evil assemblies. Your new moon festivals and your appointed feast. My soul hates They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. Even if you offer many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. Wash and make yourselves clean. Take your evil deeds out of my sight. Stop doing wrong. Learn to do right. Seek justice. Encourage the oppressed. Defend the cause of the fatherless. Plead the case of the widow. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet They will be white as snow. Though they are red as crimson, they shall be like wool. If you are willing and obedient, you will eat the best from the land. But if you resist and rebel, You will be devoured by the sword. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. They say that familiarity breeds contempt. And maybe some of you had felt some of that contempt this morning being stuck out in the rain. And having to come in the side door. I hope that's not the case. But uh I think that old Maxim is probably right that familiarity does breed contempt. And I think there's a corollary that goes along with that, with that well-known saying, and that's that familiarity breeds apathy Familiarity breeds apathy. I think our culture, even our evangelical Christian culture, has such a short a very short attention span that it's hard to concentrate and focus on one issue for too long. Our minds dash off to the next issue, to the next media manipulated event or or crisis. We we flip from one chapter to the next uh in the in our the book of our lives and Um issues just come before us so fast. It's hard to concentrate on one for too long. Those of you who have been with us for a couple weeks know that this is Sacred of Human Life Sunday and even Tom and Alan have talked about that. And Columbia Presbyterian Church, along with churches coast to coast today, are marking solemnly The now fourteenth uh anniversary of the Supreme Court decision to legalize abortion in all fifty states And perhaps you've caught yourself as I've caught myself in the past few weeks thinking in your mind as you open yet another piece of mail, oh, not that abortion issue again. Well, I've caught myself saying that, and perhaps some of you have too. And it's precisely because of our conditioning to constantly move from one issue to the next. To never focus on one topic too long, but we need to remind ourselves that the sanctity of human life is an enduring issue. It's a very live issue. And that defending the cause of the fatherless unborn is not some fad It's an enduring scriptural issue, and here in Isaiah 1 we see that. And this week and next, we're going to be looking at this scriptural theme of defending the fatherless. And pleading the case of the widow as it applies to this very important issue of the abortion We will be looking at this theme today. Next week we'll look at how we as a church and as individuals can defend another type of fatherless person, the person who is born. And raised in a single parent family. And we'll be looking at that whole issue of single parent families in Colombia and even in our church next week But here in Isaiah 1, verses 10 to 20, we'll look today at the cause of the fatherless unborn. And we see here this morning that we have almost three R's. Almost three Rs. I say that because if you say it to yourself without reading it, you'll be able to remember The three R sounds here. Because the Lord unfolds for us in this section his wrath, his requirements. And his reasoning. His wrath, his requirements, and his reasoning. First, then let's look at the Lord's wrath. The Lord's wrath As he described it here in verses ten through fifteen. Verse ten we see that the Lord says, Hear the word of the Lord. You rulers of Sodom, listen to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah. You see, Israel had become like Sodom and Gomorrah spiritually. That's how low that they had sunk. because of what the Lord reveals here to them. In verse eleven he says, The multitude of your sacrifices, what are they to me? The Israelites had been multiplying their sacrifices over and over again. There was a glut of sacrifices, but they were mere sacrifices. And God has had more than enough of them so that He no longer desires them, He no longer takes pleasure in them And he says, I have more than enough of your burnt offerings of rams and the fat, of fatted animals. I have no pleasure in the blood of bulls and lambs and goats. And so it goes on to say, when you come to meet with me, who has asked this trampling of my courts? God is concerned about this issue of hypocrisy, you see. God wants obedience from the heart, a deep obedience, not mere sacrifices, not mere burnt offerings. And so he says he's finding no pleasure in them anymore. And so in verse 13 he says, Stop bringing meaningless offerings. I've had enough. Stop it. If your heart is not in it, it brings no pleasure to me. If it's hypocrisy, I detest it. He says, stop bringing meaningless or vain sacrifices. Incense without the hard attitude of obedience, you see, is meaningless. It's vain. And God detests it. He says, Your incense is detestable to me in verse thirteen. And then he goes on to talk about all the meetings that the Israelites were having, not just burnt offerings and incense and all those kinds of worship. activities. They've been having a lot of meetings together. New moons, Sabbaths, and convocations. The New Moon festival got it ordained once a month. that that should be a worship festival to him. And Sabbath probably here refers to the weekly Sabbath, the weekly con uh meeting together. And then that word convocation refers to all the other different kinds of meetings that God had ordained for his worship and his praise. And so he's lumping them all together, and he's saying, I cannot bear your evil assemblies, all these things, they're vain. And he says strikingly and graphically, your moon festivals and your appointed feasts, verse 14, he says, My soul hates My soul hates a graphic picture, as if God is saying that everything within him hates these sacrifices because they are not from the heart. Everything in God's being hates hypocrisy. And he says, my soul hates These things they're abon abominable, they're worthy of wrath, they're worthy of nothing but God's hatred. And they've become a burden to him. Moreover, he says there in the end of verse 14, They have become a burden to me. I am weary of bearing them It's as if God is sick of Israel's hypocrisy, and there are a weight on his back, and they weigh him down, and he's burdened with them. And he says I can't take it anymore. I'm sick of your meaningless sacrifices, all your meetings, meetings that have no meaning. My soul hates. And there you and then he displays in verse fifteen the results of his wrath. It's as if there's a therefore implied at the beginning of verse 15. And he says, the result of all this hypocrisy is that communication is cut off from the living God. He says there in verse 15, When you spread out your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. Even if you offer many prayers, I will not listen. Your hands are full of blood. You see, that's the ultimate expression of God's wrath God is cutting off communication from his people. He's saying, When you look to me in prayer and lift your hands in prayer, I will hide my eyes from you. I will turn my face from you. That is the result of God's wrath. That is the outcome of the people's rebellion. Is that God cuts off communication? He says, Your hands are full of blood, that blood symbolizing guilt. They're not just dipped in blood, but they're it's as if they scooped up blood and they're full of it. That's how guilty the people are because of their hypocrisy. And that's why God cuts off that communication. Your hands are full of blood. Now I think there's a type of hypocrisy today that we can so easily fall into As Christians today. And that is outward ritual without costly obedience Outward ritual, outward action that's simple and relatively easy to do, without costly obedience, without costly action that comes from a heart that is captivated with the worship of God. You see, having a quiet time, going through the motions of your regular daily devotions is easy to do, really. It might cost you a little sleep. You might have to get up a little earlier. But coming to worship services even, coming to church, is easy to do, really. It might cost you a little sleep, a little inconvenience, a little rearranging of your schedule, but it's not all that hard. It's relatively easy obedience. But change behavior 365 days, 24 hours a day, that's hard Changed behavior throughout all of your life is hard. Seeking justice in this world is tough. It requires it requires a lot of energy A lot of action, a lot of hard work. And so mere external formalism Without thoroughly changed behavior, without deep obedience to God that springs from your very being is hypocrisy. And it brings God's wrath, so that he cuts off communication from you, so that when you pray to him, he does not hear you. A frightening thing, isn't it? God's wrath is nothing to be toiled with, to be toyed with And so we must ask ourselves this morning, have we fallen into that kind of hypocrisy? Have we fallen into merely going through easy actions without real costly, deep obedience If the Lord is not pleased with cheap sacrifices, but actually makes his wrath known against such things, then what does it require of us? What does God require of us? Well, let's read on in Isaiah, for he tells us very clearly, starting in verse 16, he makes his imperatives, his commands for repentance known here. He says, wash and make yourselves clean, you Israelites. Those are two parallel words, getting at the same issue. Cleansing, purification. He says, wash and make yourselves clean. And then he goes on to say, put away evil deeds Or as the NIV says, it take your evil deeds out of my sight and stop doing wrong. Again, two parallel actions. Ceasing that wrong. Stop doing what's wrong, ceasing what is evil. And so we have two parallel negatives here, two things that we're to put off. We're to put off those evil deeds, we're to cease doing what is wrong. And then he goes on in verse seventeen to describe what we are to do. If we're to put off evil deeds, what are we supposed to put on, you might say? He tells us the positive side here in verse 17. He says, learn to do right, seek justice, encourage the oppressed. Defend the cause of the fatherless, plead the case of the widow. You see, the the opening part there, learn to do right and seek justice. Those two phrases introduce the rest of it. There's sort of introductions to the rest of the put-ons in verse 17. Seeking justice and learning to do to do right are the very beginning and then the Lord gets a little more specific. And he says, and he gives three examples actually of doing right, three examples of seeking justice. The first is set right the oppressor. Set right the oppressor. Now the NIV, you'll notice, the new international version, describes this as encourage the oppressed. And they do that to sort of set up the parallelism and convey the parallelism with the fatherless and the widow and the oppressed, putting those three categories of people together as powerless people in society. But actually it's probably more accurate to see that as rebuke or set right or reprove the oppressor. Rebuke the oppressor The one who is doing the oppress oppression. And then, even more specific than that, the Lord says there in verse 17, defend the cause of the fatherless. You could also translate that, vindicate the orphan. Vindicate the orphan, the one who has no protector, the one who has no father figure. the one who is powerless in society. Widows and orphans throughout the Old Testament are used as symbols of the powerless in society. They are used those terms are used as if to describe a whole class of people that are the underlings of society, those who are without a say in what goes on, those who are without power in in the culture. And it's a persistent Old Testament theme. Even in this first chapter of Isaiah, we see again in verse 23 that the Lord brings this up. And he says to the people, Your rulers Do not defend the cause of the fatherless. The widow's case does not come before them. You see, God detests rulers who don't defend the fatherless And he's calling the people to account for this. He says, your rulers don't offend defend the cause of the fatherless. They have no care over the widow's case. In Psalm 82, we see another striking description of this. You may want to turn there with me if you have your Bible handy. Psalm 82 And God says in verses three and four there, defend the cause of the weak and fatherless. Maintain the rights of the poor and oppressed. Rescue the weak and needy. Deliver them from the hand of the wicked. Here again, the fatherless are the weak, the powerless of society. And God is calling us to rescue the weak and the needy from the hands of the wicked who have no such concern. for the poor, no such concern for the oppressed, no such concern for the underlings of society. This theme is so pervasive, we see it again in Psalm 94. Where God condemns rulers who murder the fatherless. Psalm ninety-four-six, the Lord says The rulers crush the people, they oppress your inheritance, they slay the widow and the alien, they murder the fatherless. You see, in Old Testament Israel, the murder of the fatherless was something that the wicked did all the time. Something that that happened all the time. And God is calling his people to stand against that, and he's saying, defend the fatherless. Plead their cause. Plead their case. Today, I think one of the most significant and important ways we can seek justice in our society is to face this issue of abortion head on. It's one of the most important ways we can defend the fatherless today. You see, unborn children have no rights, not even the right to live, not even the right to breathe outside of their mother's womb. They are truly the fatherless. They have no protector. They are the most powerless people in our society, really. And you'll see in that bulletin insert that the Christian Action Council is drawing people's attention to that today, all across the country. And it's interesting that even non-Christians are waking up to this and seeing that abortion is a violation of the civil rights of the unborn. Even atheists are jumping on the bandwagon, so to speak, now and getting behind this movement, the so-called pro-life movement. And seeing that the civil rights of the unborn are being cut off, are being denied by abortion on demand You see, for us this must be a live issue, my friends, because it's a scriptural issue. Defending the fatherless, defending the powerless is not an option. It is clear from Scripture that it is one of our requirements before the Lord. And you see, our culture, even our Christian culture, has such a short attention span. We jump from one fad, one issue to the next so easily. Without often letting this penetrate our hearts, penetrating our minds and our our very being, so that we have a deep obedience and a deep concern for this. This grieves God's heart That the fatherless are murdered. This grieves God that no one defends the fatherless unborn. And so it must be an enduring issue for us. You know, as as Alan was describing this recently to me, there's really two dangers that we can fall into on this abortion issue. Really two dangers we need to avoid. The first danger is to let this abortion issue become a hobby horse just for our lunatic fringe, the pet project of a certain bunch of zealots. in our Christian culture. And so we just let them go and do their own thing. And so we see no obligation to ourselves to be involved in this. I sense this very keenly Uh last Saturday a week ago, when I went myself to uh picket at the Hillcrest Abortion Clinic for the first time, I admit, um some of you know that Columbia Presbyterian is committed to uh picketing at Hillcrest on the second Saturday of every month along with many other churches in the area. But there were not even ten of us there on that s on that Saturday, and it was rainy and not quite as cold as today, so that probably had something to do with it. But that made it very easy for people just to drive by and see us as a bunch of nuts, really. Really, we're just a lunatic fringe out there walking around in the rain. And the cops would circle around and and watch us. And I couldn't help but think that they must think that we're just um a bunch of of nuts that this is our pet project and something we get a kick out of doing walking around in the rain and um going through that kind of of misery We can't let this become a hobby horse for a lunatic fringe in our society. We can't let society see us as that. We can't let society see the abortion issue as that. But there's an opposite danger. If there's one danger of this becoming the hobby horse for a lunatic fringe, the opposite danger is just as real and something that we need to guard against, and that is that it becomes a new legalism. You see, abortion is something that everybody must be involved with to the same extent. And fighting and the pro-life movement means that um all evangelicals must march. We all must write letters, we all must be involved in boycotts, we all must must be doing absolutely everything possible And so we don't want to fall into that extreme either. We can't let abortion and the and the pro-life movement become a hobby horse for a few, but we also can't make it illegal that says everybody must be involved to the same extent. So we need to avoid those two extremes. Somewhere in the middle there is a balance. Somewhere there is a balance. The facts and the statistics are familiar to many of us. We know that since the Roe versus Way decision of nineteen seventy-three, there have been over eighteen million unborn children killed. Over 18 million. It's been called, I think rightly, the Great American Holocaust. Our rulers, our government, has made it legal to murder the fatherless. And Psalm ninety-four as well as Isaiah cries out against that. Every day in our country, in our country alone, Every day there are 4,000 unborn children cut up, sucked to pieces Or otherwise tortured to death in their mother's womb. Four thousand a day. All legally done Perfectly perfectly okay in our society's mind. Four thousand a day, almost three every minute. There's some good news in all of this. Um the pro-life movement is gaining momentum in some quarters. Americans United for Life, the nation's oldest pro-life organization, has been encouraged by 1986. They see a broadening base of support that n not just Christians are involved in this movement now, but also atheists, even pronounced ones like Bernard Nathanson. have come out and done a hundred and eighty degree turn from being one of the Bernard Nathan in particular was one of the heads of uh the abortion movement in this country, and he's on a hundred and eighty degree turn, and he's now one of the champions of the pro-life movement. And so there is cause for encouragement there. The abortion rate does seem to be going down some across the country. There was a 7% decline reported from 82 to 84. That's the first decline since 1973. So that's good news. But but there's still a lot of work to be done, my friends, and there's really some bad news coming out of our elections this November because for Pro-life senators were lost in November. In fact, we had the worst vota voter turnout since World War II. Thirty-seven percent of the populace came out to vote on November 4th, 1986. And it's pretty obvious that evangelical Christians were among those who stayed home. Because four states had pro-life referenda up on the dockets, and every single one of them lost. The Lord tells us in Isaiah to defend the fatherless. So what can we do? What can you and I do about this? Well, for one thing you can pray. Get the Christian Action Council's excellent action line newsletter. And pray. Really go through that. And make it a weekly thing, even with your family, during family devotions. Pick a night of the week. Our family picks Wednesday night to pray for world concerns such as this and social issues. Pray regularly. You can write You can write to encourage pro-life senators and congressmen. Again, the Christian Action Council would love to tell you about those those men who are standing up for the fatherless unborn, who are championing the cause of the unprotected. unborn children in this country. You can write to companies such as Upjohn who are pursu who are uh pursuing the marketing and selling of abortive um drugs. And even you can boycott up John for this and write and tell them why you're doing that. Tell them why you're not buying their vitamins anymore. Tell them your concerns. That's the only way things can change if they know your concerns. So you can pray, you can write, you can support alternatives to abortion, and this is so important. Important enough that I'm going to talk some more about it next week. But Bethany Christian Services is an excellent evangelical and reformed pro-life family planning, um family um crisis centered and they constantly need money, volunteers to help with all their projects and all their um activities. You can even answer a phone, answer a hotline in your home. You can have calls transferred to your home and answer answer a hotline counseling and giving sound advice to hurting women in crisis pregnancy situations in your very home. You can contact Bethany for m more information about that. And last but not least, what she one thing you can do. is march, is demonstrate publicly your concern for the fatherless unborn You can do that in a couple ways. This Thursday, as many of you know, there will be the annual ProLife March in Washington commemorating the 14th anniversary of Roe v. Wade on the 22nd. And thirty or so people from CPC are going to be there, and I'm excited about that. And Pastor Allen and I are going to be there. And yet there's probably um some room left on the buses. So if you haven't signed up to go on that uh and be with us for that march, there may be a few seats left. The buses leave from 9. 30, leave at 9. 30 from Harper's Choice Village Center and get back about 3. 30 on Thursday. And if you haven't yet gotten a seat on the bus, you may be able to do that for just three dollars. You'll have to call Covenant Community Church tomorrow though. You'll see the notice in the bulletin on that. You'll have to call them tomorrow to make sure that um they know of your interest. But if you work Monday to Friday or can't make that Thursday demonstration for whatever reason, you can also march at the Hillcrest Abortion Clinic. It's up on Mount 40, some of you know about that. Let's really make CPC's commitment to that second Saturday of every month worth something Let's really get some folks out there every week. It doesn't take that much really if you think about it. It's two hours on a Saturday, 10 a. m. to 12 p. m. Think about devoting two hours of your year in 1987 to registering your public protest against abortion in this country. Two hours a year. That's really not a lot to ask, is it? Ruth Olsen has generously offered to coordinate. Um A sign-up so that folks from CPC can sign up for every second Saturday from now through the end of 1987. This sign up chart will be at the back today And it'll be there again next week. So if you don't feel you can commit yourself now, pray about it with your spouse, with your family, and see which Saturday this year You could sign up to give two hours of your time to to register your opposition to abortion in this country. Uh the Olsons are glad to provide signs for those of you who don't have any. There's even directions on the back here of a map of how to get to Hillcrest and so on. Pray about this, folks, and ask the Lord how He would have you be involved in defending the cause of the Fatherless Unborn. Have you fallen into formalism, into an easy ritual without costly action? Have you failed to do everything you can for the fatherless unborn to defend the cause of the widow? Have you neglected to do everything in your power to seek justice in this country? Well, then read on and see the beauty of the Lord's reasoning here in Isaiah. The Lord's reasoning with his people. Isaiah verse 18. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they will be white as snow, though they are red as crimson They shall be like wool. Here we see what's turned the Lord's reasoning. It's really a tender invitation to Israel. An invitation that's softened with that now after the come, the imperative come is softened by that now. And so it's a command, yes But it's in the form of a beautiful, loving invitation to come to the Lord. Let us reason together, says the Lord. Well that's a curious phrase, isn't it? It doesn't mean now come let's look together at the independent evidence and see what we can come up with as a reasonable assessment to the human mind of the facts as they are God's not saying that. God is the author of reason. God sets the standard for reason. And so he's saying what is he's revealing what is pleasing to him. He's revealing the facts as he sees them here, the facts as they really are. From his perspective, to reason together is actually to submit to God's authority completely in all of life. To submit to the dictates that he lays down. And so the phrase, um, says the Lord here in verse seven in verse eighteen is to emphasize that it is God's offer. It is God's reasoning being put forth here. It's certainly not man's, it's certainly not Isaiah's even. It's God's reasoning, God's offer to his people. Here are the facts, in other words, the way things really are. And how God deals with man and is given to us in beautiful poetry. Here are the facts. The first fact is sin. Sin Like scarlet, deepest red, the reddest possible red. That's how guilty man is. That's the what rebellion has caused in man's life. Red is the color of guilt from unjustly shed blood, is in verse 15. Red is the color of guilt, and man is a sinner to the max. Man is a sinner. His sin before the Lord is red as scarlet, red as crimson, as red as can be. And God's pointing out that fact, the fact that man is a sinner here. But then he goes on to point out the second fact of how God sees man, and that is grace. This is how God deals with sinners who come to Him. Sin as red as scarlet becomes white as snow, or like new wool. as Isaiah describes it here. White as snow or white like new wool. Pure wool. Pure unstained wool. You see, the original verse construction even gives extra force to this contrast. Isaiah is saying here, your sins are as scarlet as snow, they shall be white. They are red as crimson, as wool, they shall be. Here we have a marvelous picture in the Old Testament of justification by grace alone. God is saying that this is how he deals with sinners. Blood red becomes snow white. The reddest red. is made pure as new wool. God freely pardons those who come to him. Isaiah tells us also in Chapter 55, 7, that God freely pardons all who come to Him. He declares the guilty innocent. He declares the prisoner forgiven. He takes the sinner and makes him holy. He takes the rebel and makes him pure. From our New Testament perspective, this is a picture of Jesus Christ and his work. Justification by grace is through him alone. It is through him that red sin, scarlet sins Become white as snow. He is the atoning sacrifice for sin. His death on the cross and his resurrection. Make this Salvation by grace possible makes this pardon possible. In Revelation chapter seven, verse fourteen. The saints, we are told, have their robes washed and made white. In the blood of the Lamb. Jesus is that Lamb. He is the one who makes this salvation possible. If you are someone today who has trusted in Christ alone, if you've come to Him and lay hold of that free gift of eternal life that He offers so freely Have you lost your zeal for the abortion issue? Has your heart become cold to the cause of the fatherless unborn? Have you failed to do all you could to protect the fatherless children? Well, if that's so, then you've blown it. And you need to recognize that before the Lord. But when you've blown it, look to Jesus. Look to him who is forgiveness for you. Look to him who pardons sin. You don't have to and can't earn the Lord's favor on your own. Christ paid the price that you couldn't. And you are acceptable before God, not by because of your great zeal for the abortion issue, not by your good works in any other way. But only because God sees you as righteous in his sight, through Jesus' righteousness, transferred to your account. Look to Jesus, who takes scarlet sins and replaces them with his righteousness. And if you are here this morning and you've never come to the place where you trusted in Christ alone, For your salvation, and you're still trusting in yourself and your own good works to try to please God, then the Lord says, Come to you. He says, come and transfer your trust to Christ alone and receive his righteousness in place of your sin. The Lord says, His wrath must rest upon you until you are resting in Christ. The Lord's hatred will rest upon you until you are resting yourself in Christ alone. So to you the Lord says this morning, come, come now, come now. Though your skins, though your sins are like scarlet, They shall be white as snow. Though they are red as crimson, they will be like wool. If you are willing and obedient, you will eat the best from the land. But if you resist and rebel, you will be devoured by the sword. Let's pray together. Lord, we praise you for your reasoning with sinners. We thank you that your way of dealing with sinners who come to you is to remove their sin. We praise you that rebels can be redeemed. Through the work of your Son Jesus Christ. Lord, give us your strength, your power, your zeal to defend the fatherless unborn as we should. Bring righteousness to pass in our country, Lord. Overturn abortion on demand. Overturn the laws that allow abortion for convenience's sake. And for any who are not trusting in Christ alone, who are here today, Lord, I pray that they would come and come now and know the delight, the joy. Of a right relationship with you through Jesus the Lamb, through Jesus the righteous one. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.