We come again to the book of Galatians as we go through this series, Brilliant Grace, looking at the doctrines of grace. Looking at the doctrines of grace in the letter to the church, churches in Galatia. You see, in many ways, I recognize as we were together a few weeks ago. that the book of Galatians is a diamond. It is a diamond whose brilliance captured so many hearts of so many people, of those who have studied it, those who've been changed by it. Like Martin Luther, John Calvin, to just name two important people within the history of the church. Who've been gripped by this letter that caused a great upheaval in their own understanding of the gospel. And recognizing that like a diamond, the diamond can be viewed in its brilliance through its different facets. Grace is that diamond. It is like this beautiful, brilliant piece of perfect cut uh jewelry that can be looked at through different perspectives to give us a richer understanding of what Christ has done for us. And we've looked at over the last couple of weeks Exactly what Paul's concern was that his message of the gospel of grace was being reversed. That which he taught, that trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and what he has done for us on our behalf completely and totally is our trust. But after he left, there were those who were trying to reverse that and say, while yes, Jesus died for our salvation, it is also incumbent upon us. to continue in our faithful observance of the law that makes us full recipients of what it means to be sons of the living God. Paul heard of this perversion of the gospel which he had preached And he comes in with this letter telling them first and foremost what his concern was, and then he takes the opportunity, as we looked at last week, to defend his ministry, that the gospel which he had been given was not made up by man, it was not made up by him, it was not given to him by the apostles. But by Jesus himself, who confronted Paul in his intensity and his persecution, and he transformed Paul From one who was a persecutor of the church to one who would be a preacher of grace. The one who tried to destroy the faith would now be the one used by God. to see that faith blossom by the Holy Spirit in the pr in the producing, in the planting of churches. And so this week, as we've looked at the last couple of weeks, what God has done in Christ on our behalf, if you will, these words of justification, Jesus dying on our behalf. justifying us, making us righteous because of his righteousness before a holy God. And then seeing how in the life of the man Paul That justification by faith, trusting in what Jesus has done, that righteousness that Christ has done on our behalf on the cross also transforms, the gospel of grace transforms anyone that it comes into contact with. This week I want to look at what is Paul's concern early in chapter three of Galatians. So then, once we understand what Christ has done for us, once we have trusted and believed in that, how then are we to continue to walk in grace? And this morning I want you to see it is in nothing else. Our walk with Jesus cannot be sustained. Cannot be upheld except by definitive grace. You will see the big idea. God's definitive grace calls us away from self-sufficiency. To dependence on Christ alone. Hear now the words of Paul, Galatians chapter 3, verses 1 through 5. You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. I would like to learn just one thing from you. Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Are you so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort? Have you suffered so much for nothing? If it really was for nothing? Does God give you his spirit and work miracles among you because you observe the law? Or because you believe what you heard. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Please pray with me this morning. Our Heavenly Father, we pray that by your Holy Spirit, which is present with us this morning, by your word. We pray that you would stir up within us the powerful, definitive grace that calls us away from depending on ourselves. into complete dependency on you. Lord, though I know that and pray that, I recognize that even this day, surely as we might receive and even believe on these things, That we will walk out these doors, and while your message is perfect, our apprehension, our application of it in the present is not. And not until the glorious return of Jesus Christ will these things be completely right But even, Lord, though we recognize and you show us how even our application of this gospel of definitive grace is imperfect, may you meet us with that grace. As we confess to you that we just don't get it. But Lord, by your spirit and word We humble ourselves again this morning and we plead with you, by your Spirit, help us to get it in the deep places of our hearts, to make us a people. Dependent on definitive grace. In Jesus' name, help the teacher. Amen. As a cyclist, I share with some in the room a great love for carbon fiber. Whether you are a skier, a snowboarder, a tennis player, or perhaps you own a car that has carbon fiber on it. If you do, we can talk later. I want to see it. But those who have come into contact with the incredible value of carbon fiber know what I'm talking about. Carbon fiber is just that. It is A fibrous material, which is a string of carbon atoms put together, they're very thin, thinner than the hairs that you have on your head in diameter. And what they do in and of themselves is isn't very much until they are with these strands woven together with other carbon fiber strands to form a yarn. And then that yarn is put together with other yarns of carbon to make a carbon fabric. that is then held together with an epoxy. And even now they've taken that epoxy and they've mixed within it nanotechnology, even to make the epoxy even stronger. The strength and value of carbon fiber is seen by how small the gaps are between the threads. The smaller the gap, the stronger it is And the beauty of carbon fiber, unlike aluminum, unlike titanium, unlike steel and metal, is that it can be laid into different kinds of molds and shaped and formed into incredible pieces for me of cycling art. I mean, my wife will tell you, if a great day for me is just to go into a bike shop and look at it, you know. It's a composite, however. It's not like metal. In fact, some don't like just how dead carbon fiber feels. If you go up into a carbon fiber tennis racket or you go up to a carbon fiber bicycle and you thump it with your finger, it doesn't have the sound of titanium or metal or aluminum. It doesn't have that ding, you know. It's just kind of dead and hollow. Because ultimately, it's a composite of manufactured materials. It isn't pure. And you see, Paul had a concern for these Christians recently converted to the Christian faith. He was concerned for them because he believed that what was in danger is that the gospel of pure grace, definitive grace Was being made as a composite with something else that would deaden the great value of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And they were using it to shape it into a faith that had nothing that not even remotely look like what Jesus came and preached, what Paul had preached in their midst. So he was trying to wake them up to what was happening in their midst, that they were trying to put together two things that did not belong. That what may work in the cycling or tennis or skiing world in composite materials does not work in the world of faith, of biblical faith. It cannot be composite. It must be wedded. To that which is pure and definitive, the grace of Jesus Christ. And this morning I want to show you in your outline what he tells us here in these verses as he confronts them. And what is one of the most stark statements of any of the biblical writers to an audience? He wants to show them how we receive grace, what God's grace offers us. And what God's grace requires. How we receive it. What grace offers And what it requires. Let's look together first at how we receive grace. Verse 1 Roughly translated means you dear fools Some translators would say it means you dear idiots. But I want to tell you, while it may cause us to laugh just a little bit. Where I have come to the podium this morning and looked at you and said, You fools, I don't think you would have received it so well. But he spoke to them so starkly, out of love, because he wanted to awaken them. That they had misunderstood and misapplied how they'd received grace. He asked them this question. Who has fooled you? Who has bewitched you? Who has taken you off the track which I laid before you? Before your very eyes, he says, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed as crucified. So what he is saying is. Do you not remember the message that I preach to you? And when he says Before your very eyes, Jesus Christ was clearly portrayed. He does not mean that they literally saw the presence of Jesus. What he is saying is, as he preached Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ crucified for our sins In our place for our salvation, he is suggesting that in doing so, in that preaching event Jesus Christ was so graphically, when he says clearly, graphically and vividly presented As crucified, died and paid for our sin in full Or as one writer would say, we stood before God's holiness as completely bankrupt, having nothing of our own, and yet Christ. In all of his righteousness, his fullness, his beauty, his life, his death, and his resurrection came with all the wealth of heaven. and removed our bankruptcy, paid our debt in full. And in so doing, as Paul preached, he says, Christ was clearly portrayed, graphically presented as crucified. So for Paul, in that one phrase stands the whole of the gospel. Meaning the gospel of grace that you cannot earn it by your effort, that you didn't think it up by your own intelligence. That you didn't accept it because you were innately saw its value. No, it was because Christ was clearly presented to you as he was to me, and Paul, as an apostle of Jesus Christ, presenting it before these churches in Galatia, it was presented. And he says, How did you receive it? Well he says, I would like to learn just one thing from you. Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Now notice what he does very subtly. While he he takes that one sentence, Christ clearly portrayed as crucified, displaying the gospel itself He also says that when the gospel came, so did the Spirit. As you believed, so did the Holy Spirit. So they have received the Spirit. They've received the gospel. And he says Why did you receive it? How did you receive it? And he asked them, Did you receive it because of your obedience? Because you saw within it its innate logic, its innate what? What did you bring to the table, he asks? And he says here specifically, did you believe on Jesus Christ? Did you receive him? Did you receive the Spirit and the gospel itself because of what you were doing or what you did? He means it to be rhetorical. Of course not. There's nothing whatsoever that they did or could do. That would enable them to receive the gospel in all of its beauty. He says this You did not receive it by observing the law, but by believing what you heard. The choice is obvious Was it something that you did by walking or obedience, or was it because Christ was portrayed before you? The Spirit came and you, like Paul, was before Jesus, you were gripped. You were transformed. You could not help but say, This is the Lord Jesus. This is what he has done. Not what I have done. Nothing in my hands I bring, but simply to thy cross I cling. Paul is asking the question, how did you receive grace? Now here some might say, well, isn't believing a work? But it is not. That is not what Paul is saying here, clearly. Because otherwise, then the gospel would be hung up on our ability and our choice to work, to believe. But what he is saying here is that when Christ is clearly portrayed as the one who is crucified, the Spirit who is given, the human heart sees. Hears, believes, in other words, trusts. And that is not accounted as a work It's responding to the work that has been done before you. It is a receiving of the gift that is being given And so Paul would have us to know that he is saying to the churches in Galatia and to us that we do not receive the grace of God by our effort. Or by our innate intelligence. But because Christ Has been portrayed as crucified, and his spirit has come in the human heart, and the human mind, and the soul. Receives it as a gift. But what does that God what does God's grace offer us? Paul is quick to show when he says, Did you receive the Spirit by observing the law or by believing what you heard? Then he says in verse 3, Are you so foolish? After beginning with the Spirit, are you now trying to attain your goal by human effort? There are a couple of things that he's saying there in regard to what God's grace offers us. God's grace, as we understand it, often is defined as God's unmerited savor. That is true. It is that. But it is more than that as well. Because God's offer of grace is a gift Of what? It is the gift of our ability to trust in His power. His power Is demonstrated in this text with the one person, the Spirit. And what God's grace offers us Not by our deserving it, he gives to us his presence, the presence of the Holy Spirit. And that person of the Holy Spirit is God's power, which is why the gospel is talked about as God's power being made evident. And that power in the New Testament understanding is associated not with a list of doctrines but the person of the Spirit. I say that by considering First Thessalonians verse chapter one, verse four, where he says this For we know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you, because our gospel came to you not simply with words, but also with power. With the Holy Spirit, with deep convictions. With deep conviction. So What he is saying there is that what the gospel of grace offers us isn't just the announcement of what Jesus has done for us. But that as Christ is portrayed and we are overwhelmed by that and we believe, how is it that we are overwhelmed and believe? Because it tells us he gives his spirit. It is the Spirit of God that convicts the human mind, convicts the human heart. And here, picking up the words of Paul and 1 Thessalonians. Where there is deep conviction, heart level, belief, and trust that Jesus is the Christ. He is my righteousness. He is my good. He is my savior. His blood, his body, given for me, his obedience is my obedience His righteousness is given to me. That happens only as God's grace offers and gives his spirit and the spirit comes. with deep conviction, with deep power to convince us, to show us, to lead us to Christ Himself When Paul says, Are you so foolish then, after beginning with the Spirit? Are you now trying to attain the goal by human effort? What I want you to see in that one phrase is that Paul is showing us that he's talking about more than just the initial coming to Christ, which is wrought by his power, the gift of his spirit. Do you see what he's saying? That Paul is not just concerned about the gospel of grace that comes into our lives to change us to enable us to receive salvation, he's showing us how we live out that salvation. Isn't that what he says? When he says, after beginning with the Spirit, recognizing beginning in belief, are you now trying to what? Are you now trying to complete your salvation? Are you trying to complete your walk with Christ by human effort? Let me explain it this way. If the two first chapters of Galatians could be subsumed in these two ide in this idea That what he was trying to say is that what our salvation has been purchased by is justification being made right with God by trusting in Jesus my Savior. Now in chapter 3, he's moving from justification, how we are made right with God, to now how do we live with God and follow him? That's what we call sanctification. And he says here that even sanctification, how we grow in Jesus Christ, is not by human effort. Jerry Bridges, the writer of a famous book called Transforming Grace, tells the story of this situation in his life. He had been asked to come and to preach at a church for a conference on the West Coast. And he had just arrived to the church because of the lateness of travel just 15 to 20 minutes prior to the service to begin. When he arrived, he received the news that one of their pastors had died the night before. So the message that he was planning to preach, that he had prepared, could not be preached. So he was shown a private place where he could go. And here is this man who's written this wonderful book, Transforming Grace, and lots of other books, very gifted teacher, very gifted writer. is now sitting in a room where nobody in the congregation can see. He gets down on his knees and he begins to pray. And as he begins to pray, he wants to pray for a message. But do you know what he was overcome by? Not by what he was going to preach, but this is what began to go through his mind. You know, Jerry, you didn't pray very much this morning. You know, Jerry, when was the last time you spent more than 15 minutes in a quiet time with the Lord? Did you do that this morning, Jerry? And he began to click off in his mind, thinking to himself, have I been faithful to the Lord Jesus Christ? And what I want you to see, and what Jerry Bridges wants you to see, is what was beginning to happen was composite faith, definitive grace was being wedded to a very subtle Very common, everyday, low-grade, guilt-ridden, guilt-motivated obedience towards Jesus Jesus will bless me so long as I keep up my end of the bargain. And he just began to confess that. He began to confess how he had climbed on the sanctification treadmill. God in that moment and his blessing was dependent on Jerry Bridges being able to run faithfully. Paul is saying to these Galatian Christians, are you now trying to attain Salvation in Jesus Christ and walk with him in faith by your own effort? And the natural question is, is that how you receive the Spirit? The rhetorical answer is of course no. It is what Jerry Bridges says, and leads me to my third point. What does God's grace require? It is this reality. One of the greatest secrets, Jerry Bridges says, in all of Christianity and among so many Christians, is this: that Jesus Christ paid for. Everything, not just for a human being who rejects Jesus to come to him. Jesus didn't just pay for that. He paid and says it is finished. Every prayer that you will ever receive an answer to before you ever pray it. Every good thing that God gives, whether you're expecting or not, does not come. One single iota, not one carbon fiber strand of God's grace comes from us. It is all of Christ's work. It is all. And why is it that so often, according to Jerry Brizes, is that sometimes the greatest secret among Christians. I think it is because Paul recognizes on the everyday level, not in worship service, not in Sunday school, not in fellowship group, but in the car on Monday morning or even going to home after church on a Sunday, while we say yes and amen to all of these things on the everyday street level of life. We say yes and amen to Jesus on the cross for my salvation. But I need to get busy. So I ask you, what would the Paul's answer be to this question? What does God's grace require of you? What does he require of me? Nothing. The question is, do we believe that? He wants to drive us to a deep, heartfelt conviction that Jesus Christ portrayed before us as the one crucified who has given us his spirit not just for our salvation But for our everyday, day in, day out, conversation, relationships, work, life, everything is all done empowered by Him. And what's interesting is that so oftentimes our greatest fear, is it not, now here I want particularly to talk to Christians. Christians who are willing to be honest, isn't it oftentimes our greatest fear that we believe that God will visit us with consequences if we begin to slack off with our faithfulness? But here's what's interesting. When we begin to think that, our greatest danger is not that we have slacked off is that somewhere deep inside we believed that our keeping up actually earned us something. It does not, it cannot. It is all of grace Paul says here in verse 4, have you suffered so much for nothing? If it really was for nothing. What he's saying is, if you turn away from this definitive grace, you will suffer. And you will have received the gospel for nothing. It will be of no value to you. And he says, Does God give you his spirit and work miracles among you because you observe the law or because what you believe because you believed what you heard? Now I want to be careful. He does ask us to do something. There is something that grace requires And it is this believe. But even God, in asking us to believe and trust, gives us his spirit. That enables us to believe. But what does that look like on the everyday level? Let me give this example Recognizing for just a moment that the idea of anger, if you are someone that struggles with uh with anger, now here I I I want to say anger is never neutral. There is good anger. And there's bad anger. I'm not talking about good anger here. I'm talking about if you happen to be someone who has a trigger temper. And you find yourself easily annoyed by others or even by yourself. And you let that and you voice that either verbally or just by your body You know, language. So let's talk about anger for just a moment. If you realize this morning that You that is an area in your life that God is dealing with or has been dealing with or has in the past, but you've tried to push it away, but you know that that is a place in your life where we to ask people who are close to you Whether they experience your anger, you know what they would say. So if anger is a problem, you might look at this text this morning and say, okay. Then the answer is I need to ask God for the ability to see my anger And I recognize where it's wrong, I need to then ask for his spirit to empower me not to be angry. Because isn't that what he says? He gives us his spirit, he gives us his power to walk. With Jesus and in this area of my life, I know that I need to grow in this way. I need to ask. Yes, I believe that Jesus died for me. I believe there's forgiveness for my sins. But I need to ask for his Spirit to empower me, to enable me, to walk where anger is not such the the at the root of a lot of my responses. I will tell you that that too would be the wrong answer. The answer is not to say, this is where I struggle, and in this case anger. So now I need to ask God for power. So that by his Spirit I will be less angry. I will tell you we will miss what Paul is saying here about definitive grace. Definitive grace coming in by the work of Jesus Christ and by the work of his Spirit brings God's power to the level of deep conviction. The deep conviction is not that I need power, it's that I need to understand what that conviction has come to do. God's conviction and power has not come to make us a self-improved version of ourselves. God doesn't say to us, here's how I'm going to make you a better person in 2012, and give you a list of things where you need to ask Him for power to do it. No, he means to make us holy. And that happens by going on the inside and changing from the inside out. Transformation the power of God by his Spirit with this grace to transform. So what does this look like in the area of anger? It looks like this. To begin asking yourself and asking God by His Spirit, by His Word, to ask in the area of anger, why is it that I get so easily angered? Is someone or something in my way of getting what I want? And because I haven't gotten it, I will make sure those around me know it. And I won't be afraid to voice that anger. And at that place, it's a very different thing than saying, Lord, give me your power of your spirit, give me grace so that I won't be angry. What this is, is by God's grace, a deep conviction, asking by his wisdom, Lord, not just whether I need power to not be angry. But to go down to the deepest level of places and saying, why am I angry to begin with? And maybe there by your spirit I need to repent. I need to repent of my own self-occupation. I need to repent of the fact that I want more what I want than what the needs of others are. And how and in what ways, verbally and nonverbally, I've let others know it that quite frankly, I would be better off if they would just get out of my way. And at that place, Lord, by your definitive grace, by your spirit, by your power, show me this. That I might get on my knees and repent of it. And may your spirit come and reside in what? Not just when I'm angry, but come and may the spirit in definitive grace begin to transform my desires. Transform my relationships that I might see where I just Not just need your salvation, I need to be transformed by this Spirit who gives definitive grace. Do you see the difference? The Holy Spirit and God's power for sanctification is not God's divine backpack that we carry on our backs and we reach to in once in a while to take out the gear that we need to take care of our circumstantial problems. God's definitive grace is His plan by His Spirit to move in to the deep, dark crevices of our lives to transform us from the inside out. And it isn't just something we reach into once in a while as circumstances present themselves. Is it a day in, day out, ground level on the streets Saying, Lord, today, I cannot breathe, I cannot walk, I cannot work, I cannot sing, I cannot parent, I cannot live aside from your empowering grace. Come, Lord Jesus, nothing in my hands I bring, but simply to thy cross I cling. Come, Spirit. Change us from the inside out by your definitive grace. And maybe what we need to do is to stop doing. And just, Lord, come. Forgive us. Save us from ourselves. Let's get off the treadmill. God is not keeping the record on his heavenly blackboard. Of all of your demerits and adding up all of your merit in Christ, he took the blackboard and he smashed it into a million pieces. Your debt paid in full. Your power to live. All of grace. Let's pray Father, come and make us a people less dependent on ourselves And more dependent on your grace Father, you need to, by your spirit and word, to waken a lot of us up this morning, and you need to tell us, oh dear fools, are we now trying to attain our completion by our effort? Lord, forgive us. For trusting in our petty performance. But we come to you this morning Not for empowerment, but for transformation. For some Lord here this morning, it may not be anger, it may be all kinds of things But I pray by your Spirit come. By this definitive grace, come and change us from the inside out. That we may stop our doing. And look to thee, O Christ. In Jesus' name, Amen.