Good morning. While you're turning in your Bibles to Psalm 25, I want to reveal what I believe to be a conspiracy that I've discovered. I was thinking about waiting this week because much of what this psalm is talking about is a compilation of hope and waiting. And I realized that the first time my parents ever gave me a watch, I was already in the second grade. And in thinking about that, I've come to the conclusion that the reason my parents didn't give me a watch was because when I was four and five years old, we would oftentimes visit friends and family, and I really have strong memories. of my mother saying, go wait outside, I'll be five minutes. I could never check. This morning we're going to look at a psalm that David talks about waiting. And as we begin, I want to help you to see the context of what David means by waiting. David was a young man. I don't know how young he was, but he was a young man, probably probably comparable to many of you adolescents sitting here this morning. And he was out tending sheep. And he really enjoyed tending sheep. You see that because throughout his history, throughout his literature, you see him focus on the image of being a shepherd of the Lord's sheep. And one day while he was sending sheep, his father called him man because Samuel the prophet had come to offer sacrifice And in offering that sacrifice, he called Jesse and all his sons to attend the sacrifice. And as he walked by, God said to Samuel, This is the one. And Samuel anointed him king. But they did not crown him because Saul was king in Israel And so David, one time after his brothers were at war, supporting the Israelites battling the Philistines, came to take them food and saw the giant Goliath And Saul was paralyzed, and the army of Israel was paralyzed. And David said, I'll take care of it. And God spiritually prepared David to go and slay Goliath. And he acted as king. But he wasn't. And then Saul began to have evil spirits plague him, and they knew David was a wonderful musician. And so David was sent to the to the palace to support the king Saul and to minister to him to calm him. And so David who's been anointed as king has acted to save Israel, is now acting to do what is necessary to care for Saul. And it gets to the point in the relationship between David and Saul that Saul realizes David is a threat, and so Saul tries to kill David. And David is forced to flee into the wilderness. And there David lives in the dust and the desert and the caves. Men follow him, and he has to take care of the men and find for them food and water, all the while knowing that the Lord has anointed him as king. And that he has not been crowned. And finally, that day comes when in a battle with the Philistines, Saul and Jonathan are killed. And David weeps. David, when he says, I wait on you all day long. Let's pray and then we'll read the passage. Father, I pray that your Spirit will open our hearts and open our minds and open our eyes, and that you will teach us deep truths. Not that we might know them, but that we might live them. Lord Jesus, show us yourself. Show us more of you. In this passage, we pray. Amen. Here's what David says. And I'm also reading from the ESV because I think in this translation, this particular passage is clearer. David says, To you, O Lord, I lift up my soul. O my God, in you I trust. Let me not be put to shame. Let not my enemies exult over me. Indeed, none who wait for you shall be put to shame. They shall be ashamed who are wantonly treacherous. Make me to know your ways, O Lord. Teach me your paths. Lead me in your truth and teach me, for you are the God of my salvation, and for you I will wait all day long. Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old. Remember not the sins of my youth nor my transgressions According to your steadfast love, remember me. For the sake of your goodness, O Lord Good and upright is the Lord, therefore he instructs sinners in the way. He leads the humble in what is right, and teaches the humble his way. All the paths of the Lord are steadfast love and faithfulness to those who keep his covenant and his testimonies. For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon my guilt, for it is great. Who is the man who fears the Lord? Him will he instruct in the way that he should choose. His soul shall abide in well-being, and his offspring shall inherit the land. The friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him, and he makes known to them his covenant. My eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he will pluck my feet out of the net. Turn to me and be gracious to me, for I am lonely and afflicted. The troubles of my heart are enlarged. Bring me out of my distresses. Consider my affliction and my trouble and forgive all my sins Consider how many are my foes, and with what violent hatred they hate me. Oh, guard my soul and deliver me. Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you. May integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you. Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles. The Lord's word One of the things I want you to take from this passage is the truth that's found in verse after verse, and that is that God takes care of David. There's four particular thoughts I wanted to address with that. And the first of which is that none who wait for, or if you're looking at the NIV, the translation you're going to have is Hope In. And it's going to make a point in just a moment. None who wait for you shall be put to shame. Now the point I want to make with that is this He's talking about waiting for or hoping in. I don't know about you, but when I start thinking about waiting I'm an impatient person. If I were the one who were saying in this passage, Lord, I wait for you all day long, I think it would have an entirely different intonation. What I would be saying is, Lord, I wait for you all day long. Why can't you act? Why can't you take care of me? You see, I think that wait is a four-letter word. But what David is talking about here is not an impatient waiting. It is an eager anticipation. What he says is, I hope for, I wait in you, and I'll wait for as long as it takes. Right now, if I were George Bush, I would be waiting impatiently. We have gone to war with Iraq With the defense for that war that says we are going to disarm Iraq from weapons of mass destruction. We have been in Iraq for several days now, and thus far we have not been able to point to significant measures of weapons of mass destruction. George Bush's confidence is in his intelligence community. It is in those who have been able to discern what's going on. Frankly, some of you. Many of you work in that in that part of of our government. And and if I were in your place I would also probably be very anxious waiting for the discovery so that we can demonstrate that what we have done is justified. But brothers and sisters, your confidence ought not be in your work. It ought not be in our government. It needs to be in your Father. There is a huge tension that comes when we have to wait, when we have to hope. Let me read a quote from Dan Alender's book Healing Path. It describes hope. Callender says, hope is the quiet, sometimes incessant call to dream for the future. The present moment is not enough to satisfy our souls completely, no matter how good or bad. The now leaves us hungering for more And our insatiable quest for more is the root system of biblical hope. Hope cannot be killed. Not ever. But it can be drugged. It can be drugged numb and sleepy. Even then it will still function. But in a more material and simplistic manner, akin to wishing to win the lottery or anticipating the purchase of a new car. First Peter talks to us about waiting in hope. And there's a second thought in this section, this passage, this phrase, and it talks about being put to shame. For you see, it's not in no more than it is the quality of my faith that's important. It is not the quality of my hope that's important. It is the object of my hope. And if I'm willing to settle for a hope that says I want to win the lottery or I want a new car. I settled for way too little. David says part of it is that we shall not be put to shame. You need to understand what's happening in David's life and what has happened leading up to this. Just like David had to wait for God to deal with the issue of Saul, David had shame. David is the man who in his very throne room, where he is the king, was unmasked. Nathan the prophet came to him and told him a story, and David, in his anger, responded to that story of the man who had stolen his neighbor's sheep. And Nathan looked at David the king before his court and said, David, you are the man. You have sinned. You have stolen the wife of another, and you have murdered the one whose wife you stole. Later on, David's sin follows him. And his son Absalom, in an attempt to so disgrace his father, so shame his father that the nation could not follow him. disgraced his father on the very steps of the palace. Brothers and sisters, the shame that David is talking about is not a an earthly shame. It is the shame before our Father in Heaven It is a shame that you and I think we live with daily. I want you to think for a moment about a recent experience where you've recognized a sin with which you battle. You have lost that battle once again. I want you to think that moment of the recognition that you have once again fallen into that wretched pattern of sin. And I want you to feel the shame of that recognition. I want you to feel the guilt. I want you to put yourself in that place where if it were to be broadcast on the screen this morning Would humiliate you to the point you could not show your face here again. Now, if you're there, I want to ask you a question. Where's Jesus? Is Jesus with you in that? And if he's with you, what's his expression? Is he looking at you with disdain? Is he saying to you, you did it again? Are thunderbolts blazing from his eyes? Because David knows that's not true. David knows, as he says here, that no one who waits for you will be put to shame. I don't think David can possibly understand why, but we looking back at the past can see exactly why. For you see, we look back 2,000 years and we see a cross on which the Savior died, and we hear his words, it is finished. And the sin that shames you, he bore. He has paid the debt for that sin He has taken ownership, and it is not yours to bear anymore. God is a God of integrity, and he will not charge twice For the same thing. I want you to see the love of your Savior. I want you to see Him there sad, weeping with you for the sins you commit. I want you to see him there reaching out to you and calling you to come and to cling to him. I want you to see him there calling you to repent and to rest. God shows that character of himself even in this passage. For what he does, he says, is he instructs sinners in the way. It's really easy for us to pass that by because it's religious language. It's familiar language. It's language that says, oh yeah, I've heard that before. But I want you to stop and think for a minute. What is it that he is saying when David says you instruct sinners in the way? What he's saying is this you who rebel, you who reject, you who deny, he teaches. In the same way that if it were me speaking of waiting, I would speak with criticism and bitterness. If I were talking about teaching sinners, there would be condescension. There would be disdain. There would be a distance that I would maintain from me to you. What God is teaching us as sinners is how to draw near to Him. So that David can say in verse twenty, I take refuge in you. You are my strong fortress. You are my high tower. I can rest in you. For you, as he says in verse 5, are the God of my salvation. Now I want to address something quickly here. If you look at the end of the Psalm David says in verse 20, O guard my soul and deliver me. Let me not be put to shame, for I take refuge in you. May integrity and uprightness preserve me. For I wait for you. If you're like me, when you hear that, your mind immediately leaps to: May my integrity and my uprightness protect me. May I be justified on the basis of my performance. He's not saying that. Look at Titus Chapter 3 verse 5. If you want, just listen to it. I want to read it. I want you to hear what God says and does in translating what David has said in Titus because this is this is abundantly clear In Titus 3. 5 it says, that God our Savior appeared, and he saved us not because of works done by us in righteousness But according to his own mercy, by washing of regeneration and renewing by the Holy Spirit. He saved us not on the basis of deeds done by us in righteousness. But by his work. And David here is pointing us to the fact that it is integrity and uprightness that justifies our relationship with God, but it is not our integrity, it is not our uprightness. It's not our record. So that David is then free to wait on the Lord I want you to think for a moment about what a remarkable relationship David is describing that he has with the Father I want you to hear it and I want you to hunger for it. I do. David says, I wait for you all the day long. Now we're we're Americans. We're here in America, we're in an affluent part of America, and we have been conditioned to do anything but wait. We have grocery stores that allow us to choose from 1700 different cereals. We can choose from 47 different cuts of meat, of one kind of meat. If we need medicines, we can go to all sorts of different types of medicines. There's choices that abound. And we have created such a wonderful economy that there is this thing called credit cards. So that you can enjoy now and pay later. I want you to go back to what Kat Stewart was preaching about several weeks back, and he talked about he talked about an event in Iran. And there was a young man who'd come from the outlying areas and had come into Tehran, and God had spoken to him. God had spoken to him so clearly that he wanted to become a Christian, and he said, Where can I find a Christian? And somebody directed him to a church on Monday. And so in Tehran, he stood in front of that church all day long. And nobody came. In his hunger for Christ, he came back the next day, Tuesday, and he stood all day long. And Wednesday and Thursday and Friday and Saturday until finally Sunday morning somebody came. I am not patient enough to stand for seven days. Only in the hope that I might find what I'm looking for. Because I'm an American and I don't have to. But I want you to think not simply of the waiting, which we can identify with, but this is a man standing in front of a church in Iran. There are police whose job it is to find out Muslims who convert. This is not a safe place to be. He's taking tremendous risk. Because he's hungry for Jesus. Alender also says this. He says, We hate to wait. We hate to hope. It seems contradictory for Paul to say, not only so, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption as sons. The redemption of our bodies, Romans 8. 23. Alan did a really good job of explaining this passage to us last Sunday and in dealing with the hope. But Alan goes on to say, how are we to groan inwardly and also wait expectantly? It seems that when we groan most deeply, we most urgently anticipate resolution for our pain. But we cannot hope unless we learn to wait. And we cannot learn to wait if we have put God on our schedule. Brothers and sisters, you don't have a choice. You can't shock to get what God alone can give. You can't provide it yourself, and no one else can You have to wait. And you're waiting for God in His mercy and His steadfast love. I want you to look at verse 6 and 7. David describes the character of the one upon whom he waits. Remember your mercy, O Lord, and your steadfast love, for they have been from of old. David looks at the Father, upon whom he must wait. His very life is probably at risk. And there's no other there's no other deliverance. And what does he speak of in his waiting He speaks of mercy and loving kindness. He says, Remember not the sins of my youth or my transgressions. According to your steadfast love, remember me for the sake of your goodness, O Lord. David is pleading with God for relationships, because his sin is a barrier that has to be removed. And only God, only God can remove it But God is the God of mercy and loving kindness, and does. That's why David can say the things that we've already looked at. You are the God of my salvation. What a wondrous phrase. According to your steadfast love, remember me I don't know what issues are plaguing you, what pains you're experiencing, but I know that they're there. I know that they're there But the God upon whom you wait, as David did, is a God of mercy and loving kindness. And he wants you to see that. He wants you to experience that. So let's take a moment and stop. Let me ask you this question. Are you dependent Or are you depending? Or are you independent? There's a difference between all three. Independence says, I'm in charge, I'm in control, I'll take care of myself. Thank you very much. Whether you can or can't, God, I can do it myself. Thank you. I'll be okay without you. Depending says, I have options. And at this moment you seem to be the best of my options, and so I will depend upon you for this thing. But I really can go elsewhere if I have to. I'm not really, I'm not really uniquely in your hands. And if, Lord, you should fail to do what I want upon schedule that I want you to do it in the way that I want you to do it, I will begin to reevaluate my other options And quite possibly I may take matters into my own hand. David is dependent You do not wait all day long if you're merely depending. Do you have other options? Do you have other places that you turn when the Lord fails you? Have you submitted? Or like me, are you trying to manipulate? Is he master? Is he boss? Is he head? Is he God? Or is he a tool? David knows that his hope is in the Lord. One of the things about God taking care of David that's really critically important for us to see. And I want to jump back to that for a moment, is this. God not only takes care of David, David knows God is taking care of him There's no question. Because he's forgiven David knows that God has indeed forgotten the sins of his youth. God has indeed pardoned him. He doesn't know how yet, because that's not been made clear, but he knows that God has given him a relationship that requires that pardon. And there is an intimacy between David and the Lord that that shouts. It shouts of his confidence. Let me read you another quote. No one can change Without facing both the harm that has come from living in a fallen world and his own disastrous attempts to make life work apart from God. We change to the degree we see both the foolishness of our idolatry and the beckoning beauty of God's waiting heart. Forgiveness means little until we are exposed as adulterers and murderers. Forgiveness means much. When we see what we deserve in contrast to the party that awaits if we merely go home. Brothers and sisters, there will be no broadcast of your sins before the waiting crowds in heaven for you to be ashamed. For those sins have been taken and they're yours no more. There will be no shame. There will be no humiliation. There will be a father who waits to welcome you with open arms. And to see you face to face. There will be a home that has been prepared for you, to be at the feet of the Lamb To taste his love for you. His eager, his eager waiting for you to come home And you're protected to that. First Peter chapter one verses three through five. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ according to his great mercy. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. If you belong to Jesus, Your inheritance is secure and certain and can never be at risk If you belong to Jesus, you are being protected and kept and guarded, no matter what it feels like, for a future that is certain and sure. The implications of this to me, and I believe for all of us, can be boiled down in one quick little thought I do not have to teach God how to love me. I don't have to teach him. Job Job was one who went through great trials. This trial started because God said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? There's none like him. He loves me. He trusts me. He's connected to me And Satan said, Well of course. Look at how you take care of him. Who wouldn't trust you if they were in Job's place? And so God allowed Satan to tempt and to test Job. And Job came to the point where he was convinced that he needed to teach God how to love him better. And he called God down and said, Lord, let me straighten you out. And what a wondrous gift God gave Job before he came. But he didn't come to be beckoned by Job to make an explanation. He didn't come so that Job could help God to understand what love meant. He came to show his holiness, his power, and his transcendence. And Job left with more than a simple understanding of how to help God love you well. Job left with an experience of God. God is not waiting for us to ask Him to take care of us God was not waiting to take care of David as he took him through those long, arduous times in the wilderness God was taking care of David. God was teaching David lessons he needed to know of trust and reliance and of ruling in order to be king. And we can see that looking from the future. Last week Alan read a quote That I think describes us well. I want to read it again, but I want to unpack it briefly. The quote simply says this, and it's from Forward magazine from February of 2001. Romans 8 says we don't know how to pray as we ought. We don't. We are high-chaired kids who want to tell mom and dad how to run the household We are five-year-olds in the car on the way to Disney World for the first time, crying silently with disappointment, because dad drove right past that little park with the big slide, and we thought that was it. Brothers and sisters, you don't have to teach God. But this isn't the end of the story. We were discussing this in my class Journey of Desire this morning, and it became clear to me that I need to say more Because we're not called to wait silently crying with disappointment in the car as we wonder whether or not our father has forgotten how to get there. We don't have to wait until we arrive to know his heart. We are free in our disappointment to ask with tears, Daddy, didn't you just miss the turn? So that dad can tell us, no, that's hardly a taste of what I'm going to give you. Just wait. God is busy. He is active and he's loving us well. Romans 8 tells us that the Spirit is interceding for us as we don't know how to pray. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know how to pray for, we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. And a little further on, who is it to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, and who is at the right hand of God, who is indeed interceding for us. We have a Redeemer. We have a Savior. We have a Daddy who is worthy of our patience. And who wants us to know now and in the future his love. Jesus, I do not know you as I ought. But even more, I do not know you as I want. Show yourself to us. Teach us of your heart for us Reveal your glory, your love, your splendor to us, that we might love you well. That we might be what we are meant to be, children of the Most High God, living in your glory and your splendor and your love, loving you with all our hearts. And waiting for the day of your return. In your name we pray. Amen.