This fall we've been working through a series on the parables. And we are grateful that indeed it's been, I think, a good study for us to look at these passages which in many ways are familiar but also at times very enigmatic. And this morning is not itself on the parables. It is a wrapping up of really what many of the parables were pointing us to. That Jesus was teaching many of his parables to demonstrate to those his followers, but also even those who were opposed to him, what was the nature of the kingdom. The kind of king he would be and the kind of relationship and the kind of new life that Jesus was inviting those who were around him. What was those he was what kind of kingdom was he inviting them to? And he was encouraging his disciples, as we will see this morning, in many different ways and at different times, but really one central idea is to desire the kingdom. To desire the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ, with him as King, as a new way of living. And so this morning we are going to go back to a passage which we read last Sunday morning during the worship service, but which comes after the parable of the rich fool. If you recall, Jesus was teaching us in that parable that we can have great wealth and we can store it up. But for what end? And when we store it up for ourselves simply by building bigger barns or bigger houses or looking for more things, we will have missed what God is calling us to in Christ and that is to be rich towards Him. That the gifts that we have been given financially and Through our talents and through our material goods are not an end and of themselves, but for the purpose of glorifying Him. And Jesus, of course, gives us that parable with the challenge. This man, of course, in the parable, believed that once he had gained enough things, he would simply be able to squeeze out of those material goods the life which he was seeking, to relax, to enjoy, to drink, and to be merry. But Jesus said, You are a fool. You have no idea how long you will live. Your soul will be called of you this night, and then whom will you leave these gifts to? Jesus responds by simply saying that we're to be rich towards God, rich towards Him. He teaches this parable, and then he turns to his disciples to teach them. Then what flows from this parable? What does it mean to be rich towards God? It means to trust. God in his provision. And so we see Luke chapter twelve, verses twenty-two through thirty-four. Luke chapter 12, verses 22 to 34. Hear now God's word. Then Jesus said to his disciples. Therefore, I tell you, do not worry about your life, what you will eat, or about your body, what you will wear. Life is more than food and the body more than clothes. Consider the ravens. They do not sow or reap. They have no storeroom or barn, yet God feeds them. And how much more valuable are you than birds? Who of you, by worrying, can add a single hour to his life? Since you cannot do this very little thing, why do you worry about the rest? Consider how the lilies grow. They do not labor or spin. Yet I tell you, not even Solomon in all of his splendor was dressed like one of these. If that is how God clothes the grass of the field, which is here today, and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, how much more will He clothe you, O you of little faith? And do not set your heart on what you will eat or drink. Do not worry about it. For the pagan world runs after all such things, and your Father knows that you need them. But seek his kingdom, and these things will be given to you as well. Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions, give to the poor, provide purses for yourselves that will not wear out, a treasure in heaven that will not be exhausted, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Heavenly Father, by the work of your Holy Spirit, open our eyes that we would see wondrous things in this part of your word. That you, by the work of Christ and your Spirit, working together with the Word, would indeed give us a desire for you and your kingdom. Father, we pray that you would enable us, sustain us to understand the world in which we live in. But we pray as we understand it That your power would be greater to enable us to give us new desires and new life in Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen. Jesus, in saying in verse 34, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also, is saying something very profound about human existence. That is, that we are not merely material beings where we only care about material things. We desire something more. Than food and drink and clothing. Jesus is saying something that we are motivated by That we are motivated not first and foremost by our minds and the ideas that we have. Jesus does not say here, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be, where there your mind will be also. He does not tell us that first and foremost that we are thinking beings, for we certainly are, and Jesus recognizes that, but we are first and foremost beings that were created for worship. So when he says, For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also, is another way of saying what you worship, what you love, what you most desire will be what forms your heart. And where your heart goes, there your mind will go too Thinking about this in the most basic, mundane of ways, I put it to you this way. I love French fries. But I know the data from my blood tests, I know what my doctor tells me, I know how I'm going to feel. I know a lot of things about how too many French fries will hurt me. I tell myself That when I meet one of you for lunch or dinner, that I will not choose fries. I have this inner dialogue with myself. And I go through what I just told you. Inevitably, when given the choice, however, between a fruit cup, salad, or fries, where does my heart go? Fries. Where does my where does my mind go I'll have salad for dinner. That's what my mind does. I'm it we are beings that worship. Where your treasure is, there your heart will be, because in our hearts is a place where we were created to worship. And it shapes our lives. It shapes our worries. It shapes our desires. And it shapes the way we live. Jesus means to have his disciples to understand this. And so as we look at this passage this morning, we will look at it as Jesus giving to his disciples what their calling is, what their desires should be for, and the kind of economy that should make up their lives, an economy of giving. But Jesus recognizes He's teaching them because they live embodied lives with hearts that are sinful, that desire things other than the things that he lays out for them. They live in a world That gives to them a rival calling, a rival kingdom, and a rival economy. And Jesus wants us to think about that very same thing. Ultimately, to call us to worshiping Him, to desiring Him as the one who really knows our need And that we will not find rest. And so our hearts find rest in Him. That is what Augustine said hundreds of years ago At the end of his book, The City of God. And so Jesus gives us this passage. So you'll see in your outline you have rival callings, rival kingdoms, rival economies. Let's look together at verses 22 through 27 as Jesus unpacks the rival callings. In verses 22 through 27, the first calling that he's pointing out to them is that you have one calling, and that is to the sovereign self. What do I mean? We see it particularly in verses 22 through 27 as Jesus unpacks the problem, their existential problem that he knows that they have and that he exposes In essence, guess what? You are worrying and you are anxious about what you will eat or what you will wear or what you will drink. And so Jesus gives them an illustration. In nature, look at the lilies of the field. In their deceptive simplicity, they are far more grand than all of Solomon's grandeur. If you look at the birds of the field here, the ravens, do they build bigger barns as the man did in the parable just before? No. Do they sow and spin? In other words, are they anxious? Are they worrying? No. Why? Jesus says, because. Their father in heaven provides for them. And he says, How much more then will your father not provide for you? But he says all of that because he's saying something about anxiety and worry. Behind all anxiety and a lot of our worry Is a fear that we are not in control, but we desire to be. And that ain't many of our anxieties and many of our worries that are fueled by a fear and a recognition that we are not in control, instead of leading us oftentimes. to greater dependence on others or greater dependence on a God who is there, it rather turns us back on ourselves. And worry and anxiety makes us not other-centered, it makes us self-centered. And we try to figure out how can we fix what ails us. And one of the options that Jesus gives is Or you worry about what you will eat or what you will wear. And then he says, in all of your anxiety, in all of your worry, you can't even add one more hour to your day. That he says as the Son of God is an easy thing. What does your anxiety and worry get? It only begets greater anxiety, greater worry, and collapsing ultimately and shaping our lives around the fear that we are not in control In other words, it tries to turn us in on ourselves, and we implode under that. But he offers in that context, in talking about the worry and the anxiety, he means to call them to the calling as Jesus, as God's Son, calls them to a heavenly Father. his father as the one who is ultimately sovereign. He is the one who is in control. He is the one who does know. He is the one who does rule. And so in verse 28 he says the following. He says, If this is how God closed the grass of the field which is here today and tomorrow is thrown into the fire, How much more will He clothe you, O you of little faith? The sovereign Father. And Jesus as his son looks into the hearts of his disciples. And he knows that the calling to worry about material things is so powerful that it will lead them away. From the kingdom in which Jesus is inaugurating. The caring love of a sovereign Father. Knowing all of that, he then calls them into this reality, this sovereign Father. Has created all things from nothing and has designed the blades of grass, they too are deceptively simple. But God has built the grasses and the flowers of the field in their simplicity, yet their grandeur, and yet humanity The Father has done this even though he knows their life is ephemeral. It is here today, gone tomorrow. If this is the trouble to which God has gone, how much more will my sovereign Father and I as his son not care for you? What is beautiful about what Jesus says, He does not diminish. He does not push us away from the idea that we still need physical stuff. Jesus isn't saying that as God's Son and God who they cannot see, whose love is not some God who's just an abstract thing that all you need is spiritual. You don't need material. That is not what Jesus says. But Jesus says the calling of God as sovereign Father puts our material needs in their proper place. Submitted underneath God's sovereign rule. Because unless our material needs that we all feel, that we all desire and like If they are not submitted to a proper control of a heavenly Father who knows what we need, they will fall under the control of you and I who are given to anxiety and fear of not being in control. control. One leads to freedom under a sovereign father who knows our needs and loves us and will provide for us. The other will lead to captivity. To our fears, our anxieties, and will lead to endless growth in our expectations, our comparisons to others We will eat ourselves alive with worry. Jesus calls us from that into himself. When Jesus says in the other gospels, if you had seen me, you would have seen the Father. This is the Father. This is God with us. About whom we're going to be talking about next week as we begin Advent season. God with us. This is Jesus. God looking at his disciples. And I don't believe he's saying, oh, you of little faith. I believe it's more inviting than that. Oh, you of little faith, do you not see? I know your needs. But they will be provided for if you recognize I am what you really need. He's calling them to himself. Jesus continues to unpack this rivalry, however. As Jesus gives them another illustration. And here, if you will, following the line and logic of what I've just said. And as Jesus lays it out for us, he then gives them rival kingdoms. You see, the sovereign self That is caught up in worry and anxiety, the fear of not being in control, really is trying to gain a new kind of kingdom. Desires that are based on stuff. You'll see there in the outline, rival kingdoms is the desire for things in verses 29 to 30. And then a desire for God. Let's look together at twenty-nine to thirty as Jesus unpacks the desire for things. Jesus, as he's just invited them to saying, Don't you see this is what I and your heavenly father know of you? He then says And do not set your heart on what you will eat or drink. Do not worry about it. And then this phrase, for the pagan world, runs after all such things. And your father knows you need them. He's saying the kingdom that we live, this world is a world that believes that what you need to do is you need to run after these things. If that's what worries you, do you want clothes? Do you want more food? Do you want more drink? Run after it. And that phrase that Jesus says: the kingdom of this world is full of people, those who have rejected me and rejected the Father. who run headlong after the pursuit of these things Now we need to stop there for just a moment and think about if this is the world in which the disciples were being taught. If those who did not believe around them ran after such things, desired to build a kingdom Motivated by anxiety and worry and the pursuit and the desire for stuff, if that's what was going on then, what about us now? Think about it just this way. If we Begin to turn in on ourselves and are caught up in anxiety and worry and the desire for more things. Guess what? The reality is we live in a world today That completely supports that worry and that anxiety. In fact, we have enshrined in our culture in the United States That you have a freedom to choose, but will never cast any judgment on the quality of your choice. In fact, the freedom to choose is far more important than the quality of anything that we choose. And if that idea is enshrined, guess what else happens? We have other things. that are also there to enable that enshrinement, the expression of it. One of those is at the middle of our community. Colombia was designed by a man who got his fortune by building malls. We have at the center of our community, the Mall of Colombia. Now I want you to think about this for just a moment. When you walked into the service this morning, someone, an usher, gave you a directory of worship. We come in and we look at what songs we're going to sing, the prayers we're going to pray, a sermon on it, a text, and we have this directory of worship. Our culture has built for us a different kind of building, not a church, or at least that's not what they call it, it's a mall. If you go into the Mall of Columbia today, you will not see crosses, you will not see abstract ideas. You're going to walk into any given entrance to that mall, and you're going to see a very beautiful directory of worship. It's the directory of stores. The gospel of Jesus Christ and of his kingdom says You are profoundly broken, and your anxieties and worries will only turn you in on yourself because you do not see that everything that the Father has provided for you, you're chasing after something else. But the world says you are free to choose it. Far be it from us to judge you. In fact, not only are we not going to judge you, we're going to build cathedrals to this. And at the center of the mall, I don't know if you've paid attention to the architecture over at the Mall of Columbia, but right down its center is a triangular glass structure. That leads us our eyes straight up into this beautiful glass to see the sky. And then what fills the air are aromas of stores with candles and restaurants with foods and Stores with perfumes and colognes. We have flashing lights. We have people offering to us on posters who are far more beautiful than I am as to what my ultimate good life can really look like. In other words, it is a church by a different name. And it's trying to tell us That you come here. What's broken about you? We've got a store here that can help fix you Are you lonely? Bring your friends. Are you tired of all the bad news in the world? Here, here's a pumpkin spice latte. You laugh, right? We all laugh. But here's the incredible thing. They get it But here's what we need to get. When Jesus says, look at the pagan world, those who've rejected me, they run after such things. Many of us might be tempted to think, well, I don't run after pumpkin spice latte. I go after Dunkin' Donuts. No. Or maybe I don't go to the mall, but I'll bet you many of you may go to a stadium, or you'll be watching something in stadiums this afternoon. You may not go to the mall, but we have a whole military entertainment complex that will satisfy your needs. If we think ESPN is just about sports and not about advertising to meet what ails us, man. We're missing something. But what we need to ask ourselves is this. We live in a world That is far more influenced by what I just said than probably what the disciples were in, and Jesus said they were in danger of going after a different kingdom. And we must recognize that more of our hours are spent Outside of these walls, where we hear of the gospel-giving, gracious mercy of a Father who loves us. Far more of our hours are not being shaped by that reality, but by and large are being shaped by a culture that says, are you hungry? Here. You want some clothes? Try these jeans. Let me posit one more idea Many Christians today believe, and I recognize this might be a controversial statement, but I'm asking simply to be in dialogue. Many will believe that what ails the United States is that we don't have the Bible and prayer in schools, or that we have a Supreme Court that seems bent on things that are not biblical values. I am not suggesting one iota that not having the Bible in schools or prayer, all this it's not about that. But I am simply wanting to ask the question: is that our biggest tempter? Is that our biggest problem? Is that what often leads us away from a God who cares? Could it be something else? Could it be what shapes most of our everyday lives? The pursuit of what we will eat and what we wear. One author writes this suggestion He says, many of us as Christians tend to miss the fact that the great tempter of our age is Walmart. The tempter does not roam about as a horrifying monster, but as an angel of light who spends most of his time at the mall. Maybe what is leading us away from a greater dependence On a desire for God is that everything around us is screaming, by me, try this for free. We must ask ourselves then, what is God calling us to Is God's answer to this conundrum simply to give us a list of propositions and abstract ideas? I don't think so. For he calls us to desire God. In this, he says, specifically, verse 31 to 32. But he says, after he said, this is what the pagans run after, verse 31, but seek his kingdom, and these things will be given to you as well. Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. When Jesus is talking about the kingdom of God, what does he mean? Is he simply giving us a list of beliefs and actions that he's simply calling us to give mental assent to? I don't believe that's what he's doing. He's calling us into relationship With our Father in heaven, through which Jesus is coming to do, to establish To reconcile us to our Heavenly Father, because our sins have led us away from the Father, has caused us to reject Him and to turn to ourselves. Jesus is calling us to find our heart's home in God Himself. The kingdom is indeed a relationship. And Jesus puts these things all together in proper relationship. Jesus says, if you find your rest in your Heavenly Father in relationship with Him through me Your Father will provide these things for you. He knows what you need. He's calling us to desire not stuff, but to desire Him. But finally, Jesus gives us, then, as a result of that, rival economies. Look at verses 32 to 34. Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions and give to the poor. Provide purses for yourselves that will not wear out, a treasure in heaven that will not be exhausted. Where no thief comes near and no moth destroys. Here Jesus is saying positively what he's calling them to, but he's inferring what is the other rival economy. What keeps the economy going? What keeps us being concerned and worried and anxious? What builds our desire so oftentimes, it's an economy that is from the outside in. That what I need is one more thing to purchase, and that will fix what ails me. And what it has made and what it makes us are are people who live by consumeristic perspectives. That I simply need to get out the checkbook or earn a little bit more money. But Jesus tells us something about those things, does he not? Because he says that the pursuit of those things will be what? They will wear out, they will be exhausted, and they a moth or thief can destroy He's saying that if you turn to an outside in economy trying to get more things They, those things will never be able to carry the weight of our brokenness, the real thing that ails us. And it will be like a purse that busts out the bottom because it can't carry it. Or it will be stolen, or a moth will eat it. Rarely do sermon illustrations happen on the way to church. But this was illustrated for me right outside my neighborhood this morning. I was running late for the 8. 30 service because I had to call 911 as I exited my neighborhood on Trotter Road. There was a beautiful gunmetal gray convertible Mercedes completely wrecked off the side of the road in the trees and its rear axle completely broken. So I called 911, I called it in, and I'm sitting there as I'm going through the call, and I said, I'm a pastor, I have to get to a worship service, so I can't stick around, but I think you need to know that this is on the side of Trotter Road. But I thought How amazing is it not? Think about the ads that Mercedes give. Then you might say, well, I don't want a Mercedes. That's not really my thing. Oh yeah, well guess what? Every other car company wants you to believe their car is a Mercedes. Because Mercedes says, excellence in the pursuit of perfection, right? And you can they give us the commercials. You can see the convertible when that was first rolled off the car lot. The top went down, maybe it was bought in summer. The music was up. The air the the wind flowing through their hair so they realized their wife really didn't like driving around in the car where it messed up their hair and so they always had the top up. But The point is, we think that's life, right? We turn up to me, it's all good. Now this car is sitting on the side Of a small road in a small town covered by broken trees and a broken rear axle. It is utterly useless. It illustrates Jesus' point. What are we really after? The world would have us believe, Satan would have us believe, our culture would have us believe that it's simply something we can buy, something that we can consume. But Jesus says no. There is another economy, but it's an upside-down economy. I want you to see it here. Sell Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. Sell your possessions, give to the poor, provide purses for yourselves that will not wear out, a treasure in heaven that will not be exhausted. Where no thief comes near, no moss destroys. Jesus is not describing Abstract beliefs and principles. He's describing what he's about to do on the cross. And I want to give you a doctrine this morning, and I want to unpack it as we close this morning. It is the doctrine of substitutionary atonement. Luke doesn't refer to the doctrine, and I'm not suggesting that he does, but at the center of the kingdom which Jesus is calling us to, Is an act by God that is a completely different way of acting than the world has ever seen. It is not taking from the outside in. This is God taking the world and turning it upside down. You see, Jesus' instruction to his disciples to sell their possessions, to give to the poor, to hold on to it, a gift of heaven, a kingdom of heaven which can never fade. What is he talking about? He's talking about nothing other than what Paul would go into at great length in the Gospel that is the book of Romans to talk about the act of what he would do on the cross, and that is the substitutionary atonement of God the Son. Said in a very quick definition that we, through our parents, Adam and Eve, chose not to worship God We desired to worship something else. Fruit on a tree that was not ours We wanted to be our sovereign selves. We wanted to be like God. And all Satan had to do is one congregate said this morning, look at Eve and say, it's on sale this morning. And she took it. And so did Adam. And in our disobedience, it's not just the eating of fruit, it's the fact that we are rejecting God. And therefore we have offended a holy, righteous, perfect God who requires nothing but perfection. But God in his grace, knowing our deepest needs. We had no one else to serve as a substitute for us. We deserve God's wrath. But God in his Divine wisdom sent his son, Jesus Christ, Emmanuel, God with us. To live a life you and I could never live, to obey all the law, to be found perfect in every way, so that he might be a substitute for us. Not just in the way he lived, he was our perfect substitute. He was obedient in every way. He also became our substitute, receiving all of God's wrath on the cross. Therefore, God satisfied his justice, his righteous demand for perf perfect obedience, which we could not deliver on. He sent his son as our substitute, who obeyed in every way, and God in Christ, laid on all our sin and the penalty that is due to sin on Christ alone, and the debt is paid in full. And in the justice courts of heaven, God's justice is satisfied. Yes, and amen. But what I will tell you is that at the doctrine of the substitutionary atonement of our Father through Jesus Christ is not merely A courtroom image. Jesus did more than just pay the penalty for our sin. God did more than just providing satisfaction for his justice that our sins aggravated God in Christ, as our substitute, as God's gift, came in and saw That he loved us. For God so loved the world. Paul would write in Romans 5:8, while we were yet his enemies, Christ died for us. Do you see? That not only was Jesus Acting as our substitute. It is God saying to us, not only do I forgive you, I love you again and again and again and again. St. Enselm, one of the early church fathers, illustrated it this way. If a pearl merchant had dropped a pearl, a fallen pearl, into the mud, Would it be enough for him to simply reach down into the mud to take the pearl encased in mud and then to keep it polluted in a safe place? Absolutely not. The pearl merchant would reach down into the mud for a fallen pearl, and he would pick it up, encased in mud, and he would wipe it clean. And he would draw it to himself. You see, Jesus came down into the mud. He took us up, but he also made us clean. In the substitutionary death of Christ, God the Son. God did more than satisfy his justice. He demonstrated his love because he gave And he gave. And Jesus, Paul tells us, did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but took the form of a servant, making himself nothing. He came down, God with us, took on flesh, and he walked among us. And so God in Christ is taking the economy of the world that says, no, what you need is out there. Jesus comes and turns it all upside down. And Jesus says, it's not out there, it's in me. It's not a thing, I'm a person. I have come to reconcile you to the Father, to give you a kingdom. To give you the gift of heaven, which can never be stolen, which never fades, and which will never be exhausted. Is that nothing else other than the Incredible, awesome grace of God. And if that is what He has done, then we get to be a people Who can give radically and generously to others? This is what God did with his son. Can we outgive God? And the beautiful thing about calling us to this kind of economy of giving from all that we have, and by the way, they didn't live in a cash economy. They gave of their clothes, of their time, of food from their table, and yes, money, and their crops. What are we called to give? I can't answer that for you. But I do know that we've been called and equipped and strengthened. By a God who gives and gives and gives. And in that giving, He invites us into Himself to find our true treasure Our true home, something worthy of our worship, which can truly heal what ails us. And then we get to be a giving people. May God do that in us during the season of thanksgiving. May He make us a people. Who are ready to give because we have been given to so wonderfully. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray that you would work this in us. For left to ourselves, we simply want more and more things. But Lord, we know from your word that you tell us that our hearts will not be satisfied, that you know what truly is our need, and you provide for us. As well as you provide for our needs. Lord, we thank you for giving us your Son. That you give us a kingdom that is truly eternal. So, Lord, we thank you and give you thanks that we might be a people of thanks and a people giving. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.