Every debt that you ever have has been paid by the Lord who's risen. Be glad, amen. Amen. I'm glad somebody's glad out there. Let's turn in your Bibles now to Luke chapter 24. Luke chapter 24. Let's hear God's word. As I read God's word, I remind you that this word is not a springboard for some thoughts about Easter. But this God's word is the foundation of our hope, of our belief, and of the message. So let's hear God as He speaks to us now. Beginning at verse 13. Now that same day, two of them were going to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. They were talking with each other about everything that had happened. As they talked and discussed these things with each other, Jesus himself came up and walked along with them. But they were kept from recognizing him. He asked them, What are you discussing together as you walk along? They stood still, their faces downcast. One of them, named Cleopus, asked him, Are you only a visitor to Jerusalem and do not know the things that have happened here in these days? What things? he asked. About Jesus of Nazareth, they replied. He was a prophet, powerful in word and deed before God and all the people. The chief priests and our rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, and they crucified him. But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. And what is more, it is the third day since all this took place. In addition, some of our women were amazed us. They went to the tomb early this morning, but they didn't find his body. They came and they told us that they had seen a vision of angels who said he was alive. Then some of our companions went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said. But him they did not see. He said to them, How foolish you are and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Did not the Christ, the Messiah, have to suffer these things and then to enter his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. As they approached the village to which they were going, Jesus acted as if he were going further. But they urged him strongly, stay with us, for it is nearly evening. The night is almost the day is almost over. And so he went in to stay with him. When he was at the table with them, he took bread, gave thanks, and broke it, and began to give it to them. And then their eyes were opened, and they recognized him, and he disappeared from their sight. They asked each other, Were not our hearts burning within us while he talked with us on the road and opened the scriptures to us? They got up and they returned at once to Jerusalem. And there they found the eleven and those with them assembled together and saying, It is true, the Lord has risen and has appeared to Simon. And then the two told what had happened on the way and how Jesus was recognized by them. When he broke the bread. It's mid to late afternoon on that landmark Sunday And two disciples, one of them by the name of Cleopas, the other one we don't even know his name. It's the only place in all of the New Testament that these two disciples are even mentioned. Two unknown disciples walking back to their home in Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. And as they're walking along the way, they begin to talk. Because all of their hopes have been crushed. This Jesus that they had hoped was going to redeem Israel, this one in whom they had placed their trust, had been crucified as a common criminal. And so as it is with us when things that are overwhelming and we can't sort out, and we want to talk with someone, and so they need to talk to each other and begin to talk together. And as they do, they become more and more miserable. And then verses 15 and 16 tell us something amazing. The Bible tells us as they were walking along and discussing these things that a man came up, a stranger. They didn't recognize him, but the Bible tells us that it was Jesus himself. And he kept himself from being recognized by them. Now, this isn't a fairy story in which little tricks are played for dramatic effect. What's happening here is history. But Jesus has a purpose in not revealing himself to them. He keeps them from recognizing him because he has something that he wants to teach to them that requires that they don't recognize who he is at first. And through them, he wants to teach you and me something by the story this morning. So as he goes along with them, he asks them a question that you see in verse 17. He asks them, What are you discussing together as you walk along? Now, of course, Jesus knew what they were discussing. He didn't need to be informed. Uh my wife hates it when I ask a question that she feels like I know the answer to and I'm sort of fishing for something. It's you know, we ask you know the answer to that. Uh is that what Jesus is doing? No, of course not What he's doing is he wants to draw out from them the expression of their misery. And here's something worth noting, brothers and sisters Often a very important part of your healing and my healing is the expression of our misery to Jesus. He needs to hear that as part of the healing process. I've experienced this a number of times in my own life when I'm confused and I'm depressed and I'm discouraged and you know it's just kind of a heaviness. You ever have those kind of times and you're, you know, you maybe even think you're praying? You're not praying. You're just sort of mumbling to yourself and you're just feeling rotten and down and everything's just sort of blah. I have found it very helpful at times like that to imagine Jesus before me asking me, What's troubling you, Alan? Tell me about it. What's troubling you? Because it's at that time that I can put my finger on it. I can say, Well, Lord, it's really this. And sometimes that means That really is kind of trivial, isn't it? You know, I guess I'm just kinda getting down for no real reason. I'm just kind of letting myself get depressed and complaining Or it may be that it helps me to put my finger in my mind on what it is that's really troubling me and to bring it to him. But it's important that you and I express our misery to the Lord Jesus. And so we see him encouraging these two disciples to do that. And you notice that as he does that They stand still. I mean these guys are so down, they're walking along, and he says, What is it that you're talking about? What's been going on? And people just stand still and they look at him And Cleopas asks him at that point a very important question. Very important for our confidence in the resurrection. Look what he says in verse 18. Cleopas, this is the only way we know who this guy is, asks him, Are you only a visitor to Jerusalem and do not know the things that have happened here in these days? Now why is that so important? I find that a very encouraging question. For this reason. The word there in the Greek is stranger. Are you only a stranger here? You see, what Cleopas is saying is everybody knows what's been going on here. This is a major news event. Sometimes we may wonder, you know, how big a deal was it when Jesus was crucified? It was this kind of thing that, you know, nobody was paying much attention to. No, no, no. Jesus was very famous in Palestine at that time. He had raised the dead. He had healed lepers. Everybody knew about Jesus. He had come now into Jerusalem at the Passover, the big holiday of the year, and during this holiday, Jesus had been brought to trial and crucified right during Passover. Everybody was talking about it. Shocking thing. To kind of put it in contemporary terms It would be somewhat like Billy Graham going to visit Washington, D. C. , and the U. S. government torturing Billy Graham and putting him to death at the instigation of a number of Protestant church leaders in America. Yeah, that's kind of the scene what it was like, see. And you know, everybody would be up in arms and they'd be divided and they'd be talking about it and some people would say one thing and others another and be for and against it and all the rest of this. But nobody missed it. And Cleopus is expressing that. He's saying, How could you miss what's been going on? Everybody's been talking about it. That's important because it means that seven weeks later, when at Pentecost the resurrection was being preached That would be like seven weeks later, after a marine guard had been placed at the tomb of Billy Graham, people saying he rose from the dead, and everybody's well, you know, you can't really tell. I mean, maybe, you know, who knows what happened I mean nobody could have made the body disappear under those circumstances without the enemies showing what was the lie. It was too big an event. It couldn't have been fabricated. And so just seven weeks later, if the enemies had been able to produce the body, they surely would have done it. And Cleopus is saying that. Don't you know this is a big thing? Where have you been? Haven't you been around? Everybody's talking about this. And then he expresses. Jesus helps him. You see, what things? He wants to continue to draw him out. And in verse 19, notice how Cleopas describes Jesus. He says, Well about Jesus of Nazareth. Notice how he describes him. He's a what? He's a prophet. Powerful in word and deed before God and all the people. A prophet. Nothing about his being a priest who would offer himself as the Lamb of God to take away sin, the ransom that Jesus taught himself about. Nothing about his being the king, the one true Messiah with all power to establish his kingdom by his life and death and resurrection. simply a prophet. And a prophet, though he was mighty in power indeed, Cleopatra says, turns out that he was helpless. Before the leaders, the enemies. Verse 20. They were able to do with them what they wanted. But then notice the conflict and the contrast in verse 21. But we had hoped. That's very significant. You see, what Cleopathus is saying is, here's this Jesus, and we had all our hopes in what he was going to do. What did they hope he was going to do? Look at verse 21. But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. You see, we had this expectation, this cultural expectation about what Messiah was to do. And Jesus let us down. And now what's more, it's the third day, and these women came back and they said they went to the tomb and he wasn't there, and they saw angels who said he's risen. And it was kind of a flicker of hope there for a moment, but Well yeah, yeah, verse eleven tells you what they thought of that. Yeah, they thought they were just blabbering nonsense. You know a couple of women there just hallucinating. Don't listen to 'em But a couple of the disciples went to the tomb. John tells us it was Peter and John. And they went and yeah, they verified the tomb was empty, but him they didn't see. Jesus wasn't there. Who knows what happened? Now that's also very significant because it tells us that the mindset of the disciples was not that they were gullible, that they were eager to believe, that the slightest thing that would trigger any rumor of a resurrection would immediately be spread. In fact, it was quite the contrary. These women come and they say the tomb's empty. We've seen angels. Peter and John go, the tomb's empty. They say Jesus is gone. We haven't seen him physically yet. And these disciples still say, forget it, we're going home. And off they go to Emmaus. The whole mindset of the disciples was against the perception of a resurrection. So off they head to home. Now, I want you to notice two things about these disciples. First of all, they had the wrong emotions, because this was the day, in fact, it should have been the day of greatest joy to them. God had just done the most wonderful thing he had ever done for the human race. He has died and paid for sin and he has conquered death. Jesus has walked out of that tomb. And these guys are miserable. Now why is that Because in the second place they have wrong expectations. Wrong expectations. You see, we had hoped They have these cultural expectations about what a Savior is going to do. If God comes to save us, this is what he'll look like, this is what he'll do. And they were wrong. They thought they were basing it on Scripture. They were looking for a Messiah to deliver them from the Roman yoke and establish a Jewish national state. And Jesus had a totally different agenda. And they missed it. And so they're miserable. Because they didn't understand what he came to do. They were disappointed when he did it. Now that's very important for you and for me. Because I believe the scripture is teaching us here that every one of us Has our own cultural, personal expectations about what Jesus is and what he would do for us. And whenever those expectations are different from Scripture, we will always be disappointed. Always disappointed. Can you feel the cynicism, the gloom, the despair of these disciples as a reflection of your own gloom and despair at times? Haven't you been in that situation where you feel like God let me down? This is what if the Bible makes sense and prayer works and God is who he says he is, this is the way my life ought to be. We had hoped, but look what happened. We had hoped that if I gave my life to Jesus as Savior and Lord, then my skies would be blue and God would make my life comfortable and when I prayed He would hear and answer. But in fact, I have found things more difficult since I become a Christian. There's more conflict. I see things in my life now that didn't even bother me before. There's conflict in relationships. I'm alienated from the world. I find resistance to the things that I seek to do because I'm now in a spiritual battle. We had hoped that if we came to trust Jesus, then that would be an insurance policy against bad things happening in our lives. That there would be no possibility of rapes or muggings. We're not getting the right spouse to make us happy. We're being childless. Or having a child die in infancy. We had hoped that Jesus was insurance against that My understanding of what God ought to be like precludes a family having a three and a half-year-old child who they know from the beginning is not going to grow up. And day after day and week after week, month after month, they take care of that little child, knowing that they only have her for a very short time. As Kathy and I and Wayne and others were with the Dexters yesterday, holding that cold little body. Seeing that mom and dad in their grief, you have to ask, what's the meaning? What's the purpose? What's God's agenda in this? Where does this fit in what Scripture teaches? But as we look at that, we also see that Jesus comes to these disciples to not give them all the answers. But he comes to show them one great thing. Not only is he alive, but that he has come to do something infinitely different and greater. They simply wanted to be delivered from the Romans and have a peaceful Jewish state. Jesus says, I've come to die for your sin so that you will be right with God and have eternity with me in heaven. I have conquered death. And they've totally missed it. Because they want immediate comfort and peace. Now look, brothers and sisters, at what Jesus does for these disciples. Look at him for a moment. First of all, notice how he draws near to them in tenderness. Now, you know, let me let me tell you, I I didn't put this message together yesterday afternoon after hearing about the Dexters. And to me, one of the things about my preaching, whatever you may think about my preaching, I am amazed how many times when I prepare something months or a long time in advance How the circumstances come together for God to use that to speak to us, to me and to us as a congregation, precisely in our need at that time. In fact, that's so true that whenever I find myself speaking on a message about suffering or difficulty, I get nervous because I think the Lord knows why this is needed and where it's going. And so this was thought of last Easter as I was meditating back then. But notice what it is that Jesus does and how he speaks to us. In our situation, as we think of the Dexters, are our own difficulties in our own lives. First of all, Jesus draws near to them in tenderness. In verse 15. He doesn't show them who he is, but he is there with them. And here it is, the most important day in history. And how does Jesus spend it? I mean, isn't he going to go to Caiaphas and Pilate and Herod and show them that he's alive? Vindicate himself before them or the Jewish leaders? Well, he does go to the disciples, but he doesn't even start with the disciples. He starts with Mary Magdalene, a prostitute for his first appearance from the dead. And then he does speak to Peter, the first among the disciples, who denied him and cursed and blasphemed and said he never knew him. And now it is mid to late afternoon. And this is probably about the tenth appearance of that day. And who is it with? He takes a couple of hours, brothers and sisters, with two people that nobody ever heard of. They're not diggies in Jerusalem. They're not prominent disciples. We don't know anything else about these guys. One of them's not even named. Debated whether it's his wife or another man. We don't know anything. And they're not giants in the faith. Here are these guys walking and saying, we don't believe that Jesus has amounted to anything, and we're discouraged and hopeless about them. So here they are, a couple of miserable disciples. I don't know about you, but that sure encourages me. That Jesus chooses to come out of his sovereign purpose. Why? Why does he come with them? No reason except that they were precious to him. He knew they loved him, and he wanted to be with him. And so in the times when you feel like you don't amount to anything, and you're not a biggie, and you're not going to accomplish some great thing for the kingdom or the church in your generation, And you look at your life moving on and you say, Lord, you even notice me? Read Luke 24. That first day. Jesus met with two unknown disciples because he cared for them in their grief. Not only that, but another thing that's surprising here is what he does with them. Secondly, notice that he rebukes them. They're going on about the misery of their hearts and they're pouring it out to him, and then in verse 25, he interrupts them. Doesn't even let them finish. As they're going on, he says to them, How foolish you are, and how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Did not the Messiah have to suffer these things and then to enter his glory? See, we think that he ought to be saying if he's tender and kind the way we expect, he's going to say something like, Poor guys, I understand. It's been a rough few days, hasn't it? And he's going to be a good therapist, he's going to draw them out, he's going to ask reflective questions, and he's just going to lead them along and he's just going to show tenderness. It's not what he does, is it? He rebukes them. And brothers and sisters, that's exactly what you and I need very often. When we're complaining and we're down and we're in the pits, and we're saying, God, how could you be the way you are? Doesn't make sense. Jesus comes and he rebukes their unbelief. Because generally the root of your misery and my misery is our unbelief. It wasn't that Jesus was in the tomb, it wasn't that he hadn't risen. He had, but they had ignored the scriptures and they ignored his promises. They had twisted it to make him a fabrication of their own cultural expectations. an American Jesus who is a super therapist and prosperity provider. And when I look to Jesus for my expectation, I will always be disappointed that he doesn't meet it. And so Jesus is saying, fellows, let's look at the scriptures. Let me show you what my intention was. Let me show you and open your mind to see how infinitely greater is my purpose for your life. Yes, there's suffering. Yes, there are the unanswered questions. But I have risen and it had to be so and let me show you. And so he begins and he takes them, probably starting with Genesis 3, about the promise in the garden, and he shows them how Messiah, the promised one to come, was going to be bruised before he would crush the serpent's head. And he moves them on to show them how he was the Passover lamb that was prefigured in the Exodus. He was the one who would be the lamb whose blood would be shed so that they'd be delivered from their bondage. He shows them that he is the fulfillment of all the sacrificial system of the burn offerings and the sin offerings and the fellowship offerings and the peace offerings. He's the fulfillment of the Day of Atonement. He's that scapegoat. He's that lamb that's been slain. And he moves them on through Psalm 22 to show them that he is the one who suffered upon the cross, who was crucified, and at the end is gathering the nations in a feast of victory. He is the one of Isaiah 53 that we heard, who because we Like sheep had gone astray. The Lord placed on him our sin. He's the one who bore it. He's the one who died for it in our place. And in verse eleven sees what he has done, and after that comes to life in victory. He's the one who has fulfilled all that God intended. His purpose is being worked out, and he is alive to prove it. Amen. See what I'm saying? I'm trying to show you and me. If Jesus had revealed himself to these two disciples, they would have missed the point. See, if he had just come along and said, Here I am, fellas, I'm alive, they would have said, Jesus, there you are, and they would have bowed down and said, All our troubles are over. And what would have happened? He would have left And six weeks later, seven weeks later, some other time, they went right down to Pitts again. Because they still didn't have their eyes open to see the big picture of what God was doing. So there's always two things that we must see, and they're the things that he does. The third thing is he teaches them. That's what I just went through. He teaches them that the scriptures are trustworthy. He teaches them that when you come to those questions and you say it's not working out like I think, he says, go to the scriptures, find out what my intention is for you. I haven't I haven't let you down. There is not one promise in this word that I have ever contradicted. I never promised that children wouldn't die in infancy. To me, the ultimate tragedy is not whether a person dies at one age or another age, but it's death itself. The fact that a child child would die at any age. In the infancy, our hearts are wrenched by not seeing that child grow up. But Jesus says the deeper question is the hideousness of death. Only Christianity enables us to hate the death and see that there's hope in the resurrected Lord. So Jesus shows them the scriptures. But then finally, the last thing is that he reveals himself to them. He reveals himself to them. Makes as if he's going on, they say, come on in. He reveals himself to them when he's breaking the bread, and they recognize it's you, Lord Jesus. And then he disappears. And they say, Oh, how stupid. Our hearts were burning when he opened the scriptures to us, things that we had heard and read since childhood that we never understood. In minutes he made crystal clear and it all made sense. Who else could have done that but Jesus? But you see, he's showing them something else. It's not just the scriptures. It's his presence. It's our hope. And so here's two guys who are walking along and they're shuffling in the dust so that when Jesus says, what are you talking about? They just stop and they say Haven't you been around? And and their whole demeanor is crushed. And here a couple hours later. They say, Let's go back to Jerusalem and these guys run seven miles back to Jerusalem, probably did it in less than an hour, and they burst into the room with the disciples, and before they can even open their mouths, the disciples say, Jesus is really alive. He's appeared to Peter and they say, Don't tell us, we just came from him. Where'd you come from? Aeneas, he's already in Emmaus. Yes, we just came and we saw him there. The Lord really is alive. And they're all celebrating together. Now you see, what you and I need to understand is that our hope this morning is not just in the fact that Jesus is tender with us. It's not just in the fact that he wants to open up our expectations, to transform our desires, to see what he has done for us in his substitutionary death for our sins. to forgive us of those sins, to make us right with God, to give us the hope of eternal life because He's risen from the dead. To see that the Scriptures are trustworthy, that they are able to give us an understanding of God's purpose in our lives. That we can build our lives on in any circumstance. But He wants also to show us that He is here this morning. Jesus, if he so desired, could make his physical precedence evident to us because he is here in this room with us. Now do you believe that? You see, do you believe not only that he rose in history, but that he's here? And because he's here, nothing else will ever be the same again. We don't have all the answers. We don't understand all the mysteries of life. But if Jesus is able to come to demonstrate all the things that didn't make sense fit together in a perfect plan that required my suffering and death and resurrection, and here I am. How and you can I doubt our Lord Jesus, that He is in control of our lives, and that He is with us. The Lord our God, we admit to you that We too so very much can identify with those disciples, maybe not this morning, but at times in our lives Things don't make sense. It seems like evil has triumphed, injustice has ruled, and there is no hope of good We thought that if we came to you and trusted you that you would protect us and take care of us in life, maybe wouldn't be trouble-free, but it wouldn't be like we're experiencing. Oh Lord, open our eyes. Open our eyes to see that your purposes are not being thwarted That the Messiah had to suffer and die. But that Lord Jesus, you rose again. And because you did, nothing will ever be the same. And so, our Lord, fill our hearts with faith. To know not simply that scriptures are trustworthy, not simply that you rose in history, but that you are here with us now. Even nobodies who doubt and sin the way we do, you're here Because you love us. You want to be with us. And in a way that we can't understand, by the power of your spirit, you are with us and disciples around the world this morning. So Lord, we pray for any in our midst Who feel at this time that they're alienated from you, they don't have that hope. The scriptures don't make total sense to them. They still need their eyes open to see. Why the Bible makes sense, why the Bible is absolutely trustworthy, and that you, as Savior and Lord, are the deepest need of our lives, and that you are sufficient. In whatever we're going through, by your very presence and power, for every need that we have. Lord, for any that are doubting, who have not trusted you, we pray that you'd speak to them now. They would see and feel their need for you. To confess their sins, and to see you as the substitute able and willing to take all that sin, to have it paid for fully by your death And that your life is a guarantee that if they belong to you by faith, they will never die. Lord, we pray that you would help each one of us to see you, to believe you, and like those disciples to have our hearts burn in us. And to know that you have conquered death. That you're alive and with us this morning. Hallelujah. Lord, we worship you Enable us to see you as you are, for Jesus' sake