It's to be repented of. And then thirdly, remember we looked at seven exceptions that we try to give to say that I have an excuse for me to be discontent. Well, but if only you knew my situation, my circumstances, you'd understand that my discontentment is excusable. We saw seven reasons commonly given. And how none of those hold water. And then fourthly, finally, we saw how we tend to minimize our discontentment We tend to say it's no big deal. It's not really like cursing. It's not like drunkenness. It's not like lust. It's not like a bad, violent temper Uh discontentment is a minor sin. It's something to sort of be aware of, but don't get too upset about it. We saw The scripture looks at it quite differently. Jude says that it's a key mark of ungodliness. Romans 1 says it's a mark of ingratitude And Numbers 14 and 16 says it's a key mark of rebellion. Do you remember how May Beth shared how God had pointed that out in her life? And how that was a major turning point for her to become a more contented woman. We tend to minimize it and realize we be need to realize that it's rebellion to repent of. And now I'm finishing up this section. We're gonna just finish this up and in the fall and then we'll begin the third major part of this text. But today I want to finish the second part, that independent that sir uh contentment is independent of our circumstances. By this one last point, namely that discontentment is self-destructive. Discontentment is self-destructive. That is to say, it's not only wrong, it's stupid. Discontentment is counterproductive, as is all sin. Any sin that you and I commit is really self-destructive, isn't it? It's really deceiving ourselves to think that the way God says to go is really inferior to our own choice. But discontentment particularly is self-destructive to us. In fact, if we were just motivated from our own self-interest, we would want to be contented people because of the harm that discontentment does to us. Why? Well, because of five things that discontentment does to hurt you. And I want to look at those for us to see this. First of all, then, discontentment robs you of enjoying the blessings that you do have. That's the first blank. Enjoying. Discontentment robs you of enjoying the blessings that you do have. We're like the child. Who got a blue one when he wanted a red one? And so he stamped on it and crushed it and broke it. Now he doesn't have any. Just because his sister got the red one that he wanted And so we crush those blessings that God gives because they're not just what we want You remember when God gave to Israel daily manna and said that this is your portion. It's enough for you each day. Be content with the daily portion. We read in Exodus 16 that some people said, But it's not enough. I gotta have some more. I need to hoard it. I need to have some set aside. And so they had to get more. And do you remember what happened when they looked at that man of the next day? He was full of maggots and it stunk. Stank. It stank This past summer my wife was asked to look after a neighbor's house and uh so she would go in there and check Gradually when she would go in to check, she would notice uh an odor that was beginning to grow stronger and stronger. Finally, by the third week, she decided she needed to open the refrigerator door It turned out the power had gone off three weeks before. The refrigerator was chocked full of food. You know what a refrigerator smells like after three weeks of rotting food in it? It's not like a dead body that had been in there for three weeks. It stank. It was so bad Now Dean and I happened to be backpacking in West Virginia when this happened, so uh we couldn't help her out. I was really sorry to hear about that when I got back She and Heather had to put cotton up their nose and go in and just uh take a deep breath, go in there and then haul everything out That was food to enjoy. But the power had been turned off, and it all went rotten. And there are many things that God would have you and me to enjoy. But when discontentment turns the power off of those things, they begin to stink in our lives. And because we are petulant and things aren't just the way we want, we lose the enjoyment. of the things God intends for us to have. The things that He wants us to delight in. And so we lose even the blessing of those things that are to enjoy and to begin to stink in our lives. Because we haven't learned that our basic contentment is in Jesus Christ, apart from our circumstances. The second thing that discontentment does is that it accomplishes nothing and actually delays God's mercy to you. It accomplishes nothing. Discontentment never accomplished anything. Jesus said, your worry cannot extend one day of your life. Discontentment really doesn't accomplish anything. In fact, it's counterproductive because it delays God's mercy. Do you think that by your fretting and by your complaining that God's going to reorder his purposes to accommodate you? Do you think that God is going to say, well, you know, I didn't realize it bothered you that much. Let me kind of rearrange uh the cosmic events here so that they'll suit you better. But rather, like a child who becomes petulant when we're trying to teach them a lesson, it actually delays God giving to us what he would like to. Until we're able to quiet ourselves under his hand. Do you remember James chapter 1, verses 3 and 4? James tells us that God uses trials to cause perseverance. To have its work in us, to make us perfect, lacking in nothing. And then he says, perseverance must finish its work. God is resolute. He loves you and me too much to let our whining and complaining deter him from his purposes. And in fact, the whining and the complaining only delays the fulfillment of those purposes. There are some of us that are suffering in trials that God would like to relieve us of. If only we could bring ourselves into a position of contentment and acceptance of what he's done in our lives. Now that's not true in every case. There's some of us that would be enduring things that maybe we need to make some decisions to change the events in our lives. Or maybe we would still be in those situations no matter how content we were. But there are some times when, as James 4 says, that we are quarreling, complaining, we are striving, we are trying to do everything we can to get our own way. And we pray and we don't receive because we ask it amiss, just for our own selfish desires. And James goes on to say the solution to that is to humble yourself under the mighty hand of God, that He will lift you up. And so if you're in a situation where you find that you've been complaining, you've honestly been discontent, and saying, God, you see how much it hurts, why don't you change it? Maybe what he's waiting for you to do is to repent of that discontentment and come to him and to find your contentment that is in Jesus Christ and the gospel and all of its promises And all that He has given you and that He wants to make in you, not just by changing your circumstances, but the grace of Christ operative in your heart. So that then he can give you relief from the circumstances also. The third thing is that discontentment blinds you to God's purpose In the affliction. This is closely related to the second point. You see, the discontentment that causes us to whine and complain about what God's doing blinds us to his purpose. In the affliction, which is intended to produce Christ-like character in us. Let me quote to you from Jeremiah Burroughs' Puritan work that I mentioned some weeks ago This book written in sixteen forty eight, The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment, excellent book with much contemporary application. Grero says here, It should be the care of a Christian to observe what are God's ways toward him. What is God about to do with me at this time? Is God about to raise me, to comfort me? Let me accept God's goodness and bless his name. Let me join with the work of God when he offers mercy to me, to take the mercy he offers. But again Is God about to humble me? Is God about to break my heart and to bring my heart down to him? Let me join with God in this work of his. This is how a Christian should walk with God. It is said that Enoch and Noah walked with God. Walked with God. What is that? It is to observe what work God is now about and to join with God in that work of His. So that according as God turns this way or that way The heart should turn with God and have workings suitable to the workings of God towards him. Isn't that precious? I mean, when's the last time that you or I ever stopped and thought, what is God trying to do in my life right now? What's God trying to teach me this summer? What is it that God's trying to form in me, the lessons that He's trying to instruct me in? What does He want to show me about Jesus right now? And then to try to cooperate with that work that he's doing in you? You see, the discontented heart doesn't care, it just wants relief. It wants comfort more than character. But the heart that knows Christ and the contentment that Jesus Christ alone can give is a heart that says, if God wants to use discipline now, Then let me cooperate with that discipline by humbling myself before him, that I might learn the lesson that he has for me. And by learning that lesson, cooperating with the Spirit of God, I will know the enjoyment and the satisfaction of participating in His work in my life. An example of this is Paul in this book of Philippians. Do you remember how in chapter one, before he has talked about his contentment? Here he is, chained to a Roman guard, all of his plans for evangelism and church planning set aside, not knowing what the future might hold, and how does he see what God is doing? Do you remember in chapter 1 in verses 12 to 14, he says, Now I discern the purpose of God in this. I want you to know that what's happened to me has served to advance the gospel. As a result, he says it becomes clear, it's become clear throughout the whole palace guard to everyone else that I'm in chains for Christ. And so because of my chains, most of the brothers in the Lord have been encouraged to speak the word of God more courageously and fearlessly. And so before he looks at anything God's doing in his life, he looks at the bigger picture of what God's doing. He's not just concerned about his own comfort But his concern for the gospel causes him to say, well, what God is doing in setting me aside is he's making the other Christians who would have held back in leadership. They would have said, Well let Paul do it. He's better than me. And these people have now become bold, because I'm no longer around. And so it has released other people to grow in their faith and their boldness. And God is multiplying the number of people who are sharing the gospel. by the setting of me aside. Or do you remember David back in Psalm 119 looking in his own life He said in verse 67, Before I was afflicted, I went astray. But now I obey your word. You're good. And what you do is good. Teach me your decrees. It was good for me to be afflicted, so that I might learn your decrees. And David says, I wasn't just having a hard time of it. It wasn't just the blind winds of chance and circumstance that gave me a rough week or a rough month. It was the fact that God was at work in my life. He was afflicting me that I might learn to follow him more closely. It was good for me. And so when you and I are having difficulties, whether it's a flat tire or a refrigerator that's gone on the blink, or whether it's major health problems. Ask yourself, what is God's purpose in you? This. Hebrews 12, and you see a number of times in your bulletin says Hebrews 13. Those should all be 12. I don't know why I put down 13. But those are all Hebrews 12. Hebrews 12 speaks of God's discipline in us In order to produce Christ-like character. And he says it's never pleasant in the present, but the future is to yield something which you and I will be very glad to see as we see God at work in us. So stop whining and stop complaining about what God's doing if you don't like it. And it sort of sticks and it's uncomfortable and it's difficult for you and you need to go to Jesus to find grace to bear that. Learn what he says in Philippians 4 11. I've learned the secret of being content in every situation. Whether I'm well fed or hungry, whether I'm in plenty or in want, I can do everything through him. Who gives me the strength? He's the one who's ordering my affairs. He's the one who's at work in me. Fourthly, discontentment provokes the wrath of God. Discontentment provokes the wrath of God. We saw some of this in our last message back a month or so ago, how ungrateful discontentment provoked God's wrath in Romans 1. The ungodly discontentment in Jude provoked God's wrath. The ungodly discontentment of rebellion provoked his wrath in Numbers 14 and 16. But you might be saying, yes, but if I'm his child, how can I provoke his wrath? Is that possible? Do I need to fear his wrath as a Christian? And the answer is an unequivocal no. You have no need to fear God's wrath as one of his children. Romans 8:1 is absolutely clear. There is no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. The condemnation was all heaped upon Jesus Christ in your place. He took every bit of punishment that you and I deserve if you are trusting him. You have no need to fear his wrath because Jesus took every bit of that wrath. Praise God. Jesus took that wrath and he took it to the full, so there is not one drop of it left in heaven for you. But again and again, Scripture gives us the warnings. Hebrews 12, for example. That it's possible for you and me to have said we trust Christ when things are going well But when the discipline comes that is necessary for the children, Hebrews 12 says, if you're enduring discipline, it's the mark that you're not an illegitimate child. But that you are in fact one who belongs to Jesus. If in fact that's the case, then if your heart settles beneath him and you say, Lord, do your work, that's the mark that you know me. But if you find that in the difficulties of your life, there's an increasing root of bitterness, as Hebrews 12, verse 15 warns. A root of bitterness that begins to grow up within you. That says, I refuse to take this any longer. I'm going to take things into my own hands. God, you're not managing my life too well. I'm going to start managing it now. If in fact that's the case, Hebrew says, beware, lest like Esau you think that you're part of the covenant. And you disassociate yourself from Jesus Christ. You rebel against his ways, and in fact find that you are not part of the covenant of grace after all. In other words, to put it bluntly, as you see in the bulletin, be careful lest a bitter spirit may indicate that you're deceiving yourself about knowing Christ at all. Now there's a graphic contemporary example of this. You're probably all familiar with Ted Turner, the cable network magnate. Who yield so much influence in TV media, most of it, rather anti-Christian. We're aware that recently Ted Turner said explicitly, Christianity is a religion for losers. Most of his news and most of his editorial work is slanted strongly against Christians. In fact, Turner himself is by his own profession devoutly anti-Christian. He thinks that Christianity is for losers. He was named the Humanist of the Year for 1990 by the American Humanist Association. Are you also aware that Ted Turner was once a professing Christian? That Ted Turner was raised in a Christian home, went six years to a Christian prep school with daily chapels. On several occasions professed Jesus Christ as his Savior and Lord, and was at one time contemplating becoming a foreign missionary? What happened What happened was that Ted Turner's younger sister got sick. He loved her very much. And he began to pray for her. He prayed for her healing. He prayed for her healing for five long years. And then she died. And Turner says, I'll give you his own words I couldn't understand why this loving God that I had been taught about for so long would allow someone to suffer. Someone small and someone who hadn't done anything wrong. I prayed and nothing happened, of course. I thought about it and I said to myself, I'm not sure I want any part of this. If God is love and is He's all powerful, why does He allow these things to happen? This interpretation that it's just his will. Well, I can't get enthusiastic about that. I began to lose my faith, and the more I lost it, the better I felt. Until now, Ted Turner is a major force to attack Christianity within our culture. Why? Because when things went in a difficult way for Ted Turner, a root of bitterness began to spring up in his heart. And that rooted bitterness, rather than causing him to find contentment in Jesus Christ and to realize that God was sovereign, to order the affairs of his people, his children, to give life or to take it. In ways that you and I can't understand, and I don't pretend to be glib or to understand it myself, but Ted Turner refused to accept it And rather than realizing that his heart was getting far from Jesus Christ, who was his only hope, he decided to go out on his own. And so his discontentment provoked the wrath of God because it showed that his heart was really far from God. God. And the discontentment itself has provoked more of God's wrath upon him, so that he's become a bitter, bitter person, flailing out at God with every bit of his gifts and energies. Is there one of you this morning, possibly, for whom God is giving a warning in your discontentment? Be careful. That you don't presume that because one day you made a profession of faith in Jesus Christ, that's taken care of. And now your attitude about what God's doing in your life doesn't really matter or affect that. Everything about our attitudes toward God is an indication of whether we are his children or that grim possibility that we could be deceiving ourselves. And so, if you find that your heart has become bitter, I want to call you and charge you and invite you in the name of Jesus Christ to see the foolishness of that. And to realize that you are slapping the one who upholds the very breath of your existence, that you might come to Jesus Christ. And ask him to take away that discontentment and that bitterness, that anger, that you might find his forgiveness in cleansing and healing. That you might find that today. Finally, discontentment cuts off the very grace of God in your life Discontentment cuts off the grace of God in your life. Even for Christians Perhaps this morning you say, well, yes, that makes me a little nervous, but when I think about it, I really do believe I trust Jesus. I know I struggle. Sure, I'm not accepting everything he's done, and sure there are times when I struggle with my faith and I doubt, but he really is my only hope. He's the one I cling to. Nevertheless, realize that even for the Christian, discontentment cuts off The very thing that you most need. It cuts off the work of his grace in your life to sustain you. Just as Elijah, when he moaned about being the only one left to serve God. Or is Jonah pouting under his leafy shelter after Nineveh repented, the last thing that he wanted? Or any other saint of God who pouts and whines and says, God, why can't you be different? Finds in that very attitude a disassociating, an alienating of their hearts from the grace of God in their lives. Do you remember when Paul wrote about all of the afflictions, all of the things that he was suffering in his life in 2 Corinthians chapter 11? He then goes on to speak of the glory of God and lifting him up to the third heavens and visions of Christ in chapter 12, and then says, Now to humble me, God gave me a thorn in the flesh. And that thorn was a very painful thing to Paul. He doesn't even describe what it is. But it was something immensely personal and painful in his own life. And then he says in 2 Corinthians 12, 10, he says, but the Lord came and he showed me, my grace is sufficient for you. And so he said, Most gladly then will I rejoice not in my strength, but in my weakness, because when I am weak, then am I strong. What's he saying? He's saying when my circumstances humble me so that I realize that I'm inadequate, so that I feel absolutely helpless Weak as a dishwright. In that self-weakness I lean upon the grace of Jesus Christ and find my strength. But if you stand off and resist and complain in your heart, then you are resisting the grace of God by the very bitterness of your own spirit. And so what you most need in those times of weakness is as Paul says just before he gives this statement about contentment in Philippians 4, what he says the verses just before that. Don't be anxious about anything. But in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving. Thanksgiving is an act of contentment by faith. To express, God, I can rest in the situation you've placed in. To do that and then present your requests to him Him. And the peace of God, he says, as a result, which transcends all understanding, will guard your heart and your mind in Christ Jesus. You're humbling yourself. Your act of faith and contentment brings the grace of God to operate in peace, which transcends understanding, perhaps not by changing the circumstances. But by simply giving to you that heart of peace and contentment, which you say, it doesn't matter what my circumstances are, they haven't changed, but I have peace That is so freeing, isn't it? Because when the circumstances have changed, you say, Nothing can take that away now. Because I know it is independent of that. I have found it in Jesus Christ. That I'm his child, I'm not alone. That he's going to deliver me from this fully one day. And even right now, the power of his spirit is sufficient to enable me to bear whatever happens. And I can smile. And I can know that he is sufficient for all my need. So what do you do? I'm asking you in the name of Jesus Christ to repent of your discontentment. To repent of your complaining and your self-pity. To then, secondly, trust Jesus for forgiveness of that sin. To recognize it for what it is, be willing to call it what it is, then to come to Jesus and say, Lord Jesus, I've been complaining about this summer. Summer's been too hectic or too long or too hot or too rainy or too whatever this past week especially. You know, and whatever things that have happened and you say, I'm not very happy right now. You will find that that will separate your heart from it. But if you're able to say, Lord, that is sin, I recognize right now, that is sin. And Lord, I hate that sin. I don't want to continue in that anymore. Lord, take that out of my life. And you acknowledge that before Him and look to Him for the forgiveness that He stands ready to give you right now. The very realization that Jesus stands here ready to forgive you and to take away all the guilt of that and the pollution of that, and he wants to draw you to himself. He wants to take you in his arms and he wants to speak to you precious promises that I could never speak to you. He wants to speak them to the interior of your being. He wants to draw you to himself. To know that all that he wants to do in you is good. And to begin to trust him for that. To trust him for your deepest need. And to learn the secret of contentment. And to be able to say, I can do all things through him Who is able to give me the strength? Do you desire that in your heart right now? Then let's pray. Lord, each of us has those things in our lives that we are more or less conscious of, and pray that you would bring them to the forefront of our consciousness now. Those things which Violate our contentment, which causes to complain, to gossip, to be negative Because we have missed the fact that our contentment rests in you. And you've become far from us. You've become removed from us. We have almost forgotten who you are and what you have come to do for us. And right now we want to draw back to you, Lord Jesus. We want to see that you're real, that you're personal. We want to greet you as we sang in that hymn. We want to draw very close to you. We want to sense what you're doing in our lives. And that that's a good work. And that we can trust ourselves entirely to your care because you are a good Lord. You've never gone through anything, or you've never asked us to do anything that you haven't already gone through and gone through with joy. And we want to share in that joy. And so we want to turn from our sin of discontentment. We want to lay it at your feet now and we want you to deliver us and to forgive us. We want to know by faith the full free forgiveness that comes from the complete record of righteousness that Jesus has in our place. And if there's any here who's never trusted in that record of his, but still trusting themselves, help them to see the foolishness of that. To show them that the root of bitterness in them is a warning of facing your wrath, and to turn them to the peace and the forgiveness of Jesus Christ. Hear us in our need for Jesus' sake. Amen.