We put into separate categories two things that the Bible insists that we keep together grace and discipleship. There's the two first blanks that you have in your outline. So if you don't have it out already, we already hit the first two blanks. Grace and discipleship. Do you ever find yourself hearing a message? And subconsciously you ask yourself, which is this going to be? A grace message or a discipleship message? And say you hear something from the preacher about how God's love for you is unconditional in Christ, and you immediately say, ah, relax. This is a grace message. You're too hard on yourself. You need to rest in Christ's finished work. And so you breathe a sigh of relief and say, boy, I need to hear that. Or then you hear a message that you say, uh, this is a discipleship message. Because the preacher says something like, Hey, I didn't want you to relax that much. I mean, you know, Christianity is the company that committed. There's a lot that needs to be done. Great commission requires sacrifice. We've got to get busy. And so, if anyone wants to come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Most of us only have a very vague sense of how these two ideas fit together, don't we? We have this idea that, on the one hand, salvation is by grace. That is, that my sins are forgiven, and I go to heaven not based on anything that I do or ever could do, but only on what Jesus Christ has done for me completely. It is free. It is undeserved. It is by grace. But on the other hand, sanctification is by sweat. That is to say that if I really want to be making progress in my Christian life and be useful to the Lord, I better be a lot more religious than I've been so far. You need to read your Bible more. You need to pray more. In fact, you should come to the Thursday morning concerts of prayer You should be more regular in your Sunday morning attendance and you should tithe when you're here. You should join a laugh group in the alternate hour to get some discipleship training. In fact, you should join a small group. And you should witness and share your faith with other people. You should get busy and serve. You may be awful tired, but at least you'll be holy. And so for many of us, we sort of bounce back and forth between the sighs of relief of grace And the guilt of discipleship. We go back and forth between complacency and compulsiveness, with little sense of joy or power along the way. You identify with that? You have that sense that, you know, Christianity kind of seems like one or the other and it's back and forth depending on which mood the pastor is in that day or what happens to be on his heart that I can't seem to put these things together. You go to the discipleship class, I mean our uh Discover's class, CPC, and perhaps you heard somewhere When you were back in that group, or if you're in it now, or someday you will, you'll get to hear that we are big on the grace of Christ at CPC. And I preached a series a little while back on delighting in God and how God's grace is so full and rich and free. We need to rest in the fact that our justification and our sonship reside in the finished work of Christ alone. And then in 1995, Columbia Presbyterian entered into a program of re-evaluation with an organization called TNET. It's designed to help the church to return to its discipleship roots. And so you've heard more sermons, more vision talks on discipleship, small groups. And your response is, uh-oh, there goes Grace around here. I know it. Now we're into discipleship. Now we're going to hear about all the stuff that we need to do and feel guilty if we don't. And so last week he preached on Luke 9, 23 and 24. If anyone would come after me. He should deny himself, take up his cross and follow me. Boy, that's probably just the beginning. Now we're gonna get rid of all this grace stuff Does it ever seem to you like God can't make up his mind? I mean, is it grace? Or is it works? Is it really full, free, unmerited grace? Or is it the things I need to do in order to call myself a Christian? How do you put those two things together? Now, if that's what you're feeling, I sympathize with you. I really do. Because I think in general the church has done a very poor job in integrating those two ideas. We tend to see them as either or because generally that's the way we hear them. That's the way we read them. And so if you have a difficult time understanding how those two ideas fit together, I think it's because by and large the church has done a poor job. Not because the Bible has done a poor job. In fact, in the Bible, God gives us one whole book To simply integrate those two ideas and show us how they fit together. The book of Ephesians In the thirteen letters that Paul wrote, two of them are masterfully organized treatises, theological treatises put in pastoral form. First is the Book of Romans, of course. The book of Romans outlines salvation, starts from sin, talks about justification, talks about faith. talks about the grace of God, and then the work of the Spirit, sanctification, all the rest of this. In fact, when Paul finishes chapter 5, He has emphasized the freeness and the fullness of grace so completely that he has to deal with the question, if grace is really that free, why don't we just go on sinning all the more? Because the more you sin, the more grace there is. And you notice that Paul's answer to that is the nature of the resurrection life and the power of the Spirit. He does not back off of grace. The other book that he has given to us is the book of Ephesians. Ephesians is his second masterfully organized treatise. It is not oriented around problems. The key verse of the book of Ephesians, put in the blank there, the key chapter is chapter 4, the key verse, verse 1. Ephesians is six chapters. That's the middle verse. It's the link pin binding together two symmetrical parts of that book, chapters 1 to 3 and 4 to 6. Let me read to you that verse, which is the key verse for the understanding of the book of Ephesians. Some of you are familiar with this, others of you have never heard this before. But we'll go beyond what you've heard before. As a prisoner for the Lord, then, I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling that you have received. The key word there is the word worthy. The Greek is the word axios that you see there, but the word axios is translated in most translations worthy. Literally that word means, as I've reminded a number of you in the past, that word means to bring something into equilibrium. To bring something into equilibrium, to bring it into balance. Now you see in the outline that you have there at the bottom, those funny looking lines, or to represent three scales Okay? Ignore the middle one and the right one. Just look at the left one for a moment. Now on that left scale, on the left part of the balance of that scale, put a little box Just draw a little box there and write in it or over top of it 10 pounds, 10 LBs. That's 10 pound weight on that side of the scale. Now On the right side of that scale, put a box with no lid. You know, just open at the top, you know, three lines down up, just a little open box on the right side of that left scale. And in that box, pour chocolates. Okay, so there's chocolates, Hershey's Kisses, or whatever's your favorite, the ones with the almonds or who knows, you know, Reese's pieces, whatever. You're pouring those into this box. Now, when it had nothing, that left side, one looking at it your way, was down here and the right side was up. The more chocolates you pour into it, the more it is brought into equilibrium until you got ten pounds of chocolates on the right side. And now the thing is in equilibrium. That's the word that Paul uses in Ephesians 4. 1, axios. The scale is in equilibrium. Now, what is it that Paul is saying are the two parts of that scale? That's what's crucial to understand the book of Ephesians and discipleship. What are the two parts? The two weights on the scale are on the right side for you. On the right side is your calling. On the left side, it is your life. And so Paul says, I urge you to live a life, this side of the scale, that is in equilibrium with the calling that you've received. So those two things are in perfect balance. That's what he's saying here. In other words, become in your experience what you are in your calling in Christ. Why is that key? I believe that's the secret to the Christian life. That's the secret to understanding it. There aren't secrets as if there's a magic bullet to make it easy, but I'm just saying that's the secret in understanding how you put together grace and discipleship. What Paul's saying is that for three chapters I have told you who you are and what you have in Jesus Christ. The first three chapters are mostly all statements, very few of any kind of commands. They are what we call in grammar the indicatives Statements of fact. Most of what you hear are statements of fact, including the last sentence sentence I just said. That's an indicative Statements of fact. Alright, that's chapters one to three. Who you are, what you have in Christ. Simply telling you the facts. If you're a Christian, this is what it's like. Then, chapters four to six Are mostly commands. In chapters 4 to 6, he says, now here's how to live based on who you are and what you have in Christ. This is how you're to live in various areas of your life. Commands are imperatives And so the secret for understanding the balance of the Christian life is to understand, as many of you have heard me say in the Discovery's class or at other times around here, that the imperatives are based on the indicatives. That is a powerfully spiritual statement. As much as that may not sound like it to you, to understand that in the New Testament the imperatives are based on the indicatives. puts together a lot of things that may be otherwise very confusing. In other words, the Bible tells you simply be what you are in Christ. Be what you are in Christ. You are holy in Christ. You have been made holy. That's an indicative. Therefore Be holy, the imperative. Why should you be holy? Because you already are holy in Jesus Christ. You have died to sin. That's an indicative statement of fact. If you are in Jesus Christ this morning, you have died to sin Therefore, mortify the deeds of the flesh, mortify those sin practices in your life. Why? Because in Christ you've already died to them. You're not doing something on your own. You are simply working out that which is true of you in Jesus Christ. You are one in Christ, one body, formed together, brought together as one body in Christ. Therefore, as John reminded us earlier Be one in your experience. Live out that unity. Make every effort to maintain the spirit of unity in the bond of peace. Why? Because you already are one in Christ. You are pure, therefore be pure. You have resurrection power, therefore Stand against the attacks of the evil one in the resurrection pattern. You see the pattern? It goes on and on and on. Every area of the Christian life. Whatever it is that you are told to do by Paul in any of his letters, but particularly it's summed up mostly here in Ephesians. Whatever that God tells you to do, it is based on something about your identity, of who you are, and what you already have that is the basis for that in Jesus Christ. In other words, chapter 1 to 3 is about grace, and chapters 4 to 6 are about discipleship, right? No. Wrong! Look at the middle scale. See, most of us conclude from that that if you looked at the middle scale, you say, okay, the Christian life, you're right under that scale, Christian life. And on the left side, you have grace, and on the right side, you've got discipleship. No, I don't think that's the case. You see, I think what Paul is saying, and I'll look at the right scale and put what I believe Paul is actually saying on that line under the bottom there Write the word discipleship. I know it's very small. You gotta screw only you have to read it anyway, so who cares? Just write in a little word in a little letter the word discipleship. Now, on the left side of that scale, you write your calling. And on the left side of the scale, write living. That's what Paul's talking about. In other words, discipleship is not going on from grace. Discipleship is lived in grace. Discipleship, both 1 to 3 and 4 to 6, they're all by grace. They're all lived by faith. It's all discipleship. It's simply a matter of understanding this is my calling in Christ. Here is how I live it out in Christ. The whole thing is discipleship. You see, the problem, I believe, for a lot of discipleship programs is they look at grace as a door. And they say, okay, now the entrance to the Christian life is by grace. You're saved by grace. Okay, now we got that established. That's settled. Now let's go on to discipleship. Now, discipleship means that you've got to do all these various things to serve the Lord. Now it's based on grace, but you see the two become separated. What Paul's saying in the book of Ephesians is that calling and living are all by faith in the grace. of Jesus Christ. That's discipleship. The whole thing is discipleship. Alright? Now you're ready for the thesis of this series that we're going to spend the next several months on. In fact, I think I'm going to recommend that we give the readers a supply of tapes of this message, and anybody that comes to CPC in the next month's got to listen to this message So it can make sense out of the messages to come. Because this is the thesis, guys. The rest of it's unpacking it. But I'm laying it out for you this morning. This is what I'm trying to develop for you so that you'll see it. Now what is the thesis? Look back again at chapter 4, verse 1. Paul says, as a prisoner of the Lord for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy of the calling you've received. Okay, now you understand what he's saying there is I'm urging you to work out in your experience, in your living uh an equilibrium with that calling that you have in Jesus Christ, that the imperatives of God's commands worked out in your life will be an equilibrium to the to who you are and what you have in Christ. But now look at the phrase, live a life. The phrase there, live a life, is actually in the Greek the word walk. It's the word walk. Now that word walk appears eight times in the book of Ephesians. It's a key word for this book. Paul's saying, as a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you to walk in equilibrium to the calling you've received. That's really the best way to render that verse. You may want to write that down somewhere so it helps you understand what Paul's actually saying. Because the English is difficult in capturing that. Most translations say little life, nothing wrong with that But to understand the essence of what Paul's saying, you really need to understand is that word walk. Why? Because walk is the middle of the three postures of a disciple that he's portraying in the book of Ephesians. It's crucial you see the relationship between them or among them. Walk. Now you'll we'll see the other places that walk appears later on But these three postures, I submit to you, are a perfect paradigm of the Christian life Now what's a paradigm? Remember, a paradigm is kind of a modern word. It's not used the way it was a long time ago. We poured new content into it. So paradigm, the way it's used now, simply means a model for success A model for the way things work. Paradigm is simply a model for how something works. Now this paradigm that I'm suggesting to you is not original with me. I don't pretend that it is. It came out of a book that I read published by Watch Me in 1957. A simple little book called Sit, Walk, Stand. It has nothing to do with Psalm 1, Walk, Stand, Sit. Sit, Walk, Stand, and it's about the book of Ephesians. Now it's a very small book. It doesn't go into very much And I don't recommend all that Wachmini has written. There are a lot of ways that Wachmini gets into a kind of mysticism that I don't believe is altogether Christian. But he was a genius in this book. I agree with everything in that book, but the book, the thesis of it, he was a genius in seeing this paradigm that Paul portrays in the book of Ephesians And the paradigm are the three postures of the disciple, which are sit, walk, and stand. Now, how do you see those? Uh uh let me just open it up to you. Now we're gonna unpack it in detail in the weeks ahead, so don't get frustrated that we're gonna just show you something that's not, you know, gonna It's just going to be an overview in just a couple of minutes. The first posture that Paul posits for the disciple is that of sitting. Okay? Look on the back of your outline. And the three number one there is to sit. Sit is based on chapter 1, verse 20. You remember our purpose statement? Paul says, he prays, I pray that there will be three things that you'll experience. And the second and third, are he praised that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened, opened to see the calling. Okay, now we're ready for the heart of what Paul's talking about. He says, I want you to see the calling that you've received. The riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. I want you to know that hope of your calling. Now what is it? Verse 19, he says, and your eyes open to see his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead, that's resurrection power. And what? Seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. When Jesus Christ finished his work on the cross, was raised up victorious, conquering death, having paid for the sins of his people, he seated. And he was seated because his work is finished. He rests in that work. He is seated at the right hand of God. Now you go to chapter 2, and Paul says, You were dead in your sins. You were absolutely hopeless. You had no way to come before God. You were disobedient and you were under his wrath. But by his grace, he says, In verse 6, God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus. In other words, the foundation of your calling is that you are seated with Jesus because your work for the acceptance of God, for his love and his favor, and his forgiveness and eternity is simply. The completed work of Christ. He's finished, therefore you're finished. He's seated, you're seated with him. And verse 7 says, in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his kindness to us. in Christ Jesus. Isn't that powerful? Amen. You don't see it. Let's start over again. All right. Feature no. You're gonna boy I come I hope you come back and see it. Yeah and you can't sit still if you s if you see what God is saying here Jesus has finished his work. You are finished with him. You are seated with him. Therefore, the first part of the Christian life, the first part of discipleship. Is for you to learn how to rest. Seating is being is resting. Sitting is resting. Is for you to learn how to sit in Christ by faith. Resting in his finished work. That is part of discipleship. It's not the door, and then you get into discipleship. That is the first part, the foundation, the daily foundation of discipleship. Now, going on from that, the second posture is to walk. That's the second, number two, walk based on Ephesians 4:1. As a prisoner of the Lord, then I urge you, now you that are all seated, all right, now that you're seated, I urge you to walk worthy of the calling. Walk in equilibrium to this calling that you've received. Now you say, how can I sit and walk at the same time? Well that's that's the point of this thing, is that you you can't put these things together naturally But as a seated person, you're walking. Because you're walking in the power of the new life that Christ has given to you. And so the second posture of the disciple Is that you are learning how to walk in faith in the new life that you have received from Jesus Christ. Eight times I'm saying that word walk appears. The most significant time it appears, 4-1's the link pin, but the most significant place it appears is in chapter 5, verse 1 and 2. Where he says, be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life, there it is again, and walk In love, just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. See what he's doing? He's linking the walking with the sitting. He's taking you once again, and he's saying, now walk as you are seated in Christ, as you are understanding what he has done for you. That's the second posture. The third posture is standing, because Paul understands that as soon as you begin to walk in that new life, you're going to meet with resistance. The evil one is going to try to discourage you. You are going to think, I've got this new life. I can walk out here and no longer are the uh bondage of sin and those old habits gonna enslave me. I'm gonna rest in Jesus, I'm gonna walk in it, and you're gonna fall right on your face. I do it all the time And you say, what happened? Doesn't work. I want my money back. It doesn't work. It doesn't do what he said. And so Paul says you've got to understand the third posture, which is standing. And the standing is based on chapter 6, verse 13. The word stand appears four times in 6, 10 to 14. But 13 is the key verse. Where Paul says to you, therefore, notice they all begin with therefore, because they're all linking what's going on before. Therefore, put on the full armor of God so that when the day of evil comes, this day of temptation and attack You may be able to stand your ground, and after you've done everything, to stand. So now you're sitting, you're walking, and you're standing. Try that sometime. I've been working for weeks and months trying to figure out what kind of a a diagram or you know picture or something I could give to help you to see this. Somebody that's sitting, walking, and standing all at the same time. Got any ideas? I'd be open to them. But that's what we're called to do, you see. And it's all three of those things. So the thesis of this series, to put it all in a nutshell now. Now I'm wrapping up. I'm at the conclusion. The thesis of this whole thing. Is that the key to the Christian life and to discipleship is to learn that sitting, walking, and standing are like a three-legged stool All must be held in balance. If you are having difficulty in your Christian life this morning, I would submit to you that it's probably because one of those areas is particularly weak. You may be walking and standing, but you're not sitting. Or maybe you're sitting but you are complacent, you're not walking. Or maybe you're sitting and you're walking but you've forgotten to stand, and so Satan has got you by the neck and he's got a stranglehold on you and you're immobilized. You're discouraged. The key to the Christian life is to understand that like that stool of three legs, sit, walk, and stand, you take away one of those legs, it's going to fall over. Now, in the weeks and the months to come, we're going to unpack this to see what it means to walk in Christ in power and victory. But what I want to submit to you this morning is you don't gotta wait till next June or fall to be able to say, okay, well good, now you diagnosed it, you know, where do I go? You got the book of Ephesians. Use the meditation this week. Examine your heart this week, read the book of Ephesians, and ask the Holy Spirit to reveal to you, Lord, where am I weak? Where am I failing in this? Is it in my sitting? Is it in my walking? Is it in my standing? What does that mean to you this morning? Examine your heart and ask the Lord to show you both what is the cause and what is the cure by his Spirit working in your life. Let's pray. Lord, we want to consider what you're saying to us this morning. And some of us, Lord, have been flip-flopping around for years, hearing messages about grace. We feel good. We feel like boy now. I I'm able to rest in Jesus and then we find we have no joy and we wonder why When things don't build, they don't continue, we're held in the grip of deep sin patterns. And we tend to pit grace and discipleship against each other. Lord, we pray. By the power of your Spirit, you will reveal to us, show to us right now. We don't have to wait. For some deep secrets to be opened up. You've shown us your word. Lord, speak to us right now. Where is the area that we've been blind, that we have been ignoring what you have told us graciously? How to sit by faith in the finished work of Christ, how to walk, putting off that life of death and putting on that new life that has been given to us by Jesus actively by faith. For the standing, not in our own strength, but in the power, that resurrection power of Christ that is at work in us who believe, to stand in that power. Against the evil one. Lord, in these moments right now, Lord, I I particularly uh have given this time so that these people can examine their hearts right now Reveal to us which is the area that you want to speak to us about. Lord, you hear our hearts. You hear those here that are struggling. Maybe some of us that are thinking all three areas or overwhelmed Lord, we pray that you'll show to us. What is that starting point? Maybe to get back on track with you. Maybe to start our walk with you by first learning to sit in that finished work of Christ that we've never done. Whatever it is, Lord, we pray that you would continue to work in us. And so that we are able to see you in the power of your spirit in that area. And we will know your joy, and we'll see our lives changed, and recognize that it's beyond anything we could do, but only that which you are able to do in us. Because that's what glorifies you. In Jesus' name. Amen.