Felt like you had a first class, blue ribbon, irrefutable reason to complain? Have you ever felt like you had A reason to wail about the unfairness of life? To indulge in a I dare you to challenge me state of self-pity. A couple of weeks ago, our daughter Julie was applying for a job and uh in the process of applying for the job She had her wallet there with her two latest paychecks that she had just endorsed because she was on the way to the bank. And she also had uh about $40 in cash, $80 in checks. And a girl snatched her wallet and simply ran off with it. Kinda tough. Sometimes life doesn't seem to recognize that you're one of the elect. Things can get kind of tough in your situation. You have your own frustrations. Perhaps it's a sharp, temporary, acute kind of pain, frustration. Maybe it's some long-term dull ache. But nevertheless, you feel a right to be discontent. Or perhaps you say it's not even a matter of right or wrong. It's simply the fact that that's an emotion. And I can't control my emotions. And so I simply feel rotten, miserable. I feel pain. I feel unhappy. And I can't really control that. Well, we've been studying in these last weeks with just a brief uh interlude these last couple of weeks, we've been studying the secret of contentment From Paul's experience and from God's word instructing us in the book of Philippians. So again, let me read what Paul wrote Out of a Roman prison chained to a Roman guard with all of his freedoms taken away and all of his plans put on hold. Paul wrote in Philippians chapter 4, beginning with verse 10, I rejoice greatly in the Lord. That at last you have renewed your concern for me. And indeed you have been concerned, but you had no opportunity to show it. Now I'm not saying this because I'm in need. For I have learned to be content, whatever the circumstances. I know what it is to be in need, I know what it is to have plenty. I have learned the secret of being content in any and every situation, whether well-fed or hungry. Whether living in plenty or in want, I can do everything through Him who gives me strength. But now does that say that discontentment is wrong? Well, I believe the Bible does say that it's wrong. In fact, that discontentment is sin. In fact, I would like to suggest to you this morning that the first step toward contentment in your life is to realize that discontentment is sin. It's not simply an uncontrollable emotion. Why do I say that? I have to back that up from Scripture, don't I? Not just my counsel or opinion. Well, Paul in the same epistle said back in chapter 2, in verse 14, talks about his own contentment in chapter 4, but in chapter 2, he instructs us. 2. 14, do everything without complaining or arguing. But remember in chapter 4, just a few verses before his statement of his own contentment. In chapter 4, verse 4, he said, rejoice in the Lord when? Always. And he says, just in case you missed it the first time, I'll say it again. Rejoice. Then verse 6, don't be anxious about anything. But in prayers, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and his peace will guard you. Now, what's even more significant here is that I believe in chapter 2, verse 14, where he says, Do everything without complaining or arguing, he follows that up with verse 15, saying, so that you may become blameless and pure, Children of God without fault in a crooked and depraved generation, in which he shined like stars in the universe. Now that's a quote from the Old Testament. It's from Deuteronomy chapter 32. And in Deuteronomy chapter 32, verses 3 to 6, Moses basically says, our God is good and he is faithful. But you, O Israel, have been a crooked and worked generation because you've been complaining and ungrateful to God who has been so good to you. Or you take even more clearly in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, where Paul speaks of Israel and their complaining. 1 Corinthians chapter 10 Paul has begun the chapter talking about God's goodness in bringing Israel out of their bondage out of Egypt. And he says that God was so kind to them, they drank from him, he took care of them. But then he says in verse 5, nevertheless, God was not pleased with most of them. Their bodies were scattered over the desert. Not a very happy ending. Why? Paul says these things occurred as examples to keep us from setting our hearts on evil things as they did. And then in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, in verses 7 to 10, Paul talks about four sins that Israel committed that caused them to be judged by God. Very interesting to see what they were. Verse 7, he says they were idolatrous. You see this in your bulletin outline, but you can check it up later or just follow along as I'm reading it here now. Verse 70 says, Don't be idolaters, as some of them were. As it's written, the people sat down to eat and drink, got up and indulged in pagan revelry. The golden calf. Idolatry. The second sin: immorality. We should not commit sexual immorality as some of them did. And in one day, 23,000 of them died. Sexual immorality Third sin, testing God. Verse 9, we should not test the Lord as some of them did and were killed by snakes, arrogantly trying and tempting the Lord. But then the fourth sin in verse 10. What's the fourth sin for which Israel was judged? Verse 10, do not grumble. As some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angel. So the fourth sin, grumbling, was a sin punishable by death. It's not a light thing to be discontent in the position that God's placed you. Grumbling. Now, to what does this refer, this grumbling that Israel was guilty of and brought on God's wrath on them? Well, remember, Israel had been in bondage in Egypt A miserable bondage by cruel taskmasters who not only beat them, but when they decided that they were producing too many children, decided that they would take their boy babies and throw them into the Nile to be eaten by crocodiles or to drown. Cruel taskmasters. And God brought them out of that bondage. With his power, he released them from the mighty power of Egypt. He brought them into a wilderness, he fed them, he protected them, he brought them into the land of promise as his own people, that they would have everything that they could possibly need. Some of you have been in bondage. And some of you the Lord Jesus has brought out by his power. And he's bringing you into that land of promise where he'll be with you forever. And you're on your way with him now. And he's showing himself faithful to you and to me. And so what happened to Israel is a picture in some ways of the Christian life. Now, how did Israel respond to God's mercy? The Bible tells us again and again and again, they grumbled, they complained, they were discontent. Let's take a look at a couple of examples of this this morning. In fact, six examples of it, six kinds of complaining. That Israel was guilty of and see if you identify with any of these kinds of complaining from the Book of Exodus and Numbers. So if you have your Bibles, turn with me in Exodus, back to Exodus chapter 14, and I want very briefly to call to your attention the kind of complaining That Paul is talking about in 1 Corinthians 10, in Philippians chapter 2, that Israel was guilty of, and that he warns you and me, lest we be guilty of it, and lose God's blessing. First of all, there is the complaint of panic. That's the first line. Now, if you were still wondering about that blank up there yet, there was constant complaining. That's what I was saying. Okay? Six kinds of this complaining. First, the complaint of panic. The complaint of panic at the what we call the Red Sea. God had brought them out of Egypt. He had freed them. But then you remember that Pharaoh changed his mind and he decided to send the whole Egyptian army after them. And now they've got a slight problem because they come up to this what is called the Red Sea or the Sea of Reeds. And so they feel trapped. Here's the whole this whole sea before them and the entire Egyptian army behind them. And so Israel's response in this Feeling of abandonment. God has brought us to this place. We're trapped. What are we going to do? They say in Exodus chapter 14, 11 and 12. I like this. A little sarcasm here. They said to Moses, was it because there were no graves in Egypt that you brought us out here in the desert to die? What have you done to us by bringing us out of Egypt? Didn't we say to you in Egypt, leave us alone, let us serve the Egyptians? Back then they weren't so happy to serve the Egyptians. You know, sometimes you're a Christian and you come into some hard time and you say, oh, it was better before I was a Christian. You weren't saying that before you were a Christian But they're saying, weren't we better off serving the Egyptians? It would have been better to serve the Egyptians than to die in the desert And they blame Moses. But they're really angry at God that he's brought them into that situation. You ever do that? Your car breaks down, the most inopportune time, lonely road at night, what's the first thing you do? You blame your spouse for not having it maintained, right? Why didn't you take care of, you know? Anytime you're in a panic situation, what's your first response? I know mine is, who can I blame? You say to your spouse, you start blaming him, they say, What are you blaming me for? Well, who else am I going to blame? You know? Because it's out of panic. You're feeling frustrated. You're angry. You're helpless. You're scared. And so you blame somebody. And in doing that, you feel alienated from God. You're not inclined then to call on Him for help. You've got to fend for yourself. And of course, what they missed was that God had intended not only to show his power by separating the sea and bringing them through on dry ground. But that what they thought was the abandonment and what was going to condemn them was in fact what God was going to use to save them. Because he was going to use that very sea to not only bring them through to their safety, but that very sea he was going to then use to drown the Egyptian army as they sought to go through it. How many times do we find ourselves in some situation where we feel God hates me? He's abandoned me. And all the time the Lord is using precisely that situation to bring it to himself. More than one of you have come to Christ out of a broken marriage. Out of a broken home situation, out of a bondage of addiction, out of certain things that you felt were miserable in your life, and why did God Abandon me into this situation and all the time he was using it to bring you to see your need of Christ that he might release you not only from the particular thing that was causing so much pain. But to bring you into a new release and freedom and relationship with himself far beyond anything you would imagine when you were complaining about that problem in your life But this is God's way. To use those situations in which we're helpless to show us his power. We'll miss it if we're discontented and complain. Secondly, there's the complaint of frustration. The complaint of frustration at Mara. After they come through the sea and the Egyptian army is drowned, you remember in chapter 15 they sing a great song of deliverance Tremendous hymn singing. Everybody's dancing and singing and God is great and he's faithful and we can trust him and isn't he wonderful? But you notice in that song they never once repent of their complaining. They never once complain repent of their discontentment and lack of trust. And so just three days after the song Just three days after this big revival, and three verses later, in chapter 16, excuse me, in chapter 15, in verse 22, you read that three days they traveled in the desert without finding water. And when they came to Mara, they could not drink the water because it was bitter. That's why the place is called Marah, which means bitter. And so the people grumbled against Moses, saying, What are we to drink? There it is again God's abandoned us. And they blame Moses, but they're really angry at God. And here again, God was bringing them into a situation simply so he could show them his power and his mercy. And so you read in verse 25 that Moses cried out to the Lord, and the Lord showed him a piece of wood, and he threw it into the water, and the water became sweet. Then in verse 27 they came to Elam where there were twelve springs of water. All the water that they could want, an oasis to refresh themselves. How many times does God put us in a situation of frustration? Again, to draw us to Himself, to say, are you going to trust me in this situation, or are you just going to complain? Because I intend to turn what's bitter into sweetness, if you look to me. One of the Classic baseball TV shots of all time, I understand, came from the 1970-five World Series. It's a picture of Carlton Fisk at home plate after he had hit the ball, jumping up and down, waving his arms wildly, trying to coax the ball to stay fair, which it did for a home run. Now the cameraman's responsibility was to follow the ball, but he didn't. Because at that moment up in the camera booth there was a rat encircling the cameraman. And so the cameraman's attention was diverted from off the game, and he left the camera focused on fists and captured one of the classic shots of all time because of the problem of the rat. How many times do you and I focus on the rat in our lives? And we miss that God is intending to use that to accomplish some good thing. Which we'll miss if we grumble and complain. For the discontentment is a lack of faith and sin. And God wants to show us his goodness in what he's doing, even in the problems and frustrations. Thirdly, there was the complaint of anxiety. The complaint of anxiety in Exodus 16. Now they've got their water, but they are heading on into the desert. They have a whole desert to cross. And it occurs to them, they don't have any food. Didn't even have any freeze-dried stuff to backpack along there, you know, not much to take. And so they got a big problem on their hands. They see no way. But of course by now they've learned that they can trust the Lord. He's brought them out of Egypt. He's delivered them from the whole Egyptian nation, from the Egyptian army, he's parted a whole sea so they could come through. He's turned bitter waters into sweet. He's taken care of all their needs for all these weeks. Surely they've learned to trust him, right? Just about as much as you and me. And so you read in Exodus chapter 16, verses 2 and 3. In the desert the whole community grumbled against Moses. and Aaron. And the Israelites said to them, Oh, if we'd only died by the Lord's hand in Egypt, there we sat around pots of meat and ate all the food we wanted. A little bit of exaggeration in the hindsight here. But you brought us out into this desert to starve the entire assembly to death. Once again, they blame the person close to them. But they're really angry at God. It's really almost funny, isn't it? To think that God had stretched forth his mighty arm to redeem this couple million people just to bring them out to the desert to starve them? I mean, think about it, you know, God, you did all this, brought us all out here, and now you forgot the food, Lord. And yet, is that any sillier than you or me saying God sent his son Jesus Christ, God incarnate, to come, to live, to die on the cross, rise again from the dead, but he can't pay my bills. You forgot the bills, Lord. You forgot the things that I need. The complaint of anxiety. The complaint of anxiety that says, Lord, you don't care about the details of my life, the basic needs that I have. I think one of the most important things we can do as parents is to train our kids as early as possible to in the little frustrations and needs of their lives, going out for sports and schoolwork and The basic crises that they have that loom large to them to learn to trust the Lord in those situations. We've tried that with ours and could do a better job, but so important. But our kids learn from the very beginning, trust God with my basic needs, so that as I grow up I learn that He's faithful. In chapter 16, the issue is food. In Exodus 17, the issue is water. Once again, no water in the desert. And here again they complained. Chapter 17, verses 1 to 3. By the way, in chapter 16, God answered this, remember, by giving them manna every day, all the food that they could eat. Supplied all their basic need. Chapter 17, they're complaining about water again. They're traveling on, they camp at Refedim, there's no water, verse 1 And so verse 2, they quarreled with Moses. And they said, Give us water to drink. Moses says, Wait, why you're quarreling with me? Why do you put the Lord to the test? Did you guys learn anything? You're kind of slow learners out there. What's the problem? You don't trust the Lord again. And so you think by this time God said, I've had enough of you guys. Forget the water. Dig for it yourself. But what does he do? In his graciousness, in his kindness, we read in chapter 17 that God says, I will stand by the rock. And then he tells Moses to strike the rock, striking God himself. And out of the rock comes water. That's why Paul says in 1 Corinthians 10, they drank from the rock, and that rock was Christ. For the rock was a picture of his mercy and of his grace. For their contentment is their discontentment is a discontentment against him. But God Himself has forgiven. And He showed Himself faithful to supply their need. And again and again and again, on and on it goes through the record. The fourth complaint is the complaint of demanding more. No matter what they have, it's still not enough. And so now manna's not enough. They're tired of the manna burgers and the manna souffle and the man of this and the manna that and everything and on it goes. And they said, now we want some meat. We want a little variety in our diet. We're tired of 101 ways to make manna. But it was sufficient. But they're discontented with God's provision. And so now they've got to have meat. Now we move to Numbers. And in Numbers chapter 11. We see that the people complained about their hardships in the hearing of the Lord. What hardships? Well, living in the desert had its tough points. But they had all they needed. But they wanted more, more variety, more of this, more of that, complaining and bickering. And so God Himself responds. He says, when you're doing this, you're complaining against me. Look at verse 20. Numbers chapter 11. Again to verse 20. God says, I'm going to give you this meat for a whole month till it comes out your nostrils and out your ears, because you have rejected the Lord who is among you, and have wailed before him, saying, Why did we ever leave Egypt? We had it better back before we served Jesus. Never enough. If only. And so God disciplines them with a plague. Finally, God brings those who come through that to the border of the land of promise. He's ready now to take them into all the land of the delights and the prosperity that He has promised from the beginning They send spies to spy out the land, and the spies come back with a report. Uh-oh, it's a great land. Hey, it's as good as God said and better. But there's giants in the land. And we're never going to take on those giants. We're never going to be able to drive them out of the land. We're like grasshoppers in the sight of those guys. Of course you're never going to take them out of the land. Of course you're not going to take it in your own strength. Whoever thought you would? Haven't you guys learned anything yet? And so they come back and they complain. They come back and in Numbers chapter 14. Verse 1, we read that all night the people of the community raised their voices and wept aloud. And all the Israelites grumbled against Moses and Aaron, and the whole assembly said to them, Oh, if we had only died in Egypt, sounds familiar now, doesn't it? I think they'd at least think up something new. We'd only died in Egypt during this desert. Why is the Lord bringing us to this land only to let us fall by the sword? Now they wish they'd died in the desert before they were complaining about that Our wives and our children will be taken as plunder. Wouldn't it be better for us to go back to Egypt? And so they said to one another, hey, let's choose another leader and go back to Egypt. Forget this guy. Again, blaming Moses. Their real anger is against the Lord. And so you and I look at the ministry of our church, the need for a facility. When we look at all the opportunities there are as a congregation and as part of the coalition to reach people in Howard County for Jesus Christ and see God begin to Bring a new openness and a receptivity to the gospel and all the needs that there are around us. And we see some stirrings of mighty things God's doing, some exciting things. We say, but Lord, in order to have this facility to be able to do the kind of ministry we're talking about, we're talking about $1. 35 million just for phase two. In case you haven't been keeping up, we finished phase one, basically. But then we got phase two, the first part of the main facility. And that's a giant in the land. But hasn't the Lord shown us faithfulness to us? Hasn't he led us to a half a million dollar property that he provided and then led to us, led us to obtain that debt free? So that we would have that property free and clear as we do now, and even renovated? And God's building our faith to take us into the land. Because there's a basic principle about contentment and discontentment. And that is, whenever you see a giant facing you concerning the next opportunity of your walk in faith in Jesus Christ, if you go forth in faith. You will be contented. You may be scared, you may be nervous, you may be trembling, but you will be contented because you will have the sense of the presence of God with you in doing that. But at any point that we individually, as families or as a congregation, back off and say, that giant's too threatening. We're not going to go forward on this one. You will immediately become discontented. You will immediately begin to bicker, you will immediately turn upon yourselves, you will immediately find other things to complain about And so as a congregation, I believe we're at an important point. Come this Friday to the congregational meeting so that you might hear more about where we are and the opportunities that are before us in the next year. Because we're at an exciting time now to face the giants and to see God show his power in even greater ways than he has shown us in the whole twelve years that we have existed so far as a congregation. If we'll trust him, if we'll be ready to step forth and see him show his power. Because if not, we'll draw back as a discontented people. And that led to the fifth complaint Excuse me, that was the fifth complaint, which was the complaint of fear. In case you didn't get that one down, the complaint of fear We have also, by the way, opportunities as part of the coalition. A week from this next Thursday, we'll be gathering with the rest of the churches once again to learn to pray, to seek God, to see his power. to see him demonstrate that power in bringing renewal and revival to Howard County. So please come with us to Crossroads Assembly of God, July 19th. That we might build our faith, that we might go forward to face the giants, and not fall into the complaint of fear. But if you do, then there's one other complaint that that leads to, the sixth complaint, the complaint of rebellion. The complaint of rebellion. Now I'm going to touch more on this in a couple of weeks. But for now, let me just say from Numbers 16, which speaks of this, that you see that when Israel refused to walk in faith and began to complain, That soon that lack of faith and that complaining led to a rebellion against the leaders that God had set over them, and then against God Himself And so Numbers 16 speaks of the rebellion of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, who said that we want different leaders. We reject these guys. That they're not taking us in the right direction. A basic rebellion against God and his direction in their lives. And as a result, you remember that the Lord caused Korah, Bathan, and Abiram. To literally be swallowed up by the earth. Now, can you imagine standing there and watching these three guys who are complaining and grumbling against Moses? They're really angry at God, but they're blaming it all on him because they're discontented. There they stand. God says, I'm going to move into this situation, and the whole hurrican and swallows them all up. What would your response be? I would think you'd be to prostrate yourself before the Lord and say, Lord, I think we made a mistake. Because they were beginning to the side with these guys, you know Lloyd, I think we we really ought to stick with Moses and Aaron. I mean, I think you've really shown us that they're the guys you want for us, and Corinth, Dathan, and Abiram really didn't have their act together. But what do they do? Verse 41. The next day the whole Israelite community grumbled against Moses and Aaron, saying, You've killed the Lord's people. I don't know what you guys did or how you did it, but you're the ones that caused the earth to split open and swallow these guys up. And we don't like that. I mean you'd think they'd be sort of worried the whole earth would swallow them all up, wouldn't you? But they're complaining, they're discontented, they're bitter people. And discontentment is irrational, particularly for a Christian. And at that point, God's anger begins to move against the people because he says, your discontentment is against me. And so God begins to strike them with a play. Because discontentment is sin. It's not an emotion that you and I can't control. Basic discontentment is a rebellion against God. And so the only solution for it in number 16 was the fire and the incense from off the altar of the atonement. picturing the blood of Christ covering that grumbling. And so you see, my message to you this morning is really Kind of bad news, good news. The bad news is that the discontentment that you've been excusing and justifying all this time As being really kind of unfortunate, but not really wrong, and it's rather excusable considering the circumstances, God says it's sin. And because it's sin as any sin, it's punishable by death. And so you and I cannot excuse it. And say you come back to Philippians chapter 2 in order to see the good news. What's the good news? Four steps to take in the light of our discontentment from Philippians chapter 2, real quick. From verse 14. You look at that verse, do everything without complaining or arguing. And step one you see in a bulletin outline is to see your discontentment then as sin. To see it, to confess it, to seek, to repent of it. Lord, you say rejoice in everything. Again you say it, rejoice. You say, not be anxious. And all the rest of that, Lord, I confess now, my discontentment is sin. Now what's the good news? Well, the good news, you see, is because it's sin, you are not stuck in it. Because it's sin, it's not something you're helpless in. Because it's sin, it's forgivable. Because it's sin, Jesus Christ has come to deliver you from it. And so whereas you may think, well, you know, I'm just stuck in a discontented kind of situation. There's really nothing much I can do except to bear it. Jesus Christ to you says this morning, No, I've come so that you can do everything without complaining. I've come so that you can rejoice in all situations. I've come to give you contentment. But the first step is to recognize that your discontentment is a lack of faith in me. And that brings you to the second point. Verse 15 is to see that you are a child of God in Jesus Christ, so that you may become blameless and pure children of God without fault in a crooked and depraved generation. When you and I believe the gospel, the gospel tells us that Jesus Christ has not only taken our sin, substituted himself in his own blood, As in Numbers 16, the atonement for the sin of the people and their discontentment, Jesus has not only suffered and died for your discontentment. But he has made you his own child. He's adopted you into his family. You're a child of God. And therefore, as with Israel, he will take care of you in every situation. If he has to move a C to do it, he will not let you go. He will take care of your needs. He will take care of you as his children. And then the third thing is to see that while you're waiting to see his deliverance, that you look to the day of Christ, which is that final deliverance from all trouble. Verse 16. Paul says there, then as you hold out the word of life in order that I may boast on the day of Christ that I did not run in vain. That day when he will come and wipe away all tears, you will be delivered. And then finally, the fourth step is to then determine, by faith in the light of that, to be glad and rejoice. As Paul says in verse 17, even if I am being poured out like a drink offering on the sacrifice and the service coming from your faith, I am glad and I rejoice with all of you And he says, that's not just for me. But verse 18, so you too should be glad and rejoice with me. Amen. Do you believe that you can rejoice and be glad in Jesus Christ this morning? Do you believe that discontentment is sin? Sin coming from unbelief. And that when you believe the gospel, like Israel, you'll find that God will take care of all of your needs. He will never leave you nor forsake you. We can discuss this more at 11 o'clock if you want to get into some specifics. But right now, I ask you to look to Jesus in prayer. Let's pray. Lord our God, we pray that you would deliver us from our discontentment, that we would see it for what it is now. It's unbelief. It's saying that you are not faithful, that Jesus Christ really didn't die for us to take our sin and to give us all things, to make us like him and to bring us to heaven as your children. So Lord, we pray that you would work in us that we might confess our discontentment, forsake it, and trust Christ in Jesus' name. Amen.