It really is it really is a pleasure uh for me to be here today uh uh worshiping with you. And do invite you to open your Bibles to Psalm 77. And I will read that passage in its entirety. This is God's word. I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and He will hear me. In the day of my trouble, I seek the Lord. In the night my hand is stretched out without wearying. My soul refuses to be comforted. When I remember God, I moan. When I meditate, my spirit faints. You hold my eyelids open. I'm so troubled that I cannot speak. I consider the days of old, the years long ago. I said, let me remember my song in the night. Let me meditate in my heart. Then my spirit made a diligent search. Will the Lord spurn forever and never again be favorable? Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Are his promises at an end for all time? Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Then I said, I will appeal to this, to the ears of the right hand of the Most High. I will remember the deeds of the Lord. Yes, I will remember your wonders of old. I will ponder all your work and meditate on your mighty deeds. Your way, O God, is holy. What God is great like our God. You are the God who works wonders. You have made known your might among the peoples. You with your arm redeemed your people, the children of Jacob and Joseph. When the waters saw you, O God, when the waters saw you, they were afraid. Indeed the deep trembled, the clouds poured out water, the skies gave forth thunder, your arrows flashed on every side. The crash of your thunder was in the whirlwind. Your lightnings lighted up the world. The earth trembled and shook. Your way was through the sea, your path through the great waters, yet your footprints were unseen. You led your people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. This is God's word. Would you pray with me for a moment before we meditate on this for a few minutes? God in heaven, we ask for you to visit us this morning with your gracious spirit, your presence. We ask that you would give the grace to each one of us where we do have trouble, that you would enable us to connect it with your character and your purpose. And help us, Lord, not to compare our lot with someone else's and think that uh others have it so easy, why we alone have the tough. The tough job. We ask for you to meet us right where we are today and show us the beauty and glory of Christ. Amen. The derelict is slumped at the back row of the mission, and he hears the preacher drone on and on. about what call he has to trust in Christ, to get sober, to keep sober To get a job, to get money, to rebuild his life and his family. And from that back row He says, Yeah, Mister, but what if you can't? And you and I hear the call from the Lord. to experience joy even in our trouble. And we may think about what James says in the first chapter, count it all joy when you suffer trials. And you feel that God is mocking your efforts to get it together. And you want to say this morning, yeah, Mister, but what if you can't? We pray that the Spirit of Jesus would be among us today to help us to find out maybe there is a way for me. To connect with God's grace and might and power in the struggles that I'm dealing with, perhaps unique to myself. Certainly, as Job said, man is born to trouble as sparks fly upward. And yet some say that it is God's best that you not suffer And that if you're going through any kind of deprivation or suffering in your life, you gotta be doing something wrong. Just fix it. Have enough faith And life will again be good. Well, maybe, but maybe not If you live your life with this strange sense that for you, somehow unique among all people, you should not have to deal with troubles. That for you, sparks should fly downward because you're special. You will live a life of disillusionment and cynicism and confusion as a Christian. The psalmist here describes simply a day of trouble. He doesn't say what it is, he doesn't say what was going on. And maybe that's a good thing because we are able to connect with him in whatever the troubles are that we're going through. And I want you this morning to identify what you're dealing with. What you would call your particular trouble or maybe your top half dozen troubles that you deal with in your life. Maybe it is the fact that your finances just seem so tight that you never have any breathing room. Maybe there is an ongoing conflict with somebody close to you, somebody in your home, somebody where you work, somebody right here. That seems overwhelming to you and truly withers any hope that you have for a decent future. Could be that you're dealing with physical pain or suffering of some physical nature. That defines your life. You had an accident. You had some kind of a problem, and you even divide your life up into before the accident and after. It defines who you are. Maybe you're dealing with guilt and shame. And even now, even when we sing these wonderful songs. uh about uh our righteousness being from Christ. For you it feels remote. And you feel like you're too stained or too stuck in a sin pattern to ever really feel forgiven. Very important for you to understand that your problem Is not your trouble. It is instead your response to it. And I want you to think very carefully about how it is. That you respond to this trouble, whatever it is going on. Specifically, what are the habits of thought that go through your mind when you think about this problem? And in particular, what are the belief systems that drive those thoughts? You have to do business with God right there. You know, there are all different kinds of ways that people deal with trouble in their life Some people, and these guys are really kind of annoying, but they just sort of put a positive spin on everything. It'll work out. It's not that bad. Look on the bright side Your father died. Well your mother's still living. You know, it's a good thing. Other people simply Chase down relief however they can get it. For the engineer types among us, you know, you can fix stuff, you can manipulate things, make things work, your problem is is solved. Others dull that ache with comfort food or comfort drink. Again, finding relief rather than meeting God. Others simply blame other people, possibly even God Himself, for bringing this mess into your life How many times have you indulged the thought, kids, that if your parents just changed two or three things? If they just grew up in two ways, life would be grand, and you could even tell them just what to do, and life would be so much better. Or you're married, and you are convinced that if your spouse were able to change two or three things. your life would be grand, and so it is. You sit there with a sense of blame and a sense of resentment instead of dealing with reality. Others become just full of self-pity, can become depressed with a sense of hopelessness. God is silent, he is absent, and you are all alone. To deal with that. And yet others become cynical about life. Become hardened and jaded. And you begin to feel that God is just like all the other people in your life. He can't be trusted Talks the good line, but he does not deliver in the f in the pinch Well, our psalmist invites us to a process of dealing with trouble. In the day of my trouble, I seek the Lord. Verse 2: In the night my hand is stretched out without wearying. My soul refuses to be comforted. He prays Prays a lot, prays through the night, but still God doesn't seem to hear. My soul refuses. to be comforted. There are three the the word remembering is used three different times in this psalm and and notice each time we click on that word there's something new that's coming out that's showing you something of the process of how you deal with the troubles in your life. And in this case, his remembering does not yield any positive benefit at all. All he does is remembers And he still blames God. There is a remembering of God. That carries with it blame, accusation, charging God with having bad motives and an inability to create life and to run life in a wise way. The first remembering does not yield much in the way of happiness or joy, does it? And yet look at verse 4. In that experience of being wide awake at night, you can't sleep. Your eyes are propped open by God Himself. Think of it. You're sick at heart, and you're even blaming God. But God is saying here that He is not the passive, elusive deity who mocks your best efforts. He instead is active. He is pursuing you, and he is wanting to be found by you. He props your eyes open. He says, keep looking, keep pursuing, keep coming after me. And then verse 6 talks about a second kind of remembering. Let me remember, but this time, let me remember my song in the night. In your cloud of discouragement and confusion, as you feel alone and scared before the Lord, you remember This time that God showed up for me once in the midst of of this problem that I'm that I'm dealing with now, I remember that one other time, like this God actually showed up. He was there. He was present. And my heart was full of joy. There was a song of joy that spilled out over my heart. And out of my lips. I remember that. You see the beauty of that. It enables you to keep going. It enables you to stay after it You cannot at this time even remember the character or goodness of God, but you do remember that you sang. You do remember that there was joy. And with that hope, you pursue your relationship with the Lord. That gives you courage to go on. It gives you courage, again, at the end of verse 6. My spirit made then my spirit made a diligent search. This is the hard work I was talking about. Your spirit makes a diligent search. Now, what's that about? What is the search? I think this psalm would lead us to say that there are two things that you bring together in your search, and one of them is your life, your problems, your unique details, what you deal with. And then also the character and the mercy and the presence and the grace of God. A friend of mine gave me a uh a really good picture of this some time ago. He was describing to me that as he sort of looked at his own life, this is a church guy, been around a long time. He says he sort of views his life, he he looks at his experiences. his troubles and even his joys as sort of occupying this silo over here. This is who he is and this is where he lives. His experiences of life. But this silo is also made up of our feelings about those experiences, our attitudes about them, whether we are happy or joyful or whatever. And then finally and most deeply and significantly also the belief systems that drives how we feel about the experiences of life. And there it is, sure, self-contained over here And then he goes to church where he reads his Bible, and there's this other silo over here, which contains all that he's supposed to know about God. All that the preacher talks about, all the stuff, the data, the material, the facts that he understands about God. But it's also in a self-contained silo over here and doesn't connect much with life over here And so God says, make a diligent search. This is how you have a quiet time, people. You make a diligent search. to bring the details of your life over here and your feelings about those details and the belief systems that drive those details and you bring them over here to encounter the person, the nature of God Himself. You see, if you compartmentalize your life, if you separate God, and I'm not saying anybody does this consciously I think instead it's an instinctive, intuitive thing that we can so easily slide into. If you separate yourself from God Separate where you really live from the person of God. No wonder he seems remote. No wonder he seems disengaged with where you are. God says here, bring your trouble. Bring all of your stuff in this silo over here. Bring it to me and have that point of connection. Th this this is a good a good prayer. God I'm kicked I'm discouraged. I can't handle this anymore. It feels like you're not around. What's going on? Help me here. Help me deal with this You haven't been fair to me, whatever it is that's going on in your silo. You see, as we'll find out in just a moment, God is practically demanding this kind of honesty. He's demanding it. He's saying, bring it on. I can handle it. That's exactly where I want to do business with you. There are five questions that begin in verse 7 down through verse 9. Five questions that help us to challenge false belief systems. By which we interpret the trouble in our lives. He says, target them, make a diligent search, go after them, and confront those issues. Not in a theoretical way, but those issues and those details with the goodness of God. First question. Will the Lord spurn forever and never again be favorable? Spurn. The dictionary says reject disdainfully. Sometimes it feels like God is spurning you. And that's a question that so often we have in our hearts. Will God reject me or will He welcome me? Some of you may look back on the time when you were just recently converted. And all the freshness and the delight of that recent conversion, you were convinced that God was favorably disposed towards you. But now Now that he knows you, and now that you've had a record of failure as a Christian, he can barely stand to be in the same room with you. You may be troubled by your lack of progress. I I know when I was a kid, when I was a high school kid, even a college kid, I'd look at guys 40 and 50 years old and I'd say, man, they got it all together. Their lives are intact. And now I are one and I see it ain't that way at all. And I think, man, what's going on? I thought I'd be farther along than this. Still having to deal with anger, still having to deal with lust and all the stuff of life I wonder if you've ever felt that way, along with some self-loathing or some self-condemnation, because you're not as far along as you thought as you thought you should be. Verse 11 brings out that word, remember again, I will remember the deeds of the Lord. Yes, I will remember your wonders of old. I will remember consciously. At this point of my failure, I will remember that Christ was spurned on the cross so that I would never be. Christ was rejected disdainfully by God, wounded what for my transgressions, even My post-Christian ones post-becoming a Christian one make that clear Crushed for my iniquities and chastised in order to give me peace. Satan's primary attack, I'm absolutely convinced of it, Satan's primary attack. is to blind you to the grace of the gospel and to taunt you with your own failures. And you call yourself a Christian? A voice that we could hear in the back of our minds. The theological word for it, of course, is propitiation that wrath of God, destined or By all rights that should come to us is diverted at Calvary upon Jesus Christ. So that God is favorably inclined or favorably disposed to his children every single day. Now how well do you wear that? How well does that reside in your heart? I don't know if you've ever had the feeling that when the alarm goes off in the morning and you are you you get a sense of, wow, another day is starting with that sharp sound that cuts through the silence. And your first thought is, I'm already behind. There's so much that I've got to do. And there's a sense of if I do my disciplines, if I do my quiet time, and do my whatever else I've got. on my list of this is what it means to be a good person. If I do those things, then gradually throughout the day, God will be more favorably disposed towards me. Climbing a ladder in order to reach favor with God. Dear people of God, before your feet hit the carpet or the hardwood, God's delight and favor is on you. Before you have done anything in the morning, you have God's favor and grace. Will he spurn you forever? Challenge that. He spurned Christ. And that makes me one of the good ones. One of the favored ones. Second question: Has his steadfast love forever ceased? Is God trustworthy? Might be another way to ask that question. And this question gets at some of the idols that might be in your heart. Um idols, we use that language really to point to things in our lives that we need or feel that we need along with Jesus in order to be happy, content, successful. to be well thought of by other people, whatever it might be. That in in any case what we're thinking is Jesus is not enough. Jesus is part of the hand that God has dealt you, but what you need is a wild card of two or three other things that really make you feel like uh like a well uh uh uh a uh a successful person. It might be just having a together family. Or it might be other people thinking that you have a together family, which could even be more precious to you than having a together family. Your reputation in front of other people. Having cool friends, having material comforts, being right all the time, just having a commitment to not be crossed by a spouse or by a child. These are the things that if I don't get them, my life is shattered. And at bottom here, what's going on is is is a sense that you're not really living your dream. You're not really accomplishing what you've wanted to accomplish, and you have a belief, you're interpreting this, that God's steadfast love has ceased and He can't be trusted because I'm not getting what I want. Now you see that language, steadfast love in the scripture, and that is that is code language for God's covenant faithfulness, and it's an invitation for you right here to argue with God covenantally. Who is it? That satisfied the demands of the covenant? Who is it that died in my place? Jesus, of course, satisfied God's justice. And God, listen to this. It is not merely God's mercy that requires Him to have steadfast love to you. It is It's not merely or simply his compassion that requires him to love you with that covenant faithfulness and love. It is instead God's justice that requires his steadfast love because Christ endured upon himself God's just wrath. That's a wonderful freeing thing for us. I love the progression that we see in Psalm 103, for example, the progression of the five verbs that sort of open up that psalm: God forgives all my sins. He heals all my diseases. He redeems my life from the pit. And listen, fourth verb, he crowns me with steadfast love. And then the fifth one, do you remember what that one is? He satisfies me with what is good. And what is the good with which he satisfies you? Third question. All right, are you staying with me? We've got this silo over here that's got all of our Experiences, our feelings, and our belief systems in it, and we are trying to make some connection to God's character and his grace and his love for us. So the next question that that the psalmist invites us to use to make a diligent search to make these connections is are his promises at an end for all time? That's what you think about, isn't it? There's a statute of limitations and it's run out. Can you count on him? Is God still reliable? Now, some of your troubles, some of your troubles are other people, aren't they? Some of your troubles are the people you live with. Sleep with, eat breakfast with, go to church with, aren't they? And you remember, you remember there was a time when you experienced great closeness in your family, perhaps also your church family. You enjoyed uh personal growth and maturity. And now, truth be told, you are aggravated by prickly self-righteous people who don't seem to recognize just what a great contribution you are to their life. And they complain about you. And that is a problem for you. You want the respect, and where is it? You view them with cynicism, and you lose confidence that God is still among you, still with you, still for you. In your family, in your marriage, in your home, in your church. I can remember um very vividly, this shocked my wife. I I was going through one of those moments with one of the guys in our church whose name will remain nameless. Of course. And uh just one of those things, you know, you're just rolling it over in your minds and you you you when you think of that person you think of all his bad faults his faults and you're not really able to view him very in a very um holistic kind of way. And and I was taking a shower And my wife heard from the next room and she she God loves John Doe! I shouted out. And she just about she came running in. She said, Lightning's gonna strike! And I just it just could I couldn't it it was one of those things that just I I began to see God loves even this person His promises to the church are still good. He is still beautifying his bride, including that guy and this guy. And that's something you can trust. His promises are not at an end. Fourthly Has God forgotten to be gracious? Are his motives good And the question that often plagues us is: how could God really care if He allows suffering? My suffering. It's not possible. And we pout and we judge And we say God is not strong. Or if he's strong, he's not loving. He's not good. But what if just work with me on this one for just a moment? What if His suffering is an expression of his grace. Could it be that he's using your suffering to go deeper with you? What a radical thought. What an absolutely freeing and wonderful and radical thought. There was a time a few years ago when I wasn't hearing very well. I did not have much a sense at all of God's graciousness. Staying busy But sweating without joy. Have you ever been there? It's an awful place to be. Busy but joyless. And then one morning, one Sunday morning, as I am getting ready uh to get dressed and go to church and preach. God graciously and kindly brought me down the stairs and cracked two or three of these ribs back here and punctured a lung. That was a very gracious thing for God to do. Because it forced me to be out of the pulpit for five weeks, and it forced me to come face to face with who is this covenant God who I say I have been serving. And God gave me this passage, and I don't really talk that way very much. Seems a little bit sort of out there, but this is a passage that God impressed upon me. He will gather lambs in his arms, Isaiah 40, 11, carry them in his bosom. And I had been carrying the freight myself And God says, no, I'm going to carry you in my arms, in my bosom. And I can remember saying to the Lord, let me never ever again preach without knowing that you love me. And do you love the people that I'll be preaching to? Please consider this question, dear people. Could your trouble your trouble be God's gracious battle for intimacy? Breaking you so that he can hold you in your arm in his arms. Has God forgotten to be gracious? No. He's coming after you and will stop at nothing. And the fifth question: Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Has he finally lost patience with me? This may be a little bit harder to detect because. We know enough about God and his character in this silo over here. We know enough to say that God's anger and wrath was poured aside onto Christ. And so maybe it may be a little bit difficult for us even to acknowledge that this may be our question. So let's do a little bit of diagnostic work to see if it fits. I want you to look around at your life. I want you to look around at the people that you deal with closest to you. How do you treat people who don't do what you want? How do you treat people who block your goals? Who frustrate your desires. You might think of a spouse or a child or a co-worker, a parent And you may be able to say, wait a minute, I recognize that I am easily angered. I can I can flash to anger like that in just a moment. I can lose Lose my temper and then even defend it because I'm righteous in this area. Do you see how do you see how awful that is? And angry people have an angry God. You're insecure about your own failures, so you are driven to find fault with other people. You are insecure about your ability to manage life. And so with a sense of fear and vulnerability. You lash out when things when when you're not getting your way. And this, of course, chokes off compassion and kills your joy. But bringing bringing the love and the compassion of God Into your own silo, into contact with your issues of anger. This is a marvelous invitation from the Lord Your anger is an invitation. Think of it. Your individual flashes of anger and responses to things are in that moment an invitation from God to remember that he's not angry, not anymore, not at his children. And I was looking this morning at Zephaniah 3. 17, and it's still, it's still Almost embarrasses me and I feel like it's almost irreverent for God to talk this way. It is so far from anger. It's amazing. Listen to this. He rejoices over you with gladness. He quiets you with his love. He exalts over you with loud singing. God is celebrating over his love. He is celebrating in his love for his church. You know, when you get that, the pressure just gets off. It just eases. And you can even risk being joyful as a Christian. Isn't that amazing? If God is that much in love with his people, you can risk having a good time with the Lord. Well, the people of Israel were involved in a perfect storm, weren't they? God had placed them as they in the Exodus. from Egypt they were sort of wedged in, the sea was on one side and the desert was on another side and the Egyptians were closing in and there was absolutely no way out no way out. And you you perhaps you remember what Ex Exodus says about that that God has left us. God has deserted us here in our trouble. He does not care. It is manifestly evident that he doesn't care because look at the circumstances that we're in. Oh, for the old life. in Egypt. Oh, for the familiar security of my bondage. For the familiarity of my struggle. Better even than following God. But remarkably God was there. God was acting, he was orchestrating, he was delivering, even though, look at verse 19 with me, even though his footprints were unseen. Didn't look like he'd shown up at all. But he was there. Now, think about that trouble that maybe you've been dealing with during the course of this little message. What makes that trouble so overwhelming? I can't get in your heart, and I say this with some measure of humility, and just try me out on this one. Could it be that it is not the trouble that is so burdensome? But rather the fear that God is absent, and the responsibility, therefore, of carrying it on your own. You don't see his footprints. Isn't that what is most difficult about dealing with your trouble? Whatever your perfect storm is, we appeal, don't we? We appeal as verse ten invites us. To the years of the right hand of the Most High. We appeal to God's provision at Calvary We appeal to the fact that there was a time, a date in history where God's feet did show up. They did appear. The feet of God were lifted up on the cross, and they were pierced with nails, they were lacerated, they were bloodied for you. And because his feet showed up in Calvary, you are able. God, Jesus is so tender to us. He says, I delight to call them my little brothers and sisters. I delight being their older brother. And he says that I am here. I know your suffering. I've never forgotten you, and I never will. And I will walk through the river with you. We can do this together, Jesus says. Just ask him. Ask him. Let's pray together. Father, we um we may at this moment even be overwhelmed with our sense, our inability of being able to grasp. The message of Jesus and his love and mercy. And yet we thank you for this invitation to come, Lord. And just ask for your help. Ask for your display of the gospel of grace in Christ. Father, we pray that in each person's life today, there would be some measure of hope in a connection with you that would give them joy for the future, hope for the future. And would enable them to glorify your name. And Father, if there's anyone here this morning who has never yet come to the place of putting faith in Jesus, The one who was lifted up on the cross on their behalf, we pray that you would show to them Christ's beauty and strength. And what he worked on the cross so that we might have entrance into your family. Spirit of God, we ask you for this work in Christ's name. Amen.