So we finally got to Ephesus on our anniversary trip. After all these years, some years ago, many of you know, we're here when I preach 125 sermons on the book of Ephesians. So what a thrill it was to actually walk on the street. Uh take a look. Shot I took. That's the main street of Ephesus. To walk down that street, those pillars used to be of course much taller. Down there is the famed library, just the facade of the library of Kelsus, used to be a harbor down there where ships would come in, now it's three miles from the sea, all silted up. But to walk down those streets where the the believers who received this letter the first time when it had been written um were able to um get this truth and lived in this spot, real space, real time, two thousand years ago And perhaps the most meaningful part of that experience that day was this little inscription on a curb. Take a look at this next thing. You see, it's just a circle that's got five lines drawn through it, and uh found out that that was a code. Some of you may have heard of the word ichthus, those five letters in the Greek, first, uh each of those five letters I take for the first Letter of the words, Jesus, Jesus, Christ, God, Son, Savior. And the people would draw a fish, and that would be a sign that there were Christians there. That became known. Christians in Ephesus lived in an unfriendly atmosphere for their faith. And so as a kind of an underground movement, they put it in cone And you can take those five lines in that circle, and you can form the five letters of the word ichthus from just those just the arc of that circle and the five lines. And it was a way of showing there's a Christian here. And to imagine what it was like 2,000 years ago, somebody carved that into the marble. And another Christian would see that And they would say, here is a home where I can go and be understood. Here is a home where I can go and my faith in the Messiah. This this one I've decided to follow. The things that people don't understand and and that I may take plaque for, I can go here and I'll be encouraged I can go in this home and I will be challenged. I will be understood in a fellowship that's unique. Interesting to look at that and realize that the church outlasted the Empire. Years later, the Roman Empire had crumbled, and Jesus Christ was still building his church. Because the Christians at Ephesus were out loving their neighbors. And so that's why this week, for instance, we have a blood drive for us to love Howard County. Critical need for blood If you haven't signed up, still opportunity to give blood this Thursday, Friday, Saturday. And that's between you and the Lord. But coming back to Ephesus, My heart was really moved, really gripped me to think of what it was like there following the same Lord that you and I follow with the same need for one another. And that's why we've been having a four-week series on community, Christian community, gospel community. For you and I to be challenged to understand, as Steve pointed out the first couple of weeks, God made us for community. It's in our DNA as creatures and particularly as redeemed creatures that He has formed us for community. Tim reminded us next last week about how we as the Christians that received the letter to the Hebrews are tempted to displace Jesus. To go after other things and to need to be reminded frequently that Jesus is superior and sufficient. To remind me to remind you and you to remind me, it's worth following Jesus. He really is sufficient for all of your need. And so I want to finish up the series this morning, the fourth message, by trying to show you that when we talk about communities here at Columbia Presbyterian. that this isn't just a kind of a Columbia Presbyterian thing. You know, we got this small group thing and I think it's kind of neat to divide the congregation that way and we see some practical benefits. It's kind of for those that are inclined to get into groups and have the time to do that, but you're thinking, I just don't have an option. You know, I I um don't have the time. And uh there's a lot of things that would keep me from doing that. So it's hard for me to even consider seriously this idea of getting into one of these communities. In fact In our sermon discussion in the middle hour, most of the people that were in the room were not in some fellowship group, some community at CPC. So I know that's an issue for many of you. And what I want to do is to show from Scripture this morning in Ephesians chapter 4 that this is not something That God sees as an option for those that are kind of into small groups. You know, there's certain things in the Christian life that some of us do and others don't. But like tonight, taking the Lord's Supper. Community fellowship, face-to-face fellowship with other believers, is at the very center of God's plan for your growth as a Christian. It's indispensable, according to Ephesians 4, as part of the two basic processes for God's way to produce maturity in his people. If you look at Ephesians 4, you see that there are two processes that God uses for community. Now, my first point, then, is that you need community. And the emphasis was on each word. You. You particularly. I wish I could sit down with each one of you. If you're not persuaded to persuade you, you, me, not just an option, you need community, relational community. Now, as I say, there's two processes that God uses in maturing his people in the church. The first is seen in verses 11 and 12, where Paul talks about the elders equipping The saints for ministry. He says in verse 11, talking about the risen, ascended Christ, that it was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, some to be pastors and teachers. To prepare or to equip God's people, the saints, for works of service or for ministry. You could also translate that. So that the body of Christ may be built up. Now, how is it that we as elders at Columbia Presbyterian seek to equip you for ministry? Well, we do it by the worship services. To seek to lift up Christ in the preaching, the worship, the singing, so that your heart is warmed to see him, to love him, to trust him more, to see that he's sufficient for all of your needs. We seek to do it through the sacrament of the Lord's Supper that we'll take tonight, where beyond words, we meet with Jesus Christ in the most intimate way possible as we hold those elements and remember his death and his love and his covenant renewed. with you and me, individually, corporately. We do it through seminars where we take topics of the Christian life and ministry and we gather together and we try to study those in depth and apply them and think, what does this mean for me? We're counseling in a one-to-one basis, you and your elder, talking about problems in your life. Or it is the uh opportunities that we give in just seeing our lives Seeking to model not how to live perfectly. None of us as elders would point to ourselves and say, live like I live. I'm the model for the Christian life. But I'm a model of repentance and faith. I'm a model of a disciple who is seeking to take Christ seriously and the gospel in my life, and that you should be able to see that in us as elders, that we, like you, are seeking to follow Christ. And through these means, we seek to equip you to prepare you. But it is you who do the ministry. You are the ones who are building up the body. And in building up the body, you would naturally ask, well, building up the body to be what? And so in verse 13, he gives you the goal. This is what it means to be. build up the body. It is to be characterized by the three things that you see in verse 13. First of all, until we all reach unity in the faith. And that's faith with a capital S. That's the content of the faith. But Paul's saying there is that as you and I grow in understanding the truth of the faith As we mature in that, we become closer together. There's less disagreement because there is one revealed faith. And as you and I grow in that, we grow closer together into the unity of the faith. So that's our convictions. But then secondly he talks about growing also in the knowledge of the Son of God. And that word knowledge, as we pointed out going through Ephesians, you remember, is the same word that he used in chapter 1. It is ebigonus go. It is a word that doesn't just mean head knowledge, but it's talking about intimate, affectionate knowledge, so that you are growing in your affections for the Son of God. That deep, intimate affection for him. And then thirdly, that you're growing also, becoming mature, attaining to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ, that is becoming like him in his character. So those are the three things that we aim for as a body. We're aiming for you to grow in your convictions that they become more biblical. Conform to Scripture, that you grow in your affections, that you love Jesus more shamelessly, more openly, more intimately More devotedly. And then the thirdly, you become more like him in your values, your lifestyle. the formation of your thinking, the mind of Christ and the character of Christ displayed. Now just to make that even clearer, what Paul does is in verse 14, he contrasts that with immaturity. He says, that's what I want you to become. And you, as the saints, are doing that with each other, forming that Of conviction, affection, character in your ministry together. It's not what the elders are doing top down for you. We simply equip you so that that climate is displayed in the body, and that's happening in all kinds of relationships. The contrast in verse 14 is so that you will not be immature, no longer infants tossed back and forth by the waves blown here and there by every wind of teaching and the cunning and craftiness of men and their deceitful scheming. Whatever is on the TV or you read in some book or magazine article that says, this is the secret. This is what Christianity is all about. Have you found that Christianity is not satisfying for you? Well, here is the secret. The big fad today is the health and wealth gospel. And so we need to renounce the spirit of poverty. We need to believe that God intends for all of his people to not be sick and to be wealthy. And that kind of immature reading of the New Testament, looking at the life of Christ and how you can ever look at the life of Jesus Christ and the life of Paul and get from that the model of health and wealth. It's way beyond me, but if you're not rooted in Scripture, I mean we've seen even just in the Lord's Prayer, there is no prayer for health and wealth. But when we understand Scripture in its fullness, we're not tossed back and forth by those kinds of teachings. And so Paul is saying, I want you to grow in your convictions and your affections and your character so that you're not tossed back and forth by, oh, well maybe I ought to go that direction. Maybe, maybe this is the path to follow that's not Scripture. And how do you do that? The second process is mentioned in verses fifteen and sixteen. And now in that process, the elders are not even in view. It is simply you together as the body. And what are you doing? Verse 15. Instead, speaking the truth in love. We will in all things grow up into him who is the head, that is Christ. From him the whole body, joined, held together by every supporting ligament, grows and builds itself up in love as each part does its work. What work? Speaking the truth in love. What's the truth? Gospel truth. This is talking about chapters 1 to 3. That you will take those gospel truths and you will be speaking those truths to one another in love. So the second point of this message is you need gospel community. Not simply that you need community. Not simply that you need to be in relationships. Christians getting together and talking doesn't necessarily produce gospel community. Gospel community comes from gospel conversations. It's so easy for us to get together and talk about how the playoffs are going and you know and this and that activity that's happening now and kind of get caught up in that. But we can leave those conversations like after having a candy bar, you know, you're kinda Satisfied for the moment that there's still an emptiness, you haven't really felt like you've been understood. The struggles in your life are still there, unnamed, unfaced, undealt with. The longing for the hope of the gospel, to see it work, to see its truth and reality, to feel closer to the Lord Jesus Christ has been unmet. Why is that? Let me suggest four obstacles to gospel community. And our hope and our prayer in this series is not simply that people get into groups, not simply that you get into face-to-face fellowship. But that our communities become more gospel communities. What is that? Well, first obstacle is superficial knowledge. Superficial knowledge. And what I mean by that is not superficial knowledge of the gospel, but superficial knowledge of one another. We live in what Paul Tripp calls the conspiracy of superficiality. We live in a way that keeps people at a distance by only talking about the things that don't really get into our lives and don't really ask the questions to find out. Really, where our hearts are. In his book, Instruments in the Redeemer's Hand, Paul Tripp gives an example about a couple that was in his church It was a well-known couple. They were at all the major events. They were involved in a number of ministries. Seemed like a really solid Christian home. One night the man called Paul and said, Could we get together for coffee now? So late at night he met with him and he said, This man who he thought he knew quite well. poured out a story that stunned him. He said, My wife and I over the past years have been coming more hostile to each other, harder to talk. We have been arguing, a lot of tension in the home. A while back, my wife and I were arguing in the kitchen As we were arguing, he picked up the saucepan and threw it at me. The chick picked up the saucepan lid and threw it at me. I ducked. And it went through the kitchen window. When I saw it break the kitchen window, I lost it. And I physically attacked her. And she attacked me back. And what's even worse is that that became the pattern. of our arguments in the months ahead. Physical violence repeated time after time. Bruises that had to be hidden. Our kids terrorized. Right now I don't know where my wife is. I'm desperate. And Paul Tripp thought, how in the world could I feel like this man was a friend that I knew and I knew nothing of what was going on? It was the conspiracy of superficiality, whereby we do not ask the questions that are not simply how are you doing? But tell me more about your background. How's that affected your marriage? What are some of the struggles that you're having? Help me to understand some of the things that you wish were different now. How's your joy? How's your faith? And how could it be better? If you could change something in your life now, what would it be? Help me to understand and listen to each other. Pursue and follow up by knowing areas. Now, some of you may be wanting to avoid groups because you don't want to have those conversations. Listen, I understand that. Last May I told you Kathy and I were out visiting our grandchildren and their parents out to Colorado. And um toward the end of the visit, I raised a couple of questions with my daughter about parenting, intending of course to be helpful. And to try and, you know, just be a good father and grandfather. And so I raised a couple of questions. And uh that led into a pretty intense discussion, let me say And I began to see that that discussion was going in a direction that was making me uncomfortable. Because we were no longer talking about her parenting, we were talking about her reaction to my parenting. And after a while I realized there were some things she was showing me about her life and her reaction to it that I didn't want to look at. And then this thought occurred to me I could have read the Bible for 50 years and probably never come across that revelation about my heart. Because I'd have filtered it out. I needed somebody who knew me and cared for me who was willing to say, I want to raise this in your life. And of course I thought, what does she know about my parenting? Well You know, that's what we need. Somebody who knows us. Somebody who we can't dismiss and say, What do you know about me? And then connect that with the gospel. Second thing that's an obstacle to gospel communities is superficial solutions. So you bring out the issue. And what do we do? We try to fix each other with behavior modification rather than addressing heart issues. Talk about a struggle and the response is, well, you know, what you need to do is, let me just tell you, whenever you say in a group or conversation, what you need to do is A little bell ought to go off. That probably isn't what they need to hear. Because if I say what you need to do is, all I'm saying is, if you could just act this way, I'll feel better And you may feel better, and we won't have to deal with heart issues. But if there's anything I've tried to make clear through going through the Gospel of Matthew, is that Jesus always addresses the heart. The Pharisees dealt in behavior modification. Jesus dealt in heart change. So until I get to the level of the conversation where I'm saying, and you're saying, I don't know how to change that. I can't simply do that. We say, you know, that's why we need a Savior. You and I need the gospel. And as long as we are dealing with superficial solutions, we will keep the gospel at arm's length and we'll keep Jesus Christ at arm's length. But when we're willing to go to heart issues, then Jesus Christ immediately becomes relevant. Let me tell you, last week I was really encouraged when in our Discoverers class there was somebody in the class, we were talking about the purpose of CPC, and this person said, I've been to a lot of churches. In fact, after I became a Christian, my average tenure at a church would be about a month. And I don't know how many churches I went to. I came to CPC. Look like more of the same. Everybody looks nice. They all got their lives together. Everybody's got it all here. And I was ready to move on. But I went to a small group. And that changed everything. Because she said, I saw in that group people being honest about where they were really living And I saw an immediacy and a relevancy of the gospel of Jesus Christ coming to people in everyday real living. Result? Three years later, I'm still here in the Discover's class. I want to become part of this body. My longing for many of you who are isolated, who come, who do not know people here. who are not in fellowship, who are not in some relational, face-to-face, meaningful opportunity to speak and receive gospel truth in love. Is that this morning you will overcome all that internal resistance. I am too busy. I don't have the time for this. If I get in a group, you know what? I may not like those people. And you know what? I got news for you. They may not like you either. That's the risk you take. Ministry is messy, like Tim was saying to us last week. Remember he talked about the virtual pets on the computer and it's really neat. You don't have any mess to clean up and you turn them on when you want, turn them off when you want. But it's not real life. I had a smile when he was telling us that because as I was sitting there, I was thinking about the fact that I had been awakened three times the night before by our cat So why was I awakened by our cat three times? Well because we had been away for two and a half weeks. When we got back the first night The cat, when we went to bed, snuggled up in between Kathy and me, and she purred all night I never heard a cat purr for eight hours straight. In my ear, woke me up three times. Prrr, purr, you know Messy, annoying, but you know what I thought? It's neat to be loved by a cat. I mean I was missed. I feel bad for Tim and his relationships with his cat too. I'd give you our cat for a while, you know? But then you know it occurred to me when he was talking about, I thought, if it feels that good to be loved by some silly cat, imagine being loved by a creature who bears God's image Having you care for me, being feeling in a in a group, in a relationship, here's someone who is a child of God And that person cares for me, they miss me, they care about my life. And in that relationship, there's a dim reflection of the very love of God for you. Because we're willing to go beyond the superficial. Third obstacle: superficial confessions. When we don't take each other's, you know, putting out a little bit of a confession, we don't take it seriously, we minimize it, get a little uncomfortable. Person says something like, you know, I think that the way I'm dealing with stress is that I'm just I'm watching too much TV and I'm shopping too much, and I think it's kind of getting out of control And you know you say, um I don't know, I want to deal with this and see Yeah you know me too, I'd do that, you know, and yeah, you know, but that's okay, you're not that bad. You know, but kinda put the lid back on. Let's let's not go there. You know, what we need to do is to pursue it. Somebody asks, somebody confesses something, never minimize it and say, you're not that bad. Because they probably are. Like you and me. So you say, well, why do you think that's out of control? What is it that you're trying to cope with? What are the stresses that are producing that need? What effect is that having on you? Tell me more Help me to understand your heart. I want to know you. Man, you know how good that feels? You know if you begin to go down into heart issues and you begin to see Jesus Christ grow as a Savior able to meet those heart issues. You come out of that relationship exhilarated. Right? You ever experienced that? Anybody here I hope so. That's precious. That's what we long for. I wish I could take you all by the hand, we're not in fellowships, take it back to the poster and say, see There's all the groups, those are the possibilities. And I'd pull out this little slip and I'd say, here it is. All you gotta do is put your name on it, put your number or email something, and just say, let me know. Let me know about your group This is the group three times. If after three times, you're a bunch of losers. All right. Go somewhere else. Try another group. Don't keep trying that on and on and on. You know, you finally ought to settle down somewhere. But I I I wish that with all those concerns that you have, I'm afraid of being known. I I I this is too risky, and how do I get out of it? And on and on and on and on that you'd see that that's on one side of the scale, but on something on the other side of the scale outweighs all of that, and it's the word of God. It is God in Ephesians 4 saying, you know what? The process for your growing in faith is speaking the truth to one another, each part doing its work, speaking gospel truth to the heart issues of your life where you really are. And so the final obstacle is superficial gospel. You see, if we do not get down to those hard issues in one another's lives, we will only know the gospel to a certain extent. It's interesting that in chapter 3, when Paul talks about the love of Christ, that he says in verse 17, I pray that you being rooted and established in love, that's already the case. So that's true. Now, that you may have power to grasp how wide and long and deep is the love of Christ, to know his love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to all the measure of the fullness of God. I pray that you will be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do that. know the dimensions of God. But you know something? You notice? I left out a phrase. What he says is that you may have power together with all the saints. You can't know the dimensions of the love of Christ by yourself. There are some times I'm in a group and I'm interacting and I go away and I I get depressed because I think I revealed my heart again through my big mouth. It was ugly. And you know, and I begin to feel, you know, start beating up on myself and all the rest of that. And then I Someone somewhere along the line, hopefully I'd begin to say, you know what? That's why I need a savior. And and Jesus isn't holding what I did against me I've learned a little bit more about the length and the height and the depth, the breadth of the love of Christ. But it's not just negative. Speaking the truth in love means that there are some times when we are discouraged and we're down and we have to be reminded that if God is bigger than all the problems, that this life is just a passing brief period of time with the limitless extension of eternity. Beyond and the joy of all that he's going to be doing. And we need to be living, reminded constantly of the length and the height and the breadth and the depth of the love of Christ for sinners. What he has done for you as you see it in relationships, as you and I together with all the saints grow in our understanding of Jesus Christ, a bigger Savior for bigger sinners than we'd ever expected. Yeah, brothers and sisters, what we're inviting you to. Right now I want to invite up another brother. Who's one of our group leaders, Dave Shearer. Because I thought it'd be good to end with just hearing from somebody practically speaking what community has meant in his life. Dave, go ahead. Five minutes, uh four snapshots. Might be a little bit of a whirlwind. We lived in Baltimore City for eight years after we got out of the university and got married there. God did wonderful things for us. We learned so much. about his love for the city, his call for justice, worked on reconciliation across racial and economic lines. But the snapshot I want to give you is down in the basement on 42nd Street Sitting around with our group there and that the in that place they were called uh covenant groups and you made different uh covenants with the people. And somebody knew me enough and loved me enough to very gently say, the hardest covenant for you in this group is transparency. And your reluctance for that is holding up this group, speaking the truth in love. Another snapshot. Uh we moved to Norfolk for two years, lived there for two years. I knew it was gonna be a two year job assignment when I went in, it would have been very easy. to say, look, it's two years and we're out of here. Let's just hang tight as a family. But we'd spent enough time in groups. We knew how God used them. We'd say we can't mess around. We've got to get in a church and get in a group. The snapshot from that group is in the second floor bedroom of the Gibson House. Our group had gotten large enough that we split up into men and women to pray. I was traveling extensively in that job and as we sat there I said, gents, I uh traveled earlier this week. And I uh watched this thing on HBO that I shouldn't have watched or wished I hadn't, and I got this image burned in my mind. And um that opened up and other folks talked about other things and We had a good time of confession, taking each other back to Jesus, speaking the gospel, and in the months ahead, lovingly holding each other accountable and continuing to grow in deeper relationships. We've been here at CPC now six or six and a half years, uh been or three or four different groups, the last two particularly precious. We've uh shared our stories over time, pointed each other to the truths of the gospel. Bearing one another's burdens in prayer and serving together. The third snapshot by God's providence was back in Baltimore City. Our heart still beats for that. And uh folks enclosed, many which would throw away afterwards with gloves on because it was the first CPC Sand Sound Habitat House and it was the first week and the first group and A lot of our folks were dragging out some ugly trash. Other folks will tell that story better. Some said I'll never do that again, at least never the first day on a house. Others have gone back dozens of times or a dozen times. Uh it was great serving together. We all got stretched. We had talked about it in the group. A number of us decided to do it together. It was part of God growing us. The last snapshott was from our current group that we're in now, back in January of this year. And the way this started, um, when you get close with people, God gives you a heart for them and and you love them and you care about them and I've found myself um uh I don't always sleep that well so I wake up at night and I and I pray for uh folks in the group sometime and I was thinking through and just had different um dreams for people in the group and things I thank God for and so I say well this will be a little bit of a risk but we tried it. So uh the snapshot here is in uh Kevin and Shannon's sitting room and as a group we had an opportunity to talk about over the previous year How we had seen God grow different people in our group and the things that we appreciated about them and his work in their life. And then we also talked about, here's my dream for you for this year, for for what I see coming based on all the struggles we talked about and the prayers that we carry, and dreams for ministry and and to see that uh come out this year was a rich time. There's always a danger when you show these snapshots, it's like pictures of the family, you know, everybody looks great, but you know the real truth is your kids have runny noses and it's a mess. There there are obstacles to these groups. Um I'd go so far as to say Satan actively opposes them. I would encourage you as you um continue in them if you're in them or get in them to try them out Persevere, press through the obstacles. I know that God will bless. I'm at the place now where I spent more time of my life in these groups than not. And um it's not 'cause I'm a small group groupy person, okay? Joanna and the kids will tell you I'm fundamentally a selfish person and um it's it's easier to say, no, we're not we're not gonna do that. We're just gonna, you know, cocoon. Um independence is not a blessing, independence is a curse. And so uh let's all come together, do the one another's that are exhorted in Scripture, and as we each do our part, God will grow us up and bring great glory to Himself. Amen. Dave's going to be leading us in the Lord's Supper tonight, where we come as a gospel community to remember Jesus' death for us. We seek to train our leaders to go below the surface to get in the gospel community Tuesday night. Community leaders joining together for that training. If you're a guy and you are not in a community, or if you are, Friday night, we're going to be all joining together for some food, some singing, some sports, some fun, just hang out together Build some relationships, get to know some guys. Wherever you are, what is God saying to you about moving more deeply into gospel community? Let's pray. Father, we want to come and thirst for Jesus. We want to thirst and know the length and the breadth and the height and the depth of his love so much that we're willing to give up our privacy. We're willing to be exposed and get to know other people because you have said that that's how we know you better. That's clear from your word. We can't escape it. We can't say, I have the Holy Spirit and my Bible, and that's enough. There are dimensions of your love that we will never know apart from our brothers and sisters. And so we ask you, Lord, move each one of us deeper into that gospel-shaped community that we as a church strive to have. Help us, Lord, to grow in that. Help each of us to be obedient in taking that step of faith this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.