It's a pleasure to be with you here today. Worship with you all. For those of you who aren't familiar, my name is John Song. I'm the somewhat new youth director here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. The new car smell is fading away real quick. And uh in case you were wondering where uh Reverend Loveless is this morning, he is at the men's retreat, appropriately participating in manly things. So if you can pray for him, that would be wonderful. And the rest of the men who are at the retreat, that'd be great. Well today we continue our series in 1 Peter. So as you take out your Bibles or turn on your Bibles or swipe to your Bibles to that particular book in Scripture. I want us to give us a refresher of where we've been and what the next couple of weeks are going to look like in our time of studying God's Word together. We are reminded again that Peter's writing in the book of 1 Peter to a group of Christians who are in spiritual exile. They come from different ethnic, socioeconomical, and economic backgrounds. And they're living in hostile times, a period where Christianity and Christian ideas are considered to be dangerous Both on a political, social, and economic scale. Many new Christians are finding themselves completely challenged and living in opposition to the surrounding culture they live in, and finding that the public discourse And the lifestyles of those around them are finding it difficult to be Christian. Does any of this sound familiar? It should. Because obviously God's word is not something that just happened in history, but it happens continually. And so Peter starts the letter, and as we've been studying together, He starts the letter off in the first chapters talking about the indicative of who you are in Christ, reminding them of their identity. And where we are and where we've been stationed the last couple of weeks is talking now about the imperative, the implications of what does it mean to live for Christ. So we will be reading this section of scripture that we've been reading together for the last couple of weeks now. 1 Peter 4 verses 7 to 11. And we will focus specifically on our time on verse 8. So I will read this right now. 1 Peter 4, verses 7 to 11. The end of all things is at hand. Therefore be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks, as one who speaks oracles of God, whoever serves, as one who serves by the strength that God supplies. In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Father, as we focus on what it means to love each other as a church community. Lord, I pray that our love would be rooted in Christ Himself. Not in our own ability to love, which fails so often. But that we will be reminded of the cross. We will be reminded of the truth of the gospel here today. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So today we are focusing on verse 8. So if you want to look at that verse once again, I'll read it again. And we're going to be spending the bulk of our time focusing on what does this mean for us as a church? And what does Peter mean? When he talks about love. So let's read it again. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. It's often difficult to speak on a sermon on an abstract concept such as love, particularly a concept that our culture has defined widely. Love, love has become a word where it can be either be the most powerful word you can hear. I love you, right? Or it can be the most useless word that you can ever hear. Like, oh my gosh, I love Justin Bieber. The word love Can be used just so varied that it just becomes very hard. I mean, if you take it even a look at the love songs that have been written over the last 50 to 60 years, you see our culture is completely contrary when it comes to what love is, right? Partridge family in 1970 tells us that they think that they love us, right? The Savage Garden, 1999, reassures us, no, I knew I loved you before I met you, right? Bad English, the hairband of the 90s, tells us that, you know, love is about the nights when we fight about it, never dream of giving up. That's the price of love. Well Jennifer Lopez contradictorily says our love doesn't cost a thing. If you think love is eternal, Whitney Houston tells us that I'll always love you, the late Whitney Houston. Whereas John Legend in Guns and Roses says, you know what, I used to love you. And it'll put you right back in your quandary of misery and loneliness. Famously, Stevie Wonder says that I just called to say that I love you. But bro, don't worry, Drake contradicts that and he says, you know what, you used to call me on my cell phone late night when you need my love And perhaps, you know, the best example of all these contradictory st statements of love can be found in this one song, the the musical Prophet of Prophets Meatloaf, right? Where he says, I will do anything for love. But I won't do that, whatever that is. So Before we begin, we need to ask ourselves the proverbial question again of what are we talking about when we talk about love? Or more specifically, what is Peter talking about when he talks about love? I mean, songs aside, if we take our cues about what love is from our surrounding cultures, things get very confusing. There seems to be no way to center or understand what love truly is. So we read books. And you know, these books are are helpful, but sometimes they may oversimplify things, as though love were only about six love languages. You know, if you touch and you you know spend time then things will be fine or or maybe four letter personality types. If you're an introvert you need to be loved this way and if you're an extrovert you need to be loved that way. And those can be helpful but if that were all that were there is to it then why? Let me ask you, ladies and gentlemen, here today, why do we struggle so much with love? Why does our culture struggle so much about it? Why do we fight so much over it? It's precisely this grand mystery that gives us pause and dares us to ask questions that go beyond the tangible, the practical, the comprehensible, the scientific or rational Love, as Peter defines it, is a central Christ-like love. Or to put it simply, in those first two words in verse 8, above all. Right? Love. Here's what I mean by this, that love is more than just something that we can tangibly comprehend. I got the honor of being able to attend a lecture by John Lennox. Some of you may know him as an Oxford professor and a Christian apologist who has gone around the country and the world really debating new atheists. uh Richard Dawkins, Daniel Dennett, Michael Shermer. And and as he was talking and he reminded me of a debate that he had with Richard Dawkins. Richard Dawkins is a Oxford scientist who believes that all religion is poisonous and horrible for the world, and that we should only be talking about what we can scientifically and rationally explain. explain and know. And so Dawkins, in this debate, famously, he was claiming that faith is a word that you use when it requires no evidence. And that therefore faith, or all religion, is weak and without substantive scientific proof. Therefore, we should be thinking it as mundane, trivial, inconsequential. Well, John Lennox brilliantly turns to Dawkins and asks him this question. He says, Well, Dawkins, I hear what you're saying, but but I presume that you have faith in the idea that your wife loves you, right? Is there any evidence for it? And Dawkins sheeplessly looks at Lennox and says, Well, of course there's evidence for it. And he proceeds to list the ideas of expressions of love that his wife gives to him. And John Lennox just smiles. Miles throughout, right? Charming Irishman and nods his head and because see Dawkins does not understand what he just conceded to Lennox. You see, Lennox was getting at is that there there are concepts like the word love that go beyond the rationalistic Evidentially based, scientific means for our understanding and for our purpose in life. And whom we choose to love and what we choose to love in. Why did you wake up in the morning? Who do you choose to love? Those are not scientific questions. And famously as the rabbi David Wolfe did in an apologetic debate against the Dawkins and the Messenger, he says, but you live your life by those questions. You see? Indeed, if love was simply a chemical reaction to another individual, love was reduced to physical expressions without understanding how and why love has driven us. Then why do we have we not been able to grasp it? Why is it still so incomprehensible? Well, I believe Scripture gives us some answers here. You see, love in Scripture is never up to the interpretation of the individual in the same way that our culture defines love. In our culture, love is defined based on affinity, emotionality, logic, philosophy, and so on and so on, to the point where we're just completely confused. But in Scripture, love is always tied down, not to a thought or an idea or an expression, but to a person. We read statements saying that God is love. That the Lord is gracious, slow to angle, rich in love Love, in other words, by definition, is tied to that. And one of the reasons why it is such a grand mystery is tied into the greatest mystery of all. The grandest mystery of all. God Himself. The Old Testament speaks to this reality in that passage in Deuteronomy that we read this morning. Love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And this was designed as a category for instructions to parents to help them to understand how to raise their children. And this was the primary concept that they wanted them to know. It was called the Shema. Right? It was the idea that in children's life the most important thing that they could ever begin to be able to grasp and comprehend was that God is love and that we should love him as well. And so how does God reveal this love to us? He does that through extending his grace to us in the person and the work of Jesus Christ In the pages of the gospel and in the passage that we even read this morning, we see God incarnate, making himself known to us, and displaying in every facet of his being. and expression, every word that was spoken through his tongue, the nails in his hands, and and his death and resurrection that he bore for our sins, this is is love personified. See? To the fullness. The love of Jesus Christ stretches out to every person. In every situation in life. It stretches out to the Samaritan, the leper, the prostitute, the Pharisee, the fisherman, the children. So when Peter states in verse 8, saying, above all love, he is not speaking in generalities here, ladies and gentlemen. He's saying that love is central to the picture of who God is, of who Jesus is, and that we are unite to unite under this banner. And when we display love to one another as a community of Christ, we are displaying a picture of Christ in more than just a kind word or gesture, but revealing to others the picture of God Himself. When we love those in need. Love is central to Peter's understanding of relationships within the church. church. And without it, we find ourselves fragmented, disharmony, jealousy, hate, blame shifting. And everything would be alright. Peter tells us again and again in this letter, if we were to have the mindset of above all love. Peter goes on in this verse not to just talk about a central Christ-like love, but also a constant Christ-like love. Now, if anyone has ever read the Gospels casually, you can imagine why this might be a little bit of an awkward thing for Peter to say. to his audience. Um I mean just a a a casual peek through the gospels and you'll raise your eyebrow a little bit at Peter being the one to tell everyone to love each other constantly. Right? I mean I can imagine the church reading this staring and thinking about Peter and thinking about scripture and to quote Seth Myers in the Saturday Night, really? Like really Paul, really you are telling us to love each other earnestly. Really? I mean like weren't weren't you the guy that said you would like never abandon Christ and then like minutes later you like denied him, right? I mean, y you cut off high priest's ear. Really? Like you you want us to love like like that? I mean That's not exactly the most faithful thing, right? I mean, really, like Peter, weren't you the one that kind of fell asleep on Jesus' last day? Like when he was trying to go up there to pray and he told you to pray? Really? You're the guy telling us to love each other earnestly. Now, Peter could have easily topped out by doing the easy exercise that most evangelicals, particularly pastors, do, in the phrase, Do as I say, not as I do, right? And that could that could have been his large defense. If Peter was making the claim that his own righteousness was par excellence on how love should be earnest and constant But it's completely impossible for his life to be an example of that. It's completely impossible for our lives to be an example of that. Even in my own life, I'm reminded day by day of my own failures in in my leadership, my character, my own failure to love those in society and the world. My own failures to love those who society deems unlovable. And I'm sure you talk to anyone here, they will probably state something along the same lines. In fact, there's been study and study done on re reasons why people leave the church and why people never return. And high on the list, in every single one of these surveys that you look at, it's the reasons of why people leave the church is that it seems that Christians are hypocritical. And we certainly need to understand and embrace that reality of our of our sin in our hearts and lives. And we can try and be defensive and say, well, you know, Christians aren't perfect. But I don't think do as I say, not as I do, is really the model for us. I think Peter is saying something a little bit different here. In this exhortation to keep on loving each other earnestly, he's not advocating a fake posture of love or advocating look at our lives as the example. No, Peter is saying, do as he loved, do as Christ loved, not as I do. The community of Christ, for all its imperfections and qualms, can be constantly loving. Through the church and the personal work of Jesus Christ alone, not through our own merit. So rather than looking for love inwardly to ourselves, saying, I am the example of how you should love each other, We must look to the love of God Christwardly. If we recall His faithfulness and love to us when we are faithless, to understand that we have no more higher moral ground to stand on. When we exhort each other to love, we are saying love like Christ's love. Not as we have loved. And when we do that, you see. That's where we're able to in humility stop pointing the finger and saying, well, you don't do that, or you're hypocritical We're able to say, point upward and say, you know what, we can love because Christ has indeed loved us first. And this is, I think, key for us as we try to express love to each other. I mean, isn't there something unbelievably cathartic when when you say to someone without filter or agenda or pretension that you love them? That regardless of their state of being, who they are, and what they've done, they are deeply treasured and loved just simply because of who they are in the image of God. And deserving of that love, not because of their sterling record, or because of all the things that they have done for you, or not because of all the ways that they failed to execute on that love. But just love because they are loved by Christ. And if you haven't been able to say that to someone recently. Might I suggest that before you leave today that you give that a shot. Particularly my dear youth group students, right? We are prone to withhold that that statement of that we love our family and we love our parents. We think that will make us uncool. Brothers and sisters, if Peter's exhortation is to do as he as Christ love, it's important for us to hear from each other constantly, often. That we do indeed care for each other. And not just to say it, but in acts of love towards one another as a church. To do it with earnestness in our hearts, to try and reflect the character of Christ. Not that we can achieve it, but because Christ has set the example for us. And I get why we might be scared to do this. We're scared in many ways to give away love for fear of what might happen when that occurs We're scared that our love won't be reciprocated in the same fashion. We're scared of being hurt. And I know that that's hard for us, especially in living in this area, Howard County, Montgomery County, th this this region of the world. Because love is is really much like an economy. Let me explain what that means. Um so I I taught in Maryland public schools for three years. I was I was in Hard County and elementary schools, and one of the newer initiatives, new ish initiatives that they instituted when I was a teacher there. was, you know, how can we improve student behavior? Well, what if we do positive reinforcement? What if every time a student is doing what they're supposed to be doing, you know, uh sitting quietly or standing in line with you know being silent, that you reward them with a ticket. Small little ticket. And if they accumulate enough of these tickets, then they can purchase, you know, pencils and pens and other school supplies and things like that Now, I know I for some of you as I say this, this is a completely upsetting reality because you grew up in a generation where, you know, that was just what you were supposed to be doing anyway, right? And you feel like kind of almost jealous. Wait, you get to get rewards just for sitting there and doing nothing? What? What's going on? But here's the thing. Here's the astonishing thing about this program. It was widely successful. Right? Student behaviors and measures like increased dramatically. Why? Because as kids saw that they could be rewarded for just simply behaving. Heaving. They did it. They wanted to do it. But I could not help, as a teacher, feeling a little bit of remorse. You see. Why? Because what I was teaching my students every single day was that the only way that you can be loved and be appreciated and be accepted was through your performance. I bemoan the fact that there were there were days as a teacher where there was a kid who was clearly You know, there may be a million other things going on and reasons why that they were struggling to behave in class that that the kids did not even know about. And I created not tell this kid through this little ticket program, you are still loved. You are still appreciated. I understand what you're going through. And I understand why you'd want to act in this way. And though it's wrong, yes, you are still loved. I couldn't do it. And I want to be careful because I I I think that sometimes our c surrounding culture teaches us that this this kind of love is the economy in which we should treat one another. And I want to encourage you to think of it this way. What if this is the way that Christ treated his relationship with us? What if Christ looked at our estate and said, Alright, what can you offer me? What can you do for me? I mean, can you imagine this, right? All right, so like I'm God So Jesus looks at us and says, Well, I am the omnipotent, omniscient, omnipresent, aseity, trinity filled with all wonder, majesty, wealth, and power. What have you got to give me? Yet, God's disposition towards us is this constant, central love that shows us who He is. And more than that, it is a covering Christ-like love. And what does that mean? 1 Peter 4:8, if you look at the end of the verse, it says: love covers a multitude of sins. Now, without spending too much time trying to parse all of this down and what it means, I just want to clear the air of what this phrase is not trying to say. This phrase is not saying that in loving each other we have the power to atone for someone's sins. Nor does it say that we have the power to atone for our sins. That we somehow, like an economy, we negate our own personal sins the more that we love each other. Both these interpretations would go against the very heart of justification in Scripture, of God's love for us. But what Peter is leading us here to understand is that when we are able to pursue a central and constant love for the church and the community just as Christ has loved us, we are able to look past To cover past the person's sins in such a profound way that their transgressions against us seem insignificant. Because our love for them makes it go away. Peter is not advocating here that because we sin, this frees us from the responsibility of not following Jesus' commands, so that's not what it's saying. That we should just be enjoyed being covered by love, and so therefore we can live in whatever lifestyle we want to. No, rather Peter is reminding us here. Of that story that we just read, that uh that Wayne um so elegantly presented to us, about one of Peter's last experiences with Jesus. He's just returned as a fisherman, right, in John 21, and he's ashamed and embarrassed by what transpired in his denials of Christ. And as he's looking into Jesus, he's staring into the face of his greatest regret and his greatest failure. He's staring into the reality that he wasn't the man that he thought he was. He's staring into the eyes of the risen Savior. And you guys can be wondering what's going on through Peter's mind here. Maybe he's asking himself the question, right? He's like, why why couldn't I just do the right thing? Um, why did I fail to love Christ? I committed myself to. And Jesus in this passage here shows us what it means when Peter says that love covers a multitude of sins. If you notice in the passage in John 21, he doesn't even mention the denials that Peter had made. He doesn't rehash the whole episode of him falling asleep while he told him to pray. He doesn't doesn't rehash the whole cutting off the ear of the priest thing. He doesn't do any of that. So Jesus and his wisdom and strength, he calls for Peter to ask him a simple question of do you love me? Peter, do you love me? He asked him to state it three times for all three of Peter's denials and and then he tells Peter Something profound. He says, go feed my sheep. Tend and care for the people of God. That's what it means to cover love. And here's what it's not, okay? Jesus isn't sweeping Peter's sins underneath the rug and pretending like it didn't happen. This isn't Jesus putting a band-aid over an open wound and calling it whole. It's Jesus when he is asking him these three questions to Peter. And when he says, go feed my sheep, he is releasing Peter from all that guilt and burden that he has felt. He's saying that what you have done to me is not a barrier for my love for you or for your love for me. It doesn't exist anymore. This is Jesus saying to Peter, you know what? When you feed my sheep, I want you to love as I have loved you, not as you have once loved. So when Peter writes that love covers a multitude of sins, Peter in his own life and experience tells him that there is a grounding for this covering love that is to be found. And when you look at the weight of your own life too, when you look at the sins that have been covered by by family, by friends. By your husband or wife, by your children, by your parents, by your friends. When you look at the weight in which you are excellently and brilliantly loved, and each and every single person in here is How could we not extend that covering of love to those others in our life How can we not release people from their guilt and their shame? Just as we have. That is the question that Peter wants us to consider here this morning. So yes, do as he loved. But Lord willing, you don't have to finish that phrase with not as I do. You can finish that phrase by saying, Do as he loved, and hopefully by the grace of God, and by by by displaying how I've been forgiven. Do as I do as well. Not because I'm so great, but because Christ is so wonderful and powerful and great. This is love personified. This is the love of Christ that compels each and every single one of us here today. This is the transformative work of the gospel and this journey that we're all on together as a church. And that is the love that binds us as a community forever. So we have a very awesome way to express that right now. I'm going to pray for us and close off our time here together. And then what we do always after we hear God's word, we're going to sing. And in spite of my light jesting about love songs in the beginning of the sermon, I want you to know that every time we sing these songs of love and praise to the Lord, it's a response. It's a response, it's an expression of love. And as we see and hear the church sing out together, their love encourages our love for the Savior. And so I pray that we can do that together. Let us, above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins found in the love of Christ. Let's pray. Father, I know that for many of us love is so difficult. Because of our past hurt, pain, scars, because of the ways that we failed to love, our deep regret. Lord, we we become stingy with our love. Father, you remind us today that You are love, God. That through the cross, or through your death and resurrection for us, through the covering of our sins. You humble us to renew our expressions of love towards each other, to give it away freely. And to love not because we we can somehow get something out of it, but because uh simply you have displayed it to us. So God, thank you so much. For this time in the Word today. We love because you indeed have first loved us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen