Your Bibles to the epistle of Paul to the Corinthians, Second Corinthians. We're reading chapter four, looking at verses one through six, and also some verses in chapter three. Before I begin, I want to say thank you. It's a pleasure to be back. It's a homecoming for us. To be in your midst and worship our great God and King with you. Thank you for praying for us in our time in Spain. I hope you don't stop praying for us now that we come back. Thank you for your encouragement. Thank you for your letters. Now we had, as you know, we've had some good days and we had some tough times in in Madrid. But the Lord was gracious to us, and I am convinced it's because you, Scott people, prayed for us Kim and the children are in Boston enjoying the warm weather there. Called her yesterday, she was it it was sixty-some degrees here yesterday. It was snowing there. They they will come down. I'll go this later on this week and and go and pick them up and from Boston will come down and we'll be living in um If you were to look at it, you would pronounce it Bealsville, but I sa I think they pronounce it Bellsville. It's in in uh Montgomery County, uh just west of Gathersburg. So the Lord has provided us a home there and And that's real important because Rebecca, our middle one, she says, Daddy, you know, I want to go home. I said, Honey, you are home. And then we packed up all our stuff. It's all in storage and we've left our apartment and and so home is is right here. She misses, and I know Joshua does too. They miss some of the things of Spain. They miss their friends. They You know, they missed that Spanish sausage chorito. They missed those olives. Those olives stuff with anchovies. I know some of you would just die to have some right now. But you know, Rebecca, our little one, she just puts the olives on her fingers and just eats them away. You know, there's things we just can't do here, at least not too readily. You know, I thank God for my children. And I'm also thankful, you know, they're they're missionary kids and they grew up with these ideas of what life is like and and some of you saw the video presentation and you saw Joshua and Rebecca for those few m uh moments and Joshua started singing and Rebecca bounds her head and she says, Jesus You know I didn't prompt them to do that. It was amazing to me. But I don't know, I feel sorry for them, you know. They think, you know, what's a good time? Let's play church. Yeah. And so they get the Bible out and and they and they they imitate their daddy. Oh, I hope they imitate the good things. I hope they imitate the good things. As we begin here at CPC our missions emphasis, missions month We'll be talking about missionaries, we'll be talking about what they're doing around the world, we'll be talking about the gospel, what God is doing around the world, and what God what we long for God to do here in Columbia, in this state. And if there's anything I could say to you, it could be summed up in this, do not lose heart in proclaiming the gospel. That's what missions is all about. If I didn't proclaim the gospel in Spain, I'd pull me back here. Do not lose heart, people of God, in proclaiming the gospel. Never tire, never give up. Not because you don't feel like giving up at times, not because it's not difficult. But don't tire because you have been entrusted with a gospel that's precious. You have been entrusted with an awesome privilege of making Christ known to your neighbor and your co-worker and to the nations. So don't tire. Don't give up. So with that in mind, let's read in chapter 4, 2 Corinthians verses 1 through 6. Therefore, since through God's mercy we have this ministry, we do not lose heart. Rather, we have renounced secret and shameful ways. We do not use deception nor do we distort the Word of God. On the contrary, by setting forth the truth plainly, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. The God of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For we do not preach ourselves but Jesus Christ as Lord and ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, made his light shine in our hearts, to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. Let's pray. Father, this morning we are grateful that you have spoken to us through your word and that you By your Spirit, take your word and apply it to our hearts. And so we invite you this morning, O God, to speak to us. Give us ears to hear you, that we might, Lord, receive your word willingly. Lord, give us eyes to see your glory in the face of Christ, that we might see Jesus. Lord, it's not my words. That we need to hear, but it's yours that you would cause your people here to hear. That that might be encouraged and edified. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen First thing that I want us to consider as we talk about this privilege that God has given to us, this ministry, is how glorious it is. Paul says that we have a ministry, and it's of such a nature, such a character, that we ought not to give up. We ought not to feel faint-hearted or lose heart. And Paul speaks in this manner because he knows all too often when it comes to speaking about Christ, whether in Colombia, whether in Spain, whether in Japan or Africa, we feel I've given up There are difficulties we encounter, there are people who oppose us, there's skepticism, there's indifference, there's opposition, and quite frankly, there are times we want to say, what's the use? What's the use? It doesn't seem to make much difference. But Paul, you think about his situation, here he writes in this epistle. He's writing the context of so-called super-apostles. false prophets that are accusing him of not being trustworthy, saying that he is not fit to be an apostle. That he is weak. He has he has no eloquence to preach. He ought not to preach And in that context, Paul is reminded not to lose heart and tells us: do not lose heart in the face of opposition or conflict. And Paul makes his case. And he does this, as we see in chapter 3, by contrasting the ministry that God had given to him and given to us with the ministry that God gave to Moses. And what we see in verses six and following in chapter three is that Paul talks about the ministry that God gave to Moses, the ministry of the old covenant, the ministry of the law. And he says, that ministry came with glory. It was glorious. And it was a glory, a glory that reigned. Radiated on Moses' face. But as we know, it was a fading glory. This is in contrast with that glorious ministry of Moses, our ministry has even greater glory. Our privilege is even more glorious. And Paula says, in essence, do not lose heart, because you and I have a glorious privilege, a glorious gospel to proclaim. You see, what he's saying here is that w our ministry, our privilege is more glorious than the privilege, than the ministry that Moses had. And you think about that for a moment. Here's Moses who met face to face with God. And when Paul says, our ministry, our privilege is more glorious. But the problem is, we don't always see it that way. We don't see that the gospel that we possess and are called to proclaim is a gospel of glory. And perhaps it's because we've been enticed by the things of this world that have It has an appearance, have an appearance of glory. Things that really just are glitter and that dazzle us Well, Paul goes on in chapter three to talk about, identify three things, three ways in which our privilege Is more glorious than Moses' privilege. And Moses' ministry in the first place he says, we have a ministry, we have the privilege of proclaiming a message of life. The privilege we have is that of proclaiming life. See, Moses' ministry was one that brought death. We see that in verse 7 in chapter 3. Now it's the ministry that brought death Which was engraved in letters of stone came with glory. But we see in verse 6 and verse 8, He made us competent as ministers of a new covenant, not of a letter. But of the Spirit for the letter, the law kills, but the Spirit gives life. And in verse 8, will not the ministry of the Spirit be even more glorious? That's what you and I possess. It's glorious. Well we need to understand is Paul is not undermining Moses, he's not undermining Moses' ministry, not denigrating the law, because the law is good, the law is holy, it reveals God's character and God's will will, and we're called to it. Obey the law. The problem is that the law in itself doesn't empower us to obey it. Doesn't give us the moral capacity to accomplish it. The law says to you and to me, love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. And we, on a good day, are able to love lovely people. The law says to me, honor your father and your mother. And we have a hard time respecting a person that's sitting next to us. So we find ourselves under the law of God as guilty people, lawbreakers, deserving of condemnation. Years ago, last century, the judge would put somebody in prison for not paying their debts. That same judge wouldn't say, well listen, this is what you need to do to get earn money and pay off your debt. No, just throw them in prison And so that's what the law does to us. But the privilege that we have as ministers, as ones called to proclaim the gospel. As ministers of the Spirit is to proclaim not just the law, and that we do proclaim, because people need to see that before a holy God there's sinners, they're lawbreakers. But at the same time, we proclaim him who fulfilled the law. Jesus Christ, who fulfilled our righteousness, who perfectly Obeyed the law on our behalf. That's what we have the privilege of proclaiming to lawbreakers. That there's one who did fulfill the law on our behalf. So our ministry is that of the Holy Spirit, of the Holy Spirit who gives new birth, new life, and who writes the law of God, not on the top with a stone, as Moses found out on Mount Sinai, but on the hearts, our hearts. So that we long and desire to do the will of God. And so we preach Christ crucified, crucified for our indebtedness, crucified for breaking his holy law. But also we proclaim a Christ risen, risen to give us new life, risen so that we might go free, he who paid that debt on our behalf. So people of God, do not lose heart when it's more comfortable to sit in your homes and you don't feel like fighting with people who are antagonistic. And you prefer not to say anything about the gospel. Do not lose heart, but go and faithfully proclaim Christ. In second place, we have a ministry. Paul says, a ministry that brings righteousness. Whereas Moses' ministry, we see in verse 9 of chapter 3, is a ministry that condemns. If the ministry that condemns man is glorious, Paul says. Why? Condemn men? Because no man, no person could keep the law perfectly. But our ministry is one that brings righteousness. is more glorious because we have the privilege of proclaiming to those who have not kept God's law. If they believe on Jesus Christ, they receive his perfect obedience, that God can declare them not guilty. And they go free. We're ambassadors called to proclaim new life To a generation that's perverted, to a generation, a society that's hypocritical, we have the message of hope that in Jesus Christ their sins can be forgiven. That God doesn't hold their sins against them, but they go free in Christ. That's all privilege. So people of God do not lose heart. In the third place, we have a ministry whose glory lasts forever. See, the glory that accompanied Moses' ministry faded away. See, indicating that his ministry was transitional, it was temporary, it was provisional, it was pointing to something else. But the glory associated with our ministry will never disappear. Never disappear. The ministry of the Holy Spirit, the ministry of the new covenant, of that relationship with God through the person of Christ, will not be supplanted, will not be abrogated, will not be set aside, overruled, overshadowed. Never. There will never be a better ministry. We'll never find. And one day somebody will come and say, listen, we've discovered a new and improved gospel to proclaim. It's never gonna happen. Never. We will never receive a better gospel. We will never receive a more glorious privilege than we what where we now possess in Christ. There will never be a better covenant. There will never be better Good news, there will never be better hope, there will never be better life, there will never be better resurrection, there will never be a better Savior than Jesus, our Lord. It doesn't get better than this. We've reached the top. And if you're looking for another privilege, another gospel to proclaim, you're looking in vain. Because what we possess in Christ is the best there is to offer. See, it's perfect. It's perfect in its glory. It's perfect in its ability to save, to raise the dead to life. It's perfect in its power to give hope. Do you know of any other message, any other gospel that gives that kind of hope? Do you know of any other message that you can proclaim to a people and say, listen? Don't worry about pain. There's not going to be any more pain. After you die, there's not going to be any more sin. There's not going to be any more suffering. No. But only in the gospel, when we're face to face with the Lord, we can proclaim that hope and that salvation and that inheritance. Do you see your privilege in that way? Do you see that's what's been entrusted to you? Or have you been hypnotized by the glitter of an unbelieving and dark age? See, if we see our privilege as glorious, more glorious than the ministry that was given to Moses, if you can fathom that. Then we can be, as Paul says in verse 12, we can be bold in our proclamation. Verse 12 and 13 of chapter 3. Therefore, since we have such a hope, we are very bold. We're not like Moses, who would put a veil over his face to keep the Israelites from gazing at it while the radiants were fading the way. Now what Paul is doing here, he's alluding to chat to Exodus 34. And there in Exodus 34 what we find is Moses, he goes in, when he goes into the presence of God in the most holy place, he receives God's word. And he's filled with the glory of God and his face radiates. And he leaves the most holy place and he goes to the people of God. And his face is radiating. They see the glory of God in Moses' face. And after he finishes declaring the word of God to God's people, he puts a veil on his face. And what Paul says in some way is saying that Moses was hiding something. But in our proclamation, there's no veil. In our proclamation, we don't need to hide anything, because we know that the glory of God and the face of Christ Jesus will never fade away. Not one bit. The darkness will not overcome it. Years ago, I was in an airport And I was waiting, I suppose, for my flight, and I saw a couple. They had some tension in the relationship and they were distraught and For some reason I I thought, well, maybe I should go and talk with him. I I I felt this sense within me. But I said, no, no, that can't be. God would want me to talk to these people. I don't know them. They don't know me. Who am I to meddle in their affairs? I mean I thought about at least ten good excuses right off the bat. And so I I just sat there and I waited, and but but there was a struggle within me. I had to go, I felt I had no other option, and so with trembling I approached them, not knowing what was going to happen, I introduced myself. And we spoke for about 15 minutes. And the question I asked myself after that experience is, why did I hesitate? Why did I hesitate? I possess a glorious gospel, glorious good news that these people needed to hear. Why could I not be more bold? Of course, that's not a license to be crass and to be insensitive. But why could I not be more bold? And I was rebuked by the words of David Wells, he's a president of Gordon Conwell Seminary, and he writes in an article, at the very moment when boldness and courage are called for, what we see all too often is timidity and cowardice. Instead of confronting modernity, the world, we were capitulating to the world. I was rebuked. Why not be bold in light of what you possess? And people of God, do not lose heart. Do not lose heart. You don't see that the gospel that you possess is glorious. You don't see that the privilege that you have is glorious, more glorious than what Moses had. When you pray and ask God to show you That it's glorious, that it's not going to get better than this. You know, I need to be reminded of that time and time again. Living in Spain Being in the culture where less than 1% of 40 million people love the Lord Jesus. Living in the culture where the Catholic Church lumps evangelicals with Jehovah's Witness and Mormons. Living in a culture where the missionary, the average lifespan of a missionary is two years, I need to be reminded time and time again that what I proclaim is glorious. Do not lose heart, people of God. Do not lose heart. And so in chapter 4 Paul says in verse 1, we have this ministry, so therefore we do not lose heart. And in verses 2 and following, so 6, He goes on to speak about our attitude, about how we handle the Word of God, how we handle our proclamation, our attitude toward this proclamation and this privilege we have. It says in verse 2, rather, we have renounced. Secret and shameful ways. We do not use deception, nor do we distort the word of God Having our glorious privilege, our proclamation needs to be characterized by integrity, by honesty. See, if we have a ministry, if we have a gospel that's so glorious that never can be improved upon, if it's absolutely powerful to save the dead, spiritually dead, if we have the best news possible to proclaim to our neighbors and our friends. Then there's never any need to distort it. There's never any need to resort to shameful, deceitful ways. Never need to proclaim the Word of God with deception. Don't need to falsify. Don't need to sugarcoat the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. And I wish I could tell you that we never do that I wish I could tell you that was never done. You seen it. I've seen it. I've seen it in Spain And I see it in Spain because few people respond to the gospel. And so there's this energy that's exp expend Expended on how to reach these people. What do you do with the gospel? Let's let's shape it this way. Let's talk about this and not talk about that. Let's talk about Jesus as Lord, but no, or Jesus as Savior, but not as Lord And so I've seen sly, slick, deceitful methods of evangelizing. And when you live in a culture that don't want to hear the gospel. It's very tempting to say and come to the point saying, well, yes, the end does justify the means. Let's shift over here. Let's trade this over here. Let's make the gospel more palatable to people who don't accept it right now. But what happens is when you do that, when a person does that, they're in fact placing themselves above the Word of God as if they have more authority and more power than the Word of God. And by the deceitful conduct They're essentially saying that the gospel lacks power. That's ineffective. But that's contrary to the Word of God. There's no need to help the gospel, no need to assist it so that people come to faith in Christ. No, we as God's people must renounce deceitful and manipulative ways. A Spanish historian and theologian Jose Grau in describing the Roman Catholic Church in Spain He describes the church as a Christian body that through the centuries has undergone the most external changes as he's ever witnessed. They've changed externally, but internally they're the same. They haven't changed one whit. It describes her as a chameleon, seductive, changing, depending on her interests. People of God, may we never do that. May we never act in that way and so shame the gospel privilege that we have. We're called to proclaim the gospel with such integrity that we commend ourselves to every kind of conscience, whether the conscience of the enemy, the conscience of the friend, but above all, we commend ourselves to God to whom we are held accountable. To whom we must give account. See what's clear is that the gospel is the power of God. Yet some will argue, as Paul anticipates In this passage, he says, well, if the gospel is the power of God, why is it that so many people reject the gospel in Spinning? Why is it that so many people reject the gospel in Columbia, in Maryland, around the world? Why is it when you proclaim and talk to somebody else about Jesus that they don't respond, they don't change one bit? As a matter of fact, they snicker at you and say, Ah, how weak you are. You haven't evolved intellectually yet. And so it seems sometimes that the gospel is ineffective. You know, and as I go out in Spain and minister, on the streets and go door to door and minister in the plazas, in the street corners. You know, I would set up my microphone and the pastor, Spanish pastor and I we sit there, we preach. And we get some other Sometimes funnier looks and some of the most disgusting looks. And I've heard time and time again, you go back to America. Because here in Spain we are Christians. You take that somewhere else. Take that to Africa where they need it. Do they not see Jesus? See, the problem is not in the gospel, and Paul tells us very clearly in verses three and four. It says in verse 3, And if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. In verse 4, the God of this age has blinded the minds of unbelievers so that they cannot see the light of the of the glory of Christ who is the image of God. Paul says the problem is not the gospel proclamation. It's not with with what's been given to us. But rather the problem is rooted in the spiritual condition of those who reject the gospel, who reject the hope of salvation. To these people the gospel is veiled, it's hidden. They can't receive it because they can't see it. They don't understand it. They can't discern its glory. The gospel is veiled to those who are perishing because it is veiled in those who are perishing. There's a veil, there's a fog, there's a curtain over the heart and mind so that they can't understand and see the light of the gospel and the glory of Christ. But as one theologian put it years ago, the blindness of the unbeliever in no way detracts from the clarity of the gospel. Just as the sun is not less brilliant simply because a blind person cannot perceive its light. Paul continues in verse 4. Not only is there a veil of misunderstanding or darkness over their understanding, but in verse 4, worse yet, we see that the God of this age has blinded the minds of the unbelievers. A clear reference to Satan, the evil one. Who has blinded them, who does all within his power to maintain this veil of darkness, so that they do not see the glory of Christ and do not understand the gospel. And if we could see what was written in their hearts, we would find written there the God of this age, because that's whom they serve. They serve him who is like a God to them. And how else, I think about this, how else can you explain? what goes on in a nation like Spain, a religious nation, a nation that describes itself as Christian, a nation that talks about God, and talks about Jesus, talks about the Bible, and don't know anything about the God of the Bible, know the Jesus who was crucified and risen for our salvation. Well, they know bits and pieces. But they don't know him. See, believe that Satan will attempt to deceive and keep a veil of darkness over the understanding of believers. Not by making a nation of atheists. No, he doesn't do this, although you do find in Spain a growing number of atheists. But what he does is he makes a people more religious. That's a tremendous strategy, a deceitful strategy by the evil one. Let's make them religious. See, his deception. We see it again, and not by inspiring immorality, although that's a consequence of not believing and trusting in God, but by inculcating self-righteousness and self-reliance And so we find in Spain a nation that's religious and self-righteous, relying on themselves to be acceptable to God. And so there's this veil over their eyes. The God of this age has blinded them. But even in light of that, we do not lose heart. Because our God is all powerful. Our God is able to break through the darkness. Because we know the God of this age is no God at all. He's a rebellious creature under God's judgment and under God's sovereign control. And that the spiritual blindness that those who are now unbelievers find themselves in, if God has called them, God will break through them. darkness, break through that unbelief, and bring them to everlasting life. And so we find that Paul understood this, so we see in verse 6. That's why he says, For God Who says, let light shine out of darkness, made his light shine in our hearts, to give us the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. See, the same God who said in Genesis, in the Genesis account of creation, who said, let there be light and there was light, who separated the light from the darkness. Is the same God who speaks through his word and dispels the darkness that's over the eyes of the unbeliever. He has the power to do that, and only he has the power to do that. We don't. But he can do that through his word that we proclaim. What an awesome privilege we possess to be used of God, to be his mouthpiece. To proclaim life and light. And so we find that God, the Spirit, gives us new eyes, gives these unbelievers new eyes so they might perceive spiritual realities and see the light. And see Jesus, the light of the world. It's a glorious privilege we have. A glorious gospel light that can penetrate any darkness. And this is why we dare not, as God's people, use deception. We dare not use manipulative, shameful ways in proclaiming the gospel, because to do so is to cover up the glory of God and the face of Christ, if that were possible. See, this is the only hope of salvation for folks in Maryland, folks in Colombia, and in Spain around the world. And that's why Paul in verse 5 says, We do not preach ourselves, but we preach Jesus Christ as Lord. Because only in Jesus Christ is the glory of God revealed. Now, there's a proper time and a proper place for relating our spiritual experiences, talking about our beliefs, our opinions, our philosophies, entering into debate. That's all good. But we must remember that the glory that transforms lives does not rest not found in our words or in ideas, but found in Jesus, found in the gospel. See, if you proclaim the gospel to be recognized by other people, you're preaching yourself. If you proclaim the gospel so that others see how talented you are, how gifted you are, how intelligent you are, then you're proclaiming and preaching yourself. If you proclaim a Christ that looks more like Santa Claus, who's here and will never judge anybody, here to give everybody what they want, and who will never condemn anybody, but all will go to heaven, then you preach yourself. If you preach more about self-improvement or self-sufficiency than Christ's unique sufficiency, then you're preaching yourself. If we preach formulas for health, wealth, and prosperity and celestial harmony and all this New Age gobbledygook We preach ourselves, we don't preach Christ. When truth gives way to pleasure, we preach ourselves. To preach Christ is to preach the cross, and to preach the cross is to preach grace We don't preach moralism. We don't preach do good, be better. That's not the gospel. That's not the privilege we've been entrusted with. I see a nation of self-righteous people, and it's self-righteousness at the barrier to the gospel. Donald Barnhouse, late Donald Barnhouse, a minister of the Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia years ago, wrote, if Satan were to take over a city, the following things would happen. The bars would close. No alcohol would be served. There would be happy marriages, well-behaved children, obedient children, no crime, and everybody would be in church on Sundays. Except the churches they would be in, Christ would not be preached. It's not moralism. It's not do good, be good, be better. It's preaching Christ and Him crucified and Him risen. Him who is our hope in our salvation. Him who has fulfilled the law in our behalf, who has done all good because we could not do the good. We could never do the good that God expects of us. And so we proclaim him and cling to him who is our only good and our only hope. The reality in Spain, you know, in a country that claims to be Christian, where many boys and girls, not girls, but boys and their daddies are are called, have the name Jesus, Jesus. We find us in a nation that honors or loves the Lord Jesus. In a couple weeks they'll be celebrating this whole Holy Week. And all throughout Holy Week in Spain in the little towns. People will fight for the privilege of carrying a float. A float with a statue of Christ with thorns on his head and blood dripping down his face. They will fight in the drunken stupor for the privilege of carrying Mary, a statue of Mary, beautifully adorned. That to them, that's their privilege. That's what they will fight for. And we find that I find in that nation that there's a nation that honors not Christ but honors Mary. So we took our bicycle trip, Miguel and I, this friend who's come to faith in Christ. Across the northern part of Spain we entered one cathedral and church after the other. And I can't tell you of one church where Mary was not front and center. If Jesus appeared at all, he appeared under Mary's feet, dead, not risen. See, in the Catholic culture, of Spain. Mary is honored. Mary is co-redeemer. She is co-mediator. And when she stood at the foot of the cross and observed Jesus die, she suffered. And her suffering was redemptive. So teaches the Catholic Church. That's not giving glory to Jesus. That's not the gospel we proclaim. That's not the privilege that's been entrusted to you and to me. But we preach Christ, Jesus as Lord, not ourselves. Do not lose heart, people of God. When it's more comfortable to stay home, do not lose heart. When you're fearful and you do not know what to say, do not lose heart. Because he uses weak vessels like you and me. And he gets all glory. And he loves to get all the glory to show his all-surpassing power and weak vessels. So continue to proclaim Christ. Exercise that privilege you have and do it day after day after day until you are in his glorious presence. Where you'll see the glory of God in the face of Christ without any obstacle. Well you'll see in the New Jerusalem, as John tells us in Revelation, that there there will be no need of light, because the glory of God will be a light and the Lamb. will be our lamp, and we'll bathe in his glory, the glory that transforms us from glory to glory to glory. That's your privilege. That's my privilege. Do not lose heart. Let's pray. Our Father, you know that we're weak. You know that it's difficult for us to be bold at times. We can offer lots of excuses, Lord. We want, above all, is to see your glory. We want to see how you love us. We want to see afresh your grace, how you've taken us out of darkness, given us new eyes that we might see the glory of Christ. You, Lord, changed and gave us new eyes so that we might see, Lord Jesus, and understand the gospel. Lord, as we understand the gospel more and more, propel us to proclaim the only hope of salvation. But that's a privilege you've given to us. Help us to see that it's an awesome and most glorious privilege, that it's never, never going to get better than this until we're in your presence, face to face. In Jesus' name, Amen