Welcome to all of you who decided that you would take as part of your Christmas time to come and to worship the Lord, to hear his word and to rejoice together with your brothers and sisters. Very seldom, of course, does Christmas come relatively on Sunday morning. And so we have a time to gather together on this Lord's Day. And I believe that at Christmas time On Christmas morning especially, we as Christians get a kind of a foretaste of the hope that we should have in the second coming. Because for days You've been looking forward, especially you kids counting down, you know, from twenty-five down to twenty, fifteen, ten, five, four, three, two, one. And then this morning it's all gotten open. It's all ripped apart A couple batteries missing, you know, a few things broken already. Maybe can't find the instructions on how to put something together and all the rest of that. But there's been a tremendous sense of, wow, there it is And you know, there's a sense in which you think, yes, that's what I'm waiting for when the Lord comes back. That tremendous sense of its arrived is here But the other sense, too, I think, in which that's true for us as Christians, is it wasn't perfect, was it? Christmas is never perfect. There's always something that could have been a little better. Something that could have been just a little bit more. And that's when we think of the Lord's coming and how when he comes it'll all be perfect. Everything that we could have ever possibly wanted or imagined, beyond so, so much more, will have come that great morning. I hope you got at least some of the things that you want. I got a new Christmas tie, you see? For those of you that are in the back, these are Reeves here. And uh so uh you'll have to check that out afterwards. But Get ahead. Drool. That's alright. I can take it. We want to turn our attention this morning to God's word in order to meditate, be reminded. After all the tinsel and all the things we've heard, it gets harder and harder to hear Christmas carols on the radio anymore. And all the things we turn from to give our attention to what God has to say about this morning. This Christmas season, of course, we've been looking at the first stanza of Mary's song from Luke chapter 1, verses 46 to 48. Mary said, My soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior, for he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on all generations will call me blessed. Just how humble that state was You have heard in the familiar account that Jerry read to you of the Christmas story, the birth of Jesus Christ, recorded in Luke chapter 2. But this morning what I'd like to do is I'd like to view that story from Luke chapter 2 from the perspective of the verse 48 of chapter 1. Where Mary says in the first part of that verse, he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. And I would like to look at the Christmas story from that perspective. God was mindful of Mary's humble state. And for us to consider that, I'd like to look at three points. And you've got to unfold them, write them in as we go along. First point: God was mindful of Mary. God was mindful of Mary. Mary's the one singing this in chapter 1, verse 48. He has been mindful of the humble state of his servant, referring to herself. Remember, We've looked in the last couple of weeks at that word mindful and saw that that means to pay special attention to someone, to look upon them with pity or with mercy, to give them your special attention. And it's hard for us to appreciate how precious that is because of what the Christmas story has suffered through the years at the hand of the media. A few years ago, you know, there was a movie called Network, and that movie, not wet network news, but the old one Network, uh, talked about, made as one of its main points, how the media can take anything. and distort it for its own commercial purposes. It can take the punk radical movement and make it chic and trendy It can take anything prophetic and it can neutralize it for its own commercial purposes. And Christmas is certainly one of the best examples of that. For the network has taken the heart-rending story of Mary and Joseph being cast out in her hour of need. in Bethlehem and made that dirty, filthy manger to become something cute and clean. And we've lost all sense of what Mary must have felt when she went through that experience. Consider. What it was that Mary experienced after she said, The Lord has been mindful of me. Consider what it was like in that time in a Jewish community for a girl who was promised to a man to be found pregnant. She was not married. Imagine the whisperings of Nazareth. You think about your reputation, I'm concerned for my reputation. Imagine what happened to Mary's reputation It wasn't like high school students today, where nobody particularly thinks down of someone in a situation in high school, maybe middle school, but not high school so much now. But not in Mary's day. That was something that she certainly had to suffer, particularly when Joseph didn't even understand. And the Bible says that he decided that he would divorce her. Because of what was found uh about her reputation that she was pregnant. And so even the one that she was pledged to didn't understand for some time And then of course uh they were called to Bethlehem. Now Mary wasn't thinking, Oh, of course we're going to go to Bethlehem. I mean, you know, all the Christmas cards have to have me in Bethlehem and, you know, the little town of Bethlehem All she saw that at that point was, why now? Why this? I'm nine months pregnant, and I've got to walk 80 miles You know, all the pictures in the Christmas cards show Mary on a donkey, Joseph's some old haggard guy, you know, because he's presumably died shortly, uh you know, at least sometime in the next fifteen years or so. And you know, and so it shows uh Mary always on a donkey. You know, that's probably not true. Mary walked. They didn't have money for a donkey. And so Mary at nine months pregnant is walking eighty miles Over those rough roads from Nazareth down to Bethlehem. And what kind of a welcome does she get when she's there? First of all, there's no wedding. Even at the time she has the baby. You know, we don't know when they're married There's no record of a wedding. No record of the tremendous celebration that the Jews enjoyed at that time. That was a high point, still is Uh for a person's life, particularly a woman who thinks about this and plans. You know, you women think, what if you just had your whole wedding removed? You say, hey, I had some things spoiled my wedding. Hers was a disaster Nobody there to rejoice with her. Nobody to give her a shower for her baby. They come to Bethlehem. There's not even a place for them to stay. They're put out into a cave. And then that cave, again, it's it's not with a nice clean straw and the you know the cows going moo and everybody's, you know, sort of cutesy around the whole thing. It was a stinking stable with no light. No warmth. She probably had to lay shoving aside some cow manure to lay down in the dark, cold ground in order to give birth This girl had never had a child before. She only knew from what she had seen of others. There was no midwife, no family attending this. Think of what Martin Luther says. He uh preached on this once, and in this he describes the situation uh as he saw it. He says, Think, women, there was no one there. To bathe the baby. No warm water or even cold. No fire. No light. The mother was herself midwife and maid. The cold manger was the bed and the bathtub. Who showed the poor girl what to do? She had never had a baby before. I'm amazed the little one didn't freeze. Do not make of Mary a stone. It must have gone straight to her heart that she was so abandoned. She was flesh and blood. And must have felt miserable. And Joseph, too, that she was left in this way all alone with no one to help in a strange land in the middle of winter. Her eyes were moist, even though she was happy and aware that the baby was God's son and the Savior of the world. She was not stoned. For the higher people are in the favor of God, The more tender are their feelings. Mary must have wondered through that situation Is God really mindful of me? Does he really care about my situation? I sing when I'm in Nazareth. And I haven't really experienced anything yet. She's gone down to her cousin Elizabeth and she says, The Lord is mindful of me, my humble state. But did you really anticipate how humble that state would be? Must she not have thought at certain times, does God really care about me and my situation? And yet, the record gives us evidence that God showed his care to her in those times of her deepest need. Just at the time when Joseph, the one who would be her only protection and home, was about to divorce her, what did God do? He appeared to Joseph in a dream, didn't he? And he supranaturally intervened in order to show Joseph that Mary was pure and that this was in fact of him. And that protected Mary. There must have been a sense, even though she had to leave Nazareth and walk that whole distance, of some sense of relief that God was delivering her from that place where she must have been rejected. Because of having that child to all appearances out of wedlock. And then even on that night After having given birth in what must have been so difficult a circumstance for her to do. And there they are laying in that cave, and here is this little baby. I mean, you know What do we think when we take a baby home from the hospital? Oh my gosh, this is mine now? What am I supposed to do? There's no hospital around, there's no nurses around. I had this kid all to myself, what do I do with it? And here she is in a cave and saying, This is ours. What do we do? And just when she must have been feeling so utterly abandoned, what does God do? In walk some shepherds. You know, here she is sitting in the dark. These shepherds walk in and they say, You're not going to believe this, but an angel just appeared to us out on the field and said that somewhere here, in in a cave where there's a manger. There is the baby who is the son of God. What must have gone in Mary's heart to think, Oh God, you really are mindful of me Just when I felt so utterly abandoned, you've assured me that this is part of your work of redemption. This really is exactly what you have intended, and you're in it all along. Even then a couple of years later, as they're raising this little child, as refugees still down in Bethlehem, living in a house there. They're in mortal danger for the child's life to be taken by Herod. And what does God do? Again, he intervened supernaturally in a dream to Joseph It says, take off to Egypt. The baby's life's in danger. Again, an assurance. God is mindful of me. He really does care about my situation. Listen, brothers and sisters in Christ, can you identify with that? Have you ever been in a situation where you feel so utterly abandoned by God? You feel as if what you're going through he really couldn't care very much about. And I know some of you are in that kind of situation. And as you're in that situation, what happens? Somewhere along the line, God gives you some little experience. That is to your own heart a profound assurance. He really is mindful of me. He really does care about my situation Sometimes there are things that God will do for us that somebody else would never understand. It would be laughable if you were to tell somebody else how much it meant to you that this little thing God worked in to answer your prayer. But to you it meant all the world because it showed you that God was mindful of your humble state. And that's the way it was with Mary. God was assuring her that in fact all that she was suffering was part of his plan of redemption. and therefore it was infinitely worthwhile. She couldn't understand it. You know, why do I have to have my baby in a cave with no one to care for me, none of my family or friends around Why could no one even be at that great event of circumcision on the eighth day? Why did I have to be so alone? But God was reminding her, Mary, I love you. I care for you. This is part of my purpose for you that is entirely consistent with my love for you. You know, I think about how I was preparing this and I think of some things that a number of you have been suffering, and bad news that has come to some here this morning, and one way or another. I think of many of us who think of Pan Am Flight 103 and all kinds of other things, the family, the little boy that burned to death just recently in a fire. All the things that we hear about And I think, you know, some of you kid about the fact that I uh prepare my holiday messages a year in advance. I prepared this a year ago But the Holy Spirit knew, a year ago, that although I had never spoken on suffering on Christmas morning before That was what we as a congregation would need. That's what some of you personally would need. That's what all of us would need to at least consider about the birth of Jesus Christ. I don't know about you, but to me, preaching the Word of God, every once in a while, God lets me see that this is his business. He's in control of this. He arranges. And he's the one who knows your needs as I simply seek to open up the text. Having looked at Mary now, the second thing we want to look at is that God was mindful of Jesus. God was mindful of Jesus. Mary says he's been mindful of the humble state of his servant. But what Mary experienced, which you women uniquely can appreciate in her suffering What she went through in her pregnancy and in her delivery. And you women look at that and you say, that woman suffered And then you look at Jesus and you say, but that was just the beginning of what Jesus, that son, that baby, when he would grow, would suffer as infinitely more. Because of God's love for me. And you'd look and you would come to realize that God was going to work in this baby a humiliation for which Mary was but the merest foretaste. You begin to realize that what Jesus suffered went far beyond her humble state. You know, you and I, the more we get, the more we want, don't we? Especially Christmas morning. You kids see that, you know? There's no time that I have ever seen kids greedier than Christmas morning. You know It it's just it's amazing. You could throw the whole toys or us at them. And there'd still be something that you'd say, Well but, you know I wanted a red one, not a green one, you know, or something, you know. The more we get, the more we want. Jesus had everything There was never anything he could have ever wanted for, but he gave it up all in order to be born as a baby. In utter poverty, under Roman oppression, in a hostile world, among an oppressed people To grow up and to be tempted with sin abhorrent to his tender nature, to face Satan face to face, head-on in mortal combat. To see leprosy, demon possession, death, to go into that situation because of his love for you and for me You know, the uh plants small group has been studying Psalm fifty-one, and Ken shared an example with me that he had been getting out of that book that you and that study are going through. uh that fits so appropriately at this point, I I can't resist sharing it. The fellow in the book talked about the fact that he had a dog which he loved, and that dog at one point fell into a cesspool What would you do if your dog fell into your cesspool, an open cesspool? I mean he could call the dog, come on out, you know. That wouldn't help very much. The thing's sinking down there, you know. And uh he thought, well, you know, I could stick a ladder down and hope the dog would climb up the ladder and get out of the cesspool. But there wasn't much hope for that. There was only one thing that he could do You had to put the ladder down into the cesspool, climb down the ladder, into the cesspool, lift up the dog, and carry him back out that ladder. There was only one way that Jesus Christ could lift you and me out of our sin. He was to climb down into the cesspool. Of that iniquity, the disgusting perversion of death, and all that he sees people doing to one another, and bring us back up Why? Did God care for all the things that he suffered? God was mindful of Jesus. He was mindful, the fact that all the from all eternity the Father and the Son had agreed. Son, you're going to go. And there will be that time where you will be born as a baby. Because that's the only way that you can rescue your people. And there was one reason why that was infinitely worth it to Jesus. Why all that suffering was worth it to him. The reason is simply because you are worth it to Jesus. You are infinitely worth the suffering to Jesus And so in that blank there, put in that word you. You are worth it to him. Isaiah 53 says that when the servant had suffered and he looked, he was satisfied, because he saw that what he had done had accomplished all that he had hoped. What was that? Simply that he had gained you and me from death. Hebrews 12 tells us that for the joy set before him he endured the shame. And suffered the cross, the mocking, the spitting. Why? Because the joy was to get a people for himself, you and me. That's what made it worth it to Jesus. And so the third point is that God is mindful of you. Don't put in you, put in your name. God is mindful of Alan Harris. God is mindful of Bill and Susie and Sam, whatever your name, put your name right in there in that blank. Because I want you to see there as vividly as I can communicate it to you that the message of Christmas is that God is mindful of you personally, whatever your situation this morning. You see, the whole emphasis of Luke 1 and 2 and the Christmas story is that God is mindful of little people. That's the whole emphasis. Zechariah and Elizabeth, unknown people. Now just a rural country priest. God was mindful of them in their discouragement through all their lives of not having a child. And God gave them that child. God was mindful of them in their situation. Mary, simply a Nazarene, Jewish, adolescent girl, a nobody before the world, God was mindful Of her and her situation. The whole theme of her song is that God pays attention to the nobodies and he puts down the proud. God is a God of the nobodies. We come Joseph, simply a rustic carpenter, a man that was not seen as a big deal in society at that time. You come right on through the whole story. After the birth, who is it that gets the first announcement of the birth of the King of Kings? It's a group of shepherds. You and I can't see that as very significant, but you need to understand shepherds were so despised in that society that a shepherd's word was not even accepted as testimony in court because it was assumed that he was a liar. Shepherds were despised, and they're the first ones to hear that God has sent his son. God is a God of the nobodies. He's the God who is mindful of you and of me in our humble estate. The incarnation is the proof that God cares for you. That He wants to come into your life. He wants to come in order to meet your deepest need. He wants to come to demonstrate to you that Jesus Christ came for sinners. He wants to come so that you this morning, if you are without Jesus Christ, If you're without any understanding of that personal love that Jesus has for his people, that you can realize And that just as Peter tells us in 1 Peter 5, take all your care to him because he cares for you. And that care involves his desire to take away your guilt and to give you a new life. To take away that old life, that life without meaning and purpose. And to give to you a new life in Jesus Christ. Now, for you who even are in Jesus Christ this morning and still carry the burden of guilt and inadequacy, to cast that upon the Lord and know that He cares. For you, to take also all of your cares for Him to give you peace. To know that God is mindful of you Just as Mary said, he's mindful of me in my humble estate. Remember that, brother and sister. Remember that this day as the message of Christmas to you. God is mindful of you. In your humble estate. Just this last week, about a week ago, Tom Broad called me and was talking about the experience that he had had just a few days before. The Broads have a fireplace and One morning, Tom was uh shaving and Catherine came running in saying, the chimney's on fire Now if you ever had a chimney fire, that's a pretty terrible thing. It's uh it's uh it really uh is quite scary. All the smoke begins to fill and the house is really on fire The chimney begins to melt down and you never know where it's gonna go from there. But they were all right there. Nobody was away, it wasn't night, they weren't asleep. Everybody was there. And they were immediately able to cool it down and to minimize the damage to just a melded chimney which the insurance took care of. A few days later, they were awakened, sometime after midnight, by the sound of fire engines. It looked out, and there, across the street, the house across the street, was all in flames. Flames were shooting through the roof. They found out that exactly the same thing had happened. It was a chimney fire. The man inside that house was alone and he was asleep in bed Somebody got to him in time in order for him to get out with just the clothes on his back. The house was burnt to the ground. Tom says, every time I look out my window, I'm aware God is mindful of me. I don't know why he let that house burn down. I don't know why that fella had to suffer a total loss. But I know that God was mindful of us, that that was undeserved. And that that was mercy. And I'm very thankful. I read about a girl by the name of Linda. Who got into an elevator? She was going at the end of the day of work. The elevator doors closed. And there standing alone with her in the elevator was a man with a knife. He pulled the knife out on her, put it into her ribs, and began to undress. It was about 14 floors up to the top, and it was no stop in between. She said, I thought for sure I was not going to get out of that elevator alive. The ironic thing was, she said, as I looked at that man, and he kept yelling and cursing and calling obscenities to me to look at him She said, I began to I my mind flashed back to the fact that that night I was going to my Bible study. And at my Bible study I was going to share with them how God had just recently broken through to me to give me a sense, a new sense. That I was his child and that he was mindful of me, that he cared for me. And she said, and now this I didn't know what to do. She said, I just simply silently cried out, Oh God help me. And then she said, all of a sudden, the words of Psalm 139 came to my mind. You chart the path before me. And you know where I am at every moment. You go before me and behind me. She said, all of a sudden in my mind there came a peace that was beyond anything rational in the circumstance. The man kept yelling at her, but he never touched her. The doors opened at the top. She said, without looking at him, I walked past him, deliberately, slowly walked out of that elevator. Continued to walk without looking back, got to my car, got in, started the engine, went down to the parking attendant, and reported the incident. The next day she said I came to work and I was met by two detectives. The detectives began to question me about every detail of what had happened. She said, I told him, well, this man came up in the elevator. I prayed for God to help me. Some verses from Psalm 139 came to my mind. He never touched me and I walked out of there. They made her repeat the story three times. She said, why do you have me tell you this again and again? He finally said, because a woman right in the next block was raped at 7. 30 last night and beaten. You can't tell us that you simply prayed and walked away from that man. It's the same description. She said, I tell you, he never touched me. She agonized over why was that woman raped? What happened in her? You and I can't explain those things. But what we do know is that God is mindful of his people. And that mindfulness of his people means that God cares about every situation in your life and my life. And sometimes that involves suffering, you see. It did with Mary. It did with Joseph. But there was never a point where they could say God doesn't care. He's not mindful of me. For he's mindful of his people at every moment. Where do you need in your life this morning to apply that encouragement of Christmas? Oh brothers and sisters, don't make it a cute story And rob it of its meaning. It's a story of suffering, and it's a story of the mercy of our God for us individually. Let's pray together. Oh Lord, for each of us this morning we think of ways that we have wondered, are you really mindful of us? Do you really care about us? Lord, we pray, help us to see what Luke is telling us about and take away the Christmas card distortion that we might see the ugliness, the crudeness, and the filthiness of it. To understand the temptation it must have come to Mary and to Joseph. That you really didn't care for them. And then to see throughout that story the assurances that you were involved in every detail. And that all of this was consistent with your great love for them. That you didn't have them suffer in a way that you were not touched with. For your own son was to suffer so infinitely more, in order to deliver us from all suffering when he comes again. May there be no one here that would not be ready for that second coming. And may we be comforted with the assurance. That you are mindful of us. In Jesus' name. Amen.