Hit them all up there, you're gonna see a film. Now nobody else is allowed to leave We celebrate this morning the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That's why all the flowers, that's why the painting by Ben Lowe over there, that's why all the special festivities, we remember this morning that Jesus Christ Is risen. And after 2,000 years, that message is still a radical message. In England, postal rates are boosted by people buying postmarks, and they pay for a message to be sent on that postmark. A Christian paid $88,500 to have the message, Jesus is alive. printed on the British postmark for six weeks this spring. It's still being printed on every letter that's being sent in Britain right now. Of all the thousands of messages that have been printed in Britain through all the years that they've been doing this, I know of no other message that made Time magazine in the United States The reason it made Time magazine a couple of weeks ago was because it caused such a furor for British people to see on their letters Jesus is alive. The National Secular Society raised such a furor about the whole thing they protested it, said it was unfair, and they restamped every bit of mail that they sent. Jesus is a myth. It's a radical message. And everything depends on which message is true this morning. Which of those two messages is the genuine message? Either Jesus is alive. Or he's a myth. I'd like to suggest to you that all your hope depends on Wismeshis is true. Not just your religious hope Not just your spiritual hope, all of your hope. Every one of us here this morning have certain worries that gnaw at us. Worries about our health, about our future, about our marriage, about our kids. Every one of us here have certain fears Have certain hurts that we carry with us, certain pressures that are weighing us down. And if Jesus is alive, if he has risen, That means that he is who he said he is. That means that in fact you and I who have trusted Jesus Christ as our Savior and Lord are forgiven. And being forgiven, we have been adopted into God's family. We belong to Him. All the promises of Scripture can be claimed because we know they're in force, and God is true to His promise. We know that we have a hope of a perfect heaven ahead where Jesus will raise us at that last day because he has risen. And so, if he has risen, whatever turmoil you're in this morning, all is ultimately well. Because Jesus has won. But if he has not risen, then in fact all is hopeless. Not just religiously hopeless, all is hopeless For that means that your worries and your fears are well grounded. And there is no heavenly Father to hear or to answer your cries. That means that all those pressures will never be really relieved, and the hurts will never be taken away. If Jesus has not risen. In fact, if Jesus has not risen Then life is simply full of pain sprinkled here and there with little bits of laughter, ultimately to end in the futility of death. It all depends on whether Jesus has risen or not. The question of his resurrection, then, is an absolutely vital question to every one of us. And the evidence for his resurrection depends almost entirely on the witnesses who have reported it. The New Testament lays a great stress, great emphasis on the witnesses to the resurrection and on their reliability. You see there in your bulletin outline a number of references. to the New Testament uh uh emphasis on the witnesses of the resurrection And you can look up a number of those references later, but I particularly want to call your attention to one text in Acts chapter 2. In Acts chapter 2, verse 32, Peter said, God has raised this Jesus to life. And we are all witnesses of the fact. The day was Pentecost. Just a few weeks before that, Peter had denied that he even knew the Lord as he was on his way to the cross. And now that cowardly Peter is transformed into a man who can stand before thousands of people on the day of Pentecost and declare, This God has raised this Jesus to life. And we are all witnesses of the fact. But there's a problem. And the problem is one that's plagued me every year, every Easter. Because every Easter I will spend some time, perhaps like most of you, looking through the resurrection accounts in the Gospels. And as I've looked at those accounts year after year, the thing that has disturbed my peace at the resurrection time is the fact that the count the uh witnesses seem to contradict each other. Did you ever notice that? Did you ever notice that you can't always make the stories match up? There are certain things that stick out. It's sort of like an elbow on a crowded bed, you know. It just pieces and bits just stick out in the thing and you can't make it all seem to fit. For example, There's a number of these contradictions, but just a couple of examples of them you see seven listed on your outline. For instance, Who was the first person to the tomb? John says it was Mary Magdalene. Matthew, Mark, and Luke imply that there were several women, including Mary. When was the earthquake? Well, Matthew implies that the women saw the earthquake and the angel rolling back the stone. Mark and Luke say the stone was already rolled back when they arrived. Or you take the angels. How many were there? Matthew says there was one angel. Mark says doesn't mention any angels, just mentions a young man. Luke mentions two men, and John mentions two angels. Who's right? Or what was their message? You try to take the messages of the different uh accounts of the gospel, and each message is a little bit different, and different sometimes in substance. Who was it that first saw the risen Jesus? Matthew implies that it was the group of women as they came back from the tomb. Mark, in his questionable ending, Clearly says it was Mary Magdalene. Luke gives you the impression very clearly that it was the two disciples on their way to Emmaus. And John, again, would vote for Mary Magdalene. Who's right? Or where did Jesus first appear to the disciples? Matthew sounds like Galilee. Mark implies Galilee. Luke definitely says it was Jerusalem. John would favor Jerusalem too, two to two. Who's right? Where was it? Or you take the question of how long after his resurrection did Jesus stay on earth before he ascended. Matthew doesn't say. Mark, in his questionable ending again, implies that it was uh right after that first meeting with the disciples Luke would distinctly give you the impression that it was Easter night after his meeting with the disciples. And John doesn't say again. So these and other kinds of problems, I don't know about you, but through the years, they bothered me. And I would read this and I would wonder if the New Testament gives such importance to the fact that the witnesses can be trusted and you and I, in all of the hope of our lives, whatever turmoil turmoil, problems, pressures we're feeling. The fact that Jesus has risen is the one thing that settles all of our doubts and fears. And if The evidence for that rests on the reliability of the witnesses, but that the witnesses seem to contradict each other, then you can see how it's a very disturbing matter to see these contradictions. So through the years, I have worked on trying to solve the problem. I have found relatively little help in those who attempt to do this. But last year I got serious about it because I've getting tired of this whole thing. And I sat down and I spent some time and I wrote out, taking all four Gospels, Trying to put into chronological order, weaving together the different accounts into something that would make sense. And I'd like to share with you this morning the results of that study. I would like to take you through and for us to relive that first Easter day, going through taking all four accounts into weaving them all together In order for us to relive a harmonized account through the day that I believe does not do injustice to any single witness But in fact, to at least my satisfaction, resolves all the apparent contradictions. You see, you have to relive it as a real event in order to make sense out of it Now, I'm not going to give you the references. We're just going to move through this so that you can feel it and just live through the day with me. But the next hour, we are not going to go to our laugh groups as we usually do. After you get your coffee and your tea or your water or whatever you want to get, we're going to come right back here, and we're going to have some fun taking a look at these different contradictions, and we're going to try to solve those And we're going to come to some solutions ourselves. Maybe it won't be the same solution as I have. But it will give you a feel for what actually happened that day, and then we'll go into more of the details. To answer any questions or to resolve all the problems to your satisfaction. But right now what I want to do is relive it through with you. Of course, you remember, after Jesus was crucified, we have the disciples as defeated and disheartened men They're hiding, grieving in fear behind closed doors, utterly heartbroken. All of their hopes are dashed. And then we read that very early, before light, the first day of the week after Jesus had been crucified, at least four women. out of pure devotion to the Lord that they loved, set out for the tomb. Set out for the purpose of simply anointing his body for a decent burial. We read that these women set out with a question, who's going to roll away the stone? For the stone is too large for us to roll it away, and how are we going to get into the tomb? They arrived at the tomb just after sunrise. But sometime before they arrived, enough time for the guards to have fled and left and left the tomb quiet and abandoned There had been a violent earthquake. The earth, which had shuddered in horror at the death of Jesus, now leaped to rejoice at his resurrection. And in that earthquake, that large stone had been displaced from the front of the tomb. The stone is gone in the portrayal you see here on the stage. Now that stone has been utterly removed by one or two angels who have come down, have rolled away the stone, have sat upon it, and have frightened the guards to death, so that they fled into the city. Now the women arrive to the tomb, and they find the stone already rolled away. At that point, without waiting to go in I believe that Mary Magdalene, without seeing the angel, but simply seeing the empty tomb, ran back to Peter and to John, reporting that someone had taken the Lord's body. At this point, the angel with his companion is now inside the tomb. Perhaps on the foot or the right side of the place where the body had lain. One angel is the spokesman for the two And he appears as a young man. Both of them are dressed in clothes that gleam like lightning. The women, who are perplexed, enter the tomb, and suddenly they see the two angels. as men. They are frightened. And one of the angels speaks to them. And he says, do not be afraid. For I know that you are looking for Jesus who was crucified. Why do you look for the living among the dead? He is not here. He has risen, just as he said. Come and see the place where he lay. And at this point, they remember how he had said that he would rise again from the dead. And now for the first time they apply his words to a physical resurrection of his body in this life, the third day, rather than as they had done, to the great resurrection at the last day. And the angel says, Remember how he told you while he was still with you in Galilee, the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, be crucified, and on the third day be raised again. And all of a sudden, it makes sense. And then the angel continues, then go quickly now. Tell us disciples. And Peter Interesting, Mark alone adds that one little phrase. Mark based his gospel on Peter's witness. And Peter said, don't forget to put in there, Mark. He said, tell Peter too. Tell Peter. He is risen from the dead, and he's going ahead of you into Galilee. And there you will see him, just as he told you. Now, I have told you. At this point The other women join Mary Magdalene, going back now to the disciples, in relaying the message. They go out of the tomb, they return back to the disciples, and they join Mary Magdalene with the disciples. They also add their story to hers, the message of the angel, but of course the disciples don't believe the women. They say it's utter nonsense. However, Peter and John are stirred. And of the disciples still hiding back there, I believe it's Peter and John, as we're told in John, that then take off and run to the tomb. Of course, Peter, John being the younger, gets to the tomb first, and when they arrive to the tomb, they John comes to the tomb and he stops. Then Peter comes puffing up behind And of course, Peter, in his impulsive nature, keeps right on going, right on past John. John has paused because it seems like an awesome scene to him to go into that tomb. But Peter charges right on into the tomb. Peter sees, then, that the clothes have been folded. He sees the grave clothes where they lay and the head napkin folded by itself. Then John finally goes in after him. Interestingly, the result of this is that Peter goes away still wondering. John sees that this is enough, and he believes that Jesus has risen. At least he's beginning to believe They still don't understand the scripture that Jesus had to rise from the dead. There's no categories in their understanding of Messiah for that. None of the Old Testament prophecies as they understood them spoke of a Messiah who would die and rise. It was not what they were expecting. Peter's wondering. John is beginning to believe. And so they go back to their homes. Sometime While they are still at their homes, perhaps about nine o'clock in the morning now, Mary Magdala can't restrain herself, and so she goes back to the tomb She wanders back to the tomb, and now she doesn't go in, but she stands outside crying, literally wailing, wailing her heart out for the Lord that she loved, who's been taken. Finally, she bends over and she peers into the tomb. And when she does, she sees two angels inside. They're sitting in there at the head and the foot of where Jesus' body had been. The angels, no doubt the same too that had appeared earlier to the other women. Ask her, why are you looking, or excuse me, why are you wailing the cry of grief? And she responds, They've taken my Lord away, and I don't know where they have put him. And then she turned. And she's the first living person to see Jesus. Mary turns and she sees Jesus, but she doesn't recognize in her tears that it is Jesus. And Jesus says to her, Woman, why are you crying? Who is it that you're looking for? And thinking that he's the gardener, Mary says, Sir, if you've carried him away, tell me where you've put him, and I'll get him Jesus can no longer hold back his identity to her. And so in a rush of love for her, he says in a way that only Jesus could speak her name. Mary. Literally, Miriam. By hearing her name in the tones of the one that she's loved so much Mary immediately recognizes that it's Jesus, and she turns to him and cries out, Rabbonai, my teacher, my master. She must have clung to him for quite some time, because finally Jesus says, don't keep holding on to me. But imagining that excuse me, after he's uh he tells her this and gently puts her from him, he commissions her and says, Go tell now my brothers. Interesting. That designation, my brothers. To those traitors who had abandoned him in the hour of his deepest need, go tell my brothers. That I am risen. And so she goes to the disciples. Now with a different message. Now she goes with the message: I have seen the Lord. And she tells them all that he had said to her. Now, a couple other hours pass, and I believe that it may be about noon. At this time, Mary, in her woman's heart, seeking companionship with the other women, go back and find the other women who had been at the tomb. She wants to discuss what she had seen and compare what they had seen. And as she goes back with them, there it's a couple hours later, as I say, on the road, suddenly Jesus meets them together. And Jesus now greets them all. Greetings, he says. And they come and they clasp his feet and they worship him. This is the second appearance to Mary Magdalene. It's the first to anyone else. And so Mary, of course, is overjoyed to see Jesus again And his message to them is: do not be afraid. Go. Tell my brothers. Again, you notice that tender designation, my brothers. And now there's a new message. Go to Galilee. There they will see me. And so they go. Meanwhile, the guards have gone into the city. and had been bribed to say that the disciples came and stole Jesus' body. Sometime early that afternoon, I believe, the third appearance took place And that third appearance is a very precious one, of which there is no record in all the Gospels, but only the briefest reference. It's at that time that Jesus appears privately to Peter. We don't know where. We don't know how. We know nothing of what was said. All we know is that sometime that afternoon, Jesus appeared to Peter, according to Luke 24, 34. And so Jesus comes, and I believe that in the mere silence of this in the gospel records, it's as if that meeting was too sacred to record the details of it. Then a little later on, perhaps four or five o'clock that afternoon, we have the fourth appearance. Jesus meets up with a disciple, Cleopus, and another disciple on their way to Emmaus. Again, as with Mary, he's not recognized at first. He walks with them and he hears their grief. And do you remember how we began to open the scriptures to them? To tell them about how the Old Testament prophesied of the Messiah and his death and his resurrection. And then he reveals himself to them in the breaking of the bread. They immediately hurry right back to Jerusalem. Emmaeus is six or seven miles from Jerusalem, and so it takes them at least an hour. Probably um maybe faster if they were running as fast as they could, to get back to Jerusalem, to find the disciples. Perhaps now it's about six o'clock in the evening, and they tell the disciples that they too now have seen Jesus. They say, it's true, the Lord has risen. He has appeared to Simon Peter. He's appeared to us. And right during that conversation, behind the closed doors, still wondering, could this possibly be true, it's at that point you have the fifth appearance of Jesus. Now, for the first time, to all the disciples. Well, not quite all of them. Judas, of course, is not there. And Thomas is missing. But he appears to them and he says, Peace be with you. And they see him, and they clasp him. So much for Easter Day. Those are the events, I believe, in a way that makes sense to me in a chronological reconstruction of the five appearances of Easter Day. Before Jesus ascended into heaven, he appeared at least seven more times to other people. You remember that sometime in the next few days, he appeared to his brother, James. James to that point was an unbeliever. But when Jesus, the risen Jesus, appeared to James, that transformed James's life. And he believed in Jesus and ultimately wrote the letter that you and I have been looking at for about ten years now. Then a week later Jesus comes back to the disciples, again, behind closed doors in Jerusalem, and he appears to all eleven now. Thomas is with them. And now he appears to them and proves himself to be the one who is not a ghost, who can eat, who can be touched and handled. And his identity is very clear. The eighth appearance is to the disciples one morning by the Sea of Galilee. Do you remember where he had breakfast with him? Another time he appeared to more than five hundred at once. A tenth time on the mountain at Galilee, where he gave to them what we call the Great Commission. Then there was the occasion of his ascension at the eleventh time. And the twelfth time To one born out of due time, to Paul the Apostle, after he had gone back into heaven. Now, having done this study What did I learn from it? What can you and I learn from doing such a study? I believe a number of remarkable things, but let me enumerate to you just three. First of all, I found that I was utterly impressed by the nature of the four witnesses as giving a story which has a ring of such authenticity. What I mean by that is that the different accounts are too discrepant to be a collusion. If in fact they had planned to get together and demonstrate to the world that they all had their story consistently, they would have never done it in the way that you and I have it. Too many pieces, as I say, stick out. There's no attempt to harmonize these. They, excuse me, come across as independent accounts of eyewitnesses. But on the other hand, they're far too complementary to be independent inventions, even if they were based on a common legend. No way you could write such accounts that at first seem to contradict, but when you examine them much more carefully, you can dovetail all the different pieces. Fitting together what's explicitly stated with what is implied but not stated in order to understand what actually, in fact, probably happened In fact, if you compare these accounts with any other such accounts or other writings of the resurrection, you see stark contrasts. For instance, we have a document that's called the Gospel of Peter. It was written about the same time or shortly after. The Gospel of Peter is a description of the resurrection in part. But what a contrast. In the Gospel of Peter, you have what you have in none of the other four resurrection accounts, a description of the resurrection itself. Did it ever strike you that we don't have in the four Gospels any account of the resurrection itself, but only what was seen after Jesus had risen? You go to the Gospel of Peter, and there's this very spectacular description of Jesus bursting out of the tomb, rising up to heaven, scaring all his enemies to death, and getting a few jollies out of getting back at those who had mocked him before. And it's an utter contrast, the kind of thing you would expect out of spectacular, miraculous kind of writings to make a point. How different from the very simple restrained account of the eyewitnesses. who reported simply what they had seen. In fact, can you imagine any first century Jew, male, four males writing these four accounts, who would say, but you know the very first person that saw Jesus was Mary Magdalene, who had been delivered of seven demons. What even one of the disciples. And a Jewish man saying it was the first two appearances were to women No way you could reconstruct that, explaining it simply by the motives of the men who had written it. The second thing. that uh really grabs me as I take a look at these accounts and seek to put them together is that it's clear that the resurrection was totally unexpected No one in all four accounts is prepared for the resurrection. It takes them totally off guard Now this of course is utterly in contrast to what you would expect if the resurrection was a delusion in expectation of some longing or hope. There is no such thing reported there. There is no such hope. In fact, they are reluctant to believe it. They have to be compelled by nothing less than the appearance of the risen Christ Himself in order to be persuaded that it's true. And then thirdly, I'm struck by the fact that all of the witnesses, whatever may be unclear, whatever you may speculate about the details of the account, three things are crystal clear. Number one, Jesus was really dead and he was really buried. No question in any of the accounts of that being crystal clear. Secondly, that the tomb was empty, but that in itself did not prove the resurrection. No one, even John, who began to wonder and believe when he saw the empty tomb, no one believed that Jesus was risen simply because the tomb was empty. He was nothing less than the physical, real appearance of the risen Christ that compelled them to believe that he had in fact conquered death. And the third thing then is that the resurrected Christ in fact appeared several times to several people on several different occasions, twelve by my reckoning, other people have other numbers of reckonings. But let's say several different times and several occasions in utterly convincing ways to demonstrate to them that he was the Messiah. who had conquered, not simply survived, but conquered death. So Peter says in Acts 2. 32 God has raised this Jesus to life. And we are all witnesses of the fact. And so he goes on to say, exalted then. To the right hand of God. He has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this: that God has made this Jesus, whom you have crucified, both Lord and Christ. So Peter goes on to say in verses 37 to 39 that if in fact you are cut to the heart by the sense of your own disobedience to this Jesus, By the fact that you've held at arm's length, that you have been involved in religion, but not in a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Peter says the answer to you is simple. The invitation is clear. Come, he's risen. Turn from your sin and from your disobedience. Believe in him, and he promises to you forgiveness, cleansing, healing, restoration, the promise of the Spirit to restore and to remake your life. Because Jesus has risen. Because he's really alive. Nothing will ever be the same again. Amen. Amen. Nothing can ever be the same. You and I have read the last chapter of the story. And whatever turmoil you're in this morning, you know that ultimately all is well This past week, I was listening again to Beethoven's Sixth Symphony, the one called The Pastoral And if you're familiar at all with that symphony, you know it's a musical description of a pastoral country scene. And there's one part in that symphony about the Three quarters of the way through where there is a thunderstorm. A musical description of a thunderstorm. And I was listening to that I I felt the music swelling and everything begins to rage and it's all banging and and everything is all upset and you're feeling all the the terror of this as the uh music uh builds to the crescendo, but as I was listening to it, I thought, well that's okay, you know, because I know in a couple minutes it's going to settle back and it's gonna become even more peaceful and more beautiful than ever. And all of a sudden I thought, that's the resurrection. Whatever there is in my life now that's producing turmoil, pressure, fears, upset I can live with it. I can know that it's only going to last for a little while. And after a while, there will come the peace restoring. Because I've heard the end of that symphony. I've read the last chapter of the book. I know that Jesus has risen, and therefore all is well. The witnesses are reliable. God is restoring and building his kingdom. And next week we're going to look at some of the spectacular things he's doing in our day to see what he's doing in bringing that kingdom to its fulfillment. But right now the question is a more personal one. Is it well with you this morning? Is it well with your soul? That Jesus has risen. And are you raised with him because you are in a relationship of personal union with Jesus Christ? Where you think you need to come and to turn from your disobedience. Turn from your apathy toward Jesus and come this morning for the first time. Say, Lord Jesus, your resurrection was for me. I come to you. I trust you. I rest in you. And it is well. Let's pray Oh Lord, for many of us this morning there is turmoil and fear. There's hurt. There's confusion. Lord, help us to see that all of our hope, literally all of our hope, depends on the truth of the resurrection. And that the witnesses are so amazingly reliable, that they fit together, they have the ring of authenticity. Nothing can explain their accounts except that in fact it's based on history. Oh Lord our God, move us, and that we will have glad hearts, and that we will trust in and rest in Jesus as our Savior and our Lord. And because we know that He is risen, our sins are taken, and all is well. Give us hearts to rejoice in Jesus' name. Amen.