We live in a day where being thankful is in, isn't it? I mean uh Oprah tells you a thankful heart is a peaceful heart. Has guests on to tell you about journaling and thanking and How many of you have received internet forwards like I have that say, stop being taking for granted the things that you have that are blessings and complaining and grumbling? For instance Don't complain that you're caught in a traffic jam around the beltway. Be thankful you have a car. You know, how many of you have gotten those kind of things? You know, get a lot of them Not a whole lot. Are they just trying to tell me to be thankful? I don't I don't know. But uh you know, the stuff I hear thankfulness is in But uh interesting thing is at the same time, who we think has never been more suppressed in America Public schools don't talk about Thanksgiving Day or pilgrims that had any religious reasons for coming to America. They're travelers and the religious reasons are simply uh kept out. Uh I was really upset when I saw the movie Bowling for Columbine and There's this little clip where they say the pilgrims were people who were persecuted and so they came to America and killed all the Indians. Give me a break I mean the Indians certainly suffered great atrocities at the hands of Europeans, but the pilgrims were never at war with the Indians, and in 1634 when smallpox epidemic broke out among the Indians, it was the pilgrims who risked their lives to help the Indians. But we live in a day where The one who tells the story makes up the history for your own agenda. So it's interesting to watch year after year How the culture changes as you see annual religious holidays like Thanksgiving. We can see what happens with them. I've been kind of tracking this uh unofficially over the last few years and I was noticing late eighties and through the nineties a kind of a waning of the meaning of Thanksgiving. You know, there was more of the secularization as you expect. Um But then you remember in 2001, all of a sudden there was this great upsurge of interest in Thanksgiving. It was on the cover of Time magazine, and it was all this stuff about how important it is to get together with family and to give thanks for our Blessings and on and on, you know, after nine eleven. So I was interested to see what would happen last year. And as I looked at the uh news last year and try to monitor it. Uh w one example, for instance, was the Washington Post the Sunday before Thanksgiving, this comparable Sunday last year. I looked throughout every section in the post to see what there was about Thanksgiving. Nothing. No articles, no commentaries, nothing. The only were three things that you could say were were in reference to Thanksgiving in the whole paper last year. One was a comic strip about turkeys. The second was a recipe for leftover turkey And the third was in the mini page, which often highlights holidays, you know. They highlighted the state of Missouri. which as you know is closely related to the meaning of Thanksgiving. And then on page three there was a little box on after Thanksgiving salads. That was it So giving thanks as in, that's a fine thing to do. It's helpful, it's beneficial. But what intrigues me is how it eludes those who tout the benefits of thanksgiving But suppress any idea of whom you thank. Does it not occur to us that to give thanks to no one is nonsense The meaning of thanksgiving is to acknowledge to someone that they have given to you more than you deserve. So to thank nothing makes no sense. When you think about who you think, that's as important as the fact that you think. But when we think today about people who are willing to make a public display of thinking and who they think, that it matters to them who they think, who do you think of? They probably don't first for most people, their first image would not be Christians. The first image would be probably something like this. Let's let's see it up there. Right? Be Muslims. Who are bowing to Allah publicly, making a statement that we are giving thanks to Allah Now, you know, whatever your response to that, uh, you know, you look at that and you have kind of mixed feelings, uh, you know, you you you sort of go, I gotta respect the fact that that's not the most flattering posture to have your picture taken in. Especially if they'd taken it from the other angle, you know. But the fact is they're willing to do that. And you must always remember that we have something unique in common with Muslims. And that is, we both believe that it matters who you thank. Most people don't think it matters. We just, you know, thank whoever you want. But Muslims and Christians both believe it matters essentially, very important, who you thank, not just that you thank. There's a story in the Old Testament that you just heard a couple minutes ago about a man who believed with all his heart that it mattered critically who you thanked. It's the story of Daniel in chapter 6. Of all the twenty-five years of preaching here, I don't think I've ever preached on Daniel and the Lions men, so it's probably about time. If you consider that story this morning, I want you to look at it in terms of six Cs, uh excuse me, eight C's, eight C's, to follow it and to apply it. First of all, notice the circumstances of this story. After Israel repeatedly ignoring the warnings of the prophets, God sent Nebuchadnezzar from Babylon to destroy Jerusalem in 586 BC. But the years before that there had been a number of excursions where uh groups had been shipped to Babylon as prisoners of war, taken as captives. And in 606 B. C. , one of those groups included a fellow, a young man, Daniel, and his friends. Upon arriving in Babylon, they immediately made it clear they weren't going to compromise in their convictions. God prospered them And Daniel, particularly over the years, rose in influence, power, and authority till we get to Daniel chapter 6, and he's probably in his early 80s And he is now one of the three presidents of the 120 provinces in what is now the Medo-Persian Empire, taking, has taken over Babylon. Darius, the king of this Medo-Persian Empire, is very impressed with Daniel and his abilities, his trustworthiness. And so he intends to place Daniel as kind of prime minister over all 120 provinces, see? Those are the circumstances. Second point is the conspiracy of Daniel's colleagues. You see here contemporary office politics. I mean it's the same kind of thing that some of you may have experienced Here is the word that the boss intends to give you a promotion. And so your colleagues are jealous Daniel's colleagues decide, uh they get together and they say, Well then who is this? You know, this this is a captive Jew, and he thinks he's going to be the prime minister of the Medo-Persian Empire. Who does he think he is? Let's find something, something in his work that will incriminate him. And so they look Look to find some scandal, some neglect in his work. You read in verse four That they tried to find grounds for charges against Daniel and his conduct of government affairs, but they were unable to do so. They could find no corruption in him, because he was trustworthy and neither corrupt. No negligence. So finally these men said, we're never going to find any basis for charges against this man Daniel unless it has something to do with the law of his God Now let's just stop and imagine for a moment that if your work or some place that uh you're uh functioning that's important to you, you know, um The people that you're working with don't like you. They're jealous of your success and they want to get you in trouble. And they decide they're going to do something that will incriminate you, that will put you in disfavor with the authorities, and they look around to see what that is But they can't find anything that you have done wrong. You will not there's no neglect, there's no scandal, there's nothing. Except the only way they think they can get you in trouble. is by your convictions as a Christian. The other way it's going to operate with you. That's the only way they're going to get you in trouble. I mean can you feel that that that's kind of unusual? There's something unique here about this guy That's the only thing they can use to get them in trouble. That would be of the rest of us, right? But probably not always true. So what they do is they um they notice that Daniel has this custom of praying to his God. The God of the Old Testament scriptures, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And he prays and he gives thanks to this God three times a day. So they decide that they will go to the king and they will use this and flatter the king in order to get Daniel in trouble. So they go to the king in Medo-Persia, but there was no law against monotheism. So they decide to see if they can get the king to sign a temporary edict. Just 30 days and, oh King, uh sign this and and make it illegal for anybody to pray or give thanks or acknowledge their dependence on anyone else, any God or man, except you, O King. King. You know, that makes him feel pretty important, you know, why not? You notice they lie in it. They say, you know, all the the governors and us have gotten together and decided that we should do this. Well obviously that's a lie because Daniel wouldn't have decided and agreed with them to do that. So they deceive the king and they flatter the king and they persuade the king to sign this edict, which according to the laws of the Medes and Persians cannot be changed. And so you read in verse nine that the king assigns this thing, puts it in writing, and uh The idea you see here is that if anyone is going to pray to anyone else then the consequence is that they will be thrown into a den of lions, hungry lions, as their means of execution. That's that's a bit of a enough of a threat, I think, to most people that think a couple times about their devotional activities during that month. Now you think that's only ancient history? World magazine, October 2002, reported that North Korean guards of Christians who were in prison Threatened the Christians, you must say we will not believe in our God, but only in our leader, Kim Gung II. The Christians refused and suffered the consequences of that. It's not something just an ancient history. There is still that pressure that some of our brothers and sisters, thankfully, we are not under that kind of pressure. Be illegal in this in this country to force you to abandon your faith. But not in many other places in the world. So Daniel was suffering what some Christians still today suffer. How did he respond? Notice thirdly the custom of Daniel. To give thanks. How did he respond to this? Look at verse 10. When Daniel learned that the decree had been published, He went home to his upstairs room with a window open toward Jerusalem. And three times a day he got down on his knees and he prayed, giving thanks to his God just as he had done before. Notice he's not just praying, he's giving thanks. That means that Daniel is acknowledging to God that he's getting better than he deserves. Now think about that for a moment. Remember that Daniel was From a noble family, perhaps royalty in Judah before he had been carried away, his home had been pillaged. There's no mention in the book of Daniel about his parents, so they likely were killed in that attack. He's been brought as a captive since his teenage years to a foreign land. And even though he has had a good measure of success in his career, there's no possibility of his ever going home. He's going to live out the rest of his days in a foreign land. He's going to live out working with colleagues that dislike him. He's the victim of racial prejudice. Who's this Jew think he is that he's going to reign? And so Daniel had a choice. He could either focus on the blessings and the promises of God. Where he could focus on all the ways that God seems to have failed him and disappointed him, and indulge in self-pity. It's quite clear what his choice was. Three times a day continues to pray, call upon God, and to thank Him for His blessings. You too have a checkered past of blessings and trials, don't you? You too need to decide this week to choose which you're going to focus on. You can decide to sit with your Bible and think about the ways that God has let you down and failed you. Think about the prayers that haven't been answered, and then wonder why you don't have faith or joy or want to give thanks. But then I urge you to ask yourself this one question. What is one promise of Scripture that God has actually reneged on in your life? What is something that you can point to in his word and say, God, he said this, but you haven't done it? You have contradicted yourself, you have failed in your promises. You see, there is a very important principle here that we need to observe. That is that whenever you or I are going through a difficult time of disappointment, Trial. The only way you're going to keep your joy and a heart of thanksgiving is to enlarge your view of God. At that point, when your circumstances of your life don't seem to match up with your view of God, you have to say, there's something wrong with my view of God. I need to enlarge it. You see, far more important than the things I've mentioned that were the difficulties in Daniel's life, one other item loomed beyond any of that. And it was that God seemed to have lost the war with the Babylonians. It seemed like God Has failed to protect his people. The God of the Old Testament is a fraud. The gods of Babylon are the stronger gods. They've won. They've carried God's people into captivity. So the book of Daniel, you see, is ultimately not about characters and courage, it's about kings and kingdoms. What it's really about is did God fail when Israel was carried into slavery? Or was God showing his people that he is not simply the tribal deity of Israel in order to protect them? But rather, he wants them to enlarge their view of him and see him as the king of all the nations to be worshipped throughout the world. Chapters 1 to 5 of Daniel, recount this again and again and again, how God is the king of all the nations, to be worshipped by all. John read from chapter 4, one example of that with Nebuchadnezzar. So now God is revealing to Daniel, once again, I am larger Than my people have thought. And Daniel's faith is being stretched to the limit also. Daniel chooses to give thanks To pray and to obediently demonstrate that he is willing to go on record that he thanks this one unique God of the scriptures. So let's see the picture again. As the people think of Daniel, notice both the comparison and also the contrast. The comparison is he's willing to be known as saying, notice in verse 10, giving thanks to his God. It matters more than life itself that his God gets the honor. Different God from the Muslims. But also notice that Daniel doesn't pray outside as a public display. He prays in his home. The windows are open. He's not making a point of it. He's simply being who he is. And he's not going to hide it. Now I'm sure Daniel could have rationalized, God, you've put me in this place of influence and you have allowed me here to to represent you in the inner courts of power in the Medo-Persian Empire, strongest empire in the world at that time. And and so God's not going to really help your cause if I get eaten by lions. How about I just kind of let's you know sort of Set this aside. How did I pray at night during this month? Or maybe maybe just draw the blinds, you know, and but he doesn't. As he had done, he simply continued to do it, simply be himself. So Daniel is willing to be seen as a fool to worship and to thank his God. The Muslims have copied from Old Testament practice that idea. But in making it something so public, they've taken it beyond where Daniel was. So, notice then, fourthly, the cost to Daniel for doing this. His enemies pounce on him. They see him. They've set their spies. They say, There he is. He's up there praying again. Ha ha, Louie do it. That's really a tribute to him, isn't it? That they figured he would continue to do it. So they go to the king, and they say, you notice, uh they say to the king, this Daniel's willfully, flagrantly disobeyed you. He's blown you off, King, big time. Now notice that in doing that they twist Daniel's motives. Now they don't say he's doing this by his conviction. They they m make it sound like it's a personal affront to Darius. And that's something that we as Christians need to remember. When we seek by our convictions to give credit and honor to the one true God. Our motives will be twisted. As you follow Jesus Christ in this culture, your motives will be twisted. You will not, if you take a stand in interactions and people's discussions and talk about what do you think about the Massachusetts decision about gay marriage? And you say, well, you know, overturning all the course of human history view of what marriage is is something that does disturb me, and I think that uh the Bible speaks clearly to that, and you begin to share your convictions on that, you will not be seen as a person who has generally honest convictions. But you may be caricatured as a narrow-minded homophobic. You see, we can expect that we will not be understood as Danny was not understood. Interesting though that when they tell Darius this, his response, you notice he gets really upset. He's not upset at Daniel. He's upset at the people that trapped him. He realizes he's been had. He realizes he is foolish and he has been manipulated for a political gain. And he's furious. And so he tries to release Daniel all day. Anything he can do. Maybe he tries to sneak some meat into the lions. You know, feed them real well so they won't be hungry. Whatever he tries, you know, it doesn't tell you what he did, but they're there like eagles. To make sure that there's no way that he can either change the edict. In fact, you notice in verse 15, they kind of flaunt it, you know. Hey king, remember, laws of Eden Persia, you can't change this. We gotcha. And so after a day of trying, Darius finally, sadly, verse 16, gave the order, and they brought Daniel and they threw him into the lion's den. Now I find the end of verse 16 fascinating. Look what Darius says. He says to Daniel, this is way on his way into the den there. It's a pit, they're going to throw him down. May your God, whom you serve, continually rescue you. Now why in the world does a pagan king say that? Well, I think it's probably because he heard a story of Daniel's friends many years ago, who had also violated national law, and they were threatened to be thrown into a fiery furnace. And he heard that they had been delivered by this same God. So he wonders if that story is true, could it be that maybe your God does have power to deliver you? I hope so. Another interesting thing to observe in this is that while we may find opposition and distortion of our motives in the world and as we try to take stands and Give acknowledgment to the true God, we will find on occasion pagan friends who will ally with us and care for us. It don't have to always be Christians. I still remember back in the mid-80s when we were being vilified and I was being personally attacked as anti-Semitic because of the public statement about uh Jews as well as Gentiles needed Jesus to go to heaven It was unbelieving Jewish friends of ours who publicly stated, we know the Harrises. You may not agree with them, but they're not anti-Semitic. They're friends of ours. So God can raise up, even among pagans, those who will ally with us and care for us. It seems like Darius loved Daniel. He didn't just honor him as affective. There was a personal connection, affection for him. In fact, you read that that that night he canceled all the parties, wouldn't even eat dinner, and he couldn't sleep all night. That's how upset he was. And so you read that after all this turmoil He comes at the very first light of day. Now, you kids tell me what happened? Was Daniel eaten by the lions? No, how many say no? How many say yes? Good. I'm glad you can still get through Sunday school. You got it. That's right We all know, don't we, that Daniel was not eaten by the lions. But you know, that's so familiar to us. One of the first things that you ever heard Think about if you had never heard that, what it would have been like that first light of day. Here's the stone on the den. You don't know what's happened And Darius comes there, and you read in verse 19, first light of dawn, the guy's up and he's running over, and he comes and he hurries to the lion's den. And when he came near the den, he called to Daniel in an anguished voice. Daniel, Daniel, servant of the living God, has your God whom you serve continually been able to rescue you from the lion's? Now I think that's rather remarkable. He's thinking maybe he's still alive You didn't give up on him. You didn't say, well, you know, that's too bad. I really love that guy. He still hopes Daniel answered, O King, live forever. My God sent his angel, and he shut the mouths of the lions. They have not hurt me, because I was found innocent in his sight. Nor have I ever done any wrong before you, O king. Absolutely right. So, fifth point, consolation to Daniel for his faith. He was in fact delivered from the lions. See, he was perfectly safe in that den because of God's angel, which teaches you and me, it is not so important where you are as who is with you in whatever your circumstances in life. Um last Sunday Esther Bryan was talking to a number of us about the visit to the doctor where he said, um, lady you've got cancer and you've got a bad three mil three centimeter lump. And uh looks pretty bad and um we'll give you the prognosis. Come back next Wednesday. Came back this Wednesday A number of us had prayed, and Esther reminded me that the doctor's reports can't always be uh the final word, and so we prayed. And this Wednesday she heard the report, we can't find cancer anywhere. There's no cancer. And we praise God. We thank God for our sister who we love. Now, does that mean that God loves Esther more than others who get a report back that's positive and says, you do have cancer? All of us are going to die if the Lord doesn't come first. It's not a question of whether God loves those that He delivers in supernatural or unexpected ways. The fact is, the sovereign God decides to glorify himself through his decisions in how he takes care of his people. At this point in history, God wanted to honor himself by showing to the nations that he was not the God vanquished through the Babylonian conquest. That he could deliver from lions his servant, in order that he would glorify his name through that. So you read the clincher of that in the sixth point, the consequences Verse 24, at the king's command then, the men who had falsely accused Daniel were brought in, and they were thrown into the lion's den. The place that they had uh hoped was going to be the demise of Daniel, and they throw in their wives and their children, and before they reached the floor of the den, the lions overpowered them and cried crushed all their bones. Pretty gristly scene. Now why is that put in there? I think to demonstrate to you and to why these to me, these lions were not drugged, they were not fed. This was a supernatural deliverance. God is honoring himself, and he is also demonstrating his judgment against the persecutors of God's people. He elaborates on that in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. All who persecute his people will be judged. And you see that judgment. And Darius doesn't miss the point. And so the seventh, see, the confession of Darius. To the God of Daniel is there in a two-verse pagan psalm. No record that Darius ever became converted to the God of Daniel. But what he does say is he makes an edict. He says, You guys want edicts? I'll give you another one. May it prosper greatly. I issue a decree, laws of the Medes and the Persians That in every part of my kingdom people must fear and reverence the God of Daniel. For he is the living God And he endures forever, and his kingdom will not be destroyed, and his dominion will never end. He rescues and he saves. He performs signs and wonders in the heavens and on the earth He has rescued Daniel from the power of the lions. And so Daniel prospered through the reign of Darius and the reign of Cyrus the Persian. Three things he says in that simple psalm. Number one. Daniel's God is the living God. That means, in contrast, you see, to all the other false gods, he is the living God. Secondly, His kingdom will go forever. His reign and his rule will never end. He is sovereign. So he is living, he is sovereign, and he is the rescuer. He rescues his people. He is the Savior, is what he is saying. Daniel, after this, you remember, through this period of time uh shared his faith not only with the other political leaders but apparently also with the magi with the astrologers and the astronomers of Babylon Those who had that uh that elite cult within that system. Those magi apparently passed on this hope that Daniel had given that my God is not only the living God, the sovereign God, he is the saving God. And he has promised a Messiah that is going to come through the line of David and back to Abraham. And we're looking for him to come and to rescue his people. 400 years later, that tradition has been passed on in Babylon through the Medo-Persian Empire and on down to the astronomers and the astrologers in the days when Jesus was born in Bethlehem. And they saw his star, and it was those visitors from Babylon who became the first fruits of the Gentile worship, the fulfillment of the promise of Daniel that he would be worshipped as the God of all the nations. And so through Daniel's witness, 400 years later, the first fruits of the nations come to worship at Jesus' feet. And that Jesus is the Savior of all who are cowardly and ungrateful. For we read in Romans chapter 1, in verse 21. That although you and I knew God, we neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him. We didn't give thanks to him. But in our thinking we've become futile and foolish, and our hearts were darkened. And Jesus came and he paid the penalty due for all who were foolish and futile. And ungrateful. Jesus has come to forgive ungrateful people, cowardly people like you and like me. And that same issue has continued from the Old Testament through the New Testament on down through the ages. The last point is the continuing cost to God's people of giving thanks to Him. The irony you see of Thanksgiving in 2003 in America is that the reason we had Thanksgiving is because of a courageous group of Christians From one little congregation in England, Scrooby England. Not a very uh very distinguished or dignified group But they refused to simply go along with the prevailing beliefs of the day that compromise Scripture. And they said, We want to give thanks and we want to honor the God of the Bible. It's him. He's the only savior. And they paid for that. They brought over just over a hundred, of whom half died in that first winter. In the second year gave thanks to the living God who is sovereign and who rescued them So the question to you and to me is, will we today, will we this week, will we this season, the holiday season, when people talk about spiritual things a little bit more than usual? Will we be willing to not just simply go along with a vague spiritual talk, but be willing to say there is a God in heaven, a specific God, who's known only through Jesus and in the scriptures? I'd love to tell you about him. Will you and I be willing to be identified with him publicly as Daniel was? In Lithuania some years ago, under the communist regime, there was a young woman who was brought in and was condemned by the court for her testimony to Jesus Christ. After her condemnation, the judge gave her a chance to speak, thinking that she would plead for mercy. But rather with a smile, this is what she said. This is the happiest day of my life. I'm on trial here for the cause of truth and love toward men. I have an enviable fate, a glorious destiny. My condemnation here in this courtroom will be my ultimate triumph. For as she looked ahead to the day of Christ, and she was willing to give her life. Are you and I willing to give sacrifice to maybe some awkwardness or scorn or misunderstanding? So that we could bring honor to Jesus and perhaps somebody would find life through him and our simply being available to him in these next few weeks. Let's pray. Lord our God, we we recognize we we do not have the courage or the faith of Adaniel. Lord, we we're not grateful to you, we'll deny you the slightest provocation Unless your spirit comes in to quicken and to give us that heart that is grateful to you, that love which is undying, that courage which would face death rather than deny you. And thankfully in our culture, those are generally not the issues, but I pray, Lord, make us willing to pray right now. Lord, we want to honor you in the opportunities of the days and the weeks ahead. To speak not in just vague generalities, but to be available to you, to not be pushy But to simply be available to you to speak a word of specific testimony to Jesus by your grace. To be willing to honor you as the only giver of blessings who is to be thanked and praised. Lord, make us available and willing. I pray that others, and praying that with me right now, make us willing and available to you Because we love you and we want to honor you in Jesus' name