The title for the sermon this morning, Do You Know That You're Loved might for many of us be a troubling question. We know that we need to be loved. We know that we desperately need to be loved. We need to have someone who will care for us, who will show us affection. And for some of us this morning we may feel that lack tremendously. For some of us, that question might be a tremendous comfort because we know as someone who does love us. But the point of the text this morning is that simply being loved isn't enough. Because not only do we have to be loved We have to know that we're loved. We have to know that we're loved in order to to be able to achieve all that God and all that we have is our potential. All that God calls us to be and all that we have is our potential. I've used the example of a man, Greg Luganus, several times. I may have even used it here. But Greg is a very famous diver. He was diving in the 84 Olympics in Los Angeles when I was um living in Southern California and I recall that as he would climb up the 10-meter platform, he would consistently, time after time, come up with perfect scores. He'd consistently get a perfect score, and one day a reporter was asking him during a break between events how he managed to do that. How in the world could he consistently surmount the pressure? Face that pressure of getting on top of the diving board and performing an incredible event only to get a score of perfection. Greg looked at him and said, Every step that I take as I climb up that platform, I think of how I can blow the dime. I think of how I can make a mistake. He says, as I get to the top, I stand there and I think about the dive one last time, and I realize that even if I blow it in every way I could possibly blow it, my mother will still love me. Then I go and I do the dive, then I get a 10. I get perfection. It's the best it could be. As I stand up here this morning preaching a sermon that I know I can blow in a lot of different ways. I mount the steps and I think, okay, I could blow it that way. I could blow it that way too. You know, I could blow this lots of ways. But you know what? My God still loves me. And so I can stand here with fear and trepidation and bring to you a message of God's incredible love. The question I want to ask you this morning is, are you loved? Think about it for a moment. Don't take it for granted. Are you loved? And then secondly, do you know that love? Not just that somebody has kind affection for you, but do you know both the one who loves you and the love they have for you? Paul's prayer in Ephesians chapter 3, which we'll read in just a moment, is a prayer that really must be our own. Not only must we pray it for ourselves, but what it offers must be ours. We have to have this. We cannot survive. We cannot mature. We cannot be fully ourselves if this prayer isn't true for us. Let me read the prayer. For this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power together with all the saints to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. And to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. As we come to this text this morning, we have to ask ourselves a few questions. And the one that we have to begin with is how can we know? How can we know Christ's love That's the first point. Christ's love. How can we As I look at my own life and I I I struggle to see how I can understand that, the first thing I have to admit to myself is that I can't know that. Not in my own power. It is not in my power, and that's the second set of blanks, not in our own power. It is not in my power to know the love of Jesus. In fact, to be honest, it's not in my power to know anyone's love. I simply can't. I can't read your mind. And I can't presume why you do what you do. All I can know is what you've done. I cannot know why. In the movie Fiddler on the Roof, Tevya, the husband and father, in one scene, is really struggling with the whole issue of love and marriage. Because his daughter has refused the match that he's made with the butcher on the one ground that she doesn't love the butcher, she loves the tailor. And so he struggles with that. That's a foreign concept to him. Love in marriage. And he goes to his wife, who he has raised three daughters with, to the point of being adults. And he asks her a question for the first time in his relationship. Do you love me? You see, she has spent an entire married life doing things for her husband. And he doesn't know if she loves him. She thinks about it and she recounts all the things she's done to take care of him over those years and she says, Yeah, I guess I love you. And she turns a question around and says, Do you love me? And he looks at her and he thinks about all the things he'd done over the years to take care of her and finally concludes, yes, I love you. And they have this wondrous celebration now that they know that they love each other at the end of their married life. But they couldn't read each other's minds There's a message there for us. But that's not the message of this sermon. The message of this sermon is that you don't have the power to know that God loves you on your own. We're conditioned to assume. We judge on the basis of actions. And if those actions are missing, oftentimes we judge That the feelings are missing too. And so this morning you may be struggling because it may not be that God is showing you love in the way that you want to be shown love. And you may have concluded this morning that God doesn't love you. Regardless This is further complicated because in the passage we have this morning, as Paul is praying, he describes this love. And he says, to be honest, it is a love in verse 19 that surpasses knowledge. Even if you could read the mind of God, you could not know this love because it is beyond knowledge. It's beyond knowing. It's not yours to grasp, both because you can't know God's mind and because you can't even begin to fathom his love. And that leaves us with a bit of a problem. And it begins to make us feel quite uncomfortable. Because something we desperately need is beyond our reach. But God, and that's the blank on line C, God can give us the power to know. You see, God has the power to give to us so that we might know his love. That's what Paul is teaching in this prayer, because it's consistently through this prayer that he says that God would give you the power. He says in verse 15. 16, I'm sorry. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being. And verse 18, that you may have power together with all the saints. In verse 20. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us. Paul understands, and he's communicating to us, that God has the power available to give to us to know his love. And that power is incredible because in verse 18 it's somewhat camouflaged in the NIV. But what's really being said in the Greek there is that you may be fully empowered, not simply able. Not simply having power, but that you may be fully empowered to comprehend, to fully grasp, to completely understand the love, the boundaries of that love. It's a power and it and it's something that we can think of here and and let go right over our heads. Because we've heard from the time we were knee-high to a grasshopper that God loves his children. And it becomes meaningless. It becomes empty. But I want you to stop for just a moment. We're going to take just a minute here in the middle of sermon to think about that. God can give you this morning the power to know that he loves you and to be fully empowered to comprehend the incredible love he has for you. Don't let that pass you by. Don't gloss over that. That is perhaps the most incredible gift other than salvation that God could possibly give. To know his love. To comprehend. To be fully empowered to know that he loves you. To have that security. To have that confidence. That intimacy with God. It's incredible. It's life transforming. But that still gives us a dilemma because even though God has the power to give, how do we get it You see, I can't have it on my own. I'm told that because I realize my own inabilities as a person to understand other people. And I'm told even more that it's beyond knowledge, it surpasses knowledge. But then I'm teased because you see it's available. God has it to give. And I'm dying of thirst. How do I have it? See, if if you can think of those things this morning and sit there with with no passion, then you haven't grasped it. It hasn't become real to you. Because this is amazing. It's astounding. If you don't want it, if you wouldn't pay all you have to have that, you haven't grasped what it is that's offered to you. It's incredible. So how do I get it? That's the point of the prayer this morning. That's the point of this passage. We, and please get this, we have been given the freedom, the opportunity to ask God to give it to us You see, God desires that you have that knowledge. It is God's purpose for all his children. To have the full empowerment to grasp his love. That is the answer to our dilemma. It's to ask for it. But there are a couple of preconditions. There's always a catch, isn't there? The first of those is a relationship You see, Paul is praying this prayer, not for the world. Paul is praying this prayer for the Ephesians. And you have to know what Paul has said about the Ephesians from the beginning of the letter on. And he's spoken of them as those who have a relationship with God through Jesus Christ. And if this morning you're here and you don't know that you've got that, you don't have the freedom to pray this prayer for yourself. You don't. Because the love is conditioned on the relationship, and you can't know a love that doesn't exist. You can't. How do you have that relationship? Well, Paul speaks throughout Ephesians of talking about being adopted as sons through Jesus Christ. He speaks of being redeemed through Jesus' blood. He speaks of being resurrected from a deadness in sin to a new life in Jesus Christ. And then he says in verse 14, for this reason. You see, for the reason that the Ephesians have become United to God through Jesus' death and resurrection, Paul can pray this prayer. And it is available to you this morning. If you don't have that relationship, it's not impossible to have. As a matter of fact, You simply have to ask for that too. You have to trust Jesus and his life, his death, his resurrection as sufficient and total payment for your sin. For your rebellion to God. If you want this love this morning, it's yours. And if you want to know this love, Paul says it can be yours. That knowledge can be yours. It can be yours by trusting in Jesus. And that knowledge can be yours by asking with confidence for God to give it to you. Because not only is it conditioned upon relationship, it's also conditioned upon promise. And those promises aren't ours to God, they're his to us. He says in John 15, Hitherto, if you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish, and it should be done for you. He goes on to say, until now you've asked for nothing in my name. Ask and you shall receive that your joy may be full. That your joy may be full. Whatever you wish. He says in Philippians, be anxious for nothing If this morning you're here and you're anxious to know that you're loved because you have oppressive burdens and cares that have weighed you down, and you have no confidence in the love of someone to bound you up. Be anxious for nothing. But in everything, by prayer, with supplication, make your requests known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And he goes on to say, My God shall supply all your needs according to the riches of his glory. Christ Jesus. You see, we have promises. We can have that relationship, and many of us do. But we also have the promises, and we can ask, and we can ask this prayer, because it's an example for us, that we might know that love. And not only that, but in verse 18 there's an incredible phrase that I find astounding. Because as I look at this prayer and I think, whoa, why don't I see that? Why don't I experience that more? Paul says here that you may have power, together with all the saints, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ Jesus. With all the saints. This is not something for a small select group who happen to pour their lives out and study. This is for all the saints. This is yours. If you are a child of God, if you have that relationship, think about that. This is intended for you. God wants you to know how incredibly He loves you. It's amazing. It's astounding. It's easy to pass by. Well, what has God told us about Christ's love? In verse 19, we're told that we're to know this law. Well, what do we know? I'm going to have to pass by some of these fairly quickly. And these are only a few of the highlights. Get your pens ready because the blanks will probably buzz by faster than I can point them out to you. This is by no means an exhaustive list. As a matter of fact, even sitting here this morning, I keep thinking of things about God's love that I wish I could say. But the most astounding thing, the number one issue for me as I look at God's love is it is personal. It's personal. Now please don't just put down personal. Put an exclamation point. Let it sink in. God loves each of his children with the uttermost of his love. He loves me He loves me. In Luke 15, we have three parables that point out how personal that love is. The first of those is the parable of the lost sheep. You recall that there was a shepherd who had a hundred sheep. And somehow he knew that one was missing. Now I don't know whether he paused every few minutes to count his hundred sheep just to make sure. But I'm convinced it wasn't just that one was missing. I'm sure he knew which was missing. And he probably knew well enough to know where he lost it, because he seems to have found it fairly quickly. And that's the love Jesus has for me. You see, Jesus knows me, he loves me. His attention is upon me. And that's true for all of you who are his children. He knows you. His attention is on you and he's lovingly caring for you. There's the parable that follows of the ten coins and the widow who knows that one's gone. And she doesn't think, well, she's just taking a 10% hit. She wraps up the nine coins that she still has and she searches throughout her house, day and night. Now I don't know how many of you ever searched by flashlight for something that's missing, but this is even worse. She searched by torchlight And she searched until she found him. She didn't stop. She didn't take a break. And as soon as she found it, she rejoiced. And she called her neighbors over so that they could rejoice with her. That's how much she cared. Jesus tells us that as a picture of his love for us. He's not extolling greed. He's speaking of personal love. And then he follows that with the prodigal son. A son who rebels, a son who is selfish, a son who seeks his own interests at the tremendous cost of his father. But that's not the end of the story. Because as that son returns, that father is shown to have been grieving from the day that he left. And is shown to rejoice. So much so that it outrages his brother because of that personal love for his son. John chapter 10 talks about a protective, personal love. Let me read that. My sheep listen to my voice, I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one could snatch them out of my Father's hand. That's not a lesson on God's power. It's not a lesson on God's power, although that's true. It's a lesson of God's protective love for each of his sheep. For each. Not for all, for each. That's a picture of his protective love for you. It's personal. He loves me And if you know him, you can say the same thing. It's redemptive. He has rescued me. He's rescued me. He's removed my sin. Ephesians 1:7 says that in Jesus we have redemption through his blood. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins in accordance with the riches of God's grace. Which he lavished on us. He has rescued and delivered me. Ephesians 2, right before this passage But because of his great love for us, God who is rich in mercy made us alive with Christ, even when we were dead in our transgressions. He has rescued me. I was dead. I was in rebellion. And he rescued me. That's amazing. It's outrageous. It's wonderful. And not only does he rescue me from my death, but he doesn't stop with giving life. In chapter two, verse nineteen There's a wonderful description. He says, consequently, you are no longer foreigners and aliens, but fellow citizens with God's people and members of God's household. I am a member of God's household. I live as his son. And I'm able to look forward to a time where I will see him face to face, be welcomed by him, be given a hug by God Himself. And welcome is his son. It's redemptive. But you know what? There's something better. Because it's unconditional. It's unconditional. I've done nothing to gain it. I can do nothing to keep it. It's not based upon me at all. Think about that for a moment. Listen to how that frees you. If you're struggling this morning with God doesn't love you because He hasn't shown you the things, the language of love that you want to receive, and you think, well, it's because I haven't deserved it, you're wrong. Not the right answer. You fail the quiz. He loves you because he loves you You have done nothing to gain that love. We're told in chapter 2, verse 5, that while we were dead in our sin He made us alive. You've heard this morning that God demonstrates his love for us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You know the truth of the matter is? God died for you when you were at your worst. You will never be worse than you were when He saved you. Never. Because you were dead. You had absolutely nothing to offer to Him. And you know what? He's not asking you to offer anything to him now. You don't gain his love Without any conditions, only to have to keep it with conditions. He gives it to you and he keeps giving it to you without you doing a single thing to earn it Beyond that, it's eternal. You can't do anything to end it. You cannot separate yourself from the love of God. Now I realize these things are passing by fast and furious, and each one of them deserves about three sermons Each one of them could be something you could think about for the rest of your life. But I want you to grasp this one too. You can't do anything to pull yourself away from God's love. Better stated, there is nothing you've done to separate God's love from you. It's yours. If you have that relationship with God through Jesus' work, through Jesus' work, you can't pull away from God's love It's impossible. The passage I read a few minutes ago, Jesus says that no one can snatch them out of my hand. No one. Because God's hand is too strong. Now, would you like to go up against God in an arm wrestle and see if you can pull yourself out of his hand? That's about what you have to do. And the truth is, Jesus says, no, you can't do that. You cannot do that. Don't have the arrogance to think that you can Please let God be God. But even more wondrously Romans 8. We read it this morning. And listen to this. This is Paul speaking of God's love. He says, For I am convinced that neither death nor life Neither angels nor demons, neither the present, nor the future, nor any powers, neither heights, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. Will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus, our Lord. Think about that Sometimes when we're low, we can think about that, and it really is a soothing balm to our soul. It comforts us. But the truth of the matter is we haven't begun to plumb the daps, and if we pass that by and allow it to be surfaced, we have robbed ourselves. Because the truth of the matter is that God's love cannot be taken away. And you don't have to look only at the outside for places where it can't be taken away. You can't take it away from yourself. Now you might not think about it, you might easily dwell on other things, and you might forget that it's there, but it's there. Again, it's important not only to be loved, but to know that we're loved. But the truth of the matter is that love is ever present and it's a security blanket and you can't lose it. You cannot lose it Another wondrous thing is that it's transforming. You know that God's love makes me new? I am not the man I was when God first displayed that love to me. 2 Corinthians 5 17 says something incredible. It says, Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he's a new creature. A new creature. The old things have passed away, behold, new things have come. There is tremendous hope. In God's love. Because He does not leave me as I was. Not only can I not pull myself away from it, God doesn't leave me in my misery, in my pit. God makes me a new creature. He changes me. Thank goodness that I don't have to live my life as the same person I was And in this passage, the last verse of the prayer, well, not the last verse of the prayer, the last verse of his petition in the prayer. He says, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. That's mind-boggling. I can't begin to grasp what he's talking about there. But I do know that what he's saying is that I will have complete maturity, be filled with the fullness of God, to the point that I have the glory. Of God. When I am in heaven, God will have so perfected me and so transformed me that I will no longer have any semblance of my sinful self today. He has made me a new creature. He will fill me with the fullness of God. And that's not something that's new to this one particular prayer. We talk about the purpose of our church, to know him, to know our hope, and to know his power. And I know I'm passing that by quickly, but it comes from the first prayer in Ephesians that Paul has. Which in some ways is is a mirror for this one. But the end of that, the end of that prayer The end of that passage is saying, and God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is us. which is his body, and he describes it as the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. We are to be filled with the fullness of Christ. Chapter 1. Chapter 2. The end of the chapter. And in him you too are being built together. To become a dwelling in which God lives by his Spirit, the fullness of Christ. The end of this chapter, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. It's transforming. And it leads me to being filled with the fullness of Jesus. And I can't even begin to grasp that. But it's amazing. He doesn't leave me as I am. He has a goal for me that I can't even begin to understand. It's empowering. This is the last of the highlights we're going to touch on this morning. I hope that your appetite in some ways is wetted to begin to see just some of the things that we can know about the love of Jesus for us. But it's empowering. He empowers me to please him He empowers me. I'm not told what he wants and left to create the own energy in myself to do it. In chapter 2, verse 10, immediately following the section where he talks about that you're saved by grace, not by works, he says. For we're God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. God calls us to the good works and he empowers us to do that because he equips us with his Spirit to do all that he desires us to do. He doesn't tell us. As Alan points out so consistently, he doesn't give us a 12-foot standard to jump to and tell us to jump on our own. He lifts us beyond the twelve feet. It's his power. It's his work in us. It is his Spirit who gives us the power to know his love. It is his declaration of that love which we have in the Bible He wants us to know his love. He wants you to know his love. He wants you to be immersed in it. He wants you to be filled with all the fullness of it. He wants you rapturously in love with him. Well what happens when we glimpse? That's the last no, that's the next of the last blank. What happens when we glimpse this love? Well, as Paul is even praying about it and thinking about it, verses 20 and 21 are his response to it. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, God is able to do more than you can imagine, more than you can ask. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations. Forever and ever. Amen. I think that deserves an amen. Let's try that again. I mean that that deserves a real amen. You guys just sort of glossing over it again. How about it? Amen. We'll get there. What happens when we begin to glimpse the love that Jesus has for us? Well the first thing is we smile As we really begin to understand what Jesus thinks of us, as we understand what he's done for us, we haven't even begun in the section on his love to look at the cost to God To love us. We didn't even look at the cross. We didn't look at how He displays for 33 years his love for us in so many ways. But we smile as we think of how good God is and how wondrous His love is. It's amazing. I'm stuck on that word because it just is something beyond being able to communicate. But as you begin to see that, things look different. The sky is bluer, the grass is greener, flowers seem to appear out of nowhere. It's amazing We think of how we are as we fall into some sort of an infatuuous relationship with another and everything's wonderful. You walk three feet off the ground. There's always a smile on your face. You can't think of anything except that person you're infatuated with. That's just a picture as you think of God's love for you. There is no comparison. None The sky is tremendously blue. Technicolor has come. Black and white is over. Things look different. And if you're facing burdens this morning, if you have concerns that are weighing you down, let me direct your attention to Elisha and his servant as the armies of Syria try to capture Elisha. It's a tremendous picture. Because we have not caught reality if we have not caught God's love. Elisha is in a city and the king of Syria is enraged. Because every time the king of Syria plots in his throne room or any of his private chambers, Before the ambush for the king of Israel can be laid, Elisha's already told the king of Israel what's going to happen. And the king of Syria says, okay, guys. What's happening? Who's spying? And and and one of his servants comes and says, It's Elisha. Every time you say something, he tells the king of Israel what it is. I don't know how he's doing it. The king of Syria says, Okay, go capture him. Take him, bring him in. So he sends a horrendous army. There's a massive army that goes to capture Elisha. And in the morning, Elisha's servant goes and looks outside the city and sees this army on the hills. And he quickly turns around and runs to Elisha and says, Elisha, we're in trouble. And Elisha calmly gets up and says, No, it's okay. The sword says, No, no, you don't understand, we're in trouble. There's an army out there. And they're going to come get us. They've got spears and swords and shields. And Elisha says, okay, don't worry about it. And the servant is having a fit. And Elisha says, he prays a prayer. He says, God open his eyes. And as God opens that servant's eyes, he sees the host of heaven encamped around Elisha. And he says, Oh, you know what? They're in trouble. Paul is praying this morning that your eyes would be open not to see the heavenly hosts, because that's just that's small potatoes. His prayer this morning is that your eyes would be open to see and to experience and to know the love of God in Christ Jesus And as you do that, you're going to join Elisha and his servant and everybody else, and you're going to fall down on your knees and you're going to praise God. You are going to fall in love with him in a way you've never fallen in love with before. I don't care what kind of wonderful infatuate relationships you've had, as you've just seen somebody on an ivory tower. As you begin to grasp God's love for you, there is no comparison. There is none. And one of the amazing things that happens as you do that is you can't contain that. Remember back to the first love of your life. As people were around you, they began to question you, what in the world has changed? What's different? Why why why are you walking three feet off the ground? It was almost as if they could visibly see you walk three feet off the ground and they had to wear sunglasses as you smiled. That's nothing compared to how you will be as you begin to realize the love of Christ. And you'll share it. Even if you don't try to, you'll share it because people are going to notice the difference. And they'll ask. But you need to try to share it because I think you need to pray this prayer. It has to be yours. You need to pray this prayer for yourself. And it's become my theme passage for the year and possibly for my life. Because it's an incredible passage. But you need to pray that for others as well, for your spouses, for your children, or your parents. For this church, please pray this prayer for us as a church. You need to pray it for everyone you know Because God is the one who gives his love. And God is the one who gives the knowledge of his love. Let's pray. Lord, we do thank you. We are without words. We cannot begin to understand your love. We cannot begin to thank you for what we know of it. But Lord, I simply pray that you would make it more and more real to us and that we would know you in your incredible goodness. That we would know your love and that you would transform us. That we might be able in return, in our love for you, to bring you pleasure. Amen