I hear that a Jewish carpenter who turned rabbi claimed that he was the son of Son of man that Daniel said was going to come and to rule and to judge the nation. And furthermore, that this carpenter turned rabbi claims to be the long-awaited Messiah the Jewish people have looked for I've heard also the record says that he was crucified out of the hatred and the jealousy of the Jewish leaders of that time back during the governorship of one Pontius Pilate of Roman. All this so far is simple historical fact. But after his death, some of his followers began to write and to say that his death had a particular unique significance. That his death was not like other people's death, but his death was in fact a substitutionary sacrifice in place of all those who believe and see that they are condemned under the law of God and are guilty and are unable to make any amends and that if I look to Jesus and that death, provision in my place for that sin Then God will no longer be angry at me, but will in fact accept his death in my place as full payment for that sin. sin. I would like to believe that. It'd be nice to think that God is no longer ever angry at you again again for anything we've done wouldn't. I would love to believe that. I would love to be free from the guilty colour conscience and from the burden of that sin and from the sense of alienation from the God who's made me. But how can I believe it? How could I know if that death, in fact, did have such unique significance? There is a way I can know. The way I can know Is that God raised him from the dead. Or as you see in your bulletin outline, the way it's stated there, the resurrection established Establishes your justification. The resurrection establishes your justification. Turn in your Bibles if you have a Bible with you uh if you haven't already to Romans chapter four. Romans chapter four and verse twenty-five you read this verse you may be familiar with it but Think of what this means this morning. He, Jesus, was delivered over to death for our sins. And was raised to life for our justification. So it says that Jesus in fact did die for the sins of his people. And he was raised to life for the justification of his people. What does that mean? What does it mean that Jesus was raised for your justification Two things I think that this means. First of all, it means that the resurrection vindicates all of Jesus' claims. For who he was and what he came to do. The resurrection vindicates Jesus claims. Jesus claimed to have the authority and the power to forgive sins. Remember when The paralytic was let down through the roof. He forgave his sins. He said the Son of Man has power to forgive sins. Jesus claimed to be sent from God as the Messiah. To establish his kingdom. Jesus in fact claimed to be God himself, equal with God. And he said that his death was a ransom for sin. Now is that true? And I suggest to you that the unique resurrection of Jesus demonstrates that he was a resurrection unique man in all of history. And since only God can raise from the dead, God by raising him from the dead has vindicated his claim. God would not raise From the dead of fraud. And so all that Jesus claimed to be, and all that Jesus claimed to be able to do, was vindicated when Jesus walked out of that tomb because God Had raised him from the dead, putting a seal on his claim. But not only that, but Jesus' resurrection also proves the acceptance of his sacrifice for sin. It proves the acceptance of that sacrifice for you and for me. He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Now what does that mean? First of all I mean I believe that it means that it proves that His death was the right solution for your sin. It was the right solution. We all have that problem of the fact that we've done many things in our lives that we're sorry for, that we feel guilty about, that we wish we could change, that we could do over, that we could make right, that we could go back and and try Try again. The fact is that life can only be lived through once, each day at a time, and we can't change the past. But can there be anything done to forgive us for our our penance. Jesus claims to have been the sacrifice to do that. Is he the right sacrifice? If he's still in the grave, that means that it was not the right sacrifice. He's a man like any other man. And there's no hope of finding forgiveness in him. I was talking to a fellow just on the Friday, good Friday. And we were talking about the death of Christ, and I was suggesting to him that that death did have a unique atoning. uh e effectiveness. And he didn't believe that. He believed that his good was kind of gonna outweigh his bad. But he said, you know, it's interesting that the death of Jesus really did accomplish Something. It made people think about sacrifice. I said, You think that's really what it was about? Well, you know, 2,000 years later we're still thinking about it. It must have accomplished something I said, yeah, but was it the solution for sin? You see, that's really the issue. Is Jesus' death effective? To take away the guilt and the penalty of your sin and my sin, all the things that we've done wrong. The fact that he walked out of that grave. shows that his death was in fact God's solution. Because God put his seal on that death by raising him up from the dead when he rose, when he brought him back to life. But not only is it the right solution, but secondly it shows the resurrection proves that his death was the complete solution for your sins. And my sin. You see, if Jesus is still in the grave, then there's something else that needs to be done to complete the payment for guilt. There's something we still need to wait for, something we need to add to it. Something we need to supplement, something we need to contribute to that. But the fact that Jesus was raised from the dead means that The curse has been exhausted for sin. There is nothing left to be done. The payment has been made in full. It is dis We are acquitted because Jesus has raised from the dead. Therefore death no longer holds him. There is no more curse for those who are joined to us. His death is not only the right solution for your sin, his death is the complete solution for your sin. And so Paul says he was delivered over to death for our sins. And he was raised to life for our justification, to demonstrate, to prove that we are acquitted. Justification means to be declared innocent under the law. And so he goes on, verse chapter 5, verse 1. Therefore, since you and I have been justified through faith, we have Peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into His grace in which we now stand. Amen. We have that brothers and sisters, because Jesus was raised. But now there's a lot of reasons why Jesus was raised from the dead. Romans 14 says he was raised because he's Lord of the dead and Acts tells us that he was raised, Acts two tells us he was raised because it was impossible for death to hold him. Romans 1 says that he was raised. Raised from the dead to show that he was the Son of God in power. But don't ever forget that Romans 4 tells us that he was raised from the dead to demonstrate to you that his death was sufficient for your sin and that you go free acquitted because he was raised from the dead. And yet we all know, and the verse, the very next verse tells us us that not everyone is acquitted, is forgiven because of Jesus' death. It is only those who have faith in Jesus. You see what it says there? Since we We have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand. And so the other question that comes to us from this is if the resurrection demonstrates to me that there is forgiveness, there is no forgiveness New life, there is a new relationship with God that is available through Jesus Christ. How do I have that faith? What's the kind of faith I need? in order to gain that relationship. There's a lot of confusion today about faith. A lot of us look and we think about faith and faith is stated to be something that's kind of a general vague optimism that things are going to work out. Faith can be equated with self-confidence for a lot of people. of people. Faith is kind of the opposite of cynicism. It's saying that, well, you know, uh God's in control. Somehow it's all going to work out in the end. And that's kind of like what faith is, you know. But the Did you ever notice, I don't know how many times you've ever read Romans or Romans four, but if you ever have read Romans IV with much thought, you've looked at Romans Romans 4 is the chapter to describe faith. You see, Romans chapter 3 tells us that the only solution when we stand before God for our sins is Is the blood of Jesus Christ. The only solution for our sin problem is what Jesus has done. So we need to have faith in him. Then Romans 4 says, now what kind of faith am I talking about? What is biblical faith? What is saving faith? What is Christian faith? Distinctive faith. And Romans 4 describes the nature of saving faith. Now, what you may not have ever noticed if you've read this and thought about it is that Romans 4 says that the nature of of saving faith is that it is Easter faith. It is faith and uses a parallel between our faith and Abraham's faith. Faith to make that point. Very fascinating. Look at what he does to describe the nature of faith in this chapter. Paul says the perfect example of the kind of faith you need to get to heaven? Now this is a very important question you see. It's not just uh what kind of faith do I need to make me feel good, to get me through the day. So I don't get depressed, so I can cope. The question is: what kind of faith do I need to get to heaven? To get into a right relationship with God And that faith, Paul says, is exactly the kind of faith that Abraham had. And he describes that. Faith is having some critical elements to it. Now, when he does that, you notice in chapter 4 in verse 22, Paul says that is why it was credited to him, Abraham, as righteousness. And what he's saying there is he's describing Abraham's faith. He says, now this is why he was credited to Abraham, why he was given credit as one who was acquitted. The word righteousness there is the same word as verse 25. Justification. He was declared righteous, innocent, acquitted under the law. Why is it that Abraham was acquitted? Well, before looking into that, notice the connection he makes between that. He said, This is why it was credited to him. Now the words it was credited to him were written not for him alone, not just for Abraham, but also for you and me here in nineteen ninety. To whom God will credit righteousness for us who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life. For our justification. Now, what characterized that faith? What are the two things that characterize this faith? Two things we're told here. The first thing, I believe, we're told Is that it was faith in a person. It was faith in a person. You notice what verse 24 says. This was written for us to whom God will credit righteousness, who will declared innocent, for us who believe in Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. We're saved not because we Believe in the resurrection. It doesn't say it's for us who believe that Jesus was raised from the dead. It isn't even for those of us who believe that Jesus died for our sins. You see, to believe the proposition, the statement of fact, Jesus died for my sins, doesn't make me a Christian any more than believing that Bill Clinton is the President of the United States makes me Me an American citizen. It's not believing a fact that makes me a Christian. It is reliance on a person. We believe in him who raised Jesus from the death. The dead. That's what verse 24 says. It is faith in a person. You see, that's the difference between a relationship and religion. Religion is man's superstitious effort. To try and control God by some conjured up ritual. A relationship is a reliance on God who makes promises, and I give my To him in order to receive those promises from him as a person in a relationship. And so I believe him as he has revealed himself To me. And Abraham, like you and me, believed in a person. We believe in him this morning. We don't just believe the resurrection. Or as Steve prayed, we don't just believe that somehow new life conquers over old death, you know. The crocuses come up and the daffodils come up, and isn't it great? You know, we've got resurrection, and there's new life Hope and there's new life, and we come to church to celebrate. No, rather, it is the fact that there is a person who has raised Jesus from the dead. And we believe Now what's the second thing we believe? The second uh uh description aspect of that This faith. It is that it is in a person who raises the dead. That's the focus of this. It's in a person who raises the dead, verse 24. This is for us whom God will credit righteousness for us. Now, thoroughly, but try to follow closely, because I want to show you Something that excited me when I saw it. And I don't know how many times you've read through this passage, but I want to show you something that you may not have noticed. It's a parallel between Abraham and you that will help you to understand. Understand a very basic principle of the Christian life. You look at what Paul says here in Romans chapter 4, and he's describing, as I said before, Abraham as the example of But notice the particular focus of Abraham that he concentrates on. In verse 17 to 21 He says Abraham's body was as good as dead. Abraham was a broken-hearted man because not only did he never have a child, But it was as if God had mocked him because God said, I am going to give you a son of promise. And Abraham just kept it getting older and older and older. 70, 80, 90. Now he's a hundred years old. And he says, my body is as good as dead for producing kids. There's no hope, physically, of my having a child So Abraham sees his body as as good as dead in producing life. No chance. Look what he says, verse 17. As it is written, I have made you a father of many nations. He, Abraham, you see, is our father in the sight of God, in whom he believed, the God who gives life to the dead, and calls things that are not as though they are. And so, against all hope, Abraham in hope believed, and so became the father of many nations, just as it had been said to him, so shall your offspring be. I'm going to give you children. Now without weakening in his faith, he faced the fact that his body was as good as dead since he was about a hundred years old. And that Sarah's womb was also dead. Yet he did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that. That God had power to do what he had promised. You see that? Now that's the physical. Abraham saying, God says he's going to bring life from my dead body, I'll believe him because he says it. I believe him. That's his character. He cannot lie. He is able to do impossible things even to bring life out of death. And call things that are not as though they are. Then verse 22 says, connect the physical with the spiritual. You see, because verse 22 says that God credited that to him as righteousness. That Abraham believed that life could come out of death from God in his life. Sovereign power. God says, God Paul says, God credited that to Abraham for righteousness. Now you see the connection between the physical and the spiritual. Now think closely because You know, you gotta wait for the punchline, but I hope it'll be worth it. But listen, just follow, you gotta follow the line of thought again. Here's Abraham, he believes, there's death physically, he believes Believes that God can bring out of physical death physical life. And the Bible says, because that Abraham, who was spiritually dead, As all from Adam are spiritually dead. That's why the world's so messed up. Because we're all walking corpses spiritually. We are unable to please God. And so the Bible says that Abraham, who like you and me, were born spiritually dead, became spiritually alive. He was credited as being righteous before God. God. That means he was given new life, acquitted, a new relationship with God because he believed that. And so his believing in the physical ability of God to bring life. out of death. Brought into him spiritual life. Now, Paul says that's exactly the way it is with you and me. Look what he says. Verse 23. The words who was credited to him were not written just for him alone. This isn't just a principle that works with Abraham. Paul says, this is exactly the same principle that works with you and me. It's also for us, verse 24. To whom God will credit righteousness, for us who believe in him. Now he gives the parallel. Abraham Saw his body as dead, no chance of producing life. You see, here's this Jewish carpenter, becomes rabbi, teaches, I am the way, the truth, and the truth. I am God's Messiah to bring in the kingdom. I have the power to forgive sin. My life is a ransom for sin. And you look at that, and Jesus dies, a cursed crucifixion. He's put into the grave the question before you and me this morning. More important than anything else, and more basic, and the question that resolves every other problem that you have in your life this morning. Is did God raise Jesus from the dead? Is he able to bring life out of that death? You see, because if he is not, we have no hope. And you're on On your own to solve your own problems and find any kind of meaning for your life in whatever religious, superstitious way you can. But if in fact he did bring Jesus back from the dead, If he produced life from death in an impossible situation, that not only demonstrates that Jesus' death was effective for the forgiveness of your sins and my sins. But it says that Jesus was the first fruits of those of that new life. And you and I are joined with him. And the physical produces the spiritual. Just like with Abraham, believing that God was able to produce physical life out of a dead body, you and I look at Jesus and Paul Says we see Jesus was dead. God was able to raise Jesus up to life. Therefore, you and I who are spiritually dead come into spiritual life being joined with Jesus in that new resurrection. Amen. I hope you saw that, ma'am. Do you see the parallel of that? You see, you and I are called like Abraham to believe something so staggering that only God is able to fulfill that promise. And if you and I believe that Jesus is in fact raised from the dead this morning, then you and I are joined with him in a A new life that transforms us from the realm of death into life. So that you and I this morning Have life in a way that we have one foot planted in this life of death and one foot planted in a new realm of the resurrection. And you see, in that new life, you and I have peace with God and a new hope. Therefore, since we've been justified through faith, We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace. In which Which we now stand, one foot, still in this world, still in all the problems and all the discouragements and all the things that weigh us down to But also with the other foot in the realm of the resurrection. The realm of the fact that Jesus has conquered death, that Jesus has forgiven Forgiven my sin, that I have a hope of glory. I have a hope that this body of death is going to be transformed into that body like his glorious resurrection body. You know that it was just four weeks ago that we canceled our services because we had a blizzard. And when that blizzard came, we had A couple feet of snow. I don't know anybody who said, you know, I'm really worried. I think maybe we're gonna have winter forever. Now maybe it felt like that four weeks ago But everybody knew spring's finally going to win out. I mean, it may be March, and we're digging out of a couple feet of snow. But we know that April's coming. And we know that when April comes, the daffodils will bloom, just as they are outside their beautiful. This morning. We know that spring has got to win because that's the way it is. It's not going to be winter forever. It's not going to forget that there was a spring and a summer this year. We're just going to have winter for the rest of 1993. We know that it's inevitable that spring will come. Because God raised us Jesus from the dead. You and I who are joined with him in believing that God raised Jesus from the dead. And therefore my sins are forgiven. There's sometimes when you feel like it's still winner in your soul. There's sometimes when you still you feel like the victory is never going to come, and you feel like the defeat is over. Overwhelming. But you read the scriptures and you read about Jesus' resurrection, and you feel that warmth come into your heart that says, I am I know Jesus will come. I know that He is able to transform my life. I know that His hope resides in me and that I am. I'm able to find the peace, the contentment that my heavenly Father is able to take care of this or that problem in my life. Because he's raised Jesus From the dead. So I'm crucified with Christ. And I no longer live. But Christ lives in me. The life that I now live, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Is faith that you have this morning a religious Superstitious faith? Or is it a resurrection Easter faith like Abraham's? God is able to work in an impossible situation because he has Has raised Jesus from the dead. If your sin is forgiven, and your relationship with your heavenly Father is as his child. All things Lord, we confess to you that we live on such a natural plane so often. We live simply by what we see and what we feel. And this morning we want you to come home Holy Spirit to give us new eyes. New eyes to see that as Abraham lived in a situation that broke his heart And seemed to mark his faith because his body was dead, and there was no hope of new life. You Produced in him a faith that did not waver in unbelief, but believed that you were able to be faithful to your promise and bring new life out of death. And he believed that staggering thing that you were able to produce in him a son. And through that line of Abraham, you produced another son. A son who claimed to be the solution to all of our sin, all of our problems. And that son, And it seemed a hopeless morning. But you had promised to raise him to life. And the question for each of us this morning is do we believe that you have done that? Because if you have, you have produced in his new life also new life in us. For you have joined us with Jesus. And his new life and his resurrection has become our resurrection. Because in being joined to him by faith, our sins are Have been forgiven. And we're in a new relationship with you, as your children. So, Lord. we pray for any here this morning that long for that but don't have it. That you would grant that kind of faith. The Easter resurrection faith and the risen. Christ. That that faith could produce by your spirit new life the heart of that person. And Lord, we pray for each of us that you would cause us to see Jesus risen from the dead. And that we would connect all of our problems and heartaches. And discouragements to that one grand fact. If you have raised Jesus from the dead, nothing can ever be the same. And you are able to do all things. We belong to you as your children. And so, Lord, work in us. us that Easter faith, that faith of victory and triumph through our Lord Jesus Christ. We pray Yeah, kiss me.