Well good morning. My name is John Song. I'm the uh Director of Youth Ministries here at Columbia Press. Uh let's let's get right to God's word. Let's turn our Bibles to Mark chapter 11. Mark chapter 11, verse 27. And we're going to read all the way to chapter 12, verse 12. Mark chapter 11. Verse 27, all the way to chapter twelve, verse twelve. There's there's a lot of ground to cover here today. This is Mark chapter 11, verse 27, all the way to 12, 12. And they came again to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests and the scribes and the elders came to him. And they said to him, By what authority are you doing these things? Or who gave you this authority to do them? Jesus said to them, I will ask you one question. Answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things. Was the baptism of John from heaven or from man? Answer me. And they discussed it with one another, saying, Well, if we say from heaven, he will say, Why then did you not believe him? But shall we say, for man, they were afraid of the people, for they all held that John really was a prophet. So they answered Jesus, We do not know. And Jesus said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. And he began to speak to them in parables. A man planted a vineyard and put a fence around it, and dug a pit for the winepress and built a tower, and leased it to tenants, and went into another country. When the season came, he sent a servant to the tenants to get from them some of the fruit of the vineyard. And they took him and beat him and sent him away empty handed. Again he sent them to another servant, and they struck him on the head and treated him shamefully And he sent another, and him they killed. And so with many others, some they beat, and some they killed. He had still one other, a beloved son. Finally he sent that sent him to them, saying, They will respect my son. But those tenants said to one another, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, and the inheritance will be ours. And they took him and killed him, and threw him out of the vineyard. What will the owner of the vineyard do? He will come and destroy the tenants and give the vineyard to others. Have you not read this scripture? The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and is marvelous in our eyes. And they were seeking to arrest him, but feared the people, for they perceived that he had told the parable against them them. So they left him and went away. This is the word of the Lord. We pray together. Father, we ask that your word would indeed take root in our hearts, as we just sang. Lord, we pray that we would be able to see. That amidst our fears, amidst our feelings of rejection, Lord, we have a Christ who is our firm foundation, who is victorious and validates. all of us here today. God be with the the the preaching of your word. May your spirit guide this time together. And in the name of Jesus Christ We pray all these things. Amen. I love ironic stories. And one story that has captured my heart recently, it comes from a biography of a man that you probably never heard of, but my guess is that you've probably heard of his brother. If you've ever taken an art class before, uh, the name Vincent Van Gogh is perhaps one of the most recognizable names, if not the most recognizable name in the art world. Everyone has probably seen at some point in your lifetime a painting called Starry Night, for example. And you'll know that it stands as one of the most recognizable and significant pieces of art ever created. Now, Vincent Van Gogh died young at the age of 37, but in a little over a decade of his career as an artist, he produced over 2,000 artworks, most of them within the last two years of his life And in spite of this, Vincent could only manage to sell one of his paintings in his lifetime, just months before his death. He died completely unrecognized and widely considered to be a failure. But the biography I was reading was about his younger brother who made him famous. One of the greatest ironies about Vincent Van Gogh is that he wouldn't have even become a painter if it hadn't been for his brother Theo van Gogh. You see, there was a time in Vincent's early life where he wanted to be just like his father. His father was actually a Dutch Presbyterian minister. And so he moved in with his uncle and he tried his hand at it, but Vincent Van Gogh couldn't get past his ordination exams and failed as a lay preacher. To this poor mining community. You can see why I'm fascinated with this story. Vincent was poor and destitute, and he was extremely erratic and fearful that his life wouldn't amount to anything. But this is a stark contrast to his brother Theo. You see, Theo was a successful man with a stable job and career. And so Vincent had to humble himself and and really ask himself some hard questions. Well I've got no job, I've got no career, I've alienated myself from most of my family, so what do you do? You go to your younger brother and ask him for some cash to help support. And so that's what Vincent did. In fact the only reason why Vincent was able to paint it all was because of Theo who gave him him a monthly allowance, 150 francs, so that he could survive and buy art supplies to paint paint. But for the most part, Theo didn't really think his brother had any talent. He merely just gave financial support. And in fact, in one of the letters that Theo wrote to one of his friends, he says, And I quote, once Vincent's work becomes good, he will become a great man. Ouch. I mean, think about the irony, right? One of the greatest artists ever to live, living on the welfare of his younger brother. Now, what's even more ironic about this story? Theo's successful career was as an arch dealer. You gotta see the craziness of the irony here. Your own brother is an art dealer, and he doesn't even want to sell his own brother's paintings So, what would Vincent do? Vincent would give Theo all his artwork as payment for all the help that Theo was giving him as an allowance. But Theo never wanted to risk his reputation to speak. On behalf of his brother Vincent. Theo had no idea who his brother was, and the significance of what his brother's work would do. Now I'm going to come back to the story a little bit later, but I think one of the reasons why I love this story is that we we love stories with great amounts of irony I mean this is a classic trope in in all the movies that we watch. I mean y you know what I'm talking about, right? There's this there's this scene in all superhero movies, right, where the the superhero confronts and sort of defeats one of the lesser henchmen of the main villain. You know, this classic tough guy figure. And the henchman is always just looking at this hero and says, this classic line, do you know who you're dealing with? When my boss finds out you're in trouble. And just as predictably, the superhero will always say, he's staying in character, he says, you know, under his breath, well, do you know who you're dealing with? Now, never mind the statement do you know who you're dealing with is bad grammar. I know that there's some grammar people in this room, right, who are saying I should be whom, you know, and I I get it, I get it. Let's just focus on the exchange here. Let's just focus on the exchange. Why do we love moments like this? What draws us to irony? You see, when we watch dra the drama unfold in these stories, the reason why we love them is because we have access to facts in the story that the characters in the story don't realize. The villain doesn't know how foolish he's acting. Theo doesn't know what Vincent is going to become. And even though we see what's coming, even when the characters in the story can't, we can't help to be drawn in. If only they knew who they were dealing with. Today in our text in Mark 11, Jesus deals with a set of chief priests and elders and scribes that are just of this nature. They have no understanding of who Jesus is. They have no idea what they're getting themselves into. Now, a little bit of background on these chief priests and scribes and elders. They belonged to a group called the Sanhedrin, which at the time was the highest court of justice for the Jews that lived in Jerusalem. They decided all matters of religious error and were also the judge, the jury, and the executioner for anyone teaching heresy or living outside of Jewish principles. And you see, they have quite a problem on their hands when confronting Jesus. As Petey and Randy have talked about in the past couple of weeks, Jesus isn't exactly playing nice. at this point in the Gospel of Mark. I mean, he's throwing over tables, he's cursing fig trees, he's riding unclaimed donkeys and into town. I mean, people are just saying Hosanna and the high thing, they're praising him, they're worshiping. Jesus isn't exactly under the radar here. And so as Jesus is sort of building up this following in Jerusalem, the Sanhedrin is distressed. They don't know what to do with him. And they came up to him at this point in the story in verse 27 and 28 in the effect of along the lines of saying to Jesus, who do you think you are? What right do you have to teach and do the things that you're doing? I mean, don't you know who we are? Now, in this they're trying to trap Jesus in his word. They're trying to get Jesus to admit to the idea that he is basing his power and authority in something other than God himself. They want him to sort of say it so that they could persecute him and they could prosecute him and they can get rid of the Jesus problem. They're out for his head. They're fearful of what they don't understand. They're rejecting who Jesus claims to be. And they're seeking validation for their own status. Of the alpha males in Jerusalem. Mark, in the brilliance of how he's constructed his gospel, is pointing out that the most ironic thing About the Sanhedrin's interaction with Jesus is that these are supposed to be the most educated, most spiritual, most knowledgeable, most ready to understand Jesus for who he is. If anyone should know who the coming Messiah should be, it should be these guys. And they simply don't have a clue. And so that leads the Sanhedrin to three wonderful ironies that will guide the rest of our time here. And in doing so, I hope that it will help us to understand the ways in which our world deals with Jesus and how we deal with Jesus. So the first irony. This is the irony of fear. You see, the Sanhedrin, by challenging Jesus They were not only trying to get Jesus scared of their own authority, their own power, but see, they were also trying to influence the crowds that were following him. They believed they controlled the terms because they were the established authority of the age. They were the Sanhedrin. What they say and what they did mattered, and they were visible before the community. They were used to the type of authority and rule that came to being known as the ones who, quote unquote, could be the interpreters of God's word. But the irony here is that by trying to use fear as a weapon against Jesus, their own fears get exposed. Jesus had claimed at this point a type of authority that the Sanhedrin could never have. I mean, word has been spreading. About this Jesus who was baptized by John the Baptist, who who was seen as a legitimate prophet. You know, this Jesus who went out healing the deaf, this Jesus that went casting out demons, this Jesus that was walking on water, feeding the thousands. showing sympathy and compassion to Gentiles, and even intellectually going toe-to-toe with the Pharisees. Jesus has earned a credibility and a capital that the Sanhedrin can't buy. And so the empty and veiled thread of a question from the Sanhedrin that we see in verse 27, verse 28, doesn't have any power to it. There's nothing to fear here from Jesus' eyes, and the crowds that are surrounding it know it. And he knows it. Jesus' authority isn't an established authority, but it came from rather a response. For who he is and what he has done. And this is what makes Jesus' response all the more brilliant to these chief priests and scribes and elders. Jesus answers their veiled loaded trap of the question with a veiled loaded trap of the question of his own. He says, Was the baptism of John from heaven? Or from Now, you gotta see the tension that's create created when he when he when he asks this question. I mean, Jesus had basically done the equivalent of sort of a a rap battle rebuttal. You know, this is All you millennials who know what I'm talking about here, right? All right? This is sort of like eight miles stuff right here. Jesus is asking the question back to another question This is using what that Sanhedrin would have known as a sort of a rabbinic tradition of argumentation You see, when authoritative rabbis are faced with a question, what an authoritative rabbi would do is to answer with a question. To demonstrate your credibility and to show your own level of understanding and witness and how authoritative you really were. So what Jesus is doing is saying, you're trying to talk down to me with your question, but I am exactly on your level. This is like Mayweather McGregor, you know Kylo Wren, Bray, this is you know Woody and for you kids, Woody and Buzz versus uh Stinky Pete. You know, like this is this is like that kind of level of like two equals battling each other. He flips it on his head on them. And the Sanhedrin all, as soon as Jesus asks this question, they're suddenly faced with the gravity of what they just started. Look at verse 32 with me. They were afraid of the people, for they all held that Jesus, that John was really a prophet. I mean, do you see the irony here? In trying to establish their own authority, to try and fear Christ, or bring fear to Christ, It actually showed what little authority they actually had and exposed them for who they really were. I mean they weren't asking Jesus this question because they necessarily wanted to correct heresy. They were trying to use worldly fear as a weapon Because they feared, as it shows in verse 32, what others thought of them. Their identity wasn't rooted in the God whose justice they were sworn to uphold or whose teachings. That would have clearly shown them that this was the Messiah. No, they rather they feared the approval and their own safety in the eyes of men, without fearing the very nature of God that was right before them. Now we have to pull back in this story and sort of take a self-critical look at ourselves here. I mean, isn't this the story of our lives from time to time? I mean we should at this point be looking at the Sanhedrin and seeing both the continuity that we have with the Sanhedrin and the discontinuity that we have with the Sanhedrin. Now, sure, we're not Pharisees, right? Point tank it. And perhaps we we have more inside knowledge about Jesus in the story, for sure. But aren't there times where we hold the world's view of us? Too much importance? Aren't there times when we grow anxious with the idea that someone somewhere is holding a negative thought against us? Don't we lose sleep over those who who mock us and and mock what what we as Christians believe? Don't we find ourselves in moments where we need to proclaim with boldness what we believe and and we just like the disciple Peter? Say, you know what, I never knew that man. Some of us And this is just true of my life as well. Some of us are too afraid of what others might think of us. And I say this to help us to see that as Mark does so many times in this gospel with Jesus' opponents He presents the problems of the opponent's sin as a way for us to reflect on our own sin. It's for us to reflect on our own fears. Now, when I say this, I know that there will be at least two different types of reactions to what I just said. And there these two reactions are on opposite spend ends of the spectrum here. Some of us might hear this and and we might be thinking on the spectrum of pride. And some of us when they hear this they might be thinking on the spectrum of guilt. So let me let me just exhort both groups here. And if you fall in the middle, that's all right. Let me exhort both groups here for a second. Now For the prideful ones here in this room, I'm included in this, you might just hear what I just said about the Sanhedrin, and you might think, oh yeah, that's That's right. You tell them, I don't know what to call you, director song. You tell them, right? Look at all these heathens who don't have a fear of God in their hearts. I mean they don't even sit in the front row in the service, right? No offense. Right. Right. They don't even sit, right? I mean I've got a Bible verse for this. Proverbs 29-25. The fear of man lays a snare. But whoever trusts in the Lord is safe. Now obviously I'm presenting a character. But I want you to hear this. For those of us who may struggle with pride, to hear this, for those of you who think this message isn't for you, it's for someone else. So you've got to understand something about this. Sanhedrin. The Sanhedrin had been living in the space of moral godliness and maintaining that status of moral godliness in the sight of others. For so long that they become disconnected to the reality of how sin affects them. I mean, this is why Jesus saved so many of the strongest words for those that are blind to the fact of how their pursuit of a visible moral godliness was actually rooted in idolatry and people pleasing. Fear of man. And what we should always be safeguarding ourselves in our pursuit of godliness and sanctification. And by the way, these are good and godly things to pursue. But the question we should be asking ourselves here is how the Sanhedrin's motivations relate to our motivations and whether or not we would live the Christian life. If absolutely no one gave you credit for it whatsoever, would you still do it? Ask yourself. Would you seek Christ? Would you love Christ if there was nothing to gain socially from being a Christian whatsoever? Would you seek the purity Of God that God has called you to, with your eyes on the internet and television, if you knew for a fact that no one would ever know or see what you thought Would you serve the church with your gifts and talents if no one gave you any applause or accolade or support? See, I mean this is a challenge for us who struggle with pride. Because if what is motivating us to be here in the room right now and dress up the way that we've dressed up and to be involved in the church and the way that we've involved in the church is simply to be seen. Then naturally and very easily we will compromise our testimony as Christians to appease our own selfishness. This is what the fear of Man does. We'll be quiet when Christians have to speak up to explain our ethical boundaries to the world. We'll fall into a trap in believing that we don't have moral ground to stand on when we're talking about. Talking to Christians, other non-Christians. I mean, we'll be crushed when family and friends turn our backs on us because we profess Jesus Christ. And we will place more weight on the approval of another's subjective feelings of love for us rather than realize that we are objectively loved by Jesus' name. Because he has said to us over and over again, he has shown us over and over again that he loves us through the death his death on the cross Those of us who struggle with pride, once we realize the glories of God and his splendor, and his majesty, and his worth, and his beauty, and see the ways in which we try to corrupt it with our own. our good works. It should break us of our pride. As the famous English pre preacher, Charles Charles Haddis Spurgeon would preach, he would say this often The more God's glory strikes your eyes, the humbler you will lie. That's for us here today But maybe that's not you. Maybe you're on the other end of the spectrum. Maybe you hear us talking about the fear of man versus the fear of God, and you're suddenly gripped with this sense. of immediate guilt in your heart. There's this internal voice inside your head that says, you know, I failed. I'm not righteous enough. I d I do desire the world. I I I I do I really know and love and believe in Christ? What what if I've been living a lie? What if and sort of doubt creeps in Satan uses those doors to sort of Just bring about disbelief. And so for those of you who are feeling this way, let me assure you that these words are not coming as a condemnation to your soul. But rather that the assurance of knowing that we live in between two kingdoms and we're not home yet. The Lord is helping us, yes, by God's grace, convicting us of our sin. But he isn't doing that merely so we can just stand here condemned. In our guilt. But rather to find assurance and power in a Savior who works in our weaknesses, in our guilt, in our doubt, in our Like just lack of self-confidence. It helps us to see him. This should lead us not to guilt, but into the arms of the capable one. Spurgeon says this. And uh he is really known for being bombastic, so I'll try and do my best to try and replicate him here. But he says this about the capability of God. Listen. Why, it matters not what God has given us to do. If He helps us, we can do it. Give me God to help me, and I will split the world in half and shiver it until it shall be smaller than the dust of the threshing floor. And if God be with me, this breath could blow whole worlds about as a child bloweth a bubble. There is no saying what man can do what God is with him. Give God to a man and he can do all things. Put God into a man's arm, and he may only have a jawbone of a donkey to fight with, but he will lay the Philistine in heaps. Put God into a man's hand, and he may have a giant to deal with, and not nothing but a sling and a stone, but he will lodge the stone into a giant's brow before long. Put God in a man's eye. And he will flash defiance on kings and princes, put God into a man's lip, and he will speak right honestly, though his death should be the wages of his speech. Oh, that's good. That's good. That's good. Christian here who is struggling with guilt. Wracked with your own incapability. Seek and look to the eyes of the capable one. You see the key for both the prideful and the guilty. Is that they need to surrender themselves to the authority of God, who is all sufficient for their weakness. What makes fear of man ironic is only in the end is only in the end result of what you fear. It's ironic if you place your fear in man, but it's not if you place it in the hands of a loving and capable God. And that leads us here to our second irony. And that's the irony of rejection. Jesus in chapter 12, verses 1 to 12, goes off telling the story of a parable to the Sanhedrin. This is for them. And in fact, one answers the very question that they were originally asking Jesus, if they could only see it. Now, when you look through this parable at first glance, it seems a bit odd. This this seems like the parable of not the tenants, but the parable of the very irresponsible father. I mean look at this Imagine with me. This is a father who first of all leaves the country, leaves his vineyard, gives his inheritance to some obviously irresponsible tenants. I mean, this father clearly didn't have a good human resources department, right? Um his father then keeps on sending servant after servant after servant to either get beat up or killed. And then after seeing all that, then he's like, you know what, this is a good chance to send my son to negotiate terms with this people. And then his son gets killed, and then and only then, after he's lost everything, then he brings judgment I think our modern sensibilities would look at this father and think, you know, this guy is not very wise or smart about his approach. You know, he needs to take a financial peace seminar or, you know, or Read a book about responsible parenting or something along those lines. I mean, why what what is the point of this story that Jesus is telling But see, to understand this story is to understand the irony of rejection in this narrative. Keep your fingers at uh Mark chapter 12, but turn or tap uh with me to Isaiah 5. Isaiah 5. Because Jesus is telling the story for a very specific reason. Isaiah chapter 5, keep your finger in Mark 12. Isaiah chapter 5, verses 1. Let me read this very quickly for you. Let me sing for my beloved my love song concerning his vineyard. My beloved had a vineyard on a very fertile hill. He dug it and cleared it of stones and planted it with choice vines. He built a watchtower. in the midst of it, and hewed out a wine bat in it, and he looked to it looked for it to yield grapes, but it yielded wild grapes. Now I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard. I will remove its hedge and it shall be devoured. I will break down its wall, and it shall be trampled down. I will make it a waste, it shall be not pruned or hoed, and briars or thorns shall grow it up. I will command the clouds that the rain no that they rain no rain upon it For the vineyard of the Lord of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are as pleas pleasant as planting. And he looked for justice, but behold bloodshed. For righteousness, but behold an outcry. Turn back to Mark 12 here. See This prophecy in Isaiah was very well known to the Sanhedrin. It's this sort of metaphorical imagery of Israel being uprooted and destroyed as the vineyard. Because of their rebellion against God. They're producing unfruitful fruit, wild fruit. And so in their rejection of God, Israel was sent into exile, and now they were no longer a vineyard of blessing. But rather they now have become tenants of the message of the vineyard. This would have been very well known to the Sanhedrin's. So so what does Jesus start his parable with? Look at chapter twelve. A man planted a vineyard, built a pit, a wine press, and Built a tower and left it to the tenants. You see, this is a direct allusion of God the Father and his relationship with Israel. Now you've got to think about how Israel maintained this message, this vineyard. See You gotta think about it. In the irony of rejection, they took what was supposed to be a steward of God's holy message. They were supposed to be stewards of the message, and instead, what do they do? They conflate stewardship with ownership. They took that relationship with the father of the vineyard and made it a possession. And in doing so, they rejected the servants of the father that came. To them to proclaim a message of repentance from the Father. I mean, think about the servants that God sent to Israel: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel. Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Naeam, Abuk, Zephaniah, Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi, all these prophets that were sent as servants. And what did Israel do? Time in and time out. Over and over. and over and over again. Some they rejected, some they didn't listen to, some they even tried to kill. The Sanhedrin are doing exactly the same. Now they see the Son of the Father. And all they can do is think about how they can kill him and make him go away. You see, this parable isn't about an irresponsible dim-witted father. This is about a forgiving, merciful, gracious father who gives Israel opportunity after opportunity to help them to see their need for a savior. God the Father is saying, here is another chance to listen. Here is another chance for forgiveness. Here is another servant to help you realize the gravity of your sin. I'll even send my son, even if that means his death, to help you to see how much I love you, how much I want you to come back. So that's what our Heavenly Father does, doesn't he? He sends His Son into the world, fully human, fully God, born with power, splendor, majesty. He comes in the world to suffer and die, to demonstrate the love of the Father that's given unto us. And what does this death accomplish? It releases us from the power of darkness and sin and hell, and we receive the righteousness of God. That this relationship could be restored from him. This is the stone that was rejected, that has become the cornerstone. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. The irony of rejection is its beauty And within it, we find redemption of the Savior. We find mercy out of tragedy. We find hope out of despair. And we see this play out over and over again in the Christian life. Out of something tragic like the martyrdom of missionaries comes nations who come to see Jesus Christ as Lord. Lord. Out of the countless times when we pray for those who don't know Christ as Savior, we finally see the fruits of repentance. We finally see people coming to Christ. And this is why Christians in this room who are who are just weighted down with rejection, this is why it should not lead us to despair. But when it comes, When rejection comes, we don't give in to despair. We don't give in to our hopelessness. Rather, we are assured that our God is with us, and that validation is coming, which leads to my last point here. The irony of validation. Let's look at verse 12. Verse 12 in Mark chapter 12 here. This verse always makes me laugh a little bit. Verse 12. And they were seeking to arrest him, but feared the people, for they perceived that he had been told the parable against them. No kidding. So they left him and went away. This whole encounter was started up by the Sanhedrin. They started the fight. Jesus finished it. They challenged his authority. They want to establish themselves as the one that runs Jerusalem. They want and what's happening here? They're leaving with their tails tucked behind them. They left with the fear of man gripping them and realizing that their power was no power at all. They realized they didn't own the vineyard. Jesus isn't going to be someone who lays down to their demands. So they had to regroup. Jesus is validated in some small way here, but this isn't the fullness of his validation, is it? In fact, the irony of Jesus' validation comes in the way that Christ was vindicated. I mean, think about it. For Jesus' ministry to be validated, it almost seems like the San Head I mean he was publicly mocked, he was brutally, brutally tortured. The Sanhedrin at a certain point would have felt like they were the ones that won the fight. And they would be wrong. Jesus goes through the cross. He goes through this tragic, beautiful irony. Not because he was somehow surprised by the Sanhedrin or coerced by the Pharisees to go to the cross. But because he subjected himself to the curse of death to prove who he really was. It was only in his death where we could really see him clearly. Out of the greatest tragedy of his life comes the validation of his ministry. Out of his life and death do we see life. Our sins forgiven, our destiny is confirmed. For those of us in this room that profess Jesus Christ as Lord, we have an eternal fellowship that comes out of this idea. So let me close with this. Back to the story at the beginning of this message. It's near the ending of Vincent's life, Vincent Van Gogh's life. And he writes a letter to Theo. There's over like thousands of letters that correspond between Theo and his brother Vincent. And Vincent writes this letter. And he's praising his brother for all that he's done for him and his fledgling art career. And he wrote this to his brother Theo. And he says, He's trying to thank him and he's trying to explain his work to Theo. He says this. My dear brother, there is this that I have always told you. And I repeat it once more, with all the earnestness that can be imparted by the effort of a mind diligently fixed on trying to do as well as one can. I tell you again that I shall always consider that you are something other than a simple art dealer. That through my meditation you have your part in the production of my candles. And that I have risked my life for my work. Vincent would pass away very shortly after. And Theo's grief as he was contemplating his brother's letters and as he's thinking about his life. This would propel Theo to suddenly become a zealot for the artwork of Vincent. And go. He set up exhibits all over Paris. He he he was and as he was setting up all these exhibits, renowned artists would come in and look at Vincent's work, and they suddenly saw what no one else could see. It would validate Vincent's fear that he was never going to make it. It validated all the rejection that Vincent had faced throughout his life. life. And in that six-month period after Irvinson's death, Theo validated his brother's life in his work. Theo, out of a great grief and love for his brother, died six months later after Vincent. You can actually see their gravestones next to each other. If you ever visit. But he died finally understanding the treasure that he had in his possession, in his brother's works. Theo finally understood at the very end of his life. Who he was dealing with. So, for those of you who don't know Christ here in this room today, let me ask you: do you know that This God? Do you know who you're dealing with? This is a God who loves you. This is a God who wants to enter in relationship with you as he is in relationship with himself, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. This is a God who would enter into the story out of his grace and mercy and send his son for you. If you want to know Who you're dealing with. This is the Savior that takes all of our fears, the pain of rejection, the worry about the assurance of validation. And every week that we gather here together, we're reminded again and again that He is alive. He is victorious. He is seated on a throne. He is near to us and he is with us. And he has proven the Father's love for us. Do you know who you're dealing with. I'll leave you with that question as we pray together. Let's pray Father, we thank you for your word given to us. We thank you that you are a merciful, loving Father, who is patient with us. Even though you send us time and time again servants and people to remind us of your love. Father, help us to remove ourselves from the fear of man. And Lord, put our trust in an Almighty loving God. Thank you for your words today. Thank you for this message. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.