You may recall that the Meeting House Board on February the twenty-first Directed a special committee to consider our paper on the Y Columbia Presbyterian Church's meeting at the meeting house and to recommend a response to the board at its March 20 meeting. On Friday this week, I received this letter from the chairman of that committee, March 1st, Dear Mr. Harris. The interfaith concept is founded on a philosophy of mutual acceptance, tolerance, and harmony. It is clear from your letter of February 1st, 1984. These principles are incompatible with the views of the Columbia Presbyterian Church, CBC. Considering these strongly expressed views about the philosophy of the Interfaith Center, we believe that you're not doing justice to your congregation nor to the other congregation In the meeting house to continue under our present arrangements. Accordingly, we invite your written reply by March 9, 1984, as to whether CPC agrees that expeditious alternative arrangements would be in the best interest of all parties. parties concerned. It's signed by the chairman and then lists the various members. It's asking for us to agree It would be good for us to leave here as soon as possible. Why is that? Why did we get that done? Why has this issue become the issue that it is? Let me remind you that it is because of the second reason that we gave for why we as a congregation believe that we should leave meeting house. It was that second reason alone which has caused the controversy. Let me refresh you by the statements of that second reason. The second reason why we believed we should leave the meeting house was evangelism. It is our firm conviction that anyone who ends this life without having received Jesus as Messiah, Savior for their sin, and Lord of their life Will come under God's just judgment, with the full nature of their sin exposed and condemned. They will suffer a punishment impossible for us now to fully appreciate for their disobedience to our holy God who is really there. Therefore it is not loving for us to ignore this basic teaching of the Bible and not to evangelize or proselytize others who do not trust Jesus as their Messiah. Whether Jew or Gentile. In fact, the Bible teaches us to take the gospel to the Jew first as rightful heir of the promises of salvation and then to the Gentiles. We understand that this is counter to the lab and let live spirit of an interfaith center. We fully appreciate that the Jewish congregations will be offended by this position. We're not committed to the interfaith concept when it relativizes truth and implies to what we believe or who we worship. And not really life and death issues. Remember, the issue is not in this matter that we are singling out Jews for judgment. The only reason that in this statement we mentioned the Jewish congregations was simply that in our five and a half years here, on two occasions it was the Jewish congregations who objected to evangelism. First five years ago when the Lutheran Church at Wild Lake had the Jews for Jesus concert, and then uh later on when they noticed a book that we had in our library on Jewishness and Jesus. That's the only reason that we even mentioned that. The issue rather is simply, is there a judgment at the end of this life? Is there a judgment after death? Is hell a reality, or is it simply an outworn, outmoded concept of a past age? People throughout the meeting house seem surprised and more or less shocked that we as a congregation believe in a literal hell and a judgment. I am to speak this Wednesday morning at 8 a. m. on precisely that topic, the nature of Christ's salvation and judgment to the various Columbia clergy, clergy in Columbia and in Howard County. That's a closed meeting for the purposes of dialogue. But why am I called to speak about this? It seems that people look at this belief as something of an anachronism. Something that's from a past age that they're surprised as those who at least have expressed any response to me. Surprised that we as a congregation still believe something like that. And it has had a real effect on me to realize what has happened within the church today. Is it possible that we, as evangelical believers or Bible-believing Christians, have gotten sought on what is one of the most essential, central doctrines of Scripture? The people would be so surprised that we still believe it, that we really believe it, not simply sing about it, or say it in a creed. But that we really believe this to be true. And so I ask you, when's the last time you heard a message on hell or judgment? Do you find yourself wincing a little bit or being a bit embarrassed as I'm mentioning or as you see the topic for this morning? Consider the importance of this question, brothers and sisters. Consider the importance. Every time you and I go to a funeral We hear somebody say a few things about the fact that there's life after death and that life will belong. And so everybody is comforted by the fact that there will be life continuing. But if there is life after death, That involves our meeting the God who has made us. And that God will review the life that we have lived. And if it's true that the verdict that He gives to the life that we have lived here now. will determine our destiny for the rest of eternity, of which this life is the merest blip in time Then the most important question that you and I can ask is how can I face that judgment on a praise? But there's a question today that's being asked behind that question. And it's simply, is there any need for fear? Or have we adopted what I call the Santa Claus theology? You know what Santa Claus theology is? That's the theology, you see, that says But you better watch out because there's going to become a day of reckoning. And you better be good so that things will be okay when Christmas comes. And so everybody behaved rather well, you know, the few weeks before Christmas, because you know you might get that coal in your stocking. But when Christmas comes, of course everybody knows that there will be presents there for everyone. And nobody's really going to get any coal in their stockings. Everybody's really going to get something. Because Santa Claus wouldn't be such a mean guy as to leave anybody out. And I think in a subtle way, we've made Santa Claus a cosmic figure of God. But while we talk about some sort of a judgment, that really when it comes right down to it, there's really nothing to fear. Because after all, God is love, God is grace, and therefore in the end, everything will work out. Now, Amos speaks a great deal to this question And I wanted to deal with it from Amus, but I decided that this morning, because of our time limitations, I would rather deal more directly with the teaching of Jesus and the New Testament writers on this vital question. A question vital because of each one of us in our own lives. If you think that as we talk about accepting Jesus as Savior and Lord, we're talking about something that will simply give you a little bit more help in living this life, the issue is more. Much more radical than that. It's a question of eternity. It's a question also concerning our motivation for evangelism. Well, you and I consider those that have not indicated any interest in Jesus Christ, or those that we don't even know where they stand spiritually, but we haven't bothered to ask them. They're their friends, neighbors, or people that work with us. Haven't bothered to ask them anything about their interest in Jesus Christ. And somehow we think, well, you know, it's not the proper time, and God hasn't given me an opportunity, and He hasn't come and fall down before my desk and said, What do I do to be safe? The So probably not the right time to bring it up. And we think that God really doesn't matter. We need to see the states of the issue. And finally, I would suggest that the opportunity is right because as people will ask us Don't you go to Foamia Presbyterian and won't you guys the ones in Flyer last week? Do you really believe that stuff? Then it might help for us to review again what the Scripture teaches, so that we're able to answer clearly and give a defense for the hope that's in us about what Jesus Christ, New Testament writers, have taught Concerning the question of judgment hell and what is involved with that. So I'd like to look at just four points very briefly this morning. First of all, I'd like to look at the certainty of judgment as taught in the New Testament Secondly, the causes of judgment. Thirdly, the character of that judgment, and then fourthly, the cure for that judgment. First of all then the certainty of that judgment. Follow along in your bulletin outline. I will not be referring to all these scriptures, but I wanted you to have them down. I plan to give out this bulletin outline to the clergy on Wednesday morning so that they can follow along and have the same scriptures that you and I are going through. So you can pray specifically for what will happen that morning because you've got the text right before you right now as a prayer remote. First of all, the certainty then of judgment. The Old Testament is full of the hope of the fact that God is a God who is a God of justice and one thing will set all things right in the universe. By bringing about a judgment that would eradicate sin. Psalm 50, Psalm 96, and other places speak of God coming to judge the earth. And when that last Old Testament prophet spoke, John the Baptist, Because that link between the Old and the New Testament. You remember that John came by saying the Messiah is coming. And he says in Matthew 3 that he's coming to either gather his brain into the barn or to burn up the chaff with a fire that's unquenchable. Two groups of people, either the weak into a barn or the chaff that is burned. Jesus himself bespoke in love and gentleness and is acknowledged as the epitome of loving concern The one who is our Lord, and we're not at liberty to disagree with what he says, and to pick and choose, and say he was loving on this occasion, but on that occasion I think he was a little off the left. When Jesus Christ speaks, he speaks with final authority, and we either believe him as Lord or we don't believe him at all. And when Jesus Christ came, he spoke a great deal about the question of judgment. In the Sermon on the Mount, which is generally acknowledged as a sermon, which is the epitome of all sermons teaching us to be loving, over five times, at least five times directly and other times possibly by implication, Jesus referred to the certainty of a coming judgment, of the danger of hell. He talked about cutting off your right hand at plucking out your eyes to avoid the danger of hell In chapter 10, Jesus, talking to his disciples as he sends them out, warns them and seeks to encourage them and to warn them about the message. That they're going to give, that it's going to be a message that will offend people. And then remember, he encouraged them in chapter 10, verses 26 to 28 by saying this. So don't be afraid of death. There is nothing concealed that will not be disclosed or hidden that will not be made known. What I tell you in the dark, speak in the daylight. What is whispered in your ear, proclaimed from the housetops. Do not be afraid of those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather, be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. What's Jesus saying there? He's saying you guys are fearing the wrong thing. He's saying to us as a culture, no, you're fearing the wrong thing. You're afraid of people. You're afraid of what people will do, how people will react to you. And we're so afraid of all kinds of things. We're afraid of eating carcinogens foods, and we're afraid of caffeine and we're afraid of our bodies getting unfit. And you're afraid of this and that and every other thing. And Jesus says the one thing you're not fearing is him who's able to destroy both your soul and your body in hell. Late December 1983, this is past year, Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys was out swimming. He was swimming in 58-degree water off the coast of California. He'd been drinking quite a bit. And the more he drank, the less he feared the water. And so at one point, after Dennis Wilson had been coming up and down and up and down, clad only in cutoffs and a face mask. He didn't come up. Dennis Wilson drowned because he didn't fear the water. He thought it was something not to be concerned about. He was fearing all kinds of other things. What was going to happen to the beach boys and whether they could get the group together, but he didn't fear the water and he drowned. An article from ABC, 1982, the ABC Evening News reported on an unusual work of modern art: a chair affixed to a shotgun. It was to be viewed by sitting in the chair looking directly into the gun barrel. The gun was loaded and set on a timer to fire at an undetermined moment sometime within the next 100 years. The amazing thing was that people waited in lines to sit and stare into the shell's path. They all knew the gun could go off at point-flank range at any moment. But they were gambling that the fatal blast would not happen during their minute in the chair. Yes, it's foolhardy And yet, how many people who would think they would never do something so stupid as to sit in a chair facing a gun barrel and it could go off at their minute? gamble on the fact for their whole lives that there really isn't a judgment. There really isn't a hell. There really isn't a God to be feared who can destroy both soul and body and hell. But that's an outwhelming concept. of a bygone age. And it's something that we don't have to fear anymore. But Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse 10, we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. No exceptions. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ to receive the judgment for those things done in our bodies, whether good or bad. Peter writes about the scoffers in 2 Peter chapter 3. Those people Peter says who say, well, you know, everything's continued as it was, but there really isn't going to come some judgment at the end of history. Peter says they don't realize that it's simply God's patience that's holding off that day. But Peter says that the day is being reserved for a judgment of fire to destroy all wickedness When there will no longer be any wickedness or evil. Now we should beg God that there is a hell to destroy evil. There will come a time Then there will no longer be any disobedience to Jesus Christ. And in that perfect society, hell will contain within it all of the evil, the rottenness. the injustice and the oppression and all of what people can do to one another to hurt each other. And because of that We realize that there is a certainty of heaven because there's a certainty also of hell What are the causes of this judgment, secondly? Well, basically, in the light of God's holiness, there are two causes the Bible teaches. For the judgment. First of all, for those who are without the Bible, the Bible teaches that the first class is conscience and creation. For creation and conscience in the order that they're given to us in Romans chapter 1. Romans chapter 1 tells us that all people are aware that this creation was not made by human hands. It was made by a god, not an idol, whom we cannot see. And secondly, chapter two tells us that we all have a conscience that dictates to us certain absolutes And then even if we go before God, you sum up in chapter 3, verse 5, as we stand before God In that final time, that final day, Paul says in Romans chapter 3, verse 5, that what should we say then? If our unrighteousness Brings out God's righteousness more clearly, what shall we say? That God's unjust in bringing his wrath on us? See, Paul's basically saying, you know, does God go by the curve? And uh if our unrighteousness, you see, is does nothing but simply bling out God's righteousness. It simply shows that we're all unrighteous. All it is is a contrast. Then he says, Is God unjust to judge us just because we're all unrighteous? I mean shouldn't there be some sort of a cure? curve here, some make it and some don't. But he says, no, I'm just using a human argument. Certainly not. If that were so, how could God judge the world? Because we've all gone fallen far short of a standard. You see, Francis Schaefer gave the example once. He said it supposed that every person was born with a tape recorder around his neck. That tape recorder was programmed only to record at certain points. The only thing we turned that tape recorder on was every time we said the word ought, should, or some normative judgment. He This is the way things ought to be by some standard that I have implicitly acknowledged. And Schaefer says that if you were to come and stand before God at the end of history, and God was simply to play that recorder and let you be judged by your own standard, you would be enough to condemn you. Because God has written on your heart and on my heart, his own law, that sense of absolutes under which we will stand at the end of history. But then the Bible goes on and it says, to those who are with the Bible, there is an even more intense judgment. Because we have a much more enlightened conscience, we see what right and wrong is, and we also see Jesus Christ. It's interesting that on a number of occasions the New Testament speaks of the judgment of hell coming because of the rejection of Jesus Christ. Jesus himself said in Matthew 23, in verse 33, after he's talked to the Jews there who had rejected him, he says in verse 33, How then are you going to escape hell? In verse 37, he talks, remember, about Jerusalem. He says, Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often I would have gathered thee to me, as a hen gathers her chicks under, but you would not How will you then escape the judgment of hell? Why? Because you have rejected me. It's the rejection of him that is being described there. In John chapter 8, Jesus In his love, saying this, written by the apostle of love, John chapter 8, verse 24. Jesus says, I told you that you would die in your sins. If you do not believe that I am the one I claim to be, then you will indeed die in your sins. No question of what Jesus is saying. He's saying there is a judgment. You will die either in your sins or you will not. If you do not believe that I am the one I claim to be. There's no alternative to your dying in your sins. Hebrews chapter 10 tells us that if we have received the knowledge of salvation and have continue in our sins, Obstinately refusing to acknowledge what God has said in his word. Then he says there is going to come up. Here Surgeon judgment upon us. And then he gives the example. He says, it was thought that somebody who despised Moses' law was worth being stoned. How much more than it? Will he be under judgment who despises the blood of God's own son? Finishes up that passage by saying it is a fearful thing. To fall into the hands of the living God. Why? Because of the rejection of Jesus Christ. No question there. That it's all going to somehow work out. That his grace will cover everyone, no matter what they think or believe. But it's a question of what we do with Jesus Christ and his claimants. Secondly, or thirdly What is the character of that judgment? Now the Bible speaks in all kinds of pictures. And sometimes people say to me, Well those pictures don't have a lot of contemporary meaning because you can read anything that you want into them. You can describe any kind of a theory, you see, because they're just pictures, they're poetry I would suggest to you that if you take Jesus at any kind of value in his language, then those pictures have a great deal of meaning. You see them listed there very briefly. Notice what kind of description, first of all, there is given to the suffering. First of all, Hell is described as a place where we are separate from the presence of God in Christ. In Matthew 7, after Jesus has talked about those who refuse to bow to him, he says, in the end, he will say, Depart from me. I never knew you. Depart from me out of my presence. And in 2 Thessalonians, chapter 1 Where we're given that vivid description of what hell is going to be like, Verse 9 tells us that they will be punished with everlasting destruction. and shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the majesty of his power. Very clear language to me, nothing poetic about that. Very straightforward proof. And it's also described as a place of weeping and gnashing of teeth. Again and again you see the references in Matthew and Mark where Jesus uses that phrase. A place of weeping, a gnashing of teeth. He's not telling us there, you see, what will happen. He's telling us simply that it's a place of conscious torment. He's telling us of the effect of it He's saying I can't describe to you what will what it will be like. You couldn't understand that now. But he said you can describe what you can understand what weeping and gnashing of teeth mean He's saying that's what it's going to entail. A Cecil will tell his truth seem too late. It's going to be a place of conscious regret, remorse, and torment. Thirdly, we see that hell is a place described of as a place of fire. Whether that's a literal fire in the way that we know fire, I can't say. But Jesus used that image for a reason. He used that image so that he would understand again something of the effects of that torment. You see again a number of scriptures where he refers to this. Fire speaks to us of something that is terrible and continuously raging and consuming, something that we can't escape, and something that brings upon us an anguish if you've ever burned your hand. If you've ever touched fire, you can think of an extreme anguish. And so that's again something conscious. It's something vivid. Jesus is using this not simply to give us a vague picture that we can somehow dismiss, but it's in order to raise in us an emotional response so that there is a certain fear and dread of what he's speaking about. Fourthly, he speaks of it as a place of tormenting conscience. Remember the parable of Dides and Lazarus. In Luke chapter 16, we can have there that re the word remember used concerning dislike, the pang of the tormented conscience of what the rich man had done In this life, to torment him as he is then in doing that in the like to come. And fifthly, we see that it is an everlasting punishment. That's important because there are some Bible-believing Christians today who are saying that hell really isn't everlasting. It will be a consummation, a destruction, and that perhaps what really will happen is that People who are without Jesus Christ will be obliterated. Well, that would be nice to think about in comparison with everlasting punishment. The problem with that is that, particularly in Matthew 25, 46, where Jesus speaks there about, remember it's the description of the judgment of the sheep and the goats. And he speaks at the end there, the last verse saying, They will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life And so you have a comparison of the punishment with the life. And if you say that hell is not eternal, then you've got the problem of saying that heaven's not eternal, because the same word describes both of them. Nobody disputes that heaven is not. is going to be eternal. I have yet to hear somebody who would dispute that. That seems to be generally acknowledged by all people. But the fact that hell would be eternal is something much harder for us to accept. It's not easy for me to accept. I don't say these things glibly. I don't say these things as if I delight to talk about hell's judgment. But I think so often that we as Christians have so shunned speaking about this that we've gotten soft on what Jesus Himself has told us. And he's told us this For a reason. He's told us so that we would flee to him as the cure. One other point before we get to that. Notice that there are degrees of suffering. Sometimes I think Christians misunderstand and they think. That all people either go to heaven or hell, and there's no difference. The Bible does not teach that. The Bible teaches quite clearly that there is a difference in the degree of the punishment of people who are in hell. In Matthew chapter 11, in verse 20 to 24, you have Jesus saying something that's absolutely astounding. He says there, Woe to you, Bethsaida and Kharazi, two cities that Jesus had walked through and ministered to and had preached the gospel to. Two cities that he had made his claims to. He said, Woe to you, because it's going to be worse for you in the day of judgment than for Tyre and Sidon. Because he says, if Tyre and Sidon Had seen the things done that you've seen, they would have repented. They didn't want to give another comparison. He says, Woe to you, Capernaum, Tad Capernaum, place where Jesus lived and ministered. He said, if Sodom had seen what you had seen, Sodom would have repented. And it will be better for Sodom, that city known for its iniquity and its perversion, it will be better for Sodom than it will be for you in the day of judgment. Not only is Jesus' teaching there, but there are degrees of punishment according to accountability of what God has revealed of Himself. But text this. Jesus is saying his judgment is so omniscient, he not only knows what we do with what we have. He knows what we would have done with the things we didn't have. Sodom, Tyre, Sodom, Tyre, and Sidon never received the gospel. But Jesus said if they had, they would have repented. You get that? He knows what you would have done and what all of us would have done in every circumstance. He knows our hearts go full. The judgment then is a judgment that is precise in its justice. No one of us will on that day be able to raise a finger and say, but God, you didn't take this into account. But God I wonder if we are really fair in that situation. Absolute minute justice, vindicating his glory and his majesty. But now, when you and I realize, therefore, what we deserve in that justice, let's look finally at the cure that he gives for it. The cure for judgment You simply stated when we realize that the problem is, Ezekiel 18 tells us, the soul that sins, it must die. The cure, therefore, is that there must be death. And if it's not to be our death, not to be us executed, then there must be someone who will be in our place. There must be someone who will bear the full extent of the hell and the judgment that you and I deserve. And so God tells us in his word in Galatians chapter 3, he tells us, but the only hope that you and I have is not in anything that we do. Notice what he says, Galatians 3 verse 10. All who demand on observing the law are under a curse. That's all hypothetical. That's actual. If you rely on what you are doing, To try and please God, you are under a curse. Because it's written cursed as everyone who doesn't continue to do everything in the book of the law. No hope. It's either perfect obedience or you are under judgment. Because God in his justice is perfect. He can't overlook sin. He can't dismiss it and say, well, boys will be boys. God in his standard is perfect in his justice. Clearly, then no one is justified before God by the law because the righteous, Paul says, will live by faith. Verse 13. Christ then redeemed us from the curse of the law. That is, he bought us out of that curse from the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hung on the tree, and Jesus was hung on the tree, the cross. He then redeemed us, he purchased us, he bought us, in order that the blessing given to Abraham might come to the Gentiles through Christ. So that by faith they would receive the promise of the Spirit. You catch that? Not simply by knowing that somehow things are going to work out By faith in Jesus Christ, we received the promise of the Spirit. By faith in him who became a curse. Him who bore hell from his Father, you and I, can be released from that very hell. John 3:16, the most popular verse in the whole Bible, says, For God so loved the world. that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, actual, not hypothetical, should not perish But had eternal life. Followed up by the end of that chapter, verse 36. Whoever believes in the Son As eternal life. But whoever rejects the Son will not see life. Not hypothetical. Actual. For God's wrath actually remains. All in him. John chapter 5, verse 22. Jesus said, The Father judges no one, but he's entrusted all judgment to the Son, that all may honor the Son just as they honor the Father. And he says, nothing. Get this. If anyone doesn't honor the Son, then he doesn't honor the Father. You can't say that people who don't know about Jesus Christ will be covered with God's grace because God's grace extends beyond anything. He says, if you don't honor the Son, you're not honoring the Father. What's the result of that? Verse 24, I tell you the truth. Whoever hears my word and believes in who sent me has eternal life. And will not be condemned. He has crossed over from death to life. See, some people are saying today you've sort of got a tension, you know. You got hell. You got wrath and you got grace. And these two things are intentioned in God's mind. But ultimately, the grace is going to win out over the hell. Because these things are sort of struggling in a tension together. The Germans call it a dialectic tension. Just means the two things are struggling in tension. But the Bible says that there's a transition. They're all under wrath, and those who believe in Jesus pass over, cross from the wrath to grace, to life. Life in Jesus. That is the only hope. In conclusion, then, 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 8 to 10, the most rapid passage I know. You'll have one passage to turn your friend to. To show them what God says about this. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 8 to 10. He, Jesus, this is speaking of, will punish those who do not know God. And do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. Very clear. But it will be punished with everlasting destruction. There you see it again. Everlasting destruction and shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the majesty of his power on the day that he comes to be glorified in his holy people to be marveled at among all those who have believed, who have trusted Jesus Christ, who have come consciously to him to place their trust and their faith in him and in his finished work. These people. This, he says, includes you, God, because you have believed our testimony to you. My question to you simply is, does that include you? Does that you in verse 10 include you this morning? Have you believed the testimony of Scripture that there is a judgment? There is a certain judgment. And wrath to come. And did you, because of your own rejection of God as the one who is the center of your life Because you have born against your conscience in the old way that you the values that you have yourself violated? Because you perhaps up until this time have shut out Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord of your life? The consequences of that this morning? We're not just talking about self-fulfillment, friends. We're talking about eternity. We're talking about something far too long for any of us to grasp. Perhaps you've heard the illustration for eternity of the little bird who was to take one grain of sand, take that grain of sand from the Sahara Desert, and take that grain of sand and fly to the farthest planet, to the farthest star. Twelve brilliant. light years away. You take that little trip. Somehow that bird's able to make it. He hangs in there. He gets all the way 12 billion light years away and deposits that grain of sand on that one planet. Then he makes a return trip back another twelve billion light years. Twelve billion years later he picks up one more grain of sand and he goes back to that farthest planet again, twelve billion light years away. And back and forth he goes. By the time he would have removed all the grains of sand of the Sahara Desert, of all the beaches, of all the mountains, the entire earth grain by grain to that farthest planet, eternity would have barely begun.