I want to talk to you today about the topic of a poor self-image. I know there's probably not many of you that can relate to that, but uh for the few of us who struggle with our self-image. I thought that it was something worth addressing. You may have noticed that uh this fall I'm not preaching a series on a topic or a book, but rather a number of concerns and ideas concerns scripture that I had that have been collecting in my mind some things that are ideas I simply wanted to be able to address for some time, other things that I think are matters that I believe the Holy Spirit is wanting to speak to us as a body about, particularly now in our own current situation. situation. But uh this is one that I have had on my mind for some time. I certainly am a person who struggles with self image, struggling with the whole question of uh Am I worthwhile comparing myself with other people? Compare myself with other pastors, with other people in social situations? And I find that in my counselling this is uh one of the very top concerns. People mention it again and again and again. In fact, it's becoming now that it's one of the most intensely thought deeds that people even come to counseling for. It used to be that people would come with a number of problems and you'd sort of trace it back to a problem. The poor self-image. And now it comes and people have have read so many things that have made them so sensitive to that that people just line up at the door saying, I'd like to talk to you about my poor self-image. And it's become the number one concern. Today things are written upon it constantly. You see both secular psychology, you pick up any women's magazine, you pick up Time magazine, you pick up anything, and you read about the number one concern of today is your obligation. to develop a positive self-image, to love yourself, to feel good about yourself. And so I want to address this simple question, does the Bible teach us to love ourselves? Does the Bible teach us to love ourselves? Now even asking that question may seem a bit ludicrous for some of you. Because we say, Of course the Bible teaches us to love ourselves. It's obvious the Bible doesn't teach us to hate ourselves. Of this message, that we're supposed to feel good about ourselves. And as Paul Brounbach says, to conceive of a world in which the number one concern is not our obligation to love ourselves, is like trying to conceive of the world before. Television. I mean, you may know that it existed in some prehistoric time, but to conceive of a world without television for most people today is something that's beyond comprehension. Yeah, and for me to say to you that I really the world before television. I can remember with that little round plastic zenith on my desk that I would turn on and listen to the shows in the evening with all the audio uh entertainment that I got. I used my imagination with that. There was no television and then finally came in uh that set, you know, that uh everybody would go around the people in the neighborhood and we'd watch Frontier Playhouse and Howdy Doody and all those were the big things. Yeah, it's just very hard for people. people to conceive what would it have been like to have only that and nothing else on television. What would it have been like to have not even had television? And even though that's very recent, I think we got our television about nineteen fifty. Even though that's very recent, just twenty, thirty-five years ago, our whole generation has become so immersed in the media television, so difficult for us to con even conceive of the world before that. So likewise, Even though most of us don't realize it, before about nineteen thirty to thirty five, the whole idea of the obligation to love ourselves and to develop a positive self image was largely unknown And unwritten about in our culture as well as any others, it's very difficult for us to conceive of life without that obligation It's difficult for us to conceive of how people lived before they were aware of their self image, of how people could have possibly existed before they were cultivating their self esteem, before they were aware of how they were waiting on whether they were feeling good about themselves or not feeling good about themselves. But in fact, I want to assure you this morning, such a world did exist. Secular psychology introduced this idea in the 40s and the 50s. Christians took over wholesale in the 60s and the 70s and began to write prolifically on it. And so we have some of our major leaders today. In fact, uh I'm going to need to quote from one of these. I forgot to bring my book up, so excuse me while I get my book up. Let's do something there for a moment. These are the things that I brought along. James Dobson, his book Hide Rose, which is a book on how to build self-esteem in your child. Dobson says shortly after he wrote this, he can consider this the most important thing he ever did. Walter Kirby wrote a book, Love Yourself, in which that is quite simply and basically the message that we all have the obligation to love ourselves. In fact, Kirbish says in this book on page 11. He says that self-love is thus the precondition and the criterion for our conduct toward our neighbor. Without self-love, there can be no love for others. It says on uh Page 15. Whoever does not love himself is an egoist. And here was I didn't say who does, wasn't it? He said whoever does not love himself is an egoist because he will be self-centered if he doesn't love himself. He hasn't cultivated self-love. Self-love, he says, is the foundation of our love for others. But in chapter 2, he talks about all the problems that come from a person who lacks self-love. He says that such a person would be hostile for They will either overeat or undereat. Uh, they're more likely to have abortions, they're more likely to commit child abuse, uh, they'll be likely to be fearful people. We're told that uh by one uh writer who writes uh for a Christian publication. uh that the fairy tale lapunzel is really a story about self innings. Did you ever know that? I mean Lapunzel was locked in the tower, you remember, and this old witch was uh telling her that she was ugly until that one day when she couldn't get out of that tower. She let down her beautiful hair. Remember Prince Charming came along and saw that beautiful hair hanging down that tower? And he looked into her eyes and he told her that she was really beautiful. And so mirrored in the love and the acceptance of his eyes, where Punzo was free. And so we're to understand that she wasn't really locked by the tower, she was locked by that wicked witch who held her in full self-esteem. And as soon as she was released from that full self-esteem, she was able to be free and to be her own person. And uh so many of us say, Yeah, you know, I got an old witch that's always telling me I'm ugly too, and that I don't accept myself and I can't do anything and I'm been full of rejection on back to my childhood and I'm locked in this. I'm trapped in it and I read everything I can get my hands on. It tells me about how I can develop a positive self-image. I'm hungry for it. I feel addicted to such literature. How many of us do that? You know you'll read through something and as soon as you see something when developing a positive self-image, that's what you stop and read, you know? Because it's the thing that catches your attention. Deal for the felt need that we all have. Now what does the scripture say about that? Yeah, I think of a book that uh this one was number one best seller uh by Newman and Markovitz, Burkowitz two years ago, how to be your own Best friends. What is interesting to me about this book is not so much what it says, and believe me, what it says is bad enough, but it's the uh credits given to this book. Neil Farman, the uh very popular playwright, says that when he feels down, he says This book is better than any drug. And he reads it twice a day with a glass of water to make them feel better. And then uh a number of people, very famous people you'd know and show resistance kind of thing, said, This book has really saved me because it's helped me to feel good about myself. Now what is it that the scripture says that we're to do with this problem of self-interest? I want to deal with that by looking at three questions. I want to look at number one, is there a biblical command to love ourselves? Secondly, I wanted to ask the question, is there a biblical warning about loving ourselves. And then thirdly I want to ask the question, is there a biblical alternative to loving ourselves? Well the first question then, is there a biblical command to love ourselves? Most of us would probably respond, of course there is Matthew 22. Or the parallel passages, but Matthew 22 is mostly appealed to. Turn to that for a moment. Matthew chapter 22, verses 36 to 39. Remember this is where the Pharisee comes to Jesus. And he asked him a question, Teacher, what's the greatest commandment in the law? Jesus answered Matthew 22, verse 37. Jesus replied, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and the greatest commandment. And the second is like it: love your neighbor as yourself. All the law and the prophets hang on these two commandments. That's a very important command. statement that Jesus is making. And the argument generally goes something like this: that Jesus answered him by saying, Love your neighbor as yourself. He did not say, love your neighbor instead of yourself. And Christianity has traditionally taught us that we're to love our neighbor instead of What we have come to see now during the enlightenment of some insight to secular psychology is that Jesus was really teaching us to love our neighbour as ourselves. Really, so the argument's generally given us, there are three commandments here, not two. We're really being told number one to love God, number two, to love ourselves, and then number three, to love our neighbors as we love ourselves. I remember when I first heard that articulated, it was from Walter Kerbish himself, he had a seminar, Kathy and I wrote him in nineteen seventy. four. We were just at that time working on this book Love Yourself. And he presented this argument that uh we wanted to um in our counseling to help students and others we came in touch with to love their neighbor as themselves and that in a It's intended to mean therefore that we should help people to love themselves because if they didn't, they would never be able to fulfill that commandment. Because if they hated themselves, they'd hate their neighbor because they're loving their neighbors themselves, they hate themselves, and so therefore they're going to hate their neighbors. And uh that sounded to me like a tremendous insight. I remember thinking that it really makes sense. You know, and I I began to uh counsel along those lines. I remember I began to adopt that kind of a mentality toward this. Uh Writings of people like Ulrich Schaffer made a lot of sense. Let me give you one of his poems because I think this really uh helps to uh capture this. I'll try to follow this because you've really got to be awake. I hope you had your coffee or whatever stimulant you need to follow what he's saying here. a very simple little poem called Loving Myself. When I love you more than I love myself, I'm really loving you less. Loving myself less than you, I make it harder for you to love me. Your love for me is so very dependent on the love I have for myself. And my love for you would be stronger if you loved yourself the way you love me. But that I don't either. But you see what he's saying basically is unless I really love myself, I'm not going to be able to love you fully. And unless you love yourself fully, you won't really be able to love me. Because if we really don't love ourselves, we'll love each other. That sounded like a tremendous insight to me. Then about two, three years later I was uh having a conversation with Jay Adams and we got onto this topic about self love and he talked about uh he said, That's that's a bunch of baloney He said, That I just don't accept that, he said Jesus was never intending to teach that. And I remember my immediate response to him, because he does tend to, for any of you who have read some of his things, to be somewhat critical of a number of uh other psychologists' points of view, and I thought, There you go again, just being critical. You know, I'll thank you. Well I always gotta, you know, have something negative to say on this guy, and we got into this lengthy discussion about this thing, you know. Then I began to think about this. And the more I thought about it, the more I looked at the scripture, and the more I began to read about that, the more I became convinced. Did he have a point? And I think the point on this text can be summed up in two things that you see right there in the book. Number one, I do believe now that Jesus in fact does have your two commands, not three. The reason I believe that, you see you might have a point if you could deduce from what Jesus says that there were three commands here. The problem is that Jesus himself says in verse forty that there's two commandments. Verse 40, all the law of the prophet hang on these two commandments. Now, if Jesus intended for us to have three commandments, then why did he say there's only two commandments? Clearly, he's making an assumption in the second commandment. He's assuming that we love ourselves and therefore the love for our neighbor is based upon what he's assuming not commanding. But you say, but how can that be true when I know of so many people that don't love themselves, that don't feel good about themselves? That's just the point. That's the second point. The point is, the Jesus word that he uses here is that old word agante that we've talked about before. And the word agante refers to our will and our actions, not our feelings. Do you remember when we went through that series in first John chapter four? And I try to point out there that what God is talking about when he talks about our love for him and his love for us, it's the word of God To our will and our action. 1 John 4:10. Here it is love not that we loved Him, but that He loved us and sent. The result of this love was action. He sent His Son to be a pleasant sacrifice for us. our sins. And so agape is a word which refers to action. That's contrasted with the word filia or philato, which is the word that talks about feelings of love. The word phala'o or filo Philia means affection, enjoyment of someone, feeling good about someone, really liking someone. And so these are two very different words. And the word that Jesus uses here is not the word Philip. It's the Lord that God said. And so what Jesus is talking here is not about how we feel about ourselves, but what we do toward ourselves and toward others. That's made clear by Ephesians chapter 5. Verse 29, you remember where Paul talks about how a husband should love his wife as he loves himself. And he says, even as he should love his own body. The word that Paul uses there is the word agape. And you remember what he says there? He says, No one ever hated their own body, but they do what? They feed it and they care for it. He doesn't talk about how they feel about their body. His whole point is simply that you feed yourself. Don't have breakfast this morning. If I go on too long and Sunday school goes on too long, you're going to start getting hungry, you're going to start feeling about your body. And I'm then thinking about it, he's gonna say I want to feed that body, I want to go home, I want to give it some rest, you know. I take care of that body. This is what I do for it. And so what Jesus is simply saying here is what you do in caring for your body, you are do that. Now, have that same kind of care for your neighbors. Care also for their needs. Uh think about their needs. Be concerned for their welfare and their interest. It's not a matter of It's a matter of what we do. That's his point. The problem is that we, when we talk about this whole matter, become all wrapped up in the question of feeling. And so now that leads to the second question. Is there a biblical warning about loving ourselves? Is there a biblical warning about this? Turn to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3. In 2 Timothy chapter 3. Taking a look at the first five verses there, I want for us to notice five things about this passage very quickly. Five things, five points I want us to see here. First point is in verse one. Notice what kinds of times Paul's talking about. Mark this, he says, there will be terrible times in the last days. The word they're terrible means hard to bear, difficult times, harsh times, hard to enjoy. And so he's talking about something very unpleasant, something which is hard to bear. And then he describes those times. The second thing I want us to notice is what is the leading characteristic of the terrible times of anti-Christian sentiment. Verse 2, the leading characteristic, people will be lovers of themselves. People will be lovers of themselves. Wait a minute. Say now. One. Is Paul saying that we shouldn't love ourselves? And now here's where you need to bring that distinction in again. The word that Paul uses here is not the word adoption. It's the word The word Philip, Philadelphia, Peleo. The feeling, affection words. In the last days there will come people who are concerned to feel good about themselves, whose whole attention is wrapped up in how they feel about their self-esteem and their self-image. You say, is it wrong then to feel good about myself? Is that what you're saying? You're saying it's wrong for me to have self-esteem, a positive self-esteem? Hang on to that question for a minute. Let's not deal with that question and try to just force the scripture to answer that question at this moment. Let's just try to understand what God is positively saying here. And we'll deal with that in a few minutes. He says, at this point, the mark of the last times, one of the sinful characteristics, in fact the leading sinful characteristics, is that people will be lovers of themselves. Now that ought to make us stop and pause, didn't it? Of all the things that we read today that are advocating that Christians should be lovers of themselves. And then we turn to 2 Timothy 3-2, and God says, the leading characteristic of the terrible times of the last days. Is that people will be lovers of themselves? I mean, don't blame me. Don't get angry at me now and say, What are you trying to do? Lay a heavy on me? I said, Hey. I just want us to look at scripture to see what God's saying about this. God says the leading characteristics Of the terrible signs is people who are lovers of themselves. The word fala'uh is the feeling word. The word fala'u is never commanded in scripture. We are never once commanded to do anything. Why? Because it deals with our emotions. You can't de you can't command emotions. And so Paul here is dealing with a word that couldn't be commanded, but he says, This is the mark of these people. They're people who Dwell on their feelings about themselves. Further insight and understanding that, the third point, is to look at how he wraps up that list. Notice how he goes on. He says people will be lovers of themselves, then lovers. of money, boastful, proud, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, without love, unforgiving, slanderous, without self-control, brutal, not lovers of the good, treacherous, rash, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. That's a pretty good list. 16 characteristics there. And how does he end it up? Lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God. You notice how many times you see that word lovers, son? In every case, it's a compounds were the word fala. And so the whole point of this seems to be the problem of misdirected affection. Misdirected love. Rather than loving God, there are people who love themselves, love money. Love treasure. And Paul's saying this whole twisted, distorted philosophy of these last times is going to be a misdirected love. And between those love compounds are sixteen descriptions of the breakdown of relationships between people as a result of this self-absorption. Third thing to notice, third five, these are Are professing Christians. He's not talking here about simply secular psychology. Look at verse 5. Having a form of godliness, but denying its power. Again, that ought to hit us like a joke, like cold water in our face to stop and say, Oh, well now all these people, I say like Romans 1, you know, they're all the despicable reprobate. No, he's talking about the evangelical church among other things. They have a form of godliness, who have the trappings of evangelical religion. But for whom Jesus is a means rather than an end. Why do we come and and worship Jesus and why do we read about him? And why do we get into Bible studies about Jesus? Because Jesus is a means to my feeling good about myself. I feel lousy about myself. I feel like I've been put down all my life, and so what do I do? I read these Christian authors and I read the Bible and say, Jesus Loves me if the bumper stickers tell me so. And so I come and I think, if Jesus loves me, I must be okay. Now I can feel good about myself. I can break out of this trap of the world theology with heat of his sacred head for such a worm as mine. No, Jesus loves me. I can feel good about myself. Now I'll hang in there. As long as Jesus builds my self-esteem. But as soon as there is the power of the gospel, it begins to show me that I'm a sinner and that I need to repent that all the suddenly I say I think I'll move on because this isn't meeting my needs. Having a form of godliness but deny its power. And there are people who know little without repentance. I think of a woman who was sitting in her pastor's office and said, Pastor, let's face it, I'm not very good at this repentance thing. Why don't you just use my condo in August and we'll let God call it even? Yeah, we're people who would rather substitute anything For feeling bad about ourselves, for having to face the fact that our hearts are radically sinful, that there is enough no good thing to commend us to God. Having a form of God But denying its power. And then the fifth and final thing. What is to be our response to this? The end of verse 5. Again. It's a shock to us. What's he saying? Have nothing to do with it. That really hits us, doesn't it? That's not what you would think you would find in the average Christian bookstore. Have nothing to do with it. Doesn't that sound unloving? Doesn't that sound ungracious? Doesn't that sound unbiblical? How can Paul's saying have nothing to do with people who are messed up like this? In our culture, we ain't thinking particularly it's messed up. Many of these ideas are seen as virtues. But so were they in the New Testament. Boasting and positive self-esteem was a very positive thing expressed in different ways. But humility And that idea of repentance was seen as despicable in the eyes of the Greeks. Paul says had nothing to do with those that bring this philosophy. Why? Because when the church takes into itself people who have this kind of a philosophy, This kind of an orientation, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, people who dwell on their feelings about themselves and puffing up their self-esteem. Also when that kind of a thing is taken into the church, then that invades the very thought patterns the church and pretty soon the gospel so called of that church becomes no different than the message of the culture. Everyone notice you read uh Louis Day or Red Book or It is in magazines that talk about developing self-image and you read Christian authors. And other than the fact that Jesus is the solution to the self-image problem, there's very little difference about the message. Why? Because we've taken into ourselves and been invaded thoughtlessly by what is in fact an anti-Christian mentality. Self-centeredness. Absorbed with developing Now, lest I leave you in homeless confusion and despairness, is there an alternative? You probably say, all right, now you've torn down all the stuff that I've been reading, you've demolished all the stuff that I've been trying to find helpful to me. Now, is there anything positive today? Is there any gospel today? That's the third question. Is there a biblical alternative to loving ourselves? Yes. Is it hating ourselves? Is it pulling ourselves down? Is it becoming ascetics and hating our bodies and constantly uh telling ourselves how awful we are? Frankly, I think one of the reasons why the church so quickly adopted this uh self love obsession Is because of the unbiblical mortification of not only our sin natures, but of our creative personalities that was preached in the early part of this century through the Victorious Life movement. That whole idea that we should die for self and not only dying to self meaning dying to sin, but dying to anything that had to do with our individuality and our personalities and all the rest of them. The creative self. And so what's the alternative to this? I'd like to just suggest. Three things, my lender. Number one, follow along with this, don't react until you get to the end. The third thing I would like to suggest in Scripture is that you don't worry about your need for a positive self-image. Oh, come on. No, no, hang on for a moment. What do I mean by do not worry about your need for a positive self-image? I think that that concern, that that uh preoccupation with what's my self-image like then? How am I feeling about myself, which is constantly being told to me through the commercials and through the literature and all the things that we're seeing? Does two things. First of all, it produces proud people. Because you see, the other way I'm generally as a sinner can feel good about myself is by comparing myself with other people and feeling better. It's not really, you know, when do you feel lousy about yourself? When do you feel like you failed compared to someone else? And when do I feel good about myself? But I feel like I had a better idea, or I got some recognition, or I did it better than he did it. You know, I I kid asked Glenn about the fact that I uh played him at racquetball every Thursday morning to pump up his soft image. 'Cause he wipes me all around the court, you see. That makes Brand feel good about himself. But how does it make me feel about myself, you see? You know, I walk off with my tail between my legs, bowing that I'm going to slash the racket against the wall and never play again. You know, if I come back, I'm a master. As well as I feel it's good for me, you know, it develops some humility in me and all this kind of thing. But you see, that's how we generally tend to see things, comparison with others Instead of going to develop a positive self-image, I do it through crying. I do it through comparing myself and others and putting them down. But again, 1 John 4:10 says, even when I look at the Lord When I look at other Christians and my love for him, I say, Human loved Mark, and I loved him. I don't look at that. I don't focus on myself, but I say, But then he loves me. Well the second thing, it adopts not only the price, the birth. Which by the way is mentioned a number of times in those verses. Verse 2, boasting, proud, um, all the kinds of things that are uh discussed there. But also secondly it leads to such uh a my right kind of attitude. You know, if if I'm so good, if I'm such hot stuff, and if the T V keeps telling me every day, go ahead, indulge yourself, 'cause you're worth it. And in fact uh I read a book like uh Newman and Berkowitz and what are they say, they say uh doing what makes you feel good about yourself is really the opposite of self indulgence. Very interesting, isn't it? It's the opposite of self indulgence and doing whatever you do to feel good about yourself. And uh so why not then? You know, you there's that there's that girl on there and she's saying, I get this because I'm worth it. Go ahead. Buy it. Go ahead. Charge it. You're worth it. And so that develops in it. attitude that, hey man, who are you to push me around? I wanted it. You know, haven't you heard? I'm hucked stuck around here. This old man could defend my rights, my way. And it runs totally counter to the Philippines II servant men mentality that none's class among others are studying. But none's totally opposite said have this attitude in you which was in Christ Jesus, who gave up his rights took on himself the form of a servant because of his love for us. And so Paul goes on and says, I'm going to commend to you Timothy, because I don't have anybody else like him. Everybody else seeks their own interests. And they're not like Timothy, who seeks your interests. He has forgotten about the need to develop his own self-worth. What about that? What's the positive side? That's the negative. The positive side is to rather than to be lost in Christ. To be lost in Christ. Sound kind of simplistic. No, hang on for a moment. Compare two students. Here's a student, he's in speech class, he's talking about some hot topic of everybody's interest, and he's putting everybody to sleep, and they're all bored and yawning, and got their heads down on their desk and their ears are all folded over, you know, and they just they're pulling out their magazines and every other assignment they can think of. They can't stand this thing and they're all hanging out the window, you know. Why? Because this guy is so concerned about how he's coming across in speech class. He's gonna get grated. What are people thinking about How's he doing? He's all wrapped up in himself. And so he's uptight. But I think that same student, and that night he's talking about the same topic and he's in the dorm. Everybody's sitting around and having a bull session, you know, all sitting there drinking their coats. and all this stuff and all of us just hanging around. He's talking about the same thing, but now he's sitting on a table, you know, in his jeans and he's just going on lapping and he's going on and on and on and on. Everybody's sitting around and having a really good time and they're listening to him. What's the difference? Now he's lost himself in his topic. Nor are he's simply concerned for what he's talking about. He's not thinking about how he's coming across. Take the same person who's all concerned about how they come across in a social situation, put them in a football game where they don't know anybody else, watch them scream their bloody head off. Because why? We're lost in the game. We're not thinking about how am I coming across now? I'm lost in the excitement of what I'm watching. And so as we get lost in Jesus Christ, we forget about how we're coming across. About how good our self-image is. When we realize that Jesus said in Matthew 22, 37, that you're to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, strength, and mind. And I say, God, I haven't done that. I brought myself, I've been studied on my My whole life. But Jesus has come. And he has lived and he has died to death where he has taken upon himself the curse that I deserve. And now because he's taken that, I'm free. I'm accepted by God. I've been adopted into his own family. No, Lord Jesus, how I love you. And so with that kind of a love, I say with Paul in Philippians chapter 3, verse 8, he says, What is more, I consider everything lost compared to the surpassing greatness of knowing Christ Jesus. Jesus my Lord. For whose sake I've lost all things. I consider them rubbish. I don't care. Because that I may gain Christ And abandoned him, not having a righteousness of my own, wrapped around how good I'm doing, how I'm achieving, how I'm comparing myself with others and their righteousness as well as anything else. Not having that which comes from the law. That which comes through Christ, through faith in him. The righteousness that comes from God, it is by faith. I want to know Christ, he says, and the power of his resurrection. The fellowship of sharing in this suffering. Becoming like him in his death and so ha somehow to attain to the resurrection of the dead. Jesus says, Come, you've got a burden, and it's a heavy burden. So if you put that burden down and take my burden, be Lost in me. Look at me, gaze upon me. Hebrews 12, 2, fixing our gaze upon Jesus, the author and finisher of our things. And all of a sudden, you look and you notice that second command. And the second command in me. Matthew 22, Jesus says, to love your neighbor as yourself is one. Says, this is verse 36, this is the first, greatest commandment, to love me. And the second is like it. Why is the second commandment like the first? Because in the second command, you express the first. In loving your neighbor as yourself, you express your love and your gratitude for Jesus Christ. And so if I'm lost in him, that becomes expressed in my seeking to be. to love you. And I notice your needs. And I notice what it is that's on your heart. And I get lost in trying to meet your needs. And as I do that, loving Jesus and beginning to focus on meeting your needs, I look over my shoulder down the road a bit, and all of a sudden I find out that I'm feeling better about myself. Why? Because I'm lost in someone else. And as I do that, I begin to see God renewing me. And I feel good about that. And so finally in conclusion, the last words. What are they? We have a soft image. I'm not denying that. All of us have a concept about ourselves. All of us, when we think about ourselves, it's either feel rotten about it or I feel good about it. And I'm not saying we ignore that. I'm saying we're in a culture that's obsessed by it. And the only way we'll be unlocked and free from being obsessed by that is to turn our attention to Jesus Christ as sinners who fully recognize the radicalness of our sin. So three steps I'd suggest in our self image. But we see our self image in terms of a Three basic themes of scripture: creation, fall, redemption. In terms of creation, I realize that I am fearfully and wonderfully made. God made me just the way He wanted to make me. And when He put me together, He wasn't in a bad mood. He didn't decide that He wanted to play. a joke on the universe and make me. He made me just the way he intended to make me as a loving and wise creator. With all the things that I like about myself and the things that I find hard to accept about myself. But that in my praise for that I say I will praise Today's message is I'll praise thee, because I'm pretty fearfully and wonderfully made. But the focus is on giving glory to God. The second thing is in terms of Paul, Romans 7:18. I find that in my flesh there dwells No good things. We are radically false in the way that God has made us. And no minimizing that in popular psychology is ever going to reduce the fact that you and I are radically utterly sinful. If there is only one hope for anything good coming from us, and it's the transforming power of Jesus Christ. And I don't try to minimize that. I don't try to say, well I make a few mistakes, but you know, in order to feel good about myself, I have have to realize I'm doing things pretty well. Now I say, Lord, I've blown it. I'm a sinner. Gratity and utterance. And I tried to and I realize that and that drives me to Christ. And so the third point is finally then redemption. But I realize that I have been redeemed by Jesus Christ. And that means not only that I am secure in good love, but I am in fact being renewed. God is doing the work in me. He is doing some healing. He is taking all that garbage from. my back and the things that I told myself about myself. He's transforming that as he's making me more and more into the image of Jesus. And so as I look at that I realize that I am already secure in him. And I am being renewed in the world. in him and one day I will be like him. And it all focuses on what God is doing in me through his Holy Spirit in Jesus Christ. And as I look at that, I feel wonderful about that. Because I feel wonderful about Jesus. who's loved me so much. And I'm free from the obsession with myself. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. Lord, it's so hard. for us to realize how how deeply we've been penetrated by the message it's admitted. It screws us again and again and again through every commercial and every thing we see and read. That my number one obligation is to love myself, is to constantly be testing how I feel about myself. So that all Lord, forgive us, but you yourself have become in many ways a means to our developing a positive self-induction. We have centered our attention around ourselves rather than around you. Holy Spirit, I I can never get this across in just these few minutes to try and communicate this. And Lord, only You are going to be able to speak to us about what it means to be lost in Jesus. Oh Lord, help us to see the helplessness of our own situation that we might turn in emptiness to the Lord Jesus and find our full. Make us a free people, or who are liberated of some feeling the obligation to always be testing how we feel about ourselves. So we might find the freedom. In the security that you have given us in adopting us as sinners into your own family, in setting your life upon us and transforming us Remove us into the very image of your own Son. Lord, may we find our hope and our happiness in that message. All speak to us, Lord. Speak to us, your women, whether we have come to know Jesus. We need to come to know him for that forgiveness and that transformation, or whether we know him, but we still struggle so much day by day with this man. Earnest, we pray Fray it so that moved with the glory through Jesus Christ. Amen.