I don't know if you're a recipient of the prayer chain here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. And I'm sure those of you, uh those of us who've been around for a while and are recipients of the prayer chain, you've seen times like these before. where it seems as if um the next missive that comes from the office has got uh yet another person who is uh faced with a diagnosis that is um Earth shattering for that family and certainly for us as a church, it rocks uh the foundation of uh where we are and Who we trust in. We have an opportunity each time we see those prayer requests to pray. But also to be reminded that in this present age, that's kind of what we can expect Because we live in an age that is in between creation and the consummation of all history. An age where sin has shattered the image of God in each of us, and it has brought death and destruction in its wake. And so we need God to speak to our hearts. This week, as I was thinking about a text to bring, several came to mind, but none as uh forcefully as 2 Corinthians chapter 4. What I'd like to do is read through the passage The chapter, in fact, from verse 1, I believe there's 18 verses here. I'm not sure, uh Emily, if all of them are projected. I don't know if any of them are I'd like to read the passage and then I'd like to go back through and read it again and stop and just make comment as we come to the table. God's word for us Therefore, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart. But we have renounced disgraceful, underhanded ways. We refuse to practice cunning or to tamper with God's word. But by the open statement of the truth, we would commend ourselves to everyone's conscience in the sight of God. And even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled only to those who are perishing. In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel Of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. For what we proclaim is not ourselves, but Jesus Christ as Lord, with ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake. For God, who said, Let light shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in jars of clay. We have this treasure in jars of clay to show that the surpassing power Belongs to God and not to us. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed but not driven to despair, persecuted. But not forsaken, struck down, but not destroyed, always carrying in the body the death of Jesus So that the life of Jesus may also be manifested in our bodies. For we who live are always being given over to death For Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. So death is at work in us, but life in you. Since we have the same spirit of faith according to what has been written, I believed, and so I spoke, we also believe, and so we also speak. Knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus. He brings us with you into his presence. For it is all for your sake. So that as grace extends to more and more people, it may increase thanksgiving to the glory of God. So we do not lose heart. Though our outer nature is wasting away, our inner nature is being renewed day by day. For this Slight momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison As we look not to the things that are seen, but to the things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient. But the things that are unseen, eternal. The reading of God's Word So we just sang, out of the bondage and sorrow and night, Jesus I come. Into the freedom, the gladness of his light we come to thee. Out of my sickness and into your health, out of my wanting and into your wealth. Out of my sin and into thyself, into thy glorious self. Out of the fear and the dread of the tomb, Jesus, I come, into the joy and light of thy home, Jesus, I come, out of the depths of ruin untold, and into the peace. Of thy sheltering fold, ever thy glorious face to behold. Jesus, I come to thee. So Paul writing to the church in Corinth, a church like ours, with Believers who are aware of their weakness, but maybe not as much as they should be, aware of sin, but maybe not as much as They should be. He says something to get him to that therefore And he talks about Moses, who has spent time in chapter 3, Moses who has spent time with the glory of God. And he had the veil, you remember? But when one turns to the Lord, Paul says, the veil is removed. And now the Lord is the Spirit. And where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. And we all now with unveiled face. Beholding the glory of the Lord, we are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. That's the work of God, right? That's his redemptive work. He's transforming us into the glory Of the living Lord. So then Paul says, so therefore, having this ministry, the ministry of being transformed into the glory of God, we don't lose heart. By the mercy of God, he says, we don't lose heart. But we don't lose heart He said we it it does something to our resolve against sin. We renounce the disgraceful underhanded ways. We refuse to We're not gonna fool one another. We're not interested in getting ahead. We're not interested in being the the top of the heap in this pile called this present age. That doesn't concern us anymore because we have different concerns. Our concerns are for the glory of Christ. And we refuse to tamper with God's word. We're not going to make God's word fit our lifestyle or our way or our tendency or our proclivity. We're not going to do that. And Paul says you don't have to. But by the open statement of our truth, we're just going to present what Christ has done. We're going to present ourselves as what Christ has done And we're going to trust ourselves even to the sight of uh before the sight of God. So that when we preach the gospel, boardwalk chapel, Missionaries. When we preach the gospel, we preach it to everyone. I don't care if you like Chick-fil-A or not. We preach the gospel because that's the world's only hope. That's the sinful heart's only hope. We preach the gospel, and if it's veiled, it's veiled because God is doing something. He's allowing that veil to remain. Maybe for just a time, right? Roman Catholic Bible study and a reformed catacomb in the basement of the Rushing's house. Maybe there's just a a veiling for a time, but maybe that veil will remain. I don't know. I'm not sovereign God. Thank God I'm not He says, we proclaim then as not ourselves, but Jesus Christ We proclaim Jesus Christ as Lord and ourselves as your servant for Jesus' sake. This is the theme that Peter picks up on. Submit yourselves to every human institution. Why? For the sake of the Lord, right? For the Lord's sake. And Paul picks it up here too. We do what we do for the sake of the Lord. Right? We have this knowledge of God The knowledge of God, the knowledge of the glory of God Do you ever think about that? Think about verse six for just one second with me, please. At some point in time Your heart was dark, darkened to this truth. And God, who said, Let light shine in the darkness, shone the light of the gospel in your heart. And you understood your need for a savior. And you understood the beauty of the Savior. And you understood the gracious, generous giver who is God. And you responded. And he gave you that response too. Praise be to God. See, it's not knowledge for knowledge's sake. This is what the session is currently wrestling with. To know God and to make Him known. To experience the grace and hope and love of Jesus Christ and to extend the grace and hope and love of Jesus Christ of the world. Randy ran that little phrase out on us a couple of weeks ago. That's what we want to do, because knowledge is not for knowledge's sake. It's for, do you see it there? For the proclamation of Jesus Christ. The very best witness we can give is to testify not necessarily what happened within. our hearts, but what happened outside Jerusalem 2,000 years ago? The God man gave his life for sinners. We once were blind and now we see. We did not know him and now we do Blaise Pascal said, not only can we not know God except through Jesus Christ, but we cannot know ourselves except through Jesus Christ. He is the light that shines on all creation, revealing who God the Father is, and He is the light that shines on our hearts, revealing who we are. How often do we forget that that's the big picture of salvation? I do The big picture is to proclaim the glory of God. I get this myopic, nearsighted. Where it's about me and mine and us and me and a lot of me. Will I be comfortable? Will I have what I want and And Paul says, Man, raise raise your gaze. Raise your eyes to see the big picture, the proclamation. Beholding then, let me put this forth. I've got, I don't know, three or four things here. I'm just going to keep reading. Beholding or knowing the glory of God in the face of Christ, it produces things in us. Paul says it produces humility. Verse 70 says, but we have we have this glorious treasure in jars of clay. The Greek word there that's used for jars of clay is like ordinary pottery earthen vessels. They not they don't have anything that would draw their attention, your your attention to them. They're ordinary, they're fragile, they break, they're kind of ugly, but they're useful But Paul says, the treasure, this magnificent, wonderful, marvelous, gracious message, is in jars of clay So that the attention's not drawn to us, the attention is drawn to Him. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be all the glory. We forget the bigger picture. To proclaim Christ. It's a direct affront to our pride Right? And pa something about the Corinthian church, they really needed to get this message. Right? This is the same church that Paul wrote. Hey, not many wise, not many noble, not many strong. That's who God calls. That's who you are. He says, This is so we would show the surpassing power. So it produces humility. Verse 8 and 9 tells us that beholding the glory of God in the face of Christ produces unexplainable strength. In the face of unbelievable circumstances. We are afflicted in every way, but not crushed, perplexed, but not driven to despair, persecuted, but not forsaken. Struck down but not destroyed. This is the paradox passage. This is where you just say, you want to know what a paradox is? It's the Christian life. We wrestle all our days if we're truly following Christ. We wrestle all our days with the struggle against losing heart. I was just talking to a brother this week who is Clinging tight to his faith with regard to prayer in light of Anne Green's death, in light of others that he's prayed diligently for and seen God. even bring a cancer freedom, but result in death And if you think about that, that's really the struggle of this walk that we have, to not lose heart. Unexplainable strength, though, in the face of unbelievable circumstances, is ours. But it's that measure of manna. It's for the moment. It's to see and behold the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ and to take on the circumstance. We can't store it up. It keeps us ever dependent on God to walk with us and be with us. Afflicted but not crushed, perplexed but not driven to despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, not ultimately destroyed Servants be subject to your masters, the good and the gentle, the crooked It also produces in us a sacrificial servant heart. 10 and 11 and 12. We carry with us the body, in the body, the death of Jesus. We fellowship with Christ and his sufferings. We live in a present continuum, this time continuum we're on, where we have weak and frail bodies, all the missionaries from New Jersey. can testify to the fact that they're, to quote one, tired and grubby Probably manifold, multiplied. But I guarantee you if we could peek into those hearts over there We'd see this wonder at what God did this week, even though their frame is frail and fragile and feeling it But Paul Paul talks about this thing that we live. We live a life Where death is always at work. The body of death of, in this body, the death of Jesus. And he says, so that the life of Jesus might be made manifest in these bodies. You've maybe heard people use that um that phrase the sword of Damocles. You maybe not even know where that comes from. It's from a a Greek um story where Damocles was the servant of the king. I think it's Somebody help me, Dia Dionysus. And the king said, and the Dimocles, You have it so easy, you have it so good, you sit on the throne, everything comes your way. And so they switched places. But they switched places, and there was the sword that hung over Damocles' head that was attached by a thin, one thin uh hair of a horse. And Damocles couldn't stand that not knowing when the sword might drop, the fear of the impending doom. And when people talk about the sort of Damocles that hangs over our head, that's the picture we get. We live in a we live in a an age where we don't know when the next email is gonna say something about a family member diagnoses or a phone call from our doctor that report that, you know, maybe he just forgot And Paul says, Death is at work in us, but life in you. So we live and we give ourselves over to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus may be manifest in these bodies. So that's see the picture there is that we're supposed to appreciate that this isn't the way it's supposed to be. We appreciate the fact that death wasn't supposed to invade this existence as creatures, but it came as a result of sin. We live in the midst of death, a culture of death. The thing that Paul is saying that our suffering does is suffering and this body of death and the pointing to Christ, it frees us. It's supposed to free us to break the hold that the world has on our soul. That's precisely what it means to live by faith and not by sight. Faith in Christ. Paul says that the resurrection of Jesus from the dead is what makes our lives have meaning. And so seeing the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ produces humility and unexplainable strength and It also feeds our faith and it hones our hope. In verse 13 and 14, Paul says Since we have the same spirit of faith, according to what has been written, I believe, and so I spoke, we also believe, and so we also speak. Paul quotes from Psalm one sixteen. Would it surprise you to hear That Psalm 116, verse 10, where the psalmist says, I believed even when I spoke that what comes next is, for I am greatly afflicted. Paul knew the song, and he was trying to draw the Corinthian church into that mindset. I believe and I spoke that I am greatly afflicted. And Paul turns that phrase and he says Just as was written, I believe and I spoke, he says, so we also believe, and so we also speak. We've been afflicted. We suffer, but we suffer for the cause of Christ. And we feel that in our mortal bodies. So we speak, and he says, verse 14, knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus Christ will raise us also with Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. Seeing the glory of God in the face of Christ feeds our faith, it strengthens this walk so that we won't lose heart. And it hones our hope. Our hope in what? The resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And then he says it makes us into true worshipers Verse 15, for it is all for your sake, so that as grace extends to more and more people, it might increase the thanksgiving to the glory of God. See, we don't proclaim ourselves. We proclaim Christ because we don't want people worshiping us because we can't deliver. But Christ can deliver. So we proclaim Christ, and He makes worshipers. Because ultimately, that's what is going to occur at the wedding feast of the Lamb. The worship of a living God with unveiled faces. And he says that beholding the glory of God in the face of Christ puts everything in perspective. Verse sixteen. So So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. And then he says something that it really must be a believing heart to receive He says, for this light momentary affliction, even that phrase, right, when Peter says it in his letter that we've been looking at, for a little while. For a little while, if God has chosen to afflict you. For this light and momentary affliction, it's preparing us for an eternal weight of glory. Beyond all comparison. I I don't have an analogy for this point. Because Paul says there's nothing that fits it down here. You can think of the best sunset beyond that. Think of the best meal beyond that. Think of the best relationship on earth with a person, loved one, beyond that Think of the most exhilarating feeling that you can achieve beyond that. Way beyond all comparison. There is no analogy. And so he says, So our confidence is. So we look not to the things that are seen. We don't place our confidence in the flesh. It's wasting away. But we look to the things that are unseen. The things that are seen are transient, but the things that are unseen eternal. We are embodied souls We have a body and a spirit. They're joined together in this mysterious union that God has worked out. When these bodies Stop working and we go to the grave. Our soul will be separate for a time from our body But the scriptures teach very clearly that that body will be rejoined to that soul, to that spirit, so that with a body, not this kind of body, Not the ones that are wasting away, but with a body that is transformed into a glorious body like his own, we will Enjoy the meal that Christ promised to his disciples when he first instituted this meal that we take tonight. When he raised that glass of wine, he said. I will not drink of this until I drink it anew with you, with bodies, will drink, will eat in my father's house. I'll come one day and I'll claim me to be mine. And until he comes, the church gathers on a regular and recurring basis. As frequently as the leadership sets up, to partake of a piece of bread and a cup of wine, where a minister who is somehow representing Christ says the words in first person, this is my body, this is my blood. And by faith, we look to the things that are unseen and we take. We say, feed me, Jesus. Keep me strong. Give me that unexplainable strength in unbelievable circumstances so that I too can testify that for me to live as Christ and to die, gain. Let's pray together and I'll invite the ushers forward. Gracious God, help us. We want to partake of this meal tonight by faith. And so we ask you to grow us. Make us more aware, Lord, of our sin and of your Victorious deliverance from the dead of our sin. Lord Jesus, show us yourself Show us the beauty of the gospel, the good news. Lord, work in our hearts in a way that this supper tonight will be a special time of worship for your people. We'll be careful, Lord, to give you all the praise, all the thanksgiving, for it is due you alone. In Christ we pray. Amen. Amen. What the um ushers