Turn with me in your Bibles, please, to Luke, the 17th chapter. I will be reading starting at verse 20 through 18, chapter 8. Luke 17. Once, having been asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, Jesus replied, The kingdom of God does not come visibly, nor will people say, Here it is, or there it is, because the kingdom of God Is within you. Then he said to his disciples, The time is coming when you will long to see one of the days of the Son of Man, but you will not see it. Men will tell you, There he is, or here he is. Do not go running off after. For the Son of Man in his day will be like the lightning which flashes and lights up the sky from end from one end to the other. But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation. Just as it was in the days of Noah, so also will it be in the days of the Son of Man. People were eating, drinking, marrying, and being given in marriage. Up to the day Noah entered the ark. Then the flood came and destroyed them all. It was the same in the days of Lot. People were eating and drinking, buying and selling, planting and building. But the day Lot left Sodom, fire and sulphur rained down from heaven and destroyed them all. It will be just like this on the day the Son of Man is revealed. On that day, no one who is on the roof of his house with his goods inside. Should go down to get them. Likewise, no one in the field should go back for anything. Remember Lot's wife. Whoever tries to keep his life will lose it, and whoever loses his life will preserve it. I tell you on that night two people will be in one bed, one will be taken and the other left. Two women will be grinding grain together, one will be taken and the other left. Where, Lord? They asked. He replied, Where there is a dead body, there the vultures will gather. Then he told his disciples a parable to show them that they should always pray And not give up. He said, In a certain town there was a judge who feared neither God nor cared about men. And there was a widow in that town who kept who kept coming to him with the plea, Grant me justice against my adversary. For some time he refused. But finally he said to himself, Even though I don't fear God or care about men, yet because this widow keeps bothering me, I will see that she gets justice, so she won't eventually. And the Lord said, Listen to what the unjust judge says And will not God bring about justice for his chosen ones who cry out to him day and night? Will he keep putting them on? I tell you, he will see that they get justice and quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? Let's bow in prayer together. Father, we do thank you that at this time we can look at your word. We pray that you will illumine our minds to understand what you have for us here. We pray, Lord, that you will make us to be a people seriously concerned, to be praying to you Lord, we pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen How did you feel the last time God answered a specific prayer in your life in such a way that you were sure that it was no mere coincidence? You were sure that it was the power of God who was behind you. How did you feel when God answered your prayer like that? Perhaps you were humbled that God heard you, or perhaps that you were gratified to know that He does care about you. Or perhaps you were excited to see his power. You were urged to even greater efforts in your prayer. Or perhaps you couldn't think of the time when that happened. Nothing, nothing can turn prayer into drudgery more quickly than that. Nothing can make God seem farther away than that, that He doesn't hear, that He doesn't answer our prayers. Nothing can convince you more quickly and more thoroughly that Christianity is just a game that people are playing. That is devastating to the Christian life. At times I have felt that way. I have had those thoughts. But I can stand before you this morning and promise you from the Word of God that God hears That God answers the prayers of his people. This parable makes it very plain that God hears his people. But it also makes it very plain that God doesn't answer each prayer as soon as it comes out of our mouths. Oftentimes there is a period of waiting. But Jesus is urging you, be persistent in prayer. Don't give up. In the first verse, Jesus is explaining the parable before he even begins it. He says, You should always pray and not give up. This parable is a vivid illustration of that, of the confidence that we are To have in God. God has given me renewed confidence in Him recently, and I am excited to be able to stand before you this morning and proclaim that God hears the cries of His people. We have here God depicted by an unscrupulous and unjust judge. Now we learn from God in this parable by contrast, not by similarity, which we saw in some of the parables earlier. The unjust judge here is seen as opposite from God. His unrighteousness, in fact, defines God's righteousness The parable explains the great righteousness of God and how he does respond to the prayers of his people There is one thing that angers me a great deal, and that is when I see a lawyer or a lawmaker or a judge who has no concern at all for the law. has no scruples about being consistent in his oath to uphold the law. You know, that's the one thing that bothered me more about Watergate than anything else was the Attorney General of this country taking it upon himself To circumscribe the law, to go around the law in that incident. That behavior, however, is not at all unique to the 20th century. The judge that we have described for us this morning is the most despicable imaginable. In verse 2, and then again in verse 4, it is repeated. He neither feared God nor cared about men. He had no Concern whatsoever for God, for the person, the God who had given him his authority to judge. Neither did he have any concern at all for men. He cared nothing for men. He didn't care to apply God's system of ethics in a sensitive and careful way to the people that presented themselves to him for judgment. There is no fear of God, and there is no love of God. for men in this character. So what is left? There is nothing left at all. There is total disregard, total disdain for justice. He is the picture of corruption. I found one good thing about this man and his parable, and it's only a relative good. It's not that good. But he at least admits that he's no good and admits that he is corrupt, as you see in verse 4. Not like a certain congressman who, after he was caught with his hand in the cookie jar, reported that he took the 50,000. For the ABSCAM bribe in order to begin and finance his own investigation of the scandal. This judge admits his corruption. But that even that is hardly enough to endear him to us, is it? Because he shows us here his great disdain for this widow. He refuses to hear her. Perhaps he is just lazy. Perhaps he is Is looking out for a bride. Whatever the case is, he is totally callous to her. But the thing that strikes me that as great as his callousness is, the persistence of the widow is greater still. We see in the pic in this widow a picture of perseverance, of concern. That is encouraging to us. This day and age, we hear an awful lot about women's live. We have learned to be particularly sensitive to women, to understand and appreciate their individuality and certainly their equality with men. And even though the uh supporters of the Equal Rights Amendment would bemoan the fact that that amendment did not pass. They would have to admit that there has been a raised level of consciousness and concern for the equality of women in this day and age. But even that is a far cry from the situation of the widow in our parable who cries out for justice. And no one, no one is there to hear her. The oppression of the women in Jesus' day and before. Makes today's vestiges of inequality pale in comparison. Now it's true that widows in that day were often cared for by their closest kinsmen, the kinsmen redeemer, they were called. These kinsmen redeemers. Redeemers were supposed to care for a widow, but that obviously didn't happen very much. In Deuteronomy, the tenth chapter, and then again in Psalm 68, we read that God defends the cause of the widows, and it was up to God to do that. Because there weren't many men around to do it. That continued to be a problem in the day of Isaiah. Isaiah in the first chapter describes Jerusalem. as the bride of God, yet a bride that had turned to prostitution. And there were two things that characterized her unfaithfulness and her turn to prostitution. One was the fact that her leaders were murderers. And the other was the fact that widows had justice withheld from them. So important that is in the Bible. But the adversary that we have in this passage is taking advantage. Of a disenfranchised woman, a woman who perhaps was being taken advantage of much as the Pharisees would take advantage of people. As we read in Mark, they would devour the houses of widows. Probably the concern that this widow had was a financial one. She had neither the money to pay for a lawyer nor the personal. To go to the judge and demand her rights. She was without a husband. She was without a close kinsman redeemer. She was without money, presumably, and without land. But only one resort, and that resort was the legal system. One problem with the legal system in this case, however, there was a corrupt judge standing right in the middle of it. She was totally dependent on someone who cared absolutely nothing for her. I tried to think of an illustration of that we could relate to to help us to understand this. And the best I could come up with was imagine a child A child hungry who goes to his parents, and his parents, out of coldness, out of total lack of regard and concern, simply turn their back on the child and let him go hungry. That's the picture we have here, a pitiful scene when someone is so dependent on someone else. When that person doesn't help, there is no hope. Total isolation, total helplessness. She did, however, have one recourse, and that was she could keep coming back, and that's exactly what she did. She kept coming back, pleading her case, pleading. For justice. Finally, the judge can handle it no longer. He gives in. He settles the case. In verse 5, the word literally there is, he is concerned that she would blacken his eyes. Now I assume we take that in the figurative sense. But in any case, he simply could handle it no longer, her continually coming to him and burdening him with her concerns. Her plea for justice certainly was rewarded, but it was rewarded despite the character of the judge. As I've mentioned, we have a picture of God in this parable as well. And that picture is totally contrasted with the unjust judge. Unlike the judge, God really does have the highest good, the well-being of his people in mind The prayer for justice of the righteous is rewarded because of the character of the judge. In contrast to the widow, whose plea was answered in spite of the character of the judge. Many people today would think of God as some kind of an immovable deity or an immovable judge, whom it takes an insane Incessant stream of prayer in order to budge at all. But that's not the picture that we have in this parable, is it? The judge, the unjust judge, finally and begrudgingly moves, but only out of personal convenience or to protect his eyes. But God, in verse 7, is pictured In terms of how much more, how much more will the Heavenly Father, the righteous judge, bring justice to his chosen ones, his elect, the ones whom he loves. That's a relationship of love. Not a relationship of a widow nagging an unjust judge who has wants nothing at all to do with her. But it's a relationship of love. Do you know the love of God? Do you know our God who has great love for his people? That's the God who will hear, who will answer. the prayers of his people. You know, I've been a Christian for about ten years now, and it still is remarkable. Each time I think of the fact that the creator, the one who created the beautiful universe that we We see and enjoy around us, could actually love a human being, could actually love me. But that's what this passage is saying. God has great love for his people. He's interested in the case Jesus says in verse one, Don't give up that in your praying. And again in verse seven, the elect cry out day and night. What does this indicate to you? To me it indicates that, yes, although God loves us so much, he doesn't always answer our prayer immediately. But sometimes there is a lag between the time that we pray and the time that he answers. In fact, it is implied here that there are sometimes long periods of time. When God is not answering. But you know that His love does not depend on how quickly He answers prayers. Our appreciation of His love is not to depend on the alacrity with which He responds to our prayers. Just as the father who loves his children doesn't respond in every case when they pray, when they when they ask him for something. So our Heavenly Father does not respond in every case as soon as we pray. But we are to pray persistently, Jesus says. Pray persistently in view of God's love. That's where the unjust judge ignored justice, where God responds to justice. In verses seven and eight, we read that will not God God bring about justice for his chosen ones in verse eight, he will see that they will get justice. And that's quickly. You know, when I chose this parable uh this past week, I assumed that I had a fairly simple parable that I would be able to preach on how we are to pray and how God will respond. How we would be encouraged to pray, and God, out of his love, would hear us. But the deeper I got into this parable, the more I found that this is more than a general call to persistent prayer. I believe that this parable is also telling us something that we are to pray for. Something that has specific meaning and bearing on us as individuals and us as a congregation. In some way, I believe that this parable is encouraging us to persist in prayer for justice. Prayer for justice. Now look around you. Not in this room necessarily, but look around in our society. We see a great lack of justice. In fact, sometimes we can be so discouraged by the power Satan that we see, that we can be very discouraged, to put it mildly. Consider Satan's straight. Consider how visible his power is. Today. Consider how pervasive it is. Sometimes we get the idea that we are stuck in a vice and Satan is screwing it tighter and tighter. There doesn't appear to be any way out With very few exceptions, God's justice is denied. And sometimes more than that, sometimes it's criticized, and sometimes flat out ridiculed. But today is not so much different from Jesus' day. In fact, Jesus' disciples would witness the greatest crime of all time. They would witness the crucifixion of Jesus. Where God's plan evidently had just entirely run amok, where Satan presumably had the upper hand, where he destroyed the only Son of God That would look grim, Jesus is saying. That would look very grim and discouraging. But Jesus calls them, even in the face of that, to persistent prayer because God's justice would prevail. He would not stay in the tomb. Jesus would rise from the dead. He would conquer death, and the justice of God would prevail. Satan would be established. God's kingdom would be. Firmly established. Satan would be defeated. Excuse me. You know what discouragements, what discouragements do you face? I wonder if sometimes you, like me, are puzzled at the prosperity. Fairy of the wicked. You see a discrepancy there in God who loves his people and doesn't always give them all that he gives other people. I think of Psalm seventy three, where David is pondering this very thing. He is saying Verse three, for I envied the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. They have no struggles, their bodies are healthy and strong, they are free from the burdens common to man, they are not plagued by human illness. Therefore, pride is their necklace. They clothe themselves with justice with violence. From their callous hearts comes iniquity. The evil conceits of their minds know no limits. They scoff and speak with malice. In their arrogance they threaten oppression. Their mouths lay claim to heaven, and their tongues take possession of the earth. This is what the wicked are like, verse 12. Always carefree, they increase in wealth. In verse 16, when I try to understand. Understand all this. It was oppressive to me till I entered the sanctuary of God. Then I understood. Their final destiny. There is justice out there. In this topsy turvy world, there is justice, and that justice is promised. Appearances can be deceiving. So don't give up. On God's plan. Instead, pray persistently in view of God's justice on We see in this parable as well that God is merciful. Actually, we see that more explicitly in Jesus' application of the parable, starting in verse 6. Jesus promises in verse 6. Verse 8, he says, I tell you, he will see that they get justice, and that quickly. I would suggest to you that the word quickly here is somewhat misleading. I think the New English Bible captures. captures the idea of this verse a little better. It says, he will vindicate them soon enough. He will vindicate them soon enough. After all, let's consider the context of this parable. You notice, of course, that I began reading in chapter 17, verse 20. Look in verse 20. The Pharisees there are asking when the kingdom of God would come. And in verse 22, in following, Jesus is explaining to his disciples some of the circumstances. surrounding his second coming. And in in eighteen, verse one, it says he told a parable to them, literally, just to them, linking up chapters chapter eighteen with chapter seventeen. And then again in verse 9, when the Son of Man returns, again we see that link between this parable and the coming again, the return of Jesus. The word quickly in the Bible is used frequently. And many times that it is used, it is used in connection with the coming again of Jesus, with his return. And as I've mentioned, that's what the context is before us. Let me just uh enumerate a number of them quickly for you. I think of Romans 16 verse 20 where it says, the God of peace will soon crush Satan. The same word. And frequently in the book of Revelation, a book that is concerned with the return of Christ, we see the same word. In chapter 22 especially, that is presented for us in such a dramatic way. Verse 6, these things must soon take place. What things? Verse 7 answers, Jesus is coming. Behold, I am coming soon. And in verse 12, again I am coming soon. And verse 20, yes, I am coming soon. You see, God is showing his mercy here. God is showing mercy. Justice will come soon enough. They will be vindicated soon enough. You Why is there then a delay? Does that bother me that there is a delay? of such a protracted delay from the first coming of Jesus. I'm reminded of the words in 2 Peter, the third chapter, verses 8 and 9 But do not forget this one thing, Peter writes. Do not forget this one thing, dear friends. With the Lord, a day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like a day. The Lord is not slow in keeping his promise, as some understand. He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance. The Lord is patient. The Lord is merciful, Peter says. And that's why Jesus says, pray always and don't give up. At the time that Jesus was giving us this parable, or Luke was recording this parable in Jesus' ministry, Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem. He had turned his face like a flint toward Jerusalem. Nothing would keep him back. Nothing would keep him away from Jerusalem where he would suffer and die. Jesus says, don't give up. Because there in Jerusalem, Jesus would face another unjust judge. A judge who would listen to the cries of his people when they were saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate would ignore human justice. Jesus says, Don't give up, because Jesus Himself provides for us in his death a merciful payment by taking that unjust judgment. Upon himself in his death. As with Joseph of old, though, what man intended for him, God intended for good. Don't give up because God's love embraces you and holds you up. supports you. Don't give up because God's justice, though apparently uncertain at times, is secure in Jesus Christ. As surely as Christ died and was raised from the dead, so surely is the long-suffering and the mercy and the justice of God and God's case will be one. Consistently then, in view of God's mercy. I wonder if your prayer can truly be spurred on when we consider the character of God, when we consider his love. His justice, his mercy. Does that give you confidence? Does that help you to be persistent in your prayer? Now I know you've heard this before. I know you've heard sermons even on this passage before. It's nothing new. But I'm not embarrassed to be to preach this once again to you, because I see that we're not doing it, at least not all of us, not as we should. Can you imagine what kind of the church we would be if we were doing it, if we were praying? As we are. Can you imagine what kind of a church we would be if our complaints about other people and two other people were instead directed in prayer towards God? What a lot of energy could be expended in a positive way. Is our church characterized as a church persistent in prayer? Are you characterized as an individual, as someone persistent in prayer? If not, what are some possible reasons? I have heard people say that a big reason that we don't pray as we are is because we're lazy. Now I don't think that's really so. We have an awful lot of energy to do many other things, work in the kingdom and work on our house and on our car. We have a lot of energy to spend. I don't think it's a matter of saying, get over your laziness and get it. On your knees and pray, like every morning at five o'clock. Go through a regimen of palisthenics of prayer. I think the problem is a lot more basic than that. I think the problem centers more on our self-dependence. We tend to operate as if we believe, we're convinced that we can function alone. Now, of course, none of us would say that. None of us believe that. But so often our actions contradict our feelings. Theology, what we believe. We forget that we're like the widow, who is dependent on this judge. What we have to do, I think, is learn dependence on God. More than just an intellectual assent, an assent with our minds that yes, we are God's children, his people, and yes, we need to depend on Him. And learn dependence is not simply force. Yourself out of feelings of ought that you should pray, to get down on your knees and crank out those prayers like cookies coming out of a cookie cutter. I have heard a sermon or two preached from this passage where the pastor has seemed to give delight in laying upon the the congregation a guilt trip that you must get out of bed every morning at 5 a. m and you must Pray to God. I think that's attacking the problem from the wrong angle, the wrong perspective. I think rather we need to learn what dependence is. Learn that dependence is a commitment to God's sovereignty. And God's grace, His love, and His care, along with an acknowledgement of your inherent tendency to self-dependence. It's a conscious calling to mind. Of that fact, consciously, daily, calling that to mind into mind, and recognizing that you're not created to function independently from God. The practice of prayer will then necessarily and naturally flow from that kind of attitude. We pray not only as a result of the character of God and what He promises for us, but we pray out of a realization of our own great need. Let me impress upon you. I am not simply urging you here to obey a command, to obey a command and to pray, to get down on your knees and pray. Perhaps instead what we need to do is fully realize our own self-dependence, our lack of learned dependence on God, practice dependence on Him. But that's the only way that we can have persistent prayer. The parable has mentioned that we are to be persistent in our calling for justice as well. In verse 7, God will bring about justice for his chosen ones. In verse 8, he will see that they get justice. Recall that that's the specific nature of our prayers. To call for justice, even when we are discouraged, even when we see the power of Satan, the evil one, all around us. We can be discouraged often with the corruption that is rampant. But we also have to pray, Jesus says, and not give up. Because my kingdom, my kingdom of justice, is established. Is firm. I can almost see you thinking that uh I'm saying that God wants us to have an idea, an attitude, that Christianity is to be uh concerned just with pie in the sky by and by, looking forward to the coming of the kingdom in all its fullness. But Jesus is not for calling us to forsake our situation in the world. He is not calling us to forsake the advancement of the kingdom of God here and now. As we saw in chapter 17, verse 21. The kingdom of God is in you or among you. That means it's here, now. And God wants us to pray that the justice, his justice, will be manifested in a powerful way, that his rule over Satan will be extended now, here and now. In our local church, in our families, in the city of Columbia. But how do we pray for the advancement of God's kingdom here and now? How do we do that? I think first of all, in the narrowest sense, of course, we must pray for our own lives, our own hearts before God. We oftentimes seem to forget that we are involved in a spiritual battle against a strong spiritual foe. But we have to remember that we never are standing still. We are never simply stuck in one place. But each day we're moving either towards God or away from Him. We're either we're caught in a tug of war, either going towards God or away from it. Sometimes in our prayers, in our following of God, We are being drawn closer and closer to Him. But other times, as we ignore Him, we are being driven more deeply to be entrenched in our sinful patterns that keep God out of our thinking. of our hearts. Learning dependence means, as an individual, to be conscious in your prayer each day that you are trying to draw close to God, remembering his promise that he will draw near to you. I think there is a wider sense also, though, in which we need to see God's rule extended, and that is in the church. In this church. Do you see Columbia Presbyterian Church as approximating its vision, its goal, to evangelize and disciple all of Colombia. I don't see that. And that discourages me. That concerns me a great deal. But I have to realise that I cannot give up, that I must pray, I must pray to God, and that I must not bear the weight myself, our pastor, our session, our members are not to bear. the weight of that themselves, but are be instead to be drawn to their knees in prayer to God, in prayer to Jesus. You see, we can learn so often, we can get into a habit of depending on ourselves And listening to the great deceiver, Satan, who would say, Yes, you can handle it. You can handle it yourselves. And you can carry the responsibility yourself. And that just drives us deeper and deeper into ourselves. Instead of deeper and deeper into Christ. Our prayers, we are assured, will be answered. God says that He will bring up He will bring forth justice. He will not keep putting them off. You will see in verse 8, chapter 18, that they will get their justice. Because God is faithful to his character. He's faithful to his word. God will bring forth justice. We will get justice quickly. And we pray not just for judgment day, not just when we will be like Jesus, for we will see him as he is. But we have to always pray, even now, even in the face of great. Discouragement that we see around us. We are to pray, Thy kingdom come. We are to continually remember the spiritual nature of our battle, that we simply don't have the equipment to face the foe. in our own strength. But we need to pray for the current advancement of the kingdom. As we do that, as we pray that God's kingdom would be advanced in our lives, in our families, and in our church. I would suggest that we will be more and more dissatisfied with what we see. And that will cause us to pray, Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus. Come quickly. comes, will the Son of Man find faith, faith like the widow on earth? We are assured that he will. He will because of the character of God, who is faithful not only to us, but to himself, who is just. Who is loving? Who is merciful? Let us be faithful then. Let us be faithful in learning dependence upon God. Let us learn then. And don't give up. Let us pray. Lord, we bow before you. We bow before you because you are the Creator God. You are the sustainer of the universe. And we need you. We need to recognize each day how we must depend upon you. Oh Lord, pray that you will forgive us when we attempt to do the work of your kingdom in our own strength. We pray that you will forgive us and that you will help us to learn dependence on you in every situation. Lord, we pray that even as we go from this place, you will give us confidence in you, that you will lift up our hearts, that we will pray and not give up. We will pray in the name of Jesus through the power of the Holy Spirit. Amen. In one of the classic prayers of Scripture in Daniel chapter nine, Daniel Says these words. They come, he's coming to God not because of his great righteousness to make the request he's making, but because of God's great mercy. The idea of mercy is something that we need to remember as we come to pray. That idea of mercy was pictured. in the Old Testament, in the cover of the Ark of the Covenant. It was called the Mercy Seat, the place where God dwelt among his people, the place where they could have access to him. And that symbol has come down to us in hymn number five hundred and twenty eight. And turn with me to that now. And as we sing this hymn, let's remember that God is with us. We must never forget that. He is accessible. He hears our prayers. We as people need to go to Him. And so let's remind one another of that by singing together hymn five twenty-eight. Please stand.