It's so good to be back here and to preach Christ to you. Some of you most of you, I don't know, some of you again, some of you for the first time. I have a little less hair. I passed 80 years. And Kathy is much better looking. She should be up here for you to see her while I preach. But that wouldn't work. But I am so glad to have this opportunity. I remember when I was a pastor here That I always thought it was a very special privilege to preach on Easter. And so I'm delighted to be able to have that opportunity once more in my life. I'm concerned that you're able to see Christ because I know I'm sort of a curiosity up here. So would you join me together for a moment of prayer that the Holy Spirit will enable you to see Christ? That's my passion. Not me, the curiosity. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, we ask for your ministry of lifting up Christ. And that you would do that now for each of us, whatever our situation, whether we're outside of Christ and looking into the party that we haven't joined. Or whether we have followed you for years and love you. Lord, work now. To show each of us a bit more of the depth of the riches of Jesus on this resurrection day. We pray in his name. And all God's people said, Amen. The resurrection of Jesus Christ is certainly the most radical and the most controversial event in all of human history. If it's true, then secularism, relativism are all false If Jesus has risen from the dead, the Bible is true. Jesus is God, and he is alive this morning, and he is the only way to heaven. which is a true place. But our culture sees the resurrection as highly improbable. According to one recent survey, only 26% of Americans believe in a physical resurrection. Kathy heard on NPR one day, an atheist, who was sharing how when his kids ask him What happens after we die? He said, I tell them we all go to heaven and are together forever. Then he added, I know that's not true. But there's no harm in letting them live in that hope while they're little, until they get older and are able to handle the truth more fully. That's borrowing a hope from Christianity while denying its reality. That's bad. That is I I I shudder when I even say it that somebody could do that. One of the amazing things about the gospel accounts is that they're so matter-of-fact about the resurrection. I'm sure it's occurred to most of you that the gospels do not portray the actual resurrection. There's no account of Jesus coming out of the tomb in a blaze of glory and trumpets and his enemies quivering before him. All you have is records of Jesus, the risen Lord, interacting with people. in his general demeanor, his kindness, but his own person being the display of a resurrected king. And the Bible recognizes that the resurrection is hard to believe. It recognizes skepticism. It recognizes the struggle of people to believe. The disciples heard from the women, we have seen the Lord. He's risen. They didn't believe him. They didn't believe until they saw him come in their very midst. And then they said, we believe. And you remember that When they saw him, Thomas was not with them. We call him to this day, doubting Thomas. He was not there. And the disciples couldn't wait to see him and tell him, Thomas, Thomas, you missed it. Jesus is alive. You remember how he responded. It's in John chapter 20. If you have a on your phone or in a Bible there before you, take a look. Thomas verse 26. Look first at verse 25. The other disciples said, We've seen the Lord. But Thomas said, unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the mark of the nails, and place my hand into his side, I will never believe. That sounds a bit arrogant, certainly cynical So let's look at the person of Thomas for a few minutes and understand him a little better. And perhaps find in him some help in our own doubts and our own skepticism. I want to look at two incidents before the resurrection. The first one is recorded in John chapter 10 and 11. Do you remember that in event? There is an outline there, so it's like the old days, it's up to you to fill in the blanks. First look at his character. And you see in the first incident, Thomas has the brave pessimist Remember, their friend Lazarus was very sick. And his sister said, Jesus, come, come quickly. Your friend Lazarus is sick. And Jesus, much to their consternation, stayed two more days. And he didn't come. But then after two days, he said to his disciples, come on, I'm going to go see Lazarus. And they all said, Master, don't you remember? We were just over uh on the Trans Jordan and the Jews there were trying to kill you. If you go back, they're certainly going to stone you. That's what they've pledged. Thomas was the one who spoke And his words were not very cheerful. He said, come on, guys, let's go with him, that we can die with him. He knows that the Jews are out to kill Jesus. They're not going to miss a second opportunity. But he says, I don't want my master to die alone. So let's go with him. Even though it means we're going to die with him. That's better than letting them die alone. The second incident was the one just the night before his death. Jesus is trying to comfort the disciples. Now you think about that, that's a little ironic. He's going to face torment, mocking. Crucifixion, and he's trying to comfort them. And so he says to them, I'm preparing a place for you, and I'm going to come back and I'm going to take you to be with me. And you know the way. Now have you ever been in a situation where an instructor was trying to teach you and they're telling you about things and then they say, and as you all know, and you're thinking, I have no idea what you're talking about. But I'm not going to ask the question. I'll let somebody else look stupid. Not Thomas. He just up and says, Jesus, we have no idea what you're talking about. And Jesus says, I'm the way. I'm the truth. I'm the life. You've been with me all this time. You don't know that? And he explains it to them patiently, gently. And then a couple hours later he's arrested. He's taken into custody and he's mocked and he's scourged. And they treat him like dirt. They treat him like the worst of criminals. And Jesus endures that, as we've just been singing. He endured that for us. And what did Thomas do? He's like the rest of them. He took off. He fled. He abandoned Jesus. But then the third day he's alive. He is alive. The women see him and they come and they tell the disciples, we saw Jesus, he's alive. Bible says they didn't believe him Not until they saw Jesus standing in the locked room right before them saying, peace to you, did they believe he really is alive. We've seen him. But it is in the look with John chapter twenty um in verse uh twenty-four Now Thomas, one of the twelve, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came that first Easter evening. And I love verse 25. First time they see Thomas. Now, why was Thomas not with them? I think it's because Thomas was so broken. He had said just a few days before, let's go with Jesus to die with him. And he doesn't even accompany him when he's arrested. He's abandoned him like the rest. And he is the one who is just so crushed. My master has been crucified. All hope is gone. So he's alone. Somewhere in a room hiding and weeping and unable to cope with the reality. He can't even be with the disciples. He doesn't want to be with them. It's just going to add to his grief. So he's not with them. But I love this. The first opportunity, I don't know if it was Monday, Tuesday, but the first opportunity, the disciples run up to Thomas and say, Thomas, Thomas, you missed it. Jesus came. Sunday evening. He came and he appeared to us. And then you remember verse 26. Thomas says, unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the mark of the nails. And place my hand into his side, I will never believe. Interesting. Eight days later. His disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Why is that? He just said, I don't believe what you're saying. Why was he with them? Because there are two kinds of doubt. There are people who don't want to believe Maybe there's some of you who are here for whatever reason. It's Easter and you're with the family or whatever, but you're saying, I don't want to believe this stuff. Why? Because we'd mess up your life You believe that Jesus has risen and is Lord, you're not going to be the same. You're not going to be able to just carry on and run your own life independently. So you don't want to believe. I've known a lot of friends like that. They don't want to believe But then there's a second kind of doubter. That's the person who wants to believe. And Thomas is that kind of a doubter. He was saying, I can't believe it. But I desperately believe that what you guys are saying is true. So I'm going to be with you. Just so if it happens to be true, I'm not going to miss it again. So Thomas is with them. And Jesus comes. So you read in verse 26. Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. And although the doors were locked, Jesus came and he stood among them, and he said to them, Peace be with you. And then notice what happens. Now, let me not overlook what the scripture says about the disciples when they saw Jesus. It's uh this I think is one of the greatest understatements in all of the Bible. It says, when they saw him, they were glad. Glad? That's the best you can say? Here's the one that you have followed and given your hearts to and believed and said we'll follow you anywhere. Lord, you are life. And we've seen you tortured, we've seen you scourged, we've seen all these things are heard about, and from a distance we look and know you are certainly dead No hope. And now we see you standing before us full of life, vitality. They were glad. They sure were But now Thomas is with them. Jesus comes and he says the same thing. Peace be with you. But immediately notice what else he says Peace be with you. Then he said to Thomas, put your finger here See my hands and put out your hand and place it in my side. Do not disbelieve, but believe. Now, I don't know about you, but that should strike you that wait a minute. That means when they were there and they were telling Thomas how you missed it And he said, I don't believe it. Jesus heard him. Jesus was invisible, but he was there. So when you in any occasion, God forbid, mock Jesus with friends telling stories and you say, yeah, all right, I don't know. Jesus hears that. Imagine how Thomas felt when Jesus repeated his very words of unbelief back to him. He must have thought, now what's he gonna do? Because now he is risen and in power. And he has heard my mocking. He's heard my insolence. And I am ashamed. And I'm scared. But look at what Jesus does. He's inviting Thomas to do what he had said in his vile, arrogant disbelief. Go ahead, Thomas. Use my hands. Put your finger in the holes. Put your finger, if it's your hand in the spear thrust on my side. Don't be disbelieving, but believe. I remember in my young life I Believed in Christ at the end of high school. And then I went to a university and in my naivety I took Bible courses at a secular university. Those courses were not designed to strengthen my faith. Those courses were designed to do everything possible to discredit my belief in the Bible And then there were courses in psychology that talked about the irrationality of people who can, in the midst of overwhelming evidence, still believe something because they want it to be true. And I remember one day, because I was tortured with the ambivalence, is it true? Is it not true? Can I is the Bible really true? Or is the Bible not true? And I remember still to this day, pounding on the floor, pounding on the floor, God help me. I need answers. Don't let me just be in this back and forth and up and down. Help me, God. And I prayed. God mercifully heard me. And I found a seminary that I had not known existed. A seminary that specialized in addressing the kinds of questions. that I had. When I was attending that seminary, they assigned me to do taping. So I would tape speakers who would come One day they assigned me to tape this guy who came in. I had never heard of him, didn't know who he was, he had never published anything, but he came to deliver some lectures. I still remember my first conversation with him. I was in the taping room, and he walked in, and he said, you got a lot of flies in here I said, yes, sir, we sure do. And then he walked out. I thought, okay Had not written anything. But his name was Francis Schaeffer. And he changed my life. He showed me that not only is the gospel true, it is the only philosophy of life that's true. And I began to see life from a different perspective. I began to see that the Bible is true. Jesus is alive. And I can follow him. So back to Thomas. Thomas is standing before Jesus, and he says, Go ahead. He's not going to strike Thomas. He's not going to curse him. Come on, Thomas. Satisfy your doubts. I don't think Thomas put his finger into the spike holes or in the spear thrust Because the next thing that the Bible says is, after he says, put your finger in my side, do not be disbelieving, but believe, verse 28. Thomas answered him. My Lord and my God. Do you realize that Thomas has gone from cynicism To the highest statement of faith of any disciple at that point. He is the first one in the gospel stories to confess the deity of Jesus Christ. My Lord and my God. But notice he doesn't just say he is Lord and He is God. It's my Lord. My God. And Thomas is a totally different person. John's gospel focuses on faith. And John uses the word faith eighty-nine times in his gospel. More than any other gospel writer. And Thomas was now a man of faith. And Thomas acted on his faith because there is a strong tradition that Thomas was the first person to take the gospel to India. Danny and Josie Jacobs, who are part of this congregation, probably in India right now. And um Danny says the tradition is very compelling that Thomas was the one that brought the gospel to India. So Thomas acted on his faith. You know, I believe that you generally find take a look at Christian history, particularly biographies. And you will find that it's often those who have the biggest struggles Who gave the greatest insights to the church? Martin Luther was a monk. He was a dedicated monk. He prayed, he fasted, he cried out to God. You know what he said one point after he's tried to do this for a couple years? He said, I hated God. Because you could never please him. He was never satisfied. But it was Martin Luther. Who discovered justification by faith and transformed Western Europe and to this day has put his mark upon the Church of Jesus Christ. C. S. Lewis mocked Christianity. He said Christians are out to lunch. Not exactly his words, but it was that idea. And he found that Christianity seemed to be something that was just a wish without any substance. But then he got to know some Christians. And those Christians patiently worked with him. And they persuaded him to look into Christianity. And he did. And he said, as I began to read, I began to see that Christian literature had a death that non-Christian literature didn't have. It didn't deal with the deep issues of life. But Christians were dealing with the deep issues of the soul and of life. And so you know the story, kicking and screaming, he came into the kingdom. And became the most compelling apologist for Christianity of the 20th century. So I remember that I came from my struggles, puny, ignorant little me. Went to the seminary, became a gospel preacher, ten years with intervarsity, street preaching. Standing out in crowds that nobody was a believer. But I was glad to proclaim Christ. And then God led me to Columbia Presbyterian, and wasn't any Columbia Presbyterian at that point, but 1978 we planted this church. And here I am back again. And God has blessed. Because He blesses His word and He blesses those who say, I don't know, I don't have all the answers, but I trust you. And I believe that you have risen from the dead. And so you're my Savior, my Lord, and my God. So I'll leave you with the questions this morning as you go from this service. What are you going to do with what you know about the Bible and Jesus Christ? Believe he's risen? Is he your Lord and your God? Change Thomas. Has it changed you? Continue to pursue, or else you will stand before that same Jesus, and he will judge your life by your works. And you will stand in terror. Or if you bow before him, my Lord and my God, You will stand in his grace and forgive all your sins. And you will walk in newness of life with the risen Lord Jesus. Let's pray. I have doubts. We all at times wonder, can this really be true? We sometimes think, Lord, uh it doesn't seem like These prayers I prayed are the way I would have dealt with it. But you are Lord and Master. And so we bow before you. And I pray, Lord, that any hearer who is saying, I want to believe, but I'm having trouble. Would speak to somebody here who does believe, whether me or somebody else, and say, help me out with this. I've got questions And they would get answers to their questions because there are solid answers to all our questions of doubt. And Lord, for those of us who say, Lord, I have passed that. I love you. I serve you. But it's good to hear again. Of the Jesus who rose from the dead and in his kindness dealt with a skeptic. Help us, Lord, to look at the week ahead. And ask ourselves, what difference does your resurrection make in how I live this week? I pray, Lord, that you'll do that, for that's for our joy and for your glory. Hear us. Hear us we pray in Jesus' name.