I want to share with you a brief report because I was asked to do so. I'd ask you to pray that my wife and I would have a safe trip out to California, that we'd have good weather, and get back in time for church. So last night we got on the plane, it was a red eye, and so we flew from LA last night around probably I think two o'clock our time in Maryland took off, just landed this morning, and my very fine nephew, uh Brandon Johnson, was there to pick me up. So thank you, Brandon, right there to get me here to church on time. And My son won the Division III championship game. So I'm a very proud dad if if a little bit tired. And I've always wondered what it would be like to fall asleep in one of my own sermons. This will not be that day. I have lots of caffeine on board If you have your Bibles with you, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 7. As you can tell from my voice, I did a lot of yelling this weekend. This morning I'll be reading for us the first of three passages in Luke chapter 7 that deal with an encounter between John the Baptist disciples. and Jesus. Let's pray before this is read. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for your word. Lord, we thank you that It points us to you over and over again. Thank you that it illuminates for us who we are and how we might live with and for you. And so, God Almighty, we ask that you would bless this reading of your word to us. We pray that we might see Christ in his great love and power, his holiness and beauty. We pray, O God, that you would lead us constantly through repentance and faith to a closer walk with Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen The Gospel of Luke, chapter 7, beginning with verse 18, the Word of God. The disciples of John reported all these things to him, and John, calling two of his disciples to him, sent them to the Lord, saying, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? When the men had come to him, they said, John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the one who is to come? Or shall we look for another? In that hour he healed many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and on many who were blind he bestowed sight. And he answered them, Go and tell John what you have seen and heard. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk. Lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them. And blessed is the one who is not offended by me. This ends the reading of God's Word. The title in your bulletin, and this is a confession that um, well, I will make boldly There are times when the titles of the sermons that I preach are no more or less than the subheadings from the translation of the Bible that I use. I don't know if you've ever noticed that. I work hard on the sermons. I could work harder on the titles. But this title I very specifically picked, Doubting John with a question mark. Because we all know doubting Thomas. And we all know about Gideon and his doubts having to have the fleece put out a couple days. We all understand that there are times when people's faith seems to collapse, but surely not John. It's really not John the Baptist. John the Baptist, we know from the very next portion of this text, he's the one who, prior to the giving of the Spirit on Pentecost day, is greater than any born of woman. John the Baptist is a heavy hitter. He's a spiritual all-star. Surely not John. And so, if you get a commentary or critical analysis of these verses from your pastor's bookshelf or a theological library, it is amazing. The conclusions that some Bible scholars draw regarding this scene that we've just heard. They'll say, well, John only asked that question for the benefit of his disciples. Or they say John was really, he didn't doubt this for a minute, but he wanted to give Jesus an opportunity to say something to all the crowds. And I want to give you one reason that I find overwhelmingly compelling to believe that, no, John, really, John. He really had a crisis. Keep in mind, according to Luke chapter 3, verse 20, I believe, we found out already in Luke's narrative that John is in prison. In fact, the other gospels that give us the account of this exchange, which is very significant in the early Christian tradition, they position John in prison when he sends these messengers out. Very explicitly. So we know John is having a tough time. In fact, this tough time John is having is because he dared to criticize Herod for basically carrying on an affair with his brother's wife. He was bold. In the parlance of today he spoke truth to power. And soon enough it would literally cost him his head. And he hears a report about all these things Jesus has been doing. Notice that is what it says in verse 18. The disciples of John repeated all these things to him. Well, all these things certainly involved the healing of the centurion servant and the raising of the widow of Nain's son immediately preceding this in chapter 7. It also would have included all these things the substance of his teaching in the Sermon on the Plain. It also would have included the miracles he'd performed in his teaching on things like the Sabbath. John is perplexed. Why do I know John is perplexed? Because what does Jesus say to his disciples? Look at verse 22. And he answered them, go and tell John. You see, John, John the Baptist. The one whose conception, the one whose early childhood, the one whose parental praises to God are continually put side by side with Christ's. own conception, Mary's song, early birth and childhood. This John, who is such a central pivotal figure in the history of redemption, you see, even he Needed a reassuring word from the Lord of Glory that He is the one. That's important. As we look at this, I want us to consider that We're going to consider the question John asks. We're going to consider the answer Jesus gives. And lastly, we're going to consider the blessing. All three of these things taken together cover the entirety of this short text. We will leave no stone uncovered. The question that he asks is, are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? Have you ever wished that God had a highlighter and stuff was highlighted so you could really notice what's the important good stuff when you're doing your personal quiet time? Ever wish that? You guys are such Presbyterians. Could anybody say God wish that? There we go. Thank you, Charlie. You're my favorite parishioner right now. Key to coaching strategies, make everybody else jealous, they'll behave well. In any event, discard that immediately. But I want you to think about the fact that God does use a highlighter. And one of the ways that we see him using his highlighter is repetition. Do you notice how this text didn't need to repeat the question? And in the space of two back-to-back verses we have the same words. Makes it easy if you're doing your Greek translation exam and seminary. Calling two of his disciples to him, he sent them to the Lord, saying, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? Next verse. And when the men had come to him, they said, John the Baptist sent us to you, saying, We are to ask, are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? Could have just said, and they asked Jesus the question John had asked. No, it's repeated. Are you the one Who is to come? Or shall we look for another? Jesus is described in several of the Gospels as the one who was to come. And it's language that echoes all the way back to Genesis chapter 48 Where we have Jacob blessing his sons and blessing Judah, from whom the scepter will not depart until it comes to him to whom it belongs. That echo, that literary and theological echo of this coming one, carried the hopes of God's people in the Old Testament through some very dark times. The one. In the Gospel of Mark, Jesus is introduced. The first reference to Jesus is that he is the stronger one. We have this idea that Jesus is the one to whom all of history has tended. He is the one who fulfills that promise in Genesis 3. 15, that from the woman would come a seed. Who would conquer our great enemy? And John the Baptist has heard about everything Jesus has done to this point, and he's starting to wonder. He whose divine commission it was to prepare the way for him. John the Baptist, the one who on the banks of that Jordan River saw him according to the Gospel of John and said, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away his people's sins. That same John says, are you the one? Are you the one who was to come? Or should we look to another? Are you just another prefigure of the real Messiah? Are you just another sort of Elijah-type figure like me? And what do we make of that question? Well, that question snaps into clear focus if we put John the Baptist in his context. You see, none of the disciples ever dreamed that Jesus would have to die. None of them thought for a minute That Jesus was not going to overthrow Rome. That was almost a given in their mind that when Jesus the Messiah came to establish his kingdom, everything that we understand pertains to both his first coming on that first Christmas and in his earthly ministry and his second coming, when he finally consummates his kingdom and establishes it as a geopolitical reality in the new heavens and new earth, they saw all of that as collapsed into one moment and they were wondering, Jesus It seems to me you've got the exact foundation you need to take this to the next step here. And instead, you're healing a centurion servant. Jesus, now you've got the crowds following you. Jesus, surely now is the time to say, by the way, everybody, I'm descended from David. Pay homage, get in line. There's going to be some changes around here. You see, they were so addicted to the world that they lived in that they could not imagine that Jesus was coming To explicitly, expressly, intentionally, and as a matter of primary importance, transform the world and its institutions Right then, right there. And when we look at John as a figure who's living in that world, thinking those kinds of thoughts, this makes perfect sense. Because it seems as if Jesus has declined every opportunity to do anything remotely like that. And instead has signaled Most recently, in praising the centurion, that he's actually interested in something quite different. The question is one that concerns what we expect the Messiah to do and whether we accept that what he has done is precisely what he came to do. And we still struggle with that today. We still want to make Jesus fit our expectations for what we think ought to happen. And we still wonder, how is it, Jesus, that you can't do X, Y, or Z? Or when will you do A, B, and C? Now, when you look at the answer Jesus gives, there's one thing here that really, really gets my attention as a just a Christian who reads his Bible. The men come to him and they say, verse 20, John the Baptist has sent us to you, saying, Are you the one who is to come, or shall we look for another? And Jesus doesn't answer them right away. In that hour. That means literally right then. So they ask Jesus the question, and he doesn't answer them. He immediately does what? He heals many people of diseases and plagues and evil spirits, and on many who were blind he bestowed sight. He doubles down and simply does the exact same things he'd been doing up till then. He's already done these things. In fact, in that brief summary of what Jesus did, apart from preaching sermons on the plains, right there were the mountain flattens out, where Matthew describes it as a Sermon on the Mount. Apart from that long didactic section of teaching, Jesus basically does exactly what he's been doing up to that point in the presence of these witnesses. Remember, two witnesses established an answer in court. And Jesus makes sure these two witnesses see with their own eyes. All the things that have hitherto been merely reported to them. Then he says, go and tell John what you see and hear You know, some of us that so desperately want more or different from Jesus and expect him to give us exactly what we need in our particularities need to pay close attention to this. What Jesus has done is sufficient. It is sufficient. It's enough. Gloriously so. And when Jesus demonstrates his power and his compassion, extending all the way to the poor, In the declaration of the gospel, he is doubling down on his missional objective to establish a kingdom of God that is truly present among us now but will come to fruition and completeness on his second return. A very difficult thing for us to accept, we who are living in the already not yet. We who are living between the ministries of Jesus, as it were, between the two great comings. When Jesus describes what he's been doing, he uses words that are explicitly drawn from the book of Isaiah. Chapter 26, Chapter 29, Chapter 35, Chapter 42, and Chapter 61, preeminently Chapter 61, the first and the last parts of this. And in all of those passages, the Messiah is described as someone who will do these things. The blind will receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers cleanse, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have good news preached to them. That is how Jesus describes his ministry. I want to unpack that a little bit Jesus is using a figure here that those of us who if you study literature you might have learned the term cynic doke. I only learned it in seminary and then only because I had to, it was going to be on a quiz. And uh it's the it's a figure of speech in which you use an extreme case to demonstrate a much larger uh reality. For example, if I were to say If I were to say something like, I'm going to have an open house and even Swedish Americans can come, what am I saying? I'm basically saying anyone can come. And if you're Swedish American, I I'm partly Swedish American as well, so I figured I'm on safe ground there. I I also donated that blood, but In any event, I love Swedish people. That's my mom. She's not here. When we think about Synecdokes and how they drag in all of humanity with them when they are referenced, and it happens throughout the Bible. Notice how this one functions. The good news is preached to the poor. Even the poor The people for whom men and women from many cultures, perhaps every culture across this globe, seem to have an allergic reaction to. Those who seem to have nothing to offer, but require much. Those whom we'd rather not maybe associate with if given options. They are the ones Jesus refers to here. Keep in mind the centurion would not have been poor. The widow of Cain, probably of Nain, probably poor. Jesus is not a distinguisher or judge of persons based upon their status socially, economically. He is willing to touch the leper as well as to embrace the centurion. He is willing to reach out and show kindness and grace to a Pharisee. as quickly as he is to a publican. And his mission is underscored as being all about the preaching of the good news. And throughout the Gospels and Paul's epistles, the good news is always this. The good news is always that God has opened up a way for us to have peace with Him. through the work of the Messiah. The good news is never the fact that Rome has been defeated Or that poverty has been consigned to the ash heap of history, or that every known disease has been cured. That's not the good news. In fact, the Bible says that we can expect all kinds of turmoil, economically, politically, physically in our health, right up until Christ's return. The good news is that our sins are forgiven because Jesus Christ paid the penalty for them if we would look to him with repentance and faith. And that goes for every class and sort and type and ethnicity and any way you have of dividing people up. Jesus, by the use of this figure, makes it clear that John needs to understand one thing. I am demonstrating my great power and compassion. And these are all to use the language of John's gospel signs to certify my credentials as one who can truly offer good news and enact it. And the good news is always, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. That's the answer The answer isn't, well, let me throw you a bone, John. How about if I arrange for Jerusalem to be independent? Nothing of the sort. He doubles down on what his calling is. And then he gives A remarkable blessing because it is um I found one uh Bible teacher who said it's the only individual personal blessing in the Bible, benediction in the Bible. Listen to what it says. Blessed is the one who is not offended by me. Think about all the other beatitudes or blessings you've read. Blessed are those who are, or blessed are the meek. Plural. Blessed are those who are this, that. This one is very particular. It's very exact. It's very specific. Blessed is the one who is not offended by me. I want to invite you to consider how it's possible for us to be offended by Jesus. We can be offended by Jesus, and the word is actually a word you're very familiar with. Scandalos in the Greek. Our word scandalized comes from it. Offended, upset, bothered. We who would stumble at this Jesus, because he doesn't meet our agenda or agree with us. Over the course of A couple decades of ministry now, I have seen on many occasions professing Christians take offense at Jesus and his ministry. And walk away. And it's heartbreaking to hear someone who professed faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Have a prayer regarding their mother's healing go unanswered. And their mother passes away. And they immediately turn their back on Jesus and are offended at him and believe they've wasted their life following him. because this request wasn't answered the way they wanted. I've pastored people who are reading through the Bible and they discover what it says about marriage. Or divorce. Or sexuality. And they're offended by Jesus And so they walk away and lose a very great blessing. They lose their share of the good news. Because they've rejected the one who could offer it and enact it. Because that one did not fit their agenda. And this happens over and over and over again throughout churches as generations grow up. We somehow think that we need to approve of Jesus' ministry. And we can look at the red letters in our gospels and say, well, I'm not so I he can't have said that because I don't agree with that. Think about the hubris for a moment. Or, well, I I like Jesus, but he sure missed the boat on this one. And this is something that affects not just us as individual Christians, it it it affects even the Academy of Christianity in the West. I have done a significant study on the book of Philemon. One of the most highly regarded commentaries in the introduction says it is a fair criticism of this book to say God should have addressed the institution of slavery. Just hit pause for a minute. Was Jesus' ministry sufficient to accomplish everything he intended it to accomplish? And who are we, the creature, to critique the Creator and the great plan of redemption and the way he went about it? Who are we to say, Jesus, are you really the one? Because I would have said this. Maybe you were just sort of provisional and you threw some paint on the wall, and it's my job to go in with sponges and finer brushes and make it all make a little more sense. And time after time after time, we see something Jesus says, something the Bible teaches, and we think, I'm offended by that. And here Jesus says, blessed is the one who is not offended by me. Jesus says, in effect, Blessed is the one who is not offended by Me, the one who has come, to fulfill every jot and tittle of the entirety of God's revealed will. There is a last feature of this text that grips me. Jesus has a way of taking objections to his ministry and completely inverting them. Notice that they come and they very specifically say, Are you the one? And Jesus ends this interview with a question that would cause them to leave thinking, am I the one? Not Jesus, are you the one who has come to bring God's glorious kingdom in your way on your terms for your purposes? And they leave thinking, am I the one who is or is not offended by Christ's Priorities, passions, objectives, words, commands You see, we are invited to go from questioning who God is to wondering who we are. We question who the God who reveals himself in Christ is and whether he's really worthy of our dedication and our suffering in prison. And Jesus turns it around with a simple blessing. Are you the one who is not offended and therefore greatly blessed? And I can't read this text and not say, Lord Jesus, Forgive me for any offense I have ever taken at your word. Because you are the word of God, the Lagos. You are wisdom and personified. You are the way, the truth, and the life. And I can't find my way, truth, or life apart from you. Forgive me for being critical of what you have said, how you've said it, when and where you've applied it, and when you will ultimately fulfill it Read Scripture with a tender heart, with a conscience open to the Holy Spirit's work. And a desire to meet the God who blesses those who wrestle with Him. A couple weeks ago I preached a sermon that got some feedback that was interesting to me. The question has been raised by several about whether or not we can really have a faith that increases or decreases, and I would simply say absolutely. Absolutely. Those truths are clearly stated in the Bible. In fact, Paul to the Corinthian church confronts them and rebukes them because their faith has not increased sufficiently that he can move on in his ministry. We should be growing in faith But sometimes we're not. Sometimes we have seasons of doubt. Sometimes we struggle with things the Bible teaches that don't match up with our sense of how things ought to be, and certainly not the spirit of this age in which we live. And I want to share with you something I learned from a saint long dead. His name was Richard Baxter. He was an English pastor who kind of snuck into ministry through a back door in the middle of the 17th century. He ended up being stationed as a first deacon in the little town of Kitterminster And that church had a small parish with just a couple dozen people reportedly. By the time he retired from his ministry, the entire town was baptized in a church on Sundays. Richard Baxter was a man who was chronically ill and believed he was dying for the last 50 years of his life. So there there might have been some hypochondria worked in there somewhere as well, but he was frail, got sick easily, had what we might call a nervous constitution, and he wrote two books. that continue to be in print to this day. One is called the Saints Everlasting Rest, and the other is called Dying Thoughts. Because from his perspective, all of his thoughts were dying thoughts because he was always dying. And in dying thoughts, he said something that I read when I was 21 years old, and I had my own doubts about God, because I had a degenerative eye disease. Because I could list all the things wrong with my life at that time. Here I was in seminary and I read in dying thoughts, little Purple book with pink letters on the cover. He said, never let your doubts go unanswered, lest you give them half the victory over you. What did John do when he did have doubts? He went straight to Jesus And dear friend, if you have doubts about Jesus, or you struggle with something that offends you in his ministry, I would caution you against going to the internet, finding some popular talking head. Who can give you a abridged version of the Jesus who offended you and make him more tasteful to you I would urge you to be like John. Be like doubting John. Go directly to Jesus. And if you're in prison, send messengers. But you're not. You and I can come to Jesus directly, on our knees with open Bibles Seeking the truth of God's Word, determining to believe it with its simple childlike faith, and trusting Him by committing ourselves to obedience, What a thought. What a thought if I could take such pains to not be offended by this beautiful Savior What a thought that if in my community group I could feel free to bring up things that perhaps cause me questions or pauses or even lowercase O offense and find a place where I can share that thought and be redirected to the Savior who says, I am truth. Will you commit yourself to receiving Jesus Wholly, completely, unreservedly, to taking every thought captive, and saying to Jesus, I do believe Help me in my unbelief. I do believe. Help me overcome my quibbles and my offense. I do believe. Help me to unreservedly accept who you are and what you've done, how you did it, and what your plan is. And know Christ and the blessings that He offers. After the service today, we'll have Men and women from our prayer ministry in the front of the sanctuary, and they would love to meet with you, to pray with and for you for any matter at all, large or small. And I would encourage you, if you are offended by anything that Jesus said or did, or have doubts about whether or not He is the one, if you have doubts about whether or not you are the One who receives Christ, I would encourage you to go meet with them and pray. Talk with an elder of the church. Join a small group, community group we call them. Find a Christian that you know and trust as a mature follower of Jesus, and share your heart with them that we might encourage one another in our faith and know Jesus better. Almighty God, we give you thanks and praise for the gift that we have in Jesus. Lord, we thank you that, Lord You deal so gently and clearly, even with great men and women who have doubts And how that emboldens those of us who are not the greatest of any born of woman to come to you with our doubts. Lord, we thank you that you love us all, that you reach out to us all and you offer to all of us. By your common general grace, the grace of a good and a just God, this free offer of the gospel that any who come to you might not perish, but have everlasting life. Help us to not be offended by the exclusive, life-claiming statements of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But help us to hold to him dearly. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.