This morning, I have the privilege of welcoming to our pulpit Jonathan Eide. I think that's how you is that how you pronounce Ede? Jonathan Eid. Jonathan is a PCA pastor who has served for Mission to the World, MTW, in Ukraine for decades. He helped plant four churches there and now serves as the regional director for MTW's work in Eastern Europe. As Ukraine fights to defend its territory, MTW missionaries and members of their partner churches and the Evangelical Presbyterian Church of Ukraine are seeking the Lord's mercy, protection, and wisdom. These churches in Western Ukraine, as well as missionaries from Ukraine, Poland, Romania, and Slovakia, are currently sharing the gospel. and caring for Ukrainian refugees in these countries, other PCA and OPC churches. have sent over three million dollars in medicines and supplies, including things like clothes, blankets, um water filters. If you'd like to hear more about this ministry in Ukraine, please join. We have a luncheon after the service today. We have a luncheon downstairs. John, welcome to CBC, and thank you for bringing us God's word this morning. Thank you very much. It's a great privilege to be here and to be with you. As Pete Floyd, not Pink Floyd just said. I have been in Ukraine with my family for a long, long time. We originally arrived in Ukraine in 1998. and have been there uh since. We raised our two daughters there and adopted a son, uh Zachary, who's now sixteen, uh almost seventeen from uh from Ukraine. So it is a big big part of my life and uh the tragedy that's going on right now is very, very personal. I was uh sharing at a church in Birmingham, Alabama I was scheduled to speak a week after the invasion began, February 24th, that next Sunday, and I couldn't get through my sermon. I ended up in a puddle on the front and someone else finished it. So I think I'll be okay here. But um Uh it is emotional it's an emotional time uh for our us and our family of and obviously for our uh fifty million Ukrainians as well. Um we're gonna talk about citizenship and identity identity uh today uh from Ephesians two. So if you have a Bible you can open up open up to Ephesians two. And we're going to consider our identity in Christ vis-a-vis our identity, our identities, plural, that we have here on earth. in our uh in our lives, in our communities, in our families, in our countries, et cetera. What role do those two play with each other? Where does our where where is the source source? Which one leads the other one? We're going to think through uh think through that a little bit today from from Ephesians 2. I'll start with um Well, let's start with the text and then I'll I'll go to the story. We're going to start in the Bulletin Apologies, it says 219. We're going to start in 11 and read through the end of the chapter. Ephesians 2. 11. Therefore, remember that at one time you were Gentiles in the flesh, called the uncircumcision, by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that at that time you were separated from Christ, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenant of the promise. Having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for He Himself is our peace. who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing the law of the commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man, in place of the two. so making peace, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. And he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and peace to you who were near. For through him we have access to in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens. With the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure, being joined together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you are also built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Amen. Um excuse me. Let's uh imagine uh a uh a young man or woman Speaking of identity and citizenship, who was born in the Soviet Union in a city that some of you may be familiar with called Yelta This is an imaginary person. Obviously there were many hundreds of thousands there, but um imaginary person born in the city of Yalta in 1983, let's say That would make them forty years old today. And um and let's say this young man or woman, let's say it's a woman for the for uh not to have to uh go back over that every time. Let's say this young woman uh was born in Yalta and in in Crimea, in what was then the United Soviet Socialist Republic, uh the Soviet Union, and when they uh when she turned eight uh years old, that country in which she lived ceased to exist. Uh so she probably would have been in school at the time. So she would have noticed a lot of changes if she would have been a astute eight-year-old and noticing what's going on around her. The currency that her parents used to buy food would have changed. Uh the uh would have changed uh from the ruble to what was then the uh initial currency of Ukraine. Uh ironically enough called the coupon, which um w uh was uh only in place for about a year. Um and the currency would have changed as she became a citizen of this new country. Her parents would have stood in line and got her a new passport. for this new country. Uh she would have noticed street signs likely changing. Probably the name of the school she went to changed. The textbooks, even though she was very young, still likely, Soviet textbooks would have been retired, uh, with all the Stolin and Lenin and all the pictures on the front and all that stuff, and new textbooks would have been introduced. and she would have started a new life in a new country, never having left uh Yalta. Then she lives her life uh all the way uh from the age eight to twenty fourteen. She would have been thirty-four at that time. And she then she lives in this country called Ukraine And she had a Ukrainian identity and a Ukrainian passport. She would have gotten her own passport at some point. And uh she had uh Ukrainian currency after the next currency change to the root to the uh uh currency called the Grievna, uh which it it currently is. She would have had the Ukrainian currency and she would have seen Ukrainian uh uh names on the street and her school textbooks and so forth and so on would have all been in Ukrainian And then um and then at 34 in 2014 uh with the annexation of uh Crimea, her city, Yalta, remember she hasn't lived, she hasn't She uh she hasn't moved, she hasn't traveled, she's still living in this one city. Uh uh Ukraine would have been uh rather Crimea was annexed, uh Russia took over, and then at the age of thirty-four Another round. She got a new passport. She stood in line and got a new passport, that would be Russian passport. The currency she used became the ruble uh the street signs uh reverted to Russian names, the textbooks which she used or she learned from, or her children maybe, uh, who went to school with would have become Russian textbooks and uh and so forth And uh and her life would have uh pretty dramatically changed again uh at the age of thirty-fourth. Now this fictitious woman we're talking about is forty today. Uh and now her two past identities are fighting with each other in a war uh that may or may not lead uh for her to stand in line for yet another passport at some point in the future uh Ukrainian passport uh to to become uh Ukrainian again and the whole round of changes that have come that will come if that happens. uh passport, uh street signs, currency, uh um sorry, that was the Russian word that just came out. Uh statues in the middle of the uh in in the middle of the square in in town, textbooks that are children's use. uh children muse uh and so forth another round. So that would be that would be, uh if that does happen, her fourth round of citizenship changes. Remember, she has never left her city. She's still a Yelten, as they say. I guess that's the way you say it. That uh gives you an idea of the uh pressure being put on this question. uh in Ukraine and for that matter Russia uh right now. What is our identity? Where is our identity? In in whom, as we believers understand, is our identity That's the question that Ephesians, this Ephesians 2 passage answers, and I will try to explain and we can think through a little bit together. Let's start with the text and then kind of move on and think through what it what it looks like and what it means for for us. Paul here over and over and over again. uh stresses the alienation uh that occurs for those Gentiles or for those outside of Israel's kingdom. Just harps on it, pounds on it. Verse twelve having uh as I count four um uh four references to that. We have verse 11. Therefore remember that at one time you were Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision. And then twelve. Remember that at one time you were separated from Christ. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers to the covenant of Providence, having in fact no hope without God in the world So that underline that occurs with those words separated and then alienated and then strangers and then no hope. um an underline after underline after underline saying that there is an in and there is an out. There is an in uh the community in the covenant and then there is an outside of the covenant. And he paints paints a pretty stark picture for those outside of the covenant, that they're separated. They're aliens, they're they're strangers. uh and without without hope and without God, both, uh, in the world. Uh that picture is uh as as we understand um From uh the Old Testament and from uh our understanding of the covenant, there is there were ways for those who were aliens to become citizens in i even in uh even in the covenant in in the old testament. There were ways for uh people to become members of God, but there was, as Paul points out here over and over again, a distinction. that it there was a circumcised and uncircumcised, a separated and a whole and and so forth. And Paul over and over again makes this point uh that that um that there is inside of the kingdom and there is outside of the kingdom. Uh and without a change in citizenship, without a change in our identity, There was no way to enjoy the privileges of that covenant. We know that there were exceptions. We know that there was ways in We know that that there were uh different uh concessions given, but we still understand uh that there is, in fact, an us uh there was in the Old Testament and in the Covenant and outside of the Covenant. All could come, but they needed to come by the laws and through the covenant with Israel. And that is uh let's just look quickly at Numbers 15, 14. Um as an example of that, as one of the examples of the uh uh of the ways in and around. Numbers chapter fifteen. We just had Sunday school on numbers this morning. Fifteen, fourteen. And if A stranger is sojourning with you, or anyone is living permanently among you, and he wishes to offer a food offering with a pleasing aroma to the Lord, he shall do as you do. So there was exceptions and concessions given. But nonetheless, Paul here underlines the fact that there is and there is a covenant and there is an inside of that covenant. And there were foreigners who lived far off from the temple, and there were citizens who lived close to the temple. Of course, in that time that was a geographic in and out. The covenant and geography overlapped. Not exclusively, but did overlap um overlap uh those those two things. That there was a uh a country, there was a citiz an actual citizenship, uh concessions given for others, as we see in the book of Jonah and other places. But there was an understanding of in and out. And then verse 13 makes an abrupt turn. But now in Christ Jesus. But now in Christ Jesus 13, you who were once far off have been brought, not have come, not have traveled, but in fact have been brought near. by the blood of uh by the blood of Christ. And then for the rest of the passage kind of undoes everything he uh all of the underlines and all of the um distinctions he made uh in verse twelve, he kind of undoes those and describes the opposite of them. Describes the opposite of being separated, alienated, strangers, no hope and no God in uh in the world And the opposite of them is um is that we in fact have now a citizenship. We now have a membership with Christ in the world, uh with Christ, uh with fellow with our fellow believers. Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter seven, uh uh the uh part five, I'll read to you here. Uh this covenant was differently administered in the time of the law and in the time of the gospel. Under the law it was administered by promises, prophecies, sacrifices. circumcision, Paschal Lamb, and other ordinances delivered to the people of the Jews, all for signing Christ to come, which were at the time sufficient and efficacious through the operation of the Spirit to instruct and build up the elect in faith and promise of the Messiah, by whom they had gained full remission of sins and eternal salvation. That is called the Old Testament. That's the description of the before that Paul gives in verse twelve. Uh that is the uh the covenant that was then uh that was then. Now we have This new promise and this new hope in Christ. Is that water coming to me? No, that isn't that's fine. Now we have this hope this new hope and this new pro this is Christ, I'm fine, thank you. Um In Christ Jesus, everything has changed. The door is open to direct access. 1 Peter 2. 9. 1 Peter 2. 9, let's read that. Did I mark it? I don't think I did. Um 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 9. But you are a chosen rice, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of them who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. We now who were far off in relation to the temple have been drawn near. We have not moved closer to the temple, but in fact the temple has moved closer to us. Christ has found us that were foreigners, without hope and without God, and included them in the covenant. We as believers today have these promises. Now it is coming to me. Thank you so much. Yes. I have something in something in my throat. I appreciate that. We have these promises now in Christ. We have been brought near to him by He has brought Himself near to us. And this is the beauty of the gospel. We are now this chosen race that Paul talked about in verse 12. We are now this royal priesthood. We are now this holy nation, a people for his own possession, that he may proclaim the excellences the excellences of him Who called you out of this dark darkness into this uh loving and uh light? How does this truth that there was a before and that there was an after apply to us in our situation? How do we understand our new identity in Christ? I started off with the story of the of the fictitious woman in Yalta. Who's actually not fictitious, there's thousands in her place, and and uh thousands of men and women in that exact role, in that exact place. When everything is changing around you, how do we understand this truth of our identity in Christ? My mother um uh describes this changing around you as the uh as after the assassination of JFK and the days after she describes were um A lot of uncertainty, not understanding, well, what now? That hasn't happened, at least in a long time. And what happens now? What does the world look like after today? her. My generation has that uh has that as their 911 moment. When a so and and all of us have that in our own personal lives when we receive that phone call. that says whatever terrible news that happened uh to you or to someone you love or to someone close to you or something like that. All of us have that What now moment. The earth has shaken under our feet, and we're not quite sure that everything's going to be the same. In fact, often it isn't the same. Um life after after JFK changed, life after nine eleven changed, and uh and for Ukraine, obviously right now, this is their ongoing nine eleven moment when everything is changing. When their Earthly identity is on the line. So what does that look like? It would be helpful to explore now. What does our identity in Christ look like and mean for us? look like and mean for us in our tumultuous moments, in our country's tumultuous families and so forth, thinking of it through the lens may be helpful of concentric circles. So we have ourselves We have our family, immediate family, spouse around us, extended family, community, and country, all of whom, all of from all of which we receive an identity. We are a husband, a wife, a mother, a father, a sibling, a whatever we are, a citizen. Aren't we all citizens? And we all have a certain identity we receive from those things. Is it our ultimate identity? Obviously not. What is our ultimate identity? Our ultimate identity is in Christ. Well, how do we understand our our temporal identity uh in in light of our ultimate identity? Um and First starting with, I think, uh first starting with the question of well what is our uh ultimate identity and and how and and uh where do we get that? We get that from Christ and from the people of God from here. It reminds us of that on uh on Sunday morning. Uh that our first identity is in Christ. And all of those things that uh that Paul said in Ephesians. I put my paper back here, are uh are are true of us now. Uh that we are in Christ, in in the hope. Um And we have hope in Christ now. That is true of us in our um in our in our faith. We were once excluded, but we are now included. We were once outside and uh we were now inside. So when everything is tumultuous in all of those concentric circles in our lives. we understand and we remind ourselves that our first identity uh it our first identity is in Christ. When that when those um uh ground shaking moments uh happen in our lives or our country or in any of those concentric circles neighborhood, country, are are what does tomorrow look like? Because I don't understand. Tomorrow's going to be a lot different than today when those moments happen. We must first and foremost understand our our real and true citizenship in Christ Um we have our uh dean of students at our seminary in uh in Kyiv has a an amazing and uh and interesting story. In twenty fourteen he was living in the eastern part of Ukraine in the city of Donetsk. with his wife and uh and their two small children, one older boy and two small children. And uh his w his wife called him, who was at the market buying some food, and she said, uh, what holiday is it today? Remind me what holiday is it today? And uh Fedya, his name is, uh got this call from Luva and she he said, holiday, holiday, holiday. It's not a no no holiday today that I can think of She said, well look on the calendar. There's got to be some kind of holiday or something going on in the city because there's all kinds of fireworks going off here at the uh at the market. And he it took him you know how it is in those moments in our lives, it was probably ten probably two seconds, but it feels like fifteen minutes. It took him about two seconds, what felt like fifteen minutes, to put two and two together in his head. uh and understand that these were not fireworks, uh that these were bombs uh and these were fighter jets flying over top and uh and the clock had just started ticking for them and their family to leave that city alive. Um and they did. Uh in the next few days, in fact they got on one of the very last trains out of the Donetsk train station, which doesn't exist any longer, it's flat. And um and they made it to Kiev uh where uh he started working with us in the seminary while the war was uh beginning from 2014 till till 2022. Still going. And uh he went off to Westminster uh theological seminary in California, did his internship at a church, came back to Kiev, and then uh and then February twenty in twenty twenty two happened. And uh and there was lots of Russian troops amassing at the borders, as you remember, of Belarus and of uh and of Russia, ready to invade and so forth. And I called Fedia. And I said, What do you think? Where are we? And he said, We're leaving. He said, I don't want to do that again. He said, We're we're gone, we're moving to the far western uh part of the country. Men, as you may know, are not uh Ukrainian men are not allowed to are not given leave to to exit the country, uh so they couldn't go outside of the country, but they went to uh a city a couple of kilometers from Poland. Um and uh stood there because they didn't want to experience uh what they experienced in two thousand fourteen. And now their son has been drafted and is fighting in some of the worst uh some of the worst fighting. But in talking with him A person who is um his first language is Russian, second language is Ukrainian, uh he he asked that we asked the same question. Well, where is our identity? When everything is turned upside down as it is uh as it is for those people. From where do receive our hope? And I think that is in talking with the Ukrainian pastors that I work with, uh in the fifteen churches that are are a part of the Evangelical Presbyterian Church of Ukraine, all of them are saying, just like us in our person in our post-91 moment, um, what now? What now? Uh when it's a possibility, however slight now, but certainly was a felt like a much greater possibility a year ago. That Ukraine could cease to exist. What now? Um that that they would have to stand in line like this woman in Yalta did. And may have to do for the fourth time and get a news passport, new currency, new new street signs, new textbooks, new uh new statues in the square in the center square of the city, and so forth. W in those kind of situations, where is our identity? Where do we take where do we take it from? And as I was talking with the sharps who've uh been so hospitable to me uh last night and this morning about their dual identity of um uh being uh from England and having a love of England and a love of America. Sandy helpfully described it as going home both ways. And I think that that is true of us as believers as well. Obviously we recognize and acknowledge that one of our one of our homes, so to speak, is permanent. and one of our poems is uh is temporal. One of our citizenships, one of our passports uh is going to last forever and the other one is not, as we see in Ukraine. um what's going on right now. And our but we start with that identity in Christ. We start with that um We start with verse 13, right? But now in Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace. So we I think the help helpful thing for me, I think, and Ukrainians that I've talked to and our Ukrainian pastors is to understand that when things are going well and when things are going terribly, when there is when there is uh euphoria and when there is despair in any of those concentric circles in our immediate family when we get that phone call that says a terrible thing, whatever it is. Um when in in our community when a neighbor's child dies or something terrible happens in our community or or in a in a church community or something like that. that um in our uh with our spouse, in our family, or in America's case, with our country. when we feel like when we feel like there's just no future for the country as we know it or as we knew it or or whatever. Is that a cause for despair? Well, we are invested in those things. We have an identity in those things, certainly. We have an identity as as Americans or or or or Ukrainians or or whatever it is. But do we take we don't take our ultimate identity from those things, and therefore we don't take our ultimate despair from those things either. Or hope. Or hope. Our hope does not come from our the fact that we have the United States has one of the strongest passports and can go to almost any country in the world without a visa or whatever. That's not a hope. It's helpful, but it's not hope. Right. Uh it's it's uh n nor is you nor is uh are are are Ukrainians despair, ultimate despair in Ukraine. There's a lot of despair going around in Ukraine right now. But Is it ultimate despair? Is there hope beyond it? Is there something more? Is there kingdom? This is the question that I think Ukrainians are asking now. Is there a kingdom? more secure? Is there a passport more stronger than the one I have? And the answer is always yes. Uh no matter what country you live in in the world. The answer is always yes. And that kingdom and hope uh comes from Christ, and that kingdom of hope comes from this passage here. Uh because The alternative is that we live by the uh, we live uh, as Ephesians also says, wherever the wind blows in our lives. If all of the if all of our concentric circles, spouse, family, community, country, are doing well, and we're pleased with the trajectory, and we're happy, and our kids are doing well. uh then then we feel we have a good identity and then we feel we're s we're satisfied and and and and we have a uh uh and we've kind of made it in life or whatever Or the opposite, when all of those concentric circles are going terribly and the sky is falling, and what did someone say about parenting once? Your o a parent is only ever doing as well as their worst child is doing, or something like that. Uh the the there is th that in those situations we despair. Obviously we love our children, obviously we love our our our countries, we love our families, we love our spouses, but we don't take our ultimate identity as Paul describes, I think, here, uh, from those things. And that, I think, in short, takes the pressure off. It takes the pressure off feeling like the next election is going to be the last election or uh when I receive this bad news that that it that that that my life is is over or or or things like that. It moves us away from the edges of despair and whatever happiness or or joy or whatever on the other side it could be It reminds us constantly that we have, as we remind ourselves every Sunday morning, As we remind ourselves when we read scripture and and praying, which is an acknowledgement that there is another identity outside of ourselves, that we have another another uh identity reminds us of um uh that we have something beyond us uh and something and that is more secure than us and something that is uh that is outside of the us. And all of those uh people um uh in Ukraine who are uh Millions of people are still in Europe waiting to go home to their spouses and their homes. All of those Ukrainian men who are waiting for the draft notice, if they haven't already received it. uh and what the risk that that puts themselves in uh are now what's being reported to me uh are now looking for this hope and looking for something And the last thing I think it does for us is it empowers us to love and serve those around us. Because we don't have to extract our identity in some kind of weird, codependent way from our and any of those concentric circles of family, community, and and and country and all that stuff. We don't receive our identity from them. It empowers us and allows us to love, serve, uh, and and uh and give to them. It doesn't make us aloof or condescending that we have something that they don't, but in fact it makes us engaged and serving. I think that we are able to, with this security that we now have, with this lack of with this lack of kind of global anxiety that we do not feel now, because we have Uh that we don't have to be anxious that the kingdom of Christ is going to be conquered because we're promised that it isn't. And with that lack of anxiety, with that confidence and security. We can step out to serve and love others uh outside of us. And uh in our in again, all of that list, that all of the circles, family and and uh uh community and country and so forth. forth. And that's, I think, what the really beautiful thing that I have seen in uh in Ukraine that's been that's been done. This is the denomination, this is a post-Soviet denomination, these 15 churches. All of these pastors, all these Ukrainian pastors of all these churches, uh have become believers. All these churches have been started in the last 40 years, most of them in the last 20. Um and when something as um massive uh happens as it did to Ukraine, the Uh uh the thought, at least for those of us uh myself uh without faith, uh what was going through my mind on February 25th, 26th, and 27th of 2022 uh was all is lost. I mean it's all gone. Uh obviously if Russia takes over, there's a great deal of persecution of believers and uh the church is lost. But even if not, this is so much bigger than again, this is my thinking, my my faithless thinking. Uh even if it doesn't, this is so much bigger than the church. This is so much bigger than than than some kind of identity that people would have as some friends and a club they go to on Sunday morning. Again, describing my faithless thinking. But um it is deeper and it is wider, and the evidence of that is number one, the church still exists in Ukraine. All fifteen of those churches still exist. Fourteen, one is behind uh in in Russian controlled territory. All of them still exist. All of them are continue to have their Sunday morning services. All of them live streamed to half the congregation that's in Europe, in Berlin and Warsaw and wherever they are. And all of them understand because uh as we read, we have been drawn near to the kingdom, we haven't drawn ourselves near to the kingdom, they have been drawn into and given this kingdom. And all of those churches still exist, are still worshiping, and are still understanding their primary, in fact more now more now so than ever, understanding their primary primary identity as in Christ. And in uh and in him. And that gives, as we mentioned, a hope that's higher, deeper, and wider than anything that we can have. So The short of it is, from what I've learned from my Ukrainian brothers and sisters in the last year through this war, uh, is there is no cause for real despair Uh and nor is there cause for real joy because assuming Ukraine wins, even wins outright this war, even that joy, which will be a joyous thing, a wonderful thing in my perspective. will be tempered. Right? Because the it isn't it isn't the ultimate victory, is it? The ultimate victory has already has already happened. So that joy and that our earthly joy and our earthly d uh despair, I think, are tempered. uh by what Paul uh suggests to us here. And maybe that may that be the lesson. It has been the lesson for me, and may that be the lesson for uh for all of us from our Ukrainian brothers and sisters in Christ. Pray. Lord, I I uh I thank you for the example that I've received and the rebuke of my lack of faith uh last February. I thank you that you have given us a true and bottomless hope, a boundless hope. uh that you will be victorious, that your kingdom will conquer, that your church will be triumphant. Remind us of that, all of us of that. the dark moments of despair that we have for our country, for our our whatever uh group that we feel an identity to him here in in on on the earth and also reminded to us uh when uh we feel a victorious moment, when our team wins, when our country wins, when our side wins, whatever that is. Remind us of the fact that we are subservient to you and that you are our first and true identity. Amen.