An Easter quiz for you. Got a question. Simply this. Did Jesus become anything different after his resurrection than he was before? Was he changed in some essential way after his resurrection? Was Jesus Lord before his resurrection? Did his resurrection make a difference in his being Lord? Was he Messiah before his resurrection? Did his resurrection make any difference in his being Messiah? Was he the Son of God before his resurrection? Did the resurrection make any difference in his being the Son of God? Before you answer too quickly, let me uh call your attention to two verses in the book of Acts. That to consider them on this resurrection morning can astound us, I think, as we think about the implications of resurrection. The first one is in Acts chapter 2. In Acts chapter 2, this is a message that Peter gave on the day of Pentecost, 50 days after Jesus rose from the dead. And you remember it was the day that the Holy Spirit came and descended in power, and it was Peter's first evangelistic message. The theme of that message was Jesus, the resurrected Messiah. And concerning the effect of the resurrection, notice what Peter says in Acts chapter 2, in verse 36. He says, therefore let all Israel be assured of this, that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. As a result of the resurrection, what did God do? He made Jesus Lord and Christ or Messiah. Oh, what does that mean? Before you consider that, take a look at chapter 13. A few years later now, Apostle Paul He's giving an evangelistic message. And this message, Paul is focusing on Jesus, the resurrected Messiah. He's focusing on his resurrection. Acts chapter 13, verse 30, but God raised him from the dead. And he elaborates this on this. He says down there in verse 32, we tell you the good news. What God promised our fathers, He has fulfilled for us their children, by raising up Jesus. As it is written in the second Psalm, you are my son today. I have become your father. What's today? Today is the day that he raised up Jesus And so he's saying, Today, on this day of resurrection, you have become my son. I have become your father. So now does that mean that Jesus became Lord, became Messiah, became the Son of God by his resurrection? Well, what does it mean? It means a lot, but first of all, let me clarify something. It does not mean that on by his resurrection that God made Jesus to be anything that he wasn't before his resurrection in terms of his being But, and here's the bombshell that you and I often miss. The resurrection of Christ did in fact confirm and even confer on him a status that he had not previously enjoyed It conferred on him a power as Lord, Messiah, and Son of God that he did not have before the resurrection. Now I want you to think about that for a minute. The resurrection is astounding in its implications for us. So now let's just see if that's some heretical notion of mine. an overstatement in order to make this a big event or whether in fact scripture supports it. First of all then Let's look at what the three things, as you see in your bulletin outline, the three things that the resurrection shows us about Jesus. And I'm claiming that it confers power on him in these three ways. Number one, the resurrection shows me that Jesus is Lord. He is Lord. Here you see, chapter 2, Acts 2, 36. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this. God has made this Jesus whom you have crucified both Lord in Christ. He's made him Lord. Now, the immediate question, of course, then is what sense? In what sense was Jesus made what? This next blank. Lord, get wake up there. You knew hallelujah better than you knew that. Okay. Maybe I ought to just go for the ones that are under twelve. I'd do a little better here. Ranks are thinned out a little bit, but they're good in answering. Okay. It shows it in what sense was Jesus made Lord by his resurrection? The answer? He was granted new power as what? Lord, that's better. Okay. You see that in terms of verse 34 and 35, right before it, you see. Peter says, for David did not ascend to heaven, talking about David the prophet that wrote the Psalm 110. And yet he said, the Lord said to my Lord, You hear the whole notion of who is Lord? He said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. And so on this day of resurrection, because of his resurrection, because of his victory, he is seated at the right hand of power. And Peter then says, verse 36, therefore, you see. It's because of this resurrection, because he has been seated at the right hand of majesty and power on high. Therefore, Peter says, God has made him Lord. He has declared him to be Lord. Now in what sense? Well you see the same idea in Philippians chapter 2. If you remember where you read of Jesus being forever essentially God. And yet he humbled himself. He emptied himself of the rights and the prerogatives of deity and became obedient even to death on a cross. Therefore, what? God highly exalted him. He conferred on him a new status. He gave to him a name which was above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. It's the same idea. Conferring on him that status of Lord. Remember that in Matthew 28, after his resurrection, Jesus said, just before he ascended, why? All authority has been given unto me. You see, he's not talking about an authority that he had inherently from all creation, from before creation, from eternity. He says there's an authority now that has been given to me. and authority as Lord. Now what's he referring to? He's referring to the fact of establishing his kingdom. The fact that Satan has invaded that kingdom and has led Since the Garden of Eden, a rebellion against Jesus as Lord. The word Lord here that's used in Acts 2. 36 is the Greek word curios And it's a word which refers to a master who is the owner of property and slaves. And that master had by right of his ownership absolute authority and power to do whatever he wanted with his property and with his slaves And this is the word that is given to Jesus. All creation is his property. You and I are his property. Satan has led a rebellion against his rightful ownership. And Jesus has come and he cast out demons. He raised the dead. And he assaulted Satan's kingdom. He drove out the invader. But the final Victory was not achieved until the death his death on the cross for sin, and then the empty tomb that he walked out of To declare that he had in fact re-established himself as Lord of His kingdom And so what does that mean for you and me? It means that when Romans 14, 9 says, for this purpose, Jesus died and rose again that he might be Lord of the dead and the living. Then you and I ask, so what? What's that mean for you and me this Easter morning? It means that resurrection is not some abstract idea like the flowers in spring. Resurrection is not a picture to us of robins coming back and making their nests and tulips coming up and all the rest of that. It's not an idea. Resurrection is the establishment of the fact that Jesus is Lord of his kingdom. And therefore, for you and for me to come here and to give God an hour to celebrate resurrection, because it's a nice thing to do. Without prostrating ourselves at his feet and calling him Lord is not only inconsistent, it's suicidal Because he is Lord of His creation. And when you and I declare Jesus is risen and we sing it and we say it We must say that from a position of prostration before his throne. Because that's where Peter says he is Lord, waiting for his enemies to be made the footstool of his feet, and you and I who were his enemies. Now come to prostrate ourselves before Him and say, Lord Jesus, you've risen, your Lord, you therefore have the right to run my life, and not me. And so if you're blocking Jesus out of that right and you're saying, Lord, I'm going to run my life, don't talk about Easter. Don't talk about Jesus as the risen Lord. You just do things are utterly inconsistent. You only speak of Jesus as resurrected when you speak of him as Lord of your life. Because God made him to be Lord in his resurrection. His Lordship was confirmed in that act. And that means not only do you and I prostrate ourselves before him, but also the other side of that is that we see that this means that his power as Lord is available to you and to me. And that power of his lordship is available particularly in this regard, in this connection, with regard to our witness for him. And so you and I go week after week and we blow opportunities and pass them off for speaking a word about Jesus Christ to people that need to hear about him. We feel guilty and we feel weak, but we feel like we lack the cleverness or the ability or the training or whatever it takes for a person to be able boldly and fearlessly to talk about Jesus. And what's that doing? Well you see it's saying that it really depends on me, certain gifts that I have, certain things I'm able to do. But you see, the very nature of this message in Acts 2 is that it is declared by the Jesus who we heard, I mean by the Peter that we heard in the beginning of this service, who had denied him. And it was this Peter who Jesus by his lordship gave a new power of the Spirit A freedom in order that Jesus' adequacy and Jesus power would be displayed in someone even as weak as traitorous Peter. So that's good news for you and for me, isn't it? It is week. When you feel inadequate to talk about Jesus, to take whatever opportunities there are, you can say, Lord, that's why you are Lord and I'm what I am. That in my weakness your power will be displayed. Lord, I'm going to trust that you are able to use me To say something in this conversation that will not hide my identification with you, I will be willing to be identified with you. And I don't know how I'm going to do it, but Lord, you help me to do that. And then act on that as if his lordship is true. And perhaps he'll surprise you in showing that he wants to use you and me in our weakness. To show that He is Lord and that His power is displayed in even weak people like us. Because God has made him to be Lord and to display that in people like us. Second thing that his resurrection shows, you see there in verse 36. is that he is Messiah. The resurrection shows me that Jesus is Messiah. Therefore, let all Israel be assured of this, that God has made this Jesus, whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. The word Christ, of course, is simply the Greek translation of the word Messiah. But I want you to think of Messiah so that you understand the meaning of that, which may be a little more clear than thinking of Christ, which has become so pale by its overuse. Jesus is Messiah. Now in what sense then was Jesus made Messiah or Christ? By his resurrection. That's why the slashing stick, Messiah and Christ, so you know they're the same thing. In what sense was Jesus made Messiah or Christ by His resurrection? And the answer, again, quite simply. He was made Messiah because he was given new power, granted new power as Messiah in his office of Messiah. This is Peter's point in the verses before verse 34. In Peter's message here in Acts chapter 2, he talks about this whole matter of resurrection and why Jesus had to be resurrected And he climaxes that in verses 31 to 33, and he says, seeing what was ahead, he spoke of the resurrection of the Messiah. That he was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay. God has raised this Jesus to life. And we are all witnesses of the fact Exalted to the right hand of God, he has received from the Father the promised Holy Spirit and has poured out what you now see and hear. You see, what he's saying there is simply that his resurrection entitled him to the eternal throne of Israel. Jesus had come to Establish himself as the fulfillment of all of Israel's hopes as Messiah. The establishment of that was climaxed in his death for Israel's sin, and his defeating the enemy of Israel, So that he would rise to the throne and rule Israel as its Messiah. That's the point on that resurrection day. You remember of what Jesus said? Remember when he was talking to the disciples on the road to Emmaus? And he opened their eyes that they might understand who he really was. In Luke chapter 24, verses 45, and the verses after that, we read that he opened their minds so that they could understand the scriptures. And he told them, this is what was written, the Messiah would suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name. To all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Messiah had to die, Messiah had to rise again in order to be able to be qualified to be the one to inherit the throne of David. to have a people that are renewed by his death, through which they receive forgiveness and are transformed into a new people of God. And so Jesus is made Messiah. He is given that office forever in establishing the throne of David by his resurrection. Do you see that? Jesus has now been had conferred upon him and confirmed in him his office as Messiah. So what does that mean for you and for me this Easter morning? It means that you and me can have assurance that our sins are forgiven because Messiah has risen. Romans chapter 4 and verses 25 tell us that because Messiah has risen, he has risen to establish your justification. Very interesting verse there. His resurrection established your justification. Why? Because in his death on the cross, he was taking upon himself your sin and my sin if we trust him. And in taking that upon himself, he was paying for that sin. But how do we know that God accepted that payment? How do we know that that payment was received in full for our debts? We know it because he was raised from the dead. And the fact that he was raised from the dead means that there is no more debt to pay. It's been accepted. It's finished. It's full. It's free. Death has been conquered. And so your justification and mine are established, and Romans goes on to say, therefore we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, our Lord Jesus the Messiah, because of his resurrection. It means also that you and I will live with him as the Messiah, reigning in his kingdom forever, because he is Messiah of that kingdom and we are joined to him by faith. If you trust him. You see, he's your only hope. He's my only hope as Messiah this morning. Your hope and my hope is not in the fact that you try to live a good life. It's not in the fact that as a result of Easter today you will try to do better. You'll make new resolutions this next week. That you'll look more deeply into your heart to confess sincerely as possible to God those things that you've done wrong and hope that He will have mercy. It's not based on penance that you can do, the sorrow that you can feel, the regrets, and the guilt that you heap on yourself. It's based in one thing and one thing only. Messiah has paid for that sin, and Messiah has risen for your justification. And if you are joined to Messiah by your faith, you are assured this morning, as sure as Jesus is alive, that your sins are forgiven and you will live with him forever. But your hope is in him. It's not in yourself. Is anybody here this morning that's still hoping in yourself and what you can do? I plead with you in the name of Christ. In the name of Messiah Jesus, that you'll trust him for your eternal life and forgiveness of sin. And be able to walk out of here as one who is free, one who knows that they have eternal life because of what Jesus has done, because God has made him Messiah. That's confirmed in his resurrection. Oh, I hope you see that. God will open your eyes to see your hope in him and nothing else. Finally, the last thing that the resurrection shows us is that Jesus is the Son of God. Backside, I hear y'all flipping over. That's good. He is the Son of God. The last three little blanks there. For that you turn over to Acts chapter 13. Acts chapter 13, now we're to Paul's message. A few years later, Paul speaking to his people, the Jews. And he says in verse 32 and 33, we tell you the good news. What God promised our fathers, he has fulfilled for us, their children, by raising up Jesus. As it is written in the second Psalm, you are my son. Today I have become your father. Now, of course, again, same question. In what sense was Jesus made the Son of God by his resurrection? And the answer is quite clear from Scripture. He was declared by power to be the Son of God in his resurrection. Take a look at Romans chapter 1, a few pages over. Romans right after Acts. So you look right at the end of Acts into Romans chapter 1. In Romans chapter 1, Paul, in this, his greatest theological statement, begins it by declaring who Jesus is. In Romans chapter 1, regarding, excuse me, in verse 3, he says, regarding his son, now talking about Jesus, regarding his son, who as to his human nature was a descendant of David. And who through the Spirit of Holiness was declared with power to be the Son of God. How? By his resurrection from the dead. You see that? Jesus was declared to be God's Son by His resurrection from the dead. By his resurrection, all of his claims to be the unique Son of God were vindicated. Only the Son could rise from the dead. The very Son of God after having been killed and nailed to a cross, and his unique relationship with the Father was established. You see, Acts 13. 33 here is quoting. If you notice most of your Bibles, you'll have it set off, it's indented. That's because, not because it's some sort of special saying, but because it's quoting the Old Testament, and it's quoting Psalm 2. And in Psalm 2, verse 7, where these exact words appear, you are my son, today I have become your father. The issue there is the son's right to his inheritance. That's what's the point of that verse. Now, what was the inheritance? The inheritance being discussed in Psalm 2 is the nations. And so if you look at Psalm two, the verse right after he says, He said to me, You are my son, today I have become your father, verse eight then goes on, Ask of me and I will make the nations your inheritance. Son, see, the very ends of the earth, your possession. And so Jesus, as the Son, is claiming his inheritance at his resurrection. His resurrection brings him to maturity, as it were, to enter into his inheritance. He has now fulfilled all that the Son was sent to accomplish as Lord and as Messiah. And therefore he is given the nations to inherit. When did he begin to take possession of that inheritance? At his resurrection and ascension. When Peter, in response to that message that I just quoted from in Acts chapter 2, the Bible says, all nations under heaven were represented there. And the Bible says 3,000 responded to that message. to receive Jesus as Messiah. So Jesus began to gather the nations and the first fruits of 3,000 coming. And in the decades and the centuries since then he's been gathering people to himself like you and me. People whose lives are warped and wrecked and hopeless, and he gathers us to himself as the Son. And he makes us sons of God with him. He gathers us to himself in his power. So what does this mean for you and for me at this Easter time? It means simply this. Jesus, who is declared to be the Son of God with power, is not a Savior to be ignored. Do not dare ignore him. morning. Psalm 2 that speaks of his sonship goes on to say, kiss the son, lest he be angry. And you perish in your way. Literally that you be destroyed in your way. And if you continue in the way that seems right to you, if you're without Jesus Christ this morning, and you give a nod to God on Easter and say that it's nice to know the flowers are up and that Jesus is risen. But you ignore him as the one who is Lord, Messiah, and the Son to run your life. Ignore him as the one who can confer upon you the adoptive sonship given to his children, to his people. To transform you and to take your life in all those things that you're not able to control, in all those things that have been devastated in your relationships and destroyed in your habits and all the rest of that, if you come to Jesus, he can change that Can change it today. Because he is the Son. But He's not to be toyed with. He's the one who has gained the inheritance. Second point there. Inheriting the nations. And so that he was declared with power to be the Son of God by his resurrection. And he's able to change your life. He's able to change my life. Because he's the Lord with all authority. He's the Messiah to rule the throne of David. And he is the Son of God who inherits the nations with his power. Think of a man by the name of Kepha Sampangi. Kaifa Sampangi was a Ugandan pastor who studied at Westminster sometime after I did and attended New Life Church there as a refugee from the terrorism of Idi Amin in Uganda. I think of an Easter Day service that Kaifa celebrated with his church, the Redeemed Church in Uganda, in 1973. Easter morning in 1973, Idi Amin was just beginning to exercise his terrorist reign. Already his secret police were beginning to burn and to rape and to beat, to maim. And people were beginning to lose courage and heart in living there. Amin particularly hated Christians. They were his special target for his secret police. And so it was a very important Easter morning when people came as far as 80 miles away to the open compound of Redeemed Church in Uganda. Kaifa said he felt particularly weak that morning. Over 7,000 people assembled in that compound to worship the risen Savior. But their courage was failing them. They needed a word from God. They needed to know that Jesus, the risen Savior, was really the Lord of power. Capha said he felt so weak as he met with the elders to pray, and he was reminded that Jesus, who fed the multitudes, simply asked his disciples to distribute the food. So they prayed that Jesus would feed his people. And it was a glorious resurrection service. People were shouting, he's risen. Hallelujah. And they were rejoicing in the fact of the resurrected Lord. And Kapha, who was an extremely gifted man, preached in a way that pointed people to Jesus. And the celebration was a great success. Afterwards he said he felt utterly exhausted. And he went back to an empty house that they used as kind of a vestry in order to change his clothes before he went home. He walked into the door and it was shut behind him. And there he stood alone with five of Idi Amin's secret police, all with rifles pointed at his face. The tallest one said, We are here to kill you. If you want to say something, you may say it now before you die. Caifa said he thought immediately, you won't have to kill me. I'm going to drop right down on the floor and collapse dead of absolute terror. And my family will never see me again. And as those thoughts were going through his mind, he heard a voice, and he was surprised, he said afterwards, to think that it was his voice that was speaking to them. For he heard himself saying to them, I don't need to plead my cause with you, for I'm a dead man already. My life is hidden with Christ in God. It is you who are in danger, for you are dead in your sins. And so I will pray that God will have mercy on you after you kill me. That you might not perish, but that you might find Jesus in life. The tallest one, he said, took a step forward to him and then stopped. Hatred had been in his eyes, so that Caipha said he looked like he wanted to tear him in pieces, even though he had never laid eyes on any of these five before. But the hatred turned to curiosity. And the tallest one said to his compatriots, put down your rifles. And he looked at Kephan, he said, Will you pray for us now? And Caphan, sort of semi-shocked, said, Well. Put down your rifles. They had lowered them, but they hadn't quit for that. He said, put down your rifles, close your eyes, and bow your heads. And they did so Capha said he didn't close his eyes. He said I was sure this was a trick, and at any moment my life was going to end. And I didn't want to die in surprise. So he said, I prayed with my eyes open and their eyes closed. And he said it was a very short and simple prayer that went like this: Father in heaven. You have forgiven many men of their sins in the past. I pray that you will not let these men perish in their sins. But that you will show them forgiveness in Jesus and draw them to yourself. And that was it. They lifted their heads. The tallest one, who of course was the leader, said again, You've helped us. And now we will help you. We'll spare your life, and you will be under our protection. And he let Kepha go. That's power. After that, those five men came to the services and eventually professed faith in Jesus Christ. And were used by God to save a number of the families in Kaifa's congregation from Edi Amin's death squads by getting them out of the country through the influence that they had procured while working with Amin. See, Jesus is Lord. He is the Messiah with power. He is the Son of God declared with power by his resurrection to be so. And he wants to display that power in your life and in my life this morning. Do you believe that he has that kind of power? And that it's available to you if you believe him this morning. Then let's turn to him now in prayer. I don't know if we've got to say what's the joint. Lord our God, how good it is to know that we have a risen Savior. Who has been declared Lord, Messiah, and Son in his power? A power that could even transform assassins by the word of his power. Lord, you could transform those men, and you can transform us. You can change our hearts. So we pray that you will do that. Give us hearts of faith and not of doubting. Hearts to see Jesus and all his power to save and to transform us. Lord, may we go this day In the knowledge that our Savior is a risen Savior who lives in power available to us as we look to Him. Thank you for that promise and that assurance for each one of us now, in whatever is our deepest need. We come to you in Jesus' name. Amen.