It was perhaps the most exciting day in the life of Abraham up until that point. An alliance of four kings from the east had attacked on a much weaker alliance of five kings in Canaan, and they had utterly defeated them Bera, the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, had fled to the slimy tarpits in the region of the Dead Sea in order to save their necks A rather undignified kind of escape, to say the least. In fact, the day was a disaster any way you'd look at it. And the four kings of the east carried off captives and tremendous amounts of loot. Among those that they carried off Were Lot and his family. Lot, the nephew of Abram. And so when the news came to Abram that his nephew and their and his family had been carried off as captives, Prisoners of war, Abram in a bold rush of faith, gathered up his three hundred and eighteen trained men and pursued these four kings and all their armies. Coming upon them at night as they were drinking and celebrating their victory, Abram flung his little band upon those hordes of armies, and he utterly routed them. In fact, they fled in such disarray that Abram's small band chased them for miles and recovered all the loot, as well as all the captives. And so now Abram's returning home. Can you imagine the feelings of a man who has risked everything, including his life, on an impossible venture? And has come back entirely successful. He's gained tremendous riches He saved the lives of Lot, his nephew, and their family. He's a hero. He survived. He's defeated armies with a small guerrilla band. And here he comes back now, and he's the hero in that area of Canaan. All the flags and the banners are out for Abram coming back with his retinue and with all of this loot that he's gathered. Among those that come out to greet him, there's a particular group, and it's headed by the king of Sodom, Bera, back out of the slimy tar pits. Along with him is this mysterious figure recorded only here in the history of Scripture, that priest Melchizedek. Whose ancestry we know nothing about, or anything what happened to him after this, except that he too worshipped the God of Abram Now let's then, as we look at this, we'll realize that in this meeting, Abram learned a new name for God. And in this you and I come to learn a new name for our God. The name El-Elion. God Most High, or the Most High God. Let's read what happened on that day and see if we can glean two or three valuable lessons for our own lives this week in the process. Let's hear then God's word from Genesis chapter 14. Begin reading at verse 17 up through chapter 15, verse 1. This is God's own holy word addressed to us. Let's give it our best attention. After Abram returned from defeating Kedeleomer and the kings allied with him, the king of Sodom came out to meet him in the valley of Shavan, that is, the king's valley. And then Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was priest of El Elion, God most high. And he blessed Abram, saying, Blessed be Abram by El Elion, God Most High, Creator of heaven and earth. And blessed be Ael Elion, God most high, who delivered your enemies into your hand. And then Abram gave him a tenth of everything. The king of Sodom said to Abram, Give me the people and keep the goods for yourself. But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have raised my hand to the Lord, Yahweh or Jehovah, Il Ilion, God Most High. creator of heaven and earth, and have taken an oath that I will accept nothing belonging to you, not even a thread or the thong of a sandal, so that you will never be able to say, I made Abram rich. I will accept nothing but what my men have eaten, and the share that belongs to the men who went with me, to Anar, Eshkol, and Mambra. Let them have their share. After this, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your very great reward. We see that this second name in our study of the names of God revealed in Scripture appears four times in this brief passage. El Elion appears in verse 19, excuse me, verse 18, 19, 20, and 22. We also see in looking at this passage that knowing God as El Elion changed Abram. Knowing God in a personal way is always going to change the person who knows him. You can't know God in a personal way and understand his character without it having an effect on your life. And so, as you see and understand God as he reveals himself to you, It will have an effect on you, as it had on Abram. Let's see here then the three things that knowing Il El Yon produced in Abram. And see if it can't produce in us, as we pray and meditate on it, the same three qualities. The first quality that it produced in Abram, as you see in your bulletin outline under point one, the first quality is humility. Humility. In verse 18 to 20 of chapter 14. Verse 18 says that Melchizedek, king of Salem, brought out bread and wine. He was the priest of El Elion. God Most High. And he blessed Abram, saying, Blessed be Abram by God Most High, El Elion, creator of heaven and earth. Blessed be El Elion, God Most High, who delivered your enemies into your hand. That word there in verse 19, blessed be Abram by El Ilion could be by or of Either indicating that he's blessed by God or he is the God that Abram uh blessed be Abram of El Elion, you belong to him. Makes little difference which it is. The fact is that in either case The point is that Abram's blessed because he's identified with El-Elioon. He belongs to him. El Elyon is his God, and therefore Abram is blessed. Now who is this El Elyon that he's speaking of. What does it mean? Well you remember from our study of Elohim, we saw that El, that briefest of all biblical names Means simply strong or mighty. He's the strong one, the mighty one. Eleon means the strongest of all, the highest, the mightiest. And so when you put them together, you see that his name literally here is the strongest, highest, strong one. In other words, he's ultimate strength. There is no one stronger than this one. But there's something more here. One of the things that we're going to notice as we study the names of God is that it's very significant when that name first appears in Scripture. And so when the name first appears, there's always a characterization, a further description, some association that is linked with that name in the historical circumstance of the revelation. And that description is generally very key to understanding the significance of that name in biblical history. And so as we look here, in this first occurrence of it, as we'll see in every first occurrence, we'll look particularly to see the significance. We see here that God is described in two ways. Two things are said about El El Yon that you and I need to understand in order to understand the significance of the strongest, highest, strong one. First of all, he's described as the possessor of heaven and earth. Verse 19. Nelchized blessed Abram, saying, Blessed be Abram by El Elion, God most high. Creator of heaven and earth. That word creator that you have, if you have an NIV there in verse 19, that word creator actually is a word which means to acquire something, to get it or to buy it. It's the same word used in chapter 25 in verse 10, when Abram bought a field from the Hittites in order to bury Sarah. It means to get something, to buy it, to acquire it. It can mean to create it, but that's just one way of acquiring something, to make it. The root idea is to create, is to get, to acquire. And so I think it's better for us to understand that God here is the possessor. In fact, the NIV footnote says that it can also be translated that way. He's the possessor of heaven and earth. By creation. How did he get heaven and earth? Well, he made it. But the fact is, what's at the heart of the meaning of this is that he possesses heaven and earth. He owns it. He made it, and therefore he does with it, and with all who are in it, including you and me, what he will. We sometimes forget, don't we? We even chafe against the fact that we are possessed by El Ilyun. We don't, we didn't make ourselves. We're not independent. We don't live our lives simply the way that we want as if we're not accountable to anyone. For we've been made by El El Yon, and so he possesses all things. He possesses you. And he possesses me, and our lives are at his disposal. And we bless him because he's a good God. But the fact is that he is the possessor. Of you and me. And therefore, he can dispose of your life and my life the way he chooses to do it. Because he's El Elion, the strongest, mighty one. Possessor of heaven and earth. And throughout the use of this name, particularly you'll see this next week as we trace it in the rest of the Old Testament. You'll see that that's the key thought That he's the possessor of heaven and earth. And from that there is derived a secondary meaning that you see in verse 20. Blessed be El Elion, parallel thought here now, who delivered your enemies into your hand. And so El Elyon is the deliverer because he's the possessor of his people. He's able to deliver you because there's nothing that can go against him or can do anything outside of his will, for he possesses all things. He reigns over all, and therefore he's able to deliver you and me. Now Kizedek says to Abraham, you see there in verse 20, basically, he's saying, Abram. You're blessed because you belong to, you're identified with El Elion, who's the possessor of heaven and earth, and Abram I'm blessing El Eleon too. Because Abram, you didn't defeat those four kings. Abram, it was El Elion who gave that victory into your hand. Elalion delivered your enemies into your hand. Do you see the strong language there? Abram, don't uh deceive yourself. It's a great day for you. Everybody's looking to Abram, the hero of Canaan. But it was El Elyon who gave that victory into your hand. You were simply his tool. And how does Abram respond to this? Does Abram say, uh, you just popped my bubble, Mel Kizanek? Things were going pretty good until you came along and had a you know, sort of undercut this great day that I was having. Everybody was singing three cheers for Abram, you know. And then Melchizedek says, Well it really was El L. Yon who gave the victory. Does Abram become defensive and say, Well, you know, yes, sure, I acknowledge God gave it and praise the Lord, but yeah, I was pretty brilliant out on the field there, you know, I mean I mean it was my plan to attack them at night while they were all drunk, you know. I mean we we were the ones that pursued them to get the loot back and I I really praise God that he used me for that. But, you know, God's good and I'm pretty good too. You know how the testimonies go, praise be to the Lord, and then tell you what I did and how the Lord used me, so that you begin to think, how come God doesn't use me like He uses Him, you know? And there's a kind of jealousy created. But you don't see anything like that here. How does Abram respond? The end of verse 20. Abram gave to Melchizedek a tenth of everything. Now what's he doing in that? Well what he's doing, of course, is that he's honoring Melchizedek. He's saying Melchizedek as representative of El Elyon who gave this victory to him. I give to you a tenth of everything that El El Yon has given. Because he's the possessor and he's the deliverer. And so you see here is a beautiful picture of two men who understand El El Yun, and the result of that is that neither competes to build up their own status or reputation at the expense of the other. Melchizedek is not jealous of everybody cheering Abram. He doesn't come out and try to deflect things away from Abram onto himself and say, but I'm the priest of the one that gave you the victory here in it. He comes out and he simply gives honor to Ailelion and he focuses further on what Abram's done. Abram doesn't respond defensively and guard his reputation, protect his image. Abram simply gives to the representative of El Elion more honor. And so in either case, you see, because these men understand that it's Ala Elion who's the possessor and deliverer They're free from needing to protect their own reputation. And so that frees Abram when Bera sort of pushes his way forward in the crowd, and he says there in verse 21. Uh well now Abram um give me the people he just wants revenge you see and you can keep the goods for yourself. I don't care about the stuff. I just want to get my hands on those kings Now Abram of course at that point could have laughed at him. He could have said, Huh, Fira Didn't recognize you without the tar there on you, fella. See you cleaned yourself off from all the slime after you climbed out of the pit, huh? Uh Vera, who do you think you are to tell me what I'm going to give you? You had nothing. I'm the one who went out here and won the victory. This stuff belongs to me. Boy, that guy irritates me. Now Abram could have made a real mockery. Out of Bira. He could have humiliated him in front of everyone. But what does he do? He doesn't need to do that. Because he's free from the bondage of his own reputation Paul said in Galatians chapter 6, in verse 14, God forbid that I would boast save in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Through which the world has been crucified to me, and I to the world. And Paul saying That if you're guarding your own reputation, if you need to boast in yourself, if you need to protect your image, you need to build that reputation through your own works and achievements. You're always kind of competing and guarding. You really haven't understood El Eleon because he's the possessor of heaven and earth and he's the deliverer. And he's delivered you and me by what he did, and you and I could never do through the cross of Jesus Christ. He kept the law when you couldn't, and he died in your place when you couldn't have died for your own sin and never paid the payment fully. But Jesus did. And so if you and I understand that He, Jesus, is the possessor of heaven and earth, and that He, Jesus, is the one who has gained the victory. Then our boast is in the cross. We're freed, you see. Freed from the bondage of protecting our own self-image. How often I get caught in that need to protect my image, and every time I do When the Lord brings me up short, he brings me back to the cross of Jesus. It is back at the cross that I find that freedom. The freedom that Abram knew, the freedom to be able to give honor to Elaon, and to not react to somebody who wants to compete with me. To be able to let Jesus be lifted up and not be in bondage to my own image. Abrams a free man Because he's met El Eleon. The second thing that we see that knowing El Elion produces, and of course, if I move on to that second thing, I implicitly are calling you to consider that in your own life, ways that you may be protecting your own image. Because you've forgotten that Jesus, the possessor of heaven and earth, that he is your deliverer. And I invite you to come to Jesus so that you might be freed from that bondage. The second thing That knowing El Elion produces is integrity. Integrity. Point two, verses 21 to 24 Look now, how in fact Abram answers Bera. Bera had said, give me the people. I just want revenge. Now you can keep the things, the goods, for yourself. But Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have raised my hand to the Lord, God Most High, El Elion. There he says it again, possessor, creator, possessor of heaven and earth. I've taken an oath that I will accept nothing belonging to you, not even the thread or the thong of a sandal, so that you will never be able to say, I made Abram rich. I will accept nothing but what my men have eaten and the share that belongs to the men who went with me to Ainur, Eshkol, and Mamra. Let them have their share. Give me just the expenses for the trip. He can have the rest. We've already given a tenth of it to the priest of the Most High God. I don't want anything. I don't even want a shoelace out of you. Nothing. Now, why is that? Why does he do that? You notice that in taking this vow, Abram, who's just heard for the first time this new name, El Elyon. Likes that name. And so he incorporates it into his vow. Never heard it before, but Abram says, I like the sound of that. That's my God And so he combines it with a covenant name for God, Yahweh or Jehovah. And then he puts right after that, Eliun, God most high, the possessor of heaven and earth. And in doing that, he gives to us an understanding of why he's not taking anything from Bira. Would it have been wrong to take up the goods from Bira? No. I don't think it would have been wrong. After all It was Abram that had gained it in the victory of the battle. But Abram knows that someday Down the road, somebody may say, you know why Abram's rich? Because some years ago he took advantage of Bera in a weak moment And Abram, taking advantage of Berah, grabbed what he could get of the goods, and he took advantage of Bera's misfortune and of his weakness at a weak moment. So you see that Abram really isn't different from any of the rest of us. He'll get anything that he can, seize the opportunity. To grab and line his pockets like anybody else. He's the Pete Rose of Canaan, you know. And so Abram anticipating That somewhere down the line, this could reflect on the reputation of El El Leon. Says, I refuse. To in any way do anything that could be questionable or compromise the integrity of my God. You know that one of the most powerful statements you can make about your trust in Jesus Christ. Is to refuse to compromise in doing anything the least bit questionable in order to get money Our world says that money makes the world go round. Our world looks at money as being the chief value. And so when somebody says that, no, my God is the possessor of heaven and earth, I will trust him to provide for me in the way that he chooses to do it. And I don't have to compromise, and I don't have to do anything questionable. And if there's even the possibility of his integrity being questioned, and mine is his representative in this, I won't do it. That is a powerful statement to our world about who is your Lord and Savior. That will make people stop and look more than simply handing out tracks Or tuning in a Christian radio station to let others overhear it. You know, the fact that you show that your trust is in the possessor of heaven and earth, in Jesus. In showing integrity on your job, in going beyond the minimum that is required, that needs to be done in any situation But giving to him the loving sacrifice that says, Lord, I love you. And so I'm just going to give this. I don't need to. The Bible doesn't require me to do it. It's a sacrifice of love. That is the devotion of someone who has met El Elyon and has known that he is the possessor of heaven and earth. He can take care of me. I don't have to swear. scratch and scramble and protect myself. And he's my deliverer. I can trust him to take care of me and give me all that I need. Is there some small gray area in your life this morning? Some area in which you uh feel like you need to protect yourself and you've said, well you know the Bible doesn't say anything directly against this. And so I guess it's okay. But down deep in your heart there's that nagging voice that says, but you're not really sure if you're rationalizing or not. If it's not of faith, Paul says it's sin. Abram could have taken these goods. No reason for him, according to the world standards, to have let that go. Only devotion to his God, as the one who is the possessor of all things and his own deliverer. Now the devotion to his reputation, not needing to protect his own reputation, but very concerned for El Elion's reputation, would cause a man to do what Abram did. And if you and I are to know God in that way and to understand the fellowship with Jesus Christ that goes beyond the simple, normal, mediocre fellowship of the average Christian. It's going to be when you and I determine, like Abram, to not compromise on those little gray areas, but to in faith give all things over to him and trust him to protect us. And that leads us to the third thing, that knowing El Elyon produced in Abram. The third point is security. Security. It's easy to miss that because the chapter divisions would tend to hide it. But remember in the original there were no chapter divisions. And so chapter 4, verse 24, is immediately followed without break by chapter 15, verse 1. Note the connection. Right after Abram finishes saying what he does, chapter 15, verse 1 says, after this, direct connection to the last verse. After this, the word of the Lord came to Abram in a vision. Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your very great reward. God, El Elyon, comes now in a vision. And he says to Abram, Don't be afraid, Abram. Now God never says to a person, don't be afraid, because it's superfluous. God doesn't waste his breath with don't be afraid as some sort of perfunctory greeting. God says don't be afraid because a person's afraid. And so Abram's fearing something, and God's coming to comfort him. What is it that Abram's fearing? I think, in particular, in the light of the context, there's two things that Abram's fearing. The first thing that he's fearing is revenge. He's just defeated four kings who have run in humiliating defeat back to the East. But next spring they'll be back. And next spring they're not going to be looking for an alliance of five kings. They're going to be looking for a herdsman by the name of Abram. And Abram says, Oh, what have I done? But I've shared with you that time when in school, opening my big mouth, I inadvertently reported three or four tufts who had played hooky from school that day. And the whole class when the teacher ran out having heard me say, Oh yeah, I saw them walking on the street, they're not in school, you know, just gleefully giving a little bit of innocent information. The teacher ran out to call the office and uh all the class gathered around me. They said, Harris, you're dead meat, man. Those guys aren't gonna graduate and they're gonna come looking for you. Every one of 'em was taller than I was, and they all weighed about a third more, I think, you know. Their reputation was not that of guys who were gentle and sweet And I remember that sinking feeling in my heart. I was afraid to walk home from school that day. I was afraid to walk back to school the day after. In fact, school became a refuge, you know. There's a place you can hide, at least they can't beat me up in school if they ever come back. It's not that way today, you probably would, you know. stay out of the boys room and the girls room and everything else, you know, you try to chain yourself to the principal and hope that he had a gun. But I understand something of that sinking feeling that Abram must have had, and perhaps you've had that feeling. What have I done? Boy, I've let myself in for it now. And his spear is gripping his stomach. And you see, it's in that context that El Eliun comes and says, Abram, I am your shield. That's point A there. He's telling Abram that he personally is his shield. I am your shield, Abram. Who gave you that victory in the first place? Don't you remember chapter 14, verse 19? He delivered your enemy into your hand. I delivered him the first time. Can I protect you now? Have you ever trusted God for something and then you find yourself back in the same situation and it seems like it's just as hard to trust him the second time? You say no, I just I just trusted him on this and he just delivered me and I've just shared about how he delivered me. Why am I so scared now? Because you're thinking, well, maybe he really didn't, and I just made it up. Maybe I was trying to talk myself into that faith, and I was really talking more than I believed. And God tests our faith by having us back in that same situation. Say, Do you really trust me? Do you really believe that I'm your shield? That I'm your deliverer because I am the possessor of all things. That you can trust me to take care of you. Interesting as a follow-up, they never did come back You get Abram? No record of further attacks. God did protect him. And he'll protect you this morning. Whatever it is in your life that is gripping you with fear, what is it that robbed you of sleep last night or the night before or sometime this week? What anxieties are plaguing you? El Yon says, I am your shield. I am the deliverer from all your enemies. Trust me. Do you believe that I can protect you? He calls you. Jesus calls you this morning to trust him for your protection. To trust him for your peace, to trust him for tranquility, to trust him that you'll be able to lay down tonight and sleep, knowing that the strongest, most high, highest one, the possessor of heaven and earth. He's your defender. And that you're his child if you've trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior. And that he can take care of you. And he can give you rest. The second thing that Abram feared, I believe, here is addressed by that second phrase. And it is that Abram's made a fool of himself. I believe Abram fears that he's made a very great fool of himself. That's not what you fill in the blank there, that's coming. You see, when Abram came back home, I think probably the scene was something like this. When Sarah saw him coming from the distance and coming into the tent, she probably went ran out and met him, and of course news traveled pretty fast those days, and she said, Abram, baby, we've won the lottery. You've come and uh the word's come that you've defeated four kings and you've got four kingdoms worth of stuff out there. And now we can get rid of this old tent. We can get a decent house and we can get something that'll really set us up and we get a condo on the Mediterranean. Now we can get all the things that we've wanted, the things that we've been putting off. We've got it all now, Abram. Where's those caravans? Abram says, Sarah, there aren't any caravans. And she says, what are we talking about? What do you mean there aren't any caravans? Abram says, I gave it all away. Because I was afraid that it might somehow reflect badly on the integrity of El Elyon, and that the heathen would say that Bira, the king of Sodom, had made us rich. It wasn't God who had taken care of us, but that we had made ourselves rich at others' expense. And I couldn't let that happen, Sarah. Can you understand that I did it because of my love for Alel Young. My guess is that Abram probably slept with the camels that night My guess is that further, as he's out there with the camels, that Satan probably came to him, just as he'll come to you and to me any time we make such a sacrifice for the Lord Jesus. And Satan would come to him and he'd say, Abram, you are a fool. You're an extremist. You didn't have to do that. That was a wasteful thing to do. You threw that away. You and your fanatical extremism and this love of yours for your God. Others wouldn't have done that. Why did you have to? Think, Abram. Think, picture what you've lost in doing that. Satan would want to conjure up all the pictures of all the things that Abram could have had if he had kept those goods. If he hadn't trusted that God was in fact the possessor of heaven and earth, able to take care of him in all his need, but to try to work things out for himself. If you've never trusted Jesus in similar circumstance and go on beyond what you needed to, but Satan hasn't come to attack you and to discourage you. But the same kind of temptation has it. Do you know what I mean? Have you ever experienced that kind of discouragement? Satan says, Why do you have to give twelve to fifteen percent of your gross to the Lord when others don't even tie their nets? Why did you turn down that promotion? Because you said it wouldn't give you enough time for your family or for ministry. And somebody else would take it. Probably another Christian would take it. And they'll be able to benefit, and they'll get the promotion, and they'll get the raise. And you've thrown it away. You're a fool. You and this love for Jesus and the things that you do. You don't need to do that. That's what he always says to us, isn't he? You don't need to do that. Abraham didn't need to do those things. But Abram says, I've raised my hand in the name of El Yon, possessor of heaven and earth. And it's the same with you and Jesus. For God says to Abram, Abram, I am your very great reward. That's the second thing. I am your very great reward. I'm your provider because I'm the possessor of all things. And when you and I look to Jesus, say, Jesus, you are my very great reward. I didn't have heaven, I deserved hell. But you gave me heaven because of your sacrifice of yourself. You are my shield against Satan's attacks and against the accusations that would righteously come before me as I would stand before God's justice bar and I'd be condemned. You've shielded me from his wrath. You're my reward. You're not only an impregnable shield against God's accusations, but against anyone who would attack me and threaten me or my peace in this world. And Jesus, you're my eternal priceless reward. Can you imagine what the possessor of heaven and earth has in store for his children to give them in his kingdom? What it means when God and through Jesus says to you, I am your very great reward. Verse 6 says Abram believed. It was credited to him as righteousness. And that righteousness was his entry into God's kingdom. For God to be his shield in his very great reward. And if you know Jesus this morning, then he is your very great reward. If you know Jesus, you don't need to protect your reputation, but you can be humbled in the freedom that that gives. You can be concerned for his reputation this week. Knowing that He'll protect you, He'll take care of you, He'll take care of your needs. He is your security, He's your shield, and He's your very great reward. What's the need in your life? Not quite like Abram's, but very parallel that robs you of your peace. Can you find that security in Jesus this morning? I invite you to come to him and do so now. Let's pray. The Lord our God, every one of us have anxieties and worries. Some of them are related to protecting our reputation and our image. Some of them are related to trying to get more money and we're afraid that we can't make ends meet and get the things that would make us happy. And so, Lord, we pray that you would give to us this morning a new vision. Bel Elion, possessor of heaven and earth, and deliverer of this people. That we would find in you our security, that we would find in Jesus the incarnation of El Elion, to be the one in whom we can rest as our shepherd. Whatever our need, Lord, turn our eyes to you now as we look to you in Jesus' name. Amen.