We are creatures who are furiously bounded by time, aren't we? I need to keep this message to less than thirty-five minutes so that uh George is able to finish the worship by ten forty-five. So that you're able to get your coffee and your tea in that half hour between the two parts of our service, so that you can get to your laugh groups by 1115. You need to start those on time so that you can get all the things you intend to do in that hour and be out by twelve ten so that those who who are parents with kids in Sunday school can pick 'em up by twelve fifteen so that you can dash home. And relax for a little bit with some lunch and perhaps some time as a family, recuperating your strength so that as you get into the Monday through Friday routine, which is a blur, you'll be able to have some strength. And if you're like me and many people, you may feel like you never catch up through the week. You always seem to be behind. And we become a people who are obsessed by time. Seems like the standard American greeting anymore is, I know you're busy, but Time magazine, interesting, it's called Time Magazine. Says that time is probably going to be to the 90s what money is to the 80s. They say we're a culture who has run out of time. So we need to stop. We need to catch our breath. And we need to come now and realize that one of God's precious names By which he has revealed himself to us is the name El Olam, the everlasting God. The God who is not bounded by time, the one who is never weary or rushed. Can you imagine one who is never weary? nor rushed. That alone should make most of us compelled to worship him. He's a God who always has enough time for his purposes And so this fifth name in the series on the names of God is the name from which I've chosen to look at Isaiah chapter 40 in verse 28. To see the use of this name, El Olam. Let's hear respectfully God Himself as He speaks to us through His Word from Isaiah chapter 40, a beautiful chapter. A chapter that uh lifts us up to worship the great wonder of our God. But let's hear God as He addresses us through this chapter about Himself, beginning at verse 25 and going to the end of the chapter. To whom will you compare me? Or who is my equal, says the Holy One? Lift your eyes and look to the heavens. Who created all these? He who brings out the starry host one by one and calls them each by name. Because of his great power and mighty strength, not one of them is missing. Why do you say, O Jacob, and complain, O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord, my cause is disregarded by my God. Do you not know? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, El Olam, the creator of the ends of the earth. He will not grow tired or weary, and his understanding no one can fathom. He gives strength to the weary and increases the power of the weak. Even youths grow tired and weary, and young men stumble and fall. But those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength They will soar on wings like eagles. They will run and not grow weary. They will walk and not be faint. Verse 28. The Lord is the everlasting God, Ilholam, the creator of the ends of the earth. He will not grow tired or weary, and his understanding no one can fathom. We've already looked at that name L. And we've seen that that name means the strong one. And when you take El, the strong one, and you combine it with the Hebrew word Olam. Olam in the Hebrew, as you see on your bulletin outline there, means something that's hidden, secret, or concealed. So you can fill in the word secret. That's the one that was kept secret from you. Something hidden, secret or concealed. That's the use of that word. Anything that was hidden or unseen or concealed was referred to in Hebrew as Olam. The word gradually came to be used with reference to time, to mean any unknown or unspecified amount of time. An indefinite amount of time. And from that it came to mean everlasting time. Or eternity. Those are the next two blanks. Everlasting time or eternity It's all literally El Olam would be translated the everlasting God. But I believe that it's not quite as simple as that, because as I said, the word Olam means something which is secret or Revealed or unrevealed or concealed. It has the idea of mystery and of secret things And so I believe that besides the fact that it's simply that it only uh that it does point to the limitless existence of God It also refers to the fact that he is a God of secret times and ways. And so in Parallel, analogous to the other names we've talked about, there's the Hebrew name, and then there's the simple translation that you have in your English Bible, Everlasting God, but there's always a fuller meaning to that And I believe the fuller meaning of El Olam is that he is the God of secret times and ways. Now I would like to See in this verse, Isaiah 40. 28, three things that this verse tells us about El Olam, the God of secret times and ways. And I'd like to look at the first two this week, and the third one I'm going to keep secret and hidden until next week, and we'll finish it up. So the first two points of El Olam this morning, first of all, that he is everlasting from eternity. That's the first main point there. He is everlasting. From eternity. Do you not know? Have you not heard? The Lord, Jehovah or Yahweh, his covenant name, is the everlasting God. He is El Olam. To the child's simple question, who made me? You say, God made you. Well, who made God? No one made God. Then how did God get here? He always was. And at that answer, both the parent and the child pause in dumb silence of awe before the mystery of one who has existed from all eternity. Who can explain that this God never had a beginning? That as far back as you can go, you can also go another million years further. And he's still the same God. He's the everlasting God. He's like that infinite line where before any point on the line there is one more point, and before that point, and before a million points, before that. There's still one more point. And you can never trace that line to its end in either direction. For he's the everlasting God. Let your mind roam on that for some time this week. To think in all the ways that perhaps uh you've Praised God and worshipped him, and perhaps it's become a little shallow and superficial. This week, meditate on the fact that you belong to El Olam The everlasting God. And because of that, that has great meaning to you and to me Because it means that our life is more than just a few brief years of consciousness in an eternal void. Because we belong to El Olam. We're not just the mysterious accident of an evolutionary process that happened to produce a personal being in an impersonal universe That in itself is self-contradictory. For if in fact the universe is impersonal, then for some being to have evolved into personal consciousness is not to adapt to the environment, but to adapt out of the environment. It makes it more difficult for us to live in an impersonal universe if in fact we have personal consciousness. But the Bible tells us we do not live in an impersonal universe. But we live in a universe that was created by El Olam. The everlasting God preceded the universe by an eternity of time. This idea of his being and our significance was what Moses had in mind when he saw God as El Olam. Turn for a minute back to Psalm 90. In Psalm 90 you have the same word, Olam, used. This psalm of Moses was probably written toward the end of his life. Moses had been told that he would not be allowed to go into the promised land. And so he's aware that his bones are going to soon rest in the desert on the east side of Jordan. And perhaps he's wondering to himself, what is all that I've done worth? The forty years in Egypt and the forty years in the wilderness, and then forty years back taking Israel out of Egypt and back into the wilderness. But all the things that I've done, what's my life really been worth? What's been the significance of it? What's the significance of your life? Do you ever wonder, what's it all worth to serve Jesus Christ? To sacrifice of my time and of my money, things that I could have and Perhaps be enjoying if I wasn't a Christian and didn't have the convictions that I do that seem to limit me in time and money in so many ways. What's the significance of it? What's it all worth? And as Moses reflects on this, he looks to the being of God. And he begins that psalm, Lord, you have been our dwelling place throughout all generations, before the mountains were born. Or you brought forth the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting. And there it is. From Olam to Olam. You are Elohim. Do you notice he doesn't say you were? He says you are To stress the unchangeableness of this God through all the eons of time. Before the mountains, before even the world Before the universe, before all things, from Olam to Olam, you are the strong one. You are El Olam. Before the mountains were born, he says there. It's a place that I love to stand whenever I get a chance when we go to Cape Cod. It's a particular bluff on the northern part of Truro. On that bluff you look down a bit of a drop and ahead of you is Provincetown. And every time I'm on that bluff, I'm reminded that 10,000 years ago, if I had been standing on that bluff, there would have been nothing before me except ocean. Ten to twelve thousand years ago the glaciers had receded and left Cape Cod. Uh it was brought not by any bedrock, but as I've reminded you before, because Cape Cod uh This often comes into my illustration, especially at summertime, but I'll bring it in now. Uh Cape Cod was brought, you remember, by the glacier, by grain of sand by grain of sand, rock by rock. It was brought over a period of thousands and tens of thousands of years of deposition of sand and rock by the glaciers, grinding it down from New England, from Maine. And then 10 to 12,000 years ago that receded, and there was that hunk of land much larger, much wider than it is now, but not as tall. And if you were to stand where I stand in Truro, there wouldn't have been any province town. Provincetown, six or seven miles of sand and dunes and hills. Was brought by wave after wave lapping into the shore, picking up one grain of sand and depositing it a few inches further north, and another grain a few inches north, and another grain a few inches north Until you have several square miles and a whole town and a whole forest and a whole area that's a desert so large that I once got lost in it and couldn't even find my way out. Lost even sense of direction. And if you think, boy, that's pretty dumb. I mean it's pretty that big a place. Try it sometime. It's a wilderness. Grain by grain But before any grain was deposited, El Olah was the same God as he is today. today. And when I stand there, I'm always struck by the fact that God's intention was for people like you and me to have witnessed that To have watched those tens and scores of thousands of years of changes in the world that He has made. But Moses says, because of our sin, we're so finite and mortal. Our years pass so quickly, he says as a sigh, we're like grass which grows up and it's gone in a day. But El Olam remains forever. Before the mountains were brought forth, you are God. And when you pick up a rock and you look at it and you think that rock might have been a flowing bit of lava Several million years ago, but before that rock had even solidified, before it had flowed, my father, El Olam Was the same God and existed and was behind all of that before the mountains were brought forth We're aware especially of geology these days as we read a lot about the quake in San Francisco and possibility of impending more quakes, and so we're more than usual aware perhaps of this time of the geological forces in our world. You're aware the fact that that quake which took just fifteen seconds to occur Was the culmination of forces four thousand miles deep into the earth that began one hundred million years ago. And finally erupted just A couple weeks ago. After a hundred million years of generation of those forces up through probably four thousand miles of rock. It's said that the Rocky Mountains were the result of those same kinds of horses eighty million years ago And the Rocky Mountains are the young mountains, much younger than the Appalachian Mountains. But before the Rocky Mountains were brought forth, and before the Appalachians were brought forth El Olam was God. The continents themselves, they say, are simply a dozen or so plates Moving around the earth, never still, but always moving, at about the hectic pace of the growth of your fingernails And those forces that continue to move, continue to change the shape of the continents and their position on the earth. been measured in fact that Japan and Hawaii are moving on a collision course toward each other at the rate of just under a half an inch a year. So don't hold your breath for the collision. It's probably going to take some time, and don't think you'll be able to swim from Hawaii to Japan for some time yet. But before all these things, or even one huge continent, as it's said now, that broke into these different continents, before all of this, millions and hundreds of millions of years ago Before all this, El Ola was the everlasting God. And what does that mean for you and for me? But Isaiah says, Have you not known and have you not heard that the Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth, that before the very earth was brought forth millions and perhaps billions of years ago, before the universe was brought forth and that star over twelve billion light years away uh was back into the very center of things in the hollow of God's hand. El Olam was the same then as he is now And so Moses says, our life has meaning. That's what he concludes in Psalm 90, verse 17. And so, Lord, our life has meaning. You can establish the work of our hands. Because you give it meaning. Because the things that you and I do Monday through Friday, the things you'll do this week, are not things done in a void of time, but they're done things that are done in the presence. Of El Olam. Revelation chapter 1, verses 17 and 18 tell us that Jesus is the first and the last. He is the living one who was dead and is alive forever. Jesus is Elam, the one who always was, who died and who was alive forever. And he holds the keys of death and of life for you, the everlasting God Became man, subject to death and time, so that he would be able to die for your sin. And for my sin. So that by trusting him, you and I could escape the few short years. That would terminate and bring us into a void or into his condemnation, but rather, as Jesus says, bring us eternal life For God so loved the world that he gave his only Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Isn't it amazing that while El Olam has existed from eternity and has created you at a point in time, if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning From this point on, you will exist as long as El Ulam himself. For your existence will never end, just as his. And El Olam himself will not outlive the one who belongs to Jesus Christ, because we're given eternal life in him. But the second point there that he tells us is not only that he is the everlasting God, but there is implied to that the fact that he is the God who never changes. So Isaiah says, the Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He will not grow tired or weary. And so the second point is he does not grow tired or weary. Part of our feeling of the pressure of time is that we get weary, isn't it? We get tired. And the more hectic things are, the more tired we get. And we're tired not just physically, but emotionally and spiritually. There's times when you're simply not sure that the resources that you have are equal to the things that life's dishing out to you, isn't it? You have that feeling that you need refreshment, you need strength, you need someone that you can go to who's strong enough that you can rest in that person and let them take the burden. Let their strength be your strength. And that's exactly what Isaiah is promising here. El Alam, the everlasting God, does not grow tired or weary. This is how Abraham saw El Olam in Genesis chapter twenty-one. And like the other names, so many of the names that we have looked at so far in our study, El Olam was first revealed to Abraham. He was revealed to Abraham at that time after Isaac had been born, that time after Ishmael had been driven out of the home with Hagar. And Abraham was brokenhearted about the loss of Ishmael, for he did love Ishmael, and he was sad about the loss of Ishmael and Hagar, and his life has seemed so long and so weary. And then comes this King Abimelech, a Canaanite king, and he says, We recognize that God is with you. And so let's make a covenant, a treaty of friendship. And Abraham is willing to do that, for he's still a stranger in the land. And he needs all the friends he can get. And so he makes that covenant with Abimelech. And then just after that, Abimelech's servant sees one of Abraham's wells. And Abraham goes to Abimelech, he says, Hey, what's this treaty business? You know, uh, you talk about how we're friends, and then just after that, your guys rip off one of my wells, and you know how important wells are in the desert area. And Abimelech says, hey, Abraham, cool down. Chill, man. I didn't even know about it until you just told me now. And so as a result of that, the two of them make a treaty. They make a treaty at Beersheba, and a treaty that guarantees the rights of the wells and their friendship. And you can picture Abraham after making that treaty at Beersheba in Genesis 21, verse 31, looking at Beersheba as perhaps his golden pond. Thinking, maybe now all the strife is over. Here is an everlasting treaty, and I'm an old man And after that treaty we read in Genesis 21:32, after the treaty had been made at Beersheba, Abimelech and Ficol, the commander of his forces, returned to the land of the Philistines. And Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba. Tamarisk trees are known for their longevity. They're trees that live a long time. And so Abraham's thinking, I've lived a long time. And this tree is supposed to last a long time. And he's reflecting on the length of his days, and on his weariness, perhaps And there we read, he called upon the name of the Lord El Olam, the eternal God. And Abraham stayed in the land of the Philistines for a long time. Perhaps in his staying in the land of the Philistines, being surrounded by those Philistine gods that strange Dagon, a half fish, half man god, and the other gods of that land. Abram was wondering, Would El Olam be everlasting God? Ever show that he was the true God before all the rest of these gods who captured the people's attention. But Isaiah tells us he's the God. Never grows weary and never wears out. And where is Dagon, the Philistine god of Abimelech today? No one worships Dagon today. He's worn out, his welcome. And where are the bales of the Canaanites that were such a threat to true worship in the days of the prophets? The Baals aren't worshipped anymore. They've worn out and they're gone. Where is Ashtaroth and Isis? Where are the gods and the goddesses of the Greeks? Diana of the Ephesians, who, when Paul was preaching, was such a threat to the gospel in their day. Who worships Diana of the Ephesians today. No one. She's just a myth for children to read in stories. For she's worn out and she's gone But El Olam continues in increasing numbers to be worshipped by the peoples of the earth. For El Olam never grows weary, and he never wears out. And you continue down through the ages, the Roman gods, the Greek and Roman philosophies, the Middle Ages, the Renaissance, even down to our own day. And you look at the Buddhas, and you look at Islam, resurging perhaps, even in our own day, and all the other religions, and they will pass The cults will pass, the God of Christian science, and the Mormons, and the Jehovah's Witnesses, and all the rest. Will pass and wear out with the rising and the falling of human ideologies. Someone once measured that the average German theology in and its attack upon Scripture's truthfulness lasts an average of seventeen years before being replaced by another final discovery of the truth. But Al Ulam never changes. Changes. He never grows weary and he never wears out. And his strength is available to you this morning. His strength is available to you for all that you need. For Isaiah goes on to say Have you not heard that the Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the hens of the earth? He will not grow tired or weary. And then he gives strength to the weary. He increases the power of the weak ones. Are you weak this morning? Do you feel weary this morning? And El Olam says, My strength. Is available to you. Even youths grow tired and weary, and young men stumble and fall, and they charge out onto the football field or the basketball court They're ready to tear you apart, but after an hour or so they're panting and they're huffing and they're puffing. And God says, But hello never group tired. Even the youths grow tired, but those who hope in the Lord will renew their strength. They will soar on wings like eagles, but they will run and not grow weary. They will walk and not be faint. Hebrews chapter 13 picks up on this and describes Jesus as El Olam. For it says that Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever. Jesus does not grow tired or weary. His strength never fails. And then it says, so do not get carried away by the strange teachings of the day. Those teachings which rise up, those ideas and the self-help books and magazines that you read that say this is the answer to provide relief to your problems, to improve your self-image. To help you to feel free from your guilt, to enable you to deal with your problems, to not be hung up on various things. Follow this way. Research has shown The Hebrew says, don't get carried away with the strange teachings of today that contrast and contradict the scriptures. It goes on to say, let your heart be strengthened by his grace. For he's the same. Yes. Yesterday, today, and forever. And two thousand years ago, Jesus walked the shores of Galilee, and he said, All you who are weary and are burdened, come to me. And I. I, not an ideology. His grace, I, will give to you rest. And Paul came to Jesus. And he says, He gave me rest. And Peter came to Jesus and he says, He gave me rest. And Augustine came to Jesus and he said, My restless heart found rest nowhere else, but I found it in him. And Luther said, my conscience was troubled day and night, and I found no rest. I found it in Jesus. And he's the same yesterday, today, and forever, for he's the everlasting God. And so this morning he comes to you and he says, Are you weary? Are you burdened this morning? I'm the everlasting God. Before the mountains were brought forth, I was there. Before the earth was formed, I was there. And I'm the same today. And I'm as able to save you and to take your problems, and I'm as able to show you my power. To give you contentment and power in whatever discouragement, whatever impossible situation that you're in now. As I have been through the ages. For I'm El Ola. He's come not The strong, but for the weak. And so if you feel weak this morning and helpless, it's just for you that Jesus has come. For he meets us precisely at the point of our weakness. For his intention. is to give strength to the weak ones. That's alam. Come to him and find your strength. Amen.