Well, we've just baptized Joshua and Caleb, two boys that Glenn and Pat longed for and prayed for for at least six or seven years. Some of you have been longing for children, some of you for more than six or seven years, praying for that, and it's hard. You see, why's God answered their prayer and not yours now? There was a couple the Bible tells us about who in their 80s Had prayed for and sought for children for over half a century. And what's worse, ten years before, when the man was seventy-five years old, God specifically promised That he would give to them a child. And now ten years have gone by, and God has not given it. Have you ever prayed for something for ten years and not seen an answer? That would mean that if you're praying for that matter now, that you've been praying since at least 1979 for this thing. And you still haven't seen God answer. Perhaps it's been for relief from some physical affliction. Or some personal relationship that's been painful, or the salvation of some person that you love and care for very much. And God still has not seen fit to answer. And it's harder when you believe that God has explicitly and specifically promised this. Then your faith is on the line. It's not just a matter of being disappointed about what you don't have. It's is God faithful? In Genesis chapter 16 tells us about just such a story. In Genesis chapter 16, the Bible tells us that after ten years When God had said specifically that He would give children, or at least one son, to Abraham and to Sarah, nothing has happened. No child. And at this point, Sarah must have stopped and thought after they had agonized over this She must have said to Abram something like, you know, we must not be doing something right. I mean, God's given this promise, and ten years have gone by. God never said that it would be a long time coming. Now the implication of that promise is we could have expected a child in a couple of years. And now ten years. Something's wrong. Maybe we need to be more creative in our understanding of what God meant by this promise. And then Sarah says, well, maybe maybe that promise would be fulfilled in a legal sense of an heir, if Abram, you took my servant Hagar. You had a child with her. I know. It's disappointing. But maybe that's what God had in mind. We're going to need to be more creative in kind of helping to work this thing out. And so, uh Abram, I don't like it any more than you do, but maybe you need to have a child through Hagar, and that would become our legal heir. Well now a moment's reflection would show that this, of course, was not what God intended. God would not want Abram to commit adultery in order to serve him. And that's what this involves. But don't judge Sarah too harshly. Don't judge her too quickly. Now, how many times are you and I tempted to rationalize when we see God not providing what we think that He has promised or that we have a right to expect? How many times are you and I tempted to try and take the situation into our own hands in order to fulfill what we think God wants? Lord, I'm sure that you want me to have a husband or a wife. And the Christians that I know aren't per aren't cooperating very well And so I'm going to have to do some evangelistic dating. I'll have to date some non-Christians and pray that one of them will become a Christian and it'll all work out. For God, I really believe that this is something that we need, a new house or some material thing, and it's going to involve our taking on tremendous debt. It's going to involve a lot of pressure for a while at least. But Lord, maybe that pressure is worth it in order to get what we believe that you want us to have. And so there's many ways, the difficult questions of our lives, in which we take what we believe is a promise of God And we try to cooperate in order to bring that promise about, sometimes rationalizing and compromising in order to do it. The interesting thing is that it was in that situation That God revealed his third name in the scriptures. Revealed it, interestingly enough, not to Abraham or to Sarai. But to Hagar, to miserable, outcast, lonely, desperate, frightened Hagar Let's read about it together in God's Word in Genesis chapter 16 to see how God tells us this story. Genesis chapter 16. Let's hear God's word. Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children, but she had an Egyptian maidservant named Hagar. So she said to Abram, The Lord has kept me from having children. Go. Sleep with my maidservant. Perhaps I can build a family through her Abram agreed to what Sarah said. So after Abram had been living in Canaan ten years, Sarai his wife took her Egyptian maidservant Hagar and gave her to her husband to be his wife. He slept with Hagar, and she conceived. When she knew she was pregnant, she began to despise her mistress. And then Sarai said to Abram, You're responsible for the wrong I'm suffering. I put my servant in your arms, and now she knows she is pregnant. She despises me May the Lord judge between you and me. Your servant is in your hands, Abram said. Do with her whatever you think best. Then Sarai mistreated Hagar, so she fled from her. The angel of the Lord found Hagar near a spring in the desert. It was the spring that is beside the road to Shur. And he said, Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from? And where are you going? I'm running away from my mistress Sarai, she answered. Then the angel of the Lord told her, Go back to your mistress and submit to her. The angel added, I will so increase your descendants that they will be too numerous to count. The angel of the Lord also said to her, You are now with child. And you will have a son. You shall name him Ishmael. For the Lord has heard of your misery. He will be a wild donkey of a man, his hand will be against everyone, and everyone's hand against him. And he will live in hostility toward all his brothers. She gave this name to the Lord who spoke to her. You are El Roy. The God who sees me. For she said, I have now seen the one who sees me. That is why the well was called Bir Lahi Roy Well of the living one who sees me. It is still there, between Kadesh and Bared. So Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram gave the name Ishmael to the son she had borne. Abram was 86 years old when Hagar bore him Ishmael. Now picture the story that's told here. Sarah has said to Abram, Go ahead, take Hagar. Hagar, who's a nobody. Hagar, that slave girl that we picked up during the famine when we went down to Egypt. Kind of like a trophy of the trip. Hagar, who was put up on the block, sold out of her home Never to see her mother and father again, never to see her homeland again, to go off with two strangers who didn't speak her language, whose customs and manners were strange, back to that strange a rather barbaric land of Canaan, out of the civilization of exalted Egypt. Hagar must have been miserable in those circumstances, lonely, desolate Imagine how you would feel. Life would seem so cheap, wouldn't it? And here in this situation she's now given, without anyone consulting her own wishes. To an 85-year-old man to have relations with him and to bear his child, not with any stature as a wife But simply as a piece of chattel to be taken and used according to the owner's wishes. And Hagar gets pregnant, And in that culture, being pregnant and having children made you somebody. Even if you were a nobody, having children made you a somebody. It was very important to those people to have children. And so you can imagine that in Hagar's insecurity, she now has something that Sarai doesn't have. I may be nobody and you may be the rich mistress, but I can have children and you can't. And so Hagar despises, the Bible tells us, Sarai. And she uses in every possible way she can the knife to twist it and to dig from Sarai, the fact that she is bearing Abram's children. And so uh how does Sarai react? She blames her husband. Now I realize none of you have ever experienced that thing, but uh that's the way it was back in those days. When things didn't go right, every once in a while the wife would blame her husband. And so Sarai says to Abram, I really you know if you if you use your imagination, it's kind of sad, but it's also kind of funny. She says, Abram, this is your fault. Abram said, hey, wait a minute, whose idea was this? You know? I just did what you told me. No, it's your fault, Abram. I gave you my servant, and now look, she's despising me, and what are you doing about it? And so poor Abram, I mean, he's compromised once. He didn't stand when he should have stood before, and so he has no authority now And you can imagine with his head bowed and sort of shuffling his sandals in the sand, and he says, Well, go ahead, Sarah, do whatever you think best. It's up to you. I don't care. I'm tired of this whole mess. And so Sarai became malicious. Malicious as only a person can become who's in power and has been hurt by one who's totally in their control. And Hagar finds that she can't do anything right. She receives no appreciation, but only criticism. She probably receives lashes. She receives every kind of mistreatment that she can get at the hands of Sarai. And Sarai gets back at her until Hagar's life becomes intolerable. Do you find your life at times to be intolerable? Perhaps there's some of you here this morning that believe that right now your life is in certain ways intolerable. Your stomach tightens to think of going back to work tomorrow. The workplace has become an intolerable place for you You say my boss and Sarai would get along fine. They'd be able to trade kinds of ideas to make people's lives miserable. And you wish that you could flee. Or perhaps you say, boy, I sure can identify with this passage. I got a wife just like Sarai. Everything I do, she blames me. If it rains too much, she blames me. Whatever happens around the house, whatever circumstance, it's always my fault. I never can seem to do anything right. No appreciation, only criticism Well perhaps you're saying, I have a husband like Abram, and it's intolerable. The guy takes no spiritual leadership There's no sense that he loves me or protects me or cares for me or anticipates my needs. And I feel like Sarah, somebody that's got to fend for herself, who's got to take all the leadership and and I just have a wimp for a husband who doesn't really who's not able to care for me and for the family in the way that he should. And I feel very lonely and very unprotected. Perhaps you feel like your situation like Hagar's was intolerable. What does the Bible say that she does? She does what so many of us want to do in that situation, doesn't she? Verse 18, excuse me, verse 6 says that she fled. She fled. She said, I can't take it anymore. I've got my needs too. I'm getting out. And shows she hits for the desert. And as she takes off The angel of the Lord comes and meets her. And as he meets her, he asks her two questions in verse 8. He says, Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from? And where are you going? It's interesting, the angel asks her two questions. She can only answer one question. She says, I'm running away from my mistress, Sarai. She has no idea where she's going. All she knows is where she's coming from. And then the angel tells her, go back. Go back to Sarai. Now that's not what she wanted to hear. It wasn't very comforting. And so the Bible tells us that the angel added I'm going to increase your descendants so that they'll be too numerous to count. Now, in her situation, in her culture, that's like saying, I am going to make you a great woman. I'm going to make you a woman of renown, and I'm going to fulfill your fondest hopes. You're going to be somebody, Hagar. You're going to be someone who's recognized, who's given status and stature. You're not a nobody. I'm going to take care of you. And then after that, the Lord then says that you're going to have a son. The one that you're bearing now. And in verse 11 he says, You shall name him Ishmael. Now that's especially precious because the name Ishmael means Ale hears. God hears. I've heard you, Hagar. I'm not uncaring concerning your plight. I'm not unconscious of your needs and your pain and your disappointment. I've heard. And so Sarai responds in verse 13. She gave this name to the Lord who spoke to her. You are El Roy. El who sees me, the God who sees me, and Hagar is a maze You see, Hagar could believe that God would see Abram. Abram was rich. Abram was powerful. Abram was a big shot. Abram was somebody that had to be reckoned with. You read, remember before he had his own 318-man army. He was a man of means. But for Hagar to say, God sees me, a nobody, a slave girl, bought out of Egypt. Who no one in this life cares for, who's lonely, abandoned, and desolate, that this, the living God of heaven, sees and notices me is an amazing thing. And it's also something that I suggest should be of great comfort to you and to me. For we who are nobodies who wonder if God cares about our own situation. God says, I'm the God who sees you. I see you in your pain. I see you in your loneliness. I see you in your disappointments. The disappointments with your spouse, your kids, your parents, your money problems, your health problems, your sense of betrayal from other people. I see you. And I care about you in your need. Do you believe that this morning? Do you believe that El Roy, God sees you? In your disappointment and caring. If Jesus has risen from the dead and you belong to him this morning, he sees you. How sad that you and I would bear our own burdens and walk around believing that we have to fend for ourselves when Jesus is standing ready, seeing you in your need, and saying, Cast that burden on me. I see it. I know it. I care for it. I'm not responding in the way that you want me to at this moment, but believe me that I see you And I care for you deeply, more than you could know. And so Hagar takes hope. Her life now takes on new meaning. For the living God, creator of heaven and earth is a God who sees a lonely Egyptian slave god. And she goes back and she has Abram's child. The Bible tells us that when that child begins to grow, that in a few years Isaac is born. And when Isaac is born, Ishmael, who's a teenager by this point, is jealous. And because all of Abram's love and attention is clearly devoted to Isaac. And so Genesis chapter 21 tells us that Ishmael mocks Isaac. He makes life difficult for him. And now the Bible tells us that Abram and Sarai together throw out Hagar and Ishmael. They are expelled from the home, and back into the desert they go. Genesis 21 tells us that this time, she's in big trouble. She's given a little supply of water, but it soon runs out. There's no water left, and they're in the heat of the desert. And then in Genesis 21, in verse 16, a heart-wrenching verse, the Bible tells us that the boy was dying And Hagar couldn't stand to watch. And it says she began to sob her heart out. Poor lonely Hagar again. And the Bible tells us in verse 17 that God heard the boy cry. And the angel of the Lord comes back now again to Hagar fifteen years later. And he comes from heaven and he says to her, What's the matter, Hagar? Don't be afraid. God has heard the boy crying as he lies there. Lift the boy up and take him by the hand, for I will make him into a great nation. And then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. So she went and filled the skin with water and gave the boy a drink. God sees. He sees again. He hears as he heard before. He cares as he cared before. And this time he provides her material need. He provides to her life-sustaining water, and she drinks and is saved. If you know Jesus this morning, by faith, he is able to provide all of your needs. He's able to open your eyes that you might see what he is providing for you. Perhaps you don't see it now. Your eyes are blurred and dimmed with your own tears and looking to yourself. But he wants to open your eyes to see what he's provided in himself. And again and again this idea appears. This is the only time in the whole Bible that you had this name, El Roy, given to God. But the idea appears repeatedly throughout the scriptures. In Exodus chapter 3, the nation of Israel, grown now to a nation and gone down into Egypt. as people of privilege have become a people who are put into bondage. Pharaoh has made them slaves. Their life is hard and miserable And now rather than an Egyptian slave girl brought to Canaan, you have those from Canaan made slaves in Egypt. And God hears his own people And he reveals himself to Moses in Exodus chapter 3, verses 7 to 9. Look at the idea that he communicates there. But the Lord said to Moses, I have indeed seen the misery of my people in Egypt. I have heard them crying out because of their slave drivers. And I am concerned about their suffering. And so I have come down to rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land into a good and spacious land. A land flowing with milk and honey. And then verse 9. And now the cry of the Israelites has reached me, and I have seen the way the Egyptians are oppressing them. For he's El Roy. The God who sees, who sees your pain and your hurt. By the way, if you haven't gotten it so far, the first point of that is that Elroy is the God who sees your hurt. All your suffering and all your need. He sees your hurt. You notice there's different responses to the different needs. In Genesis 16, God sees Hagar and He tells her, Go back and endure the affliction. In Genesis 21, he sees Hagar, he sees her need and he provides for her, and he doesn't send her back. In Exodus 3, God sees the need of his people and he involves himself and stretches forth his mighty arm on behalf of his people to produce plagues. To even dry up the sea in order to deliver his people out of their bondage and provide for them a wonderful land. And El Roy saw you and me in our bondage. The bondage to our sin. And Elroy saw our need, and he cared. He cared enough to send his own son, Jesus, to make him a creature. Who would live under the law? Who would fulfill that law perfectly and so become eligible to endure the curses and the penalty of that law as an innocent lamb A victim who substitutes on behalf of those who trust in him and who take his sacrifice as their own. And so Al Roy saw your need and my need, and he provided Jesus in his death on the cross to deliver us from our sin, from the penalty, from the guilt, and from the power of it in your life today. So Al Roy is the one who sees your need. And he's able to take your sin by the blood of Jesus. Because you see, El Roy sees all of your needs. In Revelation chapter 2 and 3, we have this Jesus who walks In the midst of all of his churches. And you see again and again there, in those pictures of the seven churches, that Jesus says repeatedly, I see and I know your works. I know your service for me. I know your suffering for me. It's precious to me. It matters to me. He sees your love for him. He sees what you're doing for him. He hasn't missed Those acts of love this past week. In fact, Matthew chapter 6 tells us that God as Elroy sees every act of mercy that you've ever done. He tells us, don't do it before other people, but do it before your Father who sees and will reward you openly. He sees that time you picked up the hitchhiker. He sees that time that you babysat for that person who needed relief, even though it was inconvenient to you, or you took a meal over to help them out. He sees the times that you have provided for someone, given money, when it was hard for you, the times when you've served, and it was always inconvenient to do so. El Roy sees that. And he sees your prayers, Matthew 6 says. He sees the time that you've spent praying for others. And he thought, nobody sees this, and nobody cares that I'm taking these minutes and these hours praying for this. Matthew 6 says, God sees. And He rewards that. He sees your fasting, the intensification of your concern, that sets aside other pleasures and privileges. In order to devote yourself to prayer. And he sees that. Matthew 6 says, take comfort, Jesus says there, for your Father sees And he'll reward it openly. And he says, Jesus says there in Matthew 6, he sees your worry. He sees all those things that cause you to fret. He sees your needs even before you're aware of them. Jesus says, God sees. He takes care of the sparrows. And he can take care of you and your need too. For he's Elroy. And he's the God who sees. Do you believe that? If you do, right where you see there in that blank, Elroy sees and cares for And put your own name in there. Elroy sees and cares for Alan Harris. I wrote my name in there, and it meant something to me to say: do I really believe That the living God sees and cares for me. What comfort is that to you now? Let's take just a moment to pray and to turn our response back to God before we forget it. Let's take just a moment of silence and prayer. Lord, we bring our needs before you and we want to believe What your word gives us full authority to believe. That you, Lord Jesus, the risen and living Savior, sees our need. None of us can say we're too insignificant. But you saw Hagar's need, and you see our need and you care. Help us to take our burdens and to leave them with you now. In Jesus' name. Amen. After our usual break this morning at eleven fifteen, we're gonna come back here into this room and we're going to gather for prayer. A service of prayer for healing. Because we believe that Elroy sees and cares for us. And so if you want to have others come and pray for you for healing, physical, emotional, spiritual healing in your own life, come on back. Come back here at 10 after eleven. We're going to have a just a five-minute orientation to what we'll be doing, and then we'll just split into groups. And we'll pray. And if you've come to one of our former services of prayer for healing, And God has accomplished some healing in your life. Come on back and share that. Encourage us with what God Elroy has done in your life to encourage us in our praying for one another who still need healing. Well you may want to come back to just pray for others who need that healing. Come on back, whatever is your interest, and we'll divide into groups and we'll simply pray until the group is finished and it's praying and then we'll just go I invite you to come back, any who are interested, at 1110, in order for us to meet here and begin praying at 1115 this morning. But very briefly I want to just touch on that other point, the second point, that Elroy also sees your heart, all your sin, and all your greed. He sees not only your hurt, but he sees your heart. Revelation 2 and 3 tells us that Jesus didn't just see the service and the suffering of his people, but in every case he also speaks to what he sees in their heart that's lacking. Let me give you just one example. In Revelation 2 and verse 2, Jesus says, I know your deeds, your hard work, your perseverance. I know that you can't tolerate wicked men. That you've tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false. You've persevered and have endured hardships for my name and have not grown weary. I see that, I know that. But then the very next verse he goes on and says, And yet I also see something else. He says, I see that you have forsaken your first love. Repent. Turn back. Could it be that there's some of you here this morning that El Roy and Jesus have seen your service and he's seen your suffering, he's seen your persevering for him. He also sees that you've lost your first love for Jesus. Become more of a duty. Become something that you do out of habit rather than out of that devotion for the grace of Jesus that you experienced when you first came to him. And so Elroy sees our hearts thoroughly. That's why he sent Hagar back in Genesis 16:9 and said, Go back, go back to Sarai. Why? Because Elroy discerned in Hagar an arrogant and proud heart. And so he couldn't take her out of that situation. He had to return her to that situation in order to teach her something. You know, there's times that you and I come to him and we say, God, deliver me from this, and he says, No, go back. We say, but don't you care? And he says, that's exactly why I'm sending you back. I care more for your holiness than for your comfort. And so I must send you back. I must allow you to remain in that situation as much as I love you, in order to accomplish my sanctifying purpose to make you more like Jesus. So don't prejudge what El Roy's response will be to, for he knows your heart. It's an awesome thought, isn't it? That Elroy knows your heart and my heart. Psalm 139 tell us that He knows our thoughts, He knows our intentions, He knows everything about us, He knows our motives. So you sit there and you look very clean and innocent this morning. And everyone around you thinks that you look pretty stiffy and Pretty clean and innocent and they say, Oh, I don't sit in this congregation. I'm not like the other people here. They're all good people. We fool the people around us, don't we? And they don't see that you, in fact, as you sit there, are bitter and angry against God You're pouting because he hasn't given you what you want. And so as you sit there singing his praise, your heart is alienated from him. Or you sit there and you find that even as you sit there, you're angry at someone else, another brother or sister in this room or somewhere else. Somebody who you're not able to forgive and you're bitter and you hold a grudge against them, even as you smile and say nice things. Or you're sitting there thinking lustful thoughts, unfaithful in your heart to your spouse, and even rationalizing it and planning perhaps how to justify further action. You're sitting there, and your mind is on how much money you can make next week and the various things you can do to promote yourself. And we say, I don't have anything to hide. We're liars when we say that. For every one of you, like me, is a fugitive from your own thoughts. And you're too embarrassed even to admit to yourself what you really like And you can fool the other people in this room. You can fool the elders. You can fool me. And you can fool anyone else. But you can't fool El Roy. But he's the God who sees your heart. He's the God who knows you exactly what you're like Through and through. He seems like that school teacher who has that permanent record book in which every deficiency, every delinquent behavior is marked down with indelible ink into your permanent record. I've got bad news for you and good news. Bad news is he doesn't even need the book. For he's got a perfect record in his omniscience of everything that you've ever done that has been selfish and mean and sinful. The good news is that it's not indelible ink. Psalm 32, the psalmist tells us that when he tried to hide his sin, that he was miserable. In fact, he became so miserable there were psychological and physical consequences. And then the psalmist says But then I did not cover up my iniquity. I decided to acknowledge my sin to you, and I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave. The guilt of my sin. The ink which writes every one of our transgressions is washable ink, washable only by the blood of Jesus Christ. And when he forgives, all those transgressions are obliterated. And Elroy sees none of your sin, for it's hidden in the robe of the righteousness of Jesus. And his record is given to you, so that the psalmist says, blessed is he whose transgressions are forgiven and covered. Covered even from his eye. And so at the end there, I suggest that you put down, even if it's not a pencil, if you got just the etching of your fingernail where it says there Do you believe that Elroy sees your sin, true or false? Do you believe that? Do you believe that God sees your sin and He knows everything about you? Which do you believe? And then, secondly, look at that next statement. My sin is covered by Christ's record for me. Is that true or is that false of you this morning? Put your answer. And I invite you to come to Jesus. For when you have Jesus Even Elroy's eyes, our only kindness to you in your need. We're covered with Jesus' record. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come this morning and recognize that every one of us wants to hide what we're like from you. We don't even want to admit it to ourselves, let alone our closest friend. But Lord, you see and you know it all. And so we bring that record before you in all its miserable, dirty ugliness. We ask you, Lord, to wipe it clean. If we've done that before, to remind ourselves that you've taken that by Jesus. That our consciences are clean and we can come before you as the one who sees us and knows us and yet still loves us. And if we have not done that, Lord, to come before you now, and to in the name of Jesus Christ come that we might have his forgiveness. And have our record cleansed, to know that your eye would be an eye of kindness and not of judgment. So we come to you, whatever our need, in Jesus' name.