Precious hymn. I don't know how much you were noticing the words as you were singing those. By grace alone I shall inherit that blissful home beyond the skies. Works count for naught. The Lord incarnate has won for me the heavenly prize. By grace, despite my fears, it's well with me. I know my sin in all its greatness, do you? I mean, how many of us know our sin in all its greatness? But I also know Him who sets me free. My part to naught but joy gives place, since I am saved by grace. By grace. That's one of those really great hymns to use in your own private meditation to personalize that, to pray it. To make it a tool of praise in your own spirit between you and the Lord. Well now we're back to normal up here a little bit in time and schedule. I must say in my own defense, I did not uh plan that last week I wouldn't be preaching because of the time in the circus. Um just happened that way. Some you win, some you lose, you know? Now we're back. And we're back also to considering again the names of God. In Psalm 52, we read, I am like an olive tree flourishing in the house of God. I trust in God's unfailing love forever and ever. I will praise you forever for what you have done. In your name I will hope, for your name is good. In your name I will hope, for your name is good We've been looking at the names of God, and there is none of those names that is more precious to us than the name El Shaddai. Because El Shaddai speaks of God as the God, of sovereign grace, what we've just been speak singing about. I know my sin, but I also know him who sets me free by grace. By grace, I'm an heir of heaven. But El Shaddai speaks of the fact as Genesis 17, God revealed himself when Abram was 99 years old and still had not seen any fulfillment of the promise, and God said, I am El Shaddai. Trust me. Walk before me and be blameless. And we saw that El Shannai is the giver of life in impossible situations, even out of death. That God is El Shaddai, who gives a son to Abraham and makes us sons, not by our efforts, but by his grace. And we saw that from that Genesis 17 passage that speaks of God as El Shaddai, there are two New Testament passages that comment on that and open up the meaning of it. And so we've looked at Romans chapter 4 that speaks of that, and this morning we're going to look at Galatians chapter 4, beginning at the end of chapter 3. To see also how El Shaddai is particularly the name that speaks of God's sovereign grace, and how we can rest in the meaning of that name. And we as Christians are tempted to live in bondage to the law, and tempted to live as slaves rather than as sons. There is no passage in all of Scripture that I know that more attacks that notion, that distorted notion of Christianity, that we are to live in bondage to the law, in bondage to rules and externals. Rather than to live in the freedom of being sons and knowing that we can pray, Daddy, our Father, and know that God is always for us and not against us. I know of no passage that so destroys the legalistic distortion of Christianity as Galatians chapter 3 and 4. And so I want to read from that two passages. The first point of the message is based on that first passage, chapter 3, verses 26 to 4-7. And so I'd like to read that portion of God's Word Speak to that, and then we'll go on to consider under point two and three the rest of the verses, and I'll read those at that time. So if you have your Bibles, open them up to Galatians chapter 3, and let's begin. Follow along as I read from Galatians chapter 3, beginning at verse 26. You are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. For all of you who were baptized into Christ have clothed yourselves with Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek, slave, nor free, male nor female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. If you belong to Christ, then you are Abraham's seed and heirs according to the promise. Promise that El Shaddai gave. What I am saying is that as long as the heir is a child, he's no different from a slave, although he owns the whole estate. He's subject to guardians and trustees until the time set by his father So also. When we were children, we were in slavery under the basic principles of the world, that is the law. But when the time had fully come, God sent his son, born of a woman, born under law, to redeem those under law, that we might receive the full rights of sons. Because you are sons, God sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, the Spirit who calls out, Abba, Father. And so you are no longer a slave, but a son. And since you are a son, God has made you also an heir. This basically is summed up in verses 26 and 4-7. You are sons. You are all sons of God through faith in Christ Jesus. So you're no longer a slave, but a son. Since you're a son, God's made you an heir. You see, before Jesus Christ, you were obligated To live under the law, to keep the law as a means of gaining acceptance and favor with God. The problem with that is that you had to keep the whole law. Perfectly. No exceptions. And you remember we talked under Romans chapter 4 about the fact that there's only one basic problem with the law, and that is that the law can't change you. He can only show you your deficiency. You remember the law is like that ten foot pole, and you stand against it, and no matter how tall you are, and some of us are a little taller than others, and some taller and some shorter. None of us are ten feet here as far as I know. And so the ten foot standard simply shows you that you're 5'5 or 6 or whatever you are, but it can't make you an inch taller And every time you stand next to that standard, you're reminded of how short you are, not how tall you are. That's the function of the law. The law shows you and me our deficiencies The law enslaves because of that. But El Shaddai is not the god of slaves. El Shaddai is the god of sons. And so in that first blank there, you see, El Shaddai has sons by grace. By the way, the points, the principles, I forgot to mention to you that I'm going to look at three things here. First of all, the principles stated In chapter 3, 26 to 4-7. The second point will be the principle illustrated, and then thirdly, the principle applied. But El Shaddai has sons by grace, not slaves by human effort You can no more become his son by your effort than Abraham could have the son of promise by his effort. It simply can't be done. Else should I, by his very nature, bid you and me to abandon our hope in our efforts. He bids you to abandon hope in your efforts. It's the next blank. To live as a son. Some of us think that uh certain Christians have more faith because they're more committed, because they're more obedient. Because somehow they simply are able to do more of what Scripture says, and so therefore they gain more faith. But faith isn't some kind of spiritual energy that comes out of obedience. Faith is simply looking to the cross and looking to Jesus It's the looking that changes us, not simply the determination to obey. And so else should I is the God who simply wants us to have faith, rather have faith, in the promise of God focused on the cross. If you are in Jesus Christ this morning, you are a son. We've talked many times about the indicatives and the imperatives. Be what you are. And this is a good illustration. You are a son Therefore, live like a son. But you know your problem in mine? It's dangerous to try and live like a son. It seems presumptuous, doesn't it? And so what we want to do is we want to construct rules and we want to come back under those rules in order to lift our self-image a little bit. Grace is embarrassing. Grace says, you're simply a son because I've made you a son. He said, but I've got to do something to earn that. I've got to do something so that I feel like I can gain something from God. And that is coming under the bondage of the law. And so Paul illustrates that. And that's the second point. The principle illustrated. And he does that through an example taken from that passage in which he had revealed himself as El Shaddai. That whole passage from Genesis 17 to 21 Now follow what he says. Let me read it, and then we're going to go over it and look at it a little more closely. Galatians chapter 4, now verses 21 to the end of the chapter, verse 31. Paul says, tell me, you who want to be under the law, are you not aware of what the law says? For it's written that Abraham had two sons, one by the slave woman and the other by the free woman. His son by the slave woman was born in the ordinary way. But his son by the free woman was born as the result of a promise. These things may be taken figuratively, for the women represent two covenants. One covenant is from Mount Sinai and bears children who are to be slaves. This is Hagar. Now Hagar stands for Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present city of Jerusalem because she is in slavery. with her children. But the Jerusalem that is above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written Be glad, O barren woman, who bears no children. Break forth and cry aloud, you who have no labor pains, because more are the children of the desolate woman than of her who has a husband. Now, you brothers, like Isaac, are children of the promise. At that time, the son born in the ordinary way persecuted the son born by the power of the Spirit. It is the same now. But what does the scripture say? Get rid of the slave woman and her son, for the slave woman's son will never share in the inheritance with the free woman's son. Therefore, brothers, we are not children of the slave woman, but of the free woman. Now, as you look at this, think about this Paul says in verse 21, Tell me you who want to be under the law, there's a danger. The danger is that you and I, as evangelicals, will look at that and say, he's talking about Christians versus non-Christians. I don't think he's doing that. Paul is addressing Christians. He is addressing those who have made the basic commitment to give themselves to Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord. But he says, you have a tendency to come back under the law. Why? Because by fulfilling those rules, by coming under the law, you establish your reputation as a mature Christian You try to gain some sense of a positive self-image in how much you are able to do as a Christian. How mature you are, how committed you are, how reformed you are. All the different things that give you a sense of status because you have accomplished something in maturity in the Christian life. Paul says, okay now, all of those of you who want to demonstrate to me how mature and reformed you are as Christians, you who want to come under some standard that is going to gain that reputation He says, let me give you a story here. He said, remember Abraham? He had two sons. So he says in verse 22 and 23. He says these two sons, Ishmael and Isaac, were born in two entirely different ways. Ishmael, he says, was born in the ordinary way, natural, ordinary son, by human effort. Isaac, however, was the son of promise. Isaac was born in a supernatural way. He was not born in the ordinary way. At this point you may be saying, that's fine, but what's that got to do about my own struggling and striving in the Christian life? Paul says, well, you know, hang on here for a minute. Just think about those two sons. Now think about their mothers How did these sons come? The two kids and the two moms, he says in verse 24, illustrate for us a deep theological truth. Covenant theology. Paul says here, these two women represent two covenants. Now he says, think about these two women. He says, I want to contrast them for you. So on the one hand over here we got Hagar. She's the mother of Ishmael. That stands, he says in verse twenty-five, for Mount Sinai. But what about Mount Sinai? That's remember where the Ten Commandments were given, where the law of God was given. So Ishmael, the son of Hagar, stands for the law. It stands for all those principles and rules which reflect, in fact, God's nature. Nothing wrong with them. They are tremendous. There is no better standard you can imagine. It reflects the very character of God. But he said that corresponds to the present Jerusalem. In present Jerusalem is the seat of Judaism, seeking to follow those rules as a way of gaining acceptance with God. As a believer. Not simply talking about unbelievers. And that stands for issues in failure. That's the blank there next to Hagar. Hagar, the mother of Ishmael, standing for human effort under the law, failure. Because no matter how hard you try, the law mocks you, doesn't it? The law shows you that you can never become ten feet tall. You're in slavery To your efforts as a Christian to rearrange your flesh, to organize your flesh, to discipline your flesh. To control your flesh, to subdue your flesh, New Year's resolution kind of Christianity. Lord uh I've really screwed up this week, this month, this year, but Lord, I'm going to try and do better. I'm going to discipline myself to be obedient, to have a quiet time regularly to follow you, to be more faithful in attendance at my small group, or to come on Sunday, or to witness at work, or whatever it is, I'm going to organize and discipline that so that you will be able to bless me. And so I'm under the slavery, the bondage of those efforts. That represents us as Christians Dean and I were talking about this a few weeks ago. And uh all of a sudden the light went on with him, and he shared with me a couple of personal illustrations that he said I could tell you. But uh he said, you know, he said that's like the day that I was praying that Jeffrey would be home so I could go play with him And he said, um, because I was praying that, I decided to clean up my room. And so I cleaned up my room and got it all nice and neat, and I said, God, now you make Jeffrey be there, please. I'm trying to clean up my room here, and please, Lord, just make Jeffrey be home so I can play with him. He said, I went over and I knocked on Jeffrey's door. And he went home He said, I think the Lord, I w you know, I kept up my end of it. Now what happened on your part? Then he said a short time after that, he said, uh went down to the creek and I built this really neat battleship in the sand there by the creek. And so I was praying, Lord, keep that battleship there. It won't get destroyed. And so I folded all my clothes nice and neatly. And mom's always saying, uh, get him in the drawer and always laying around. I'm all nice and neat and I put 'em in the drawer and I prayed, Lord, please keep that battleship there. And I went down that evening to see the battleship. Said, Dad, it was creamed. I mean it was destroyed. There was nothing left of that battleship. And then he said, and all of a sudden it reminded me I was functioning by works. I was trying to get God to do what I wanted Him to do by my own effort And he said, That's what you're talking about. He said, That's grace, right? We can't do that. That's not bad theology for a nine year old, you know, and he's ten now, but he was nine when he said that We see, isn't that the way you and I are? A kind of a worked superstition. If I can just, Lord, be obedient enough, if I can grow enough in my Christian life, then you'll bless me. And you know the problem with that? The problem with that, basically, is it doesn't take sin seriously. You see, the person that does that is always looking at sin in terms of superficial externals. I'm always saying, Well, Lord, if I can just stop lying. If I can just have regular, quiet times, if I can just keep out of sexual trouble, if I can just stop doing this or that, stealing or whatever it is, if I can just take care of these what are sometimes called technicolor sins, you know, the ones that really show up. Then I have basically mastered sin. And the problem is that that is so self-deceptive. Because it ignores what my heart is really like. It ignores the subtleties of sin, my grasping for control in my life, and my desire to manipulate other people. It ignores that desire to maintain a reputation among other people, more concerned for my image than for the honor of Jesus Christ. It totally ignores my basic root of selfishness and self-centeredness. It ignores the fact that I've got a demanding heart. It ignores my critical spirit that comes out in subtle kinds of gossip. You see, the problem of being under the law is that it always reduces the law's demands so that they become tolerable. So that I can feel like I have basically somehow managed to function under what God expects. And I can feel good about that. But the Spirit of God has a way of breaking through that sooner or later and showing us how utterly self-deceived we are and what happens then. Then you feel like I'm a rotten Christian. You get depressed. The grace of Jesus Christ and Christ Himself becomes removed in your experience, and you feel that you are totally hopeless of failure as a Christian. And therefore, that you don't have access to the throne of grace. You're out of God's favor, and therefore you cannot approach Him. He's distant, He's unapproachable to you. Why? Because you're functioning under the basis of the law. And you haven't taken the law's demand seriously. So what you and I need to do Is in order to begin to be able to appreciate grace, we have got to see what the law really says. We've got to see how crushing are in fact the demands of the law. And how, in fact, unrelenting is the justice of the law. We've got to see what the law says, that there are no excuses And when we do that and we come into despair that you and I could ever think that we could do something that will get God To do what we want in our lives, to bargain with Him, or to feel like somehow we can establish a reputation before other Christians, so that our sins are basically in the past tense. People come into our congregation and they say, Nice place, but I don't see a whole lot of sinners around here like me. All these people sinned in the past tense, you know. Oh yeah, I used to have that problem, you know But basically now we've got it together. You see, that is a self-deception that says that sin is just an external superficial thing. And I haven't really looked at my heart And that is slavery to Hagar. And Paul says the alternative to that is to understand what promise is, to look at Sarah. And to see that Sarah was the mother of Isaac, the son of promise by grace, and that is, in the blank there is freedom. Freedom instead of failure. You see, to really own up to what I'm like to what a despicable person I am and to be able to say when somebody criticizes me, not defensive because I've got to establish my reputation, but to be thinking in my heart, you don't know the half of what I'm like. The worst you could say about me. Isn't half as bad as I'm really liked. Because I've begun to get in touch with those subtleties of the corruption of my own grasping selfish nature. And then in that despair, I look to Christ. As a Christian, I look to Christ, and I see in him the promise that's guaranteed. And I find in that my freedom. And that's why he says in verse 27, for it's written, Be glad, O barren woman. This was written to Israel in exile. In Babylonia, and Israel was an exiled barren woman, and he said, It seems like there's no hope of the promise being fulfilled. Sure, there was a few million Jews produced since Abraham, but now it's all going to be wiped out. And Isaiah said in Isaiah 54, which is what Paul's quoting there in verse 27, you haven't begun to see what God's going to do yet. Because he's going to produce an innumerable company of spiritual children who will rejoice in the promise fulfilled. Let me tell you, if you're not rejoicing in the gospel this morning Then what you're believing is not the gospel. If it doesn't make you rejoice, it isn't the gospel. If it puts you into bondage and the burden of slavery to rules and regulations, It is not the gospel. Because Paul says you are freed from the slavery of those regulations. Verse 28: you brothers like Isaac are children of the promise. And then notice what he goes on to say in verses 28 to verses particularly down there 29 through 31. He makes the point that you cannot mix law and grace. It's either or. You cannot mix it Christians uh tend to be eclectic, you know, it's well it's a little bit of law and a little bit of grace, you know, and you've got to keep the balance there. You don't want too much law because then you get depressed, but you don't want too much grace because then you get presumptuous, you know. So you've got to kind of mix them You know, enough law to keep you humble and enough grace to keep you happy, you know. So you're sort of always trying to teeter on this balance. And Paul said, no, it don't work that way. It's either or, it's either law or it's grace Notice how he illustrates it. He says, What's the scripture say? No, verse 29. He says, At that time, the son born in the ordinary way, that's Ishmael, persecuted the sonborn by the power of the Spirit. Now uh this is what Tom read back in Genesis twenty-one. You remember the scripture doesn't say there exactly why Ishmael persecuted or mocked, as it says, Isaac. I don't think it's very hard to understand why. Put yourself in Ishmael's shoes. You're about 13 years older than this little kid that came along, and you were the center of attention till he came along. But now ever since Isaac's been born, it is obvious who is his father and mother's favorite. It's obvious who's the favorite in this family. You know, Isaac always gets the biggest piece of land. Isaac always gets the lion's share of his dad's and his mom's attention in free time. Isaac always gets the choice of the toys on Rosh Hashanah or whatever. Isaac always gets the favor. Isaac is the delight of his father's and mother's heart. And how Ishmael must have envied Isaac. What did this kid do? Nothing The only reason he's the favorite is because of who he is. He's the son of the promise. You get that? Nothing that Isaac did made him the favorite. He simply was the son of the promise. How that must have rankled Ishmael because he's trying to earn his father's favor, probably trying to be a good kid. But he was jealous of Isaac. Now notice what Paul says at the end of verse 29. Look at that. It is the same now. Paul's saying this isn't just something that happened 1800 years ago. He says the same principle today in the church. What's he saying? Paul saying that whenever you see Christians who are living under the bondage of the law in its rules and regulations. They do not like Christians living in freedom. Whenever you have a group of Christians And some are trying so hard to demonstrate their maturity and their reputation by keeping the rules. And they see Christians who are living in the freedom of grace in Jesus Christ. Not living without concern for Jesus Christ, but in love with Jesus Christ, but devoted to Him, and their lives are centered on Him rather than the rules And the Christians living under the law don't like it. They don't like it. It threatens those of us trying to live by the rules, you see. It disturbs us. This runs through the New Testament. It's the same attitude of the elder son of the prodigal. You remember? And the prodigal leaves his father and he goes out and what's he do? He just wastes the inheritance and all he does is come back and what does the father do? Runs out, embraces him, gets the fatted calf, kills it, and the older brother comes in, he says, Dad Why did you never do that for me? Here I've been slavin' for you all these years. You never killed the fatted calf for me. And you can see the father smiling and say, son, you never asked for the fatted calf You've been a son here, but you haven't been living like a son. It's not my fault that you've been living like a slave. This is my son, and I'm treating him like a son. But you see the one living under that bondage didn't like it when he saw the father treating the other one by grace. Do you remember Jesus told the parable of the workers and he talks about the man who went out and hired the workers and some worked all day. They were given a wage, an honest fair wage for their labor. But then that same uh foreman went out and one hour before quitting time, he went and he hired some others. And remember, an hour later, he pays them the same wage as those that worked all day? What's the response of those that worked all day? Boy, you sure are gracious to those guys that just worked an hour. That's really nice. Really nice to see mercy and grace. We worked all day. Why are you giving him as much as me? They didn't get anything unfair, but they didn't like the grace shown to the others. Whenever there's renewal and revival in the Church of Jesus Christ, there's always this tension. There's the tension of those that are living under the bondage of the rules. We don't like it when there's a new breakthrough of freedom of the gospel in his grace. To understand more of that, uh go to Steve Green's class on acts and renewal. He's hitting that principle. You'll understand it as you see it unfolded there. And so don't anybody ever say I didn't plug somebody else's courts, okay? On the other hand, we're also dealing with that in the Sabbath course on Sunday evenings because the same principle is going to apply there, and we're going to see how it unfolds in Sabbath. So I, you know, how to plug my own course too. But anyway I think as a congregation we need to take this seriously because I believe Jesus Christ wants to free us up. He wants us to understand what it means to live by grace. And I think a lot of us are living in a bondage. That is discouraging us and depressing us and is removing Jesus from that intimacy and that closeness that He desires with us. And so I put there just my basic uh outline of the whole book of Galatians, because what Paul's saying here is simply what he unfolds again and again in the book. It's either or. It's either the natural or it's the supernatural Galatians 3, he contrasts works with faith, natural works through supernatural faith, faith in looking to Christ to change me. Natural law through supernatural promise. In chapter 4, he contrasts slaves with sons. And again, you see it's the ordinary versus the supernatural. The bondage versus the freedom. In chapter 5, the contrast is between flesh and spirit, natural and supernatural. In chapter 6, it's between circumcision, religious regulations, and the cross. Crucified to the world because the cross has captivated me. There is no middle ground To try and live in middle ground is misery for the Christian. And so I give you on the back side of this just a little thing I put together. You may think it's kind of stupid and goofy, but maybe some of you will help you to remember this. When I think of the Christian life, I think of it as being summed up as reconciled and adopted through Christ. And if you fill those in, that's R-A-C. And that is done, our reconciliation and our adoption through Jesus Christ through God's effort alone. And so the two lines down there, you fill in God's effort. As from the beginning to the end, God's effort, by which we're reconciled, by which we're adopted, by which we are made sons, and by which we have received the Father's pleasure and delight. And so when you put that together, God's effort, which begins with G and E, and you fill it down, and it's G-R-A-C-E. We are reconciled and adopted through Christ by God's effort from beginning to end. Grace. God's effort. G-E Surrounding R A C reconciled and adopted through Christ. I say that's kind of corny, but maybe it'll help you when you think of grace to think that means I am reconciled and adopted, made a son of Jesus through God's effort from beginning to end, and nothing else but. And so finally the principle applied Let us then live as free supernatural sons of El Shaddai. Chapter 5, verse 1. It is then, you see, now no chapter break in the letter that Paul wrote one chapter 5 when he sent it to the Galatians. So verse 31, therefore, brothers, we are not children of the slave woman, but of the free woman is that applied in the very next verse. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. And I want to tell you, there is a gravitational pull in the Christian life to be dragged back into that yoke of slavery, isn't there? Because we always want to externalize and superficialize sin. We want to operate by superstition. Silly superstition. Rather than seeing the depth of our sin and the hopelessness of ever trusting in anything but the finished work of Christ. And so if you find that in your life there's little love for Jesus these days. Perhaps the reason is because you've forgotten, like Simon the Pharisee, that you've been forgiven much. And so you haven't loved much. You haven't been like that woman who came prostrate to Jesus and washed his feet with her hair. Because she realized how much she had been forgiven, and the corruption of her own nature so overwhelmed her that when she realized that she truly had that entire record removed Her devotion and her love for Jesus knew no bounds. If you're finding that your love for Jesus has waned, perhaps you need to come back again to look at what the law really says. And in the despair of that, rediscover the dimensions, the limitless fountain of the grace of Jesus Christ for you. If on the other hand you find that you're depressed, so that you feel weak over your sin, then I would suggest again If you realize that Jesus isn't waiting for you to become strong so he can meet you. It's right at the point of that weakness that he desires to meet you most of all. It's when you and I understand that weakness and helplessness in our lives that Jesus comes and he says, Finally, my son, you've understood and come to me with open hands so that I can meet you. And we're so silly that as soon as he meets us there, we say, Okay, I've gotten past that. Thank you, Lord. Now I can begin to get it together. And we re-establish our bondage to the law. All brother and sister in Christ, let's understand the dimensions of the law so that we'll understand the riches of grace and live as sons. Let's pray. Lord our God, I believe that many of us here, like me and my own tendencies, live under the rules and the regulations that we have established for the Christian life. Some of them are cultural and some of them are biblical, but they're distorted because they don't go deep enough. They put us in the posture of self-effort And like Abraham, we're trying to get the Son of the Promise by our own efforts. Lord, help us to see that the Son could have ever only come through El Shaddai by grace. That we might rest in what you have done and in that freedom to find our joy Give to us as a people a renewed freedom in Jesus Christ, we pray. Do that in our lives, even today and this week. Amen.