That fourth name, we're looking at four scriptures to understand the meaning of that name, as summed up by saying that El Shaddai is the giver of life out of death or in impossible situations. That's the meaning, the basic meaning of Al Shaddai, four scriptures, in order to see what that means. We're on the second of the fourth script of the four scriptures. The first was Genesis chapter 17, where God first reveals that name. Now we're looking at Romans chapter 4, which is one of the two New Testament commentaries on that passage, Genesis 17. In Romans 4, three weeks ago, we looked at part one of Romans 4. And now this week we're on part two of the fourth scripture of the fourth name of God. You got all that? Okay. Whether you do or whether you don't, turn to Romans chapter 4, and at least we'll pick it up where we were three weeks ago from there. Romans chapter 4. Let's hear God's word as he speaks to us this beautiful passage about grace through faith and understand What El Shaddai means for us. Romans chapter four, God's Word, beginning in verse thirteen. It was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise that he would be heir of the world. But through the righteousness that comes by faith. For if those who live by law are heirs, faith has no value, and the promise is worthless. Because law brings wrath. And where there's no law, there is no transgression. Therefore, the promise comes by faith. So that it may be by grace and may be guaranteed to all Abraham's offspring, not only to those who are of the law, but to also to those who are of the faith of Abraham. He is the Father of us all. As it is written, I have made you a father of many nations. He is our father in the sight of God, in whom he believed, the God who gives life to the dead. and calls things that are not as though they were. Against all hope Abraham in hope believed, and so became the father of many nations, just as it had been said to him, so shall your offspring be. Without weakening in his faith, he faced the fact that his body was as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, and that Sarah's womb was also dead. Yet he did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that God had power to do what he had promised. This is why it was credited to him as righteousness. The words it was credited to him were written not for him alone. But also for us, to whom God will credit righteousness, for us who believe in Him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. Now the first thing that we noticed three weeks ago in looking at this passage was that the promise that was given to Abraham Was also given to us. The same promise that he had received is the promise that you and I have received from God. That promise is stated in verse 13. You see, it was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise. And verse 16 and 17 says specifically, he is our Father. That promise that was given to him was also given to us. What was the promise? Well, you see there again in verse 13. That he would be heir of the world. That's the promise given not only to Abraham but also to you. And so when you as a Christian think that what you have in Jesus Christ maybe isn't worth very much, You ought to just laugh out loud. You know, say, what have I been given? Well, not very much. Just the whole world, you know. And not just this crummy world. But it's a transformed world. It's not this mess, but it's a totally renewed, recreated world that God has given to me, made me an heir of that world to receive that, to own it, to belong in it. And that it'll never be messed up. And that world is my inheritance. That's what you and I have. Eden, restored, and more. And then we saw, on what basis do we deserve such an incredible promise? On what basis? And Paul's very clear here. The basis is nothing that you or I do. Nothing that we could ever earn. But it's totally by grace, only by what Jesus Christ did on our behalf. That's the basis. It's the only way that the promise could be guaranteed. And so we see in verse 13, Paul says, it was not through law, not through your trying to be faithful, to do good, to follow what the Bible says, to be more loving. It was not through that. That you or Abraham would receive the promise, that he would be or you would be heir of the world, but it's through the righteousness that comes by faith. For if those who live by the law are heirs, those who get it by their own works, their own duty, their own commitment, then faith has no value because faith is placed on another Plain faith rests in what another has done. And the promise is worthless because law brings wrath, you see. It mocks you. You say that, well, if I'm just good enough, I can get this promise Just like Dean trying to get straight ones and be nice to his sisters, keep his room clean without any flaws, paper, and you know, no imperfection. And so we see that that is absolutely hopeless, because the law can only bring wrath. It can only show you what you mess up. It can never make you better. For where there is no law, there is no transgression. The law shows us our transgression. Therefore, he says the promise comes by faith, so that it may be by grace and may be guaranteed. To all Abraham's offspring. Beautiful verse, you see. It's guaranteed, because Jesus has done all that's necessary in order for that promise to be complete. There's nothing left to fulfill in that promise. And then we came to point two to look at the nature of the God of this promise. You see, because the certainty of our hope rests in who it is that gave this promise. Who is it? Who is he that gives this and what is he like? And so verse seventeen goes on to tell us that It says that as I have uh as it's written, I have made you the father of many nations, he Abraham's our father in the sight of God, in whom he believed. Who is this God? Well, we see that verse 17 tells us two things about this God. Two things that I believe get to the heart of what El Shaddai means, what El Shaddai is all about. Because remember this whole passage is a sa is a commentary on Genesis 17, where God revealed himself as El Shaddai. And so who is El Shaddai? He is the God who gives life to the dead. See there in verse 17? He first of all gives life to the dead, and secondly, he calls things that are not. as though they were. It's that second idea that I believe has led to the name El Shaddai being translated in your Bibles, if you have it in NIV, for instance, as God Almighty. But I believe that the name God Almighty, and whatever you see God Almighty in the Old Testament, that's El Shaddai. But I believe that God Almighty doesn't really get to all of the fullness of the meaning of this word. Because it's not simply that He is sovereign, that He is in control of all things. But that specifically he is in control of all things in order to bring about the promise that he gave. And in order to, by that promise, give life to you and to me in impossible situations. Life out of death. El Shaddai, you see, is the God of grace. He's the God of grace. And so before he gave the son of promise to Abram He in order to help us see this grace, to picture it, to understand the gospel, in order to see that this son of Abram was a foreshadowing of the son of grace. God put Abram in a totally helpless situation. And this helps us to identify with Abram, who's our father, as verse 16 says. Because as you look at his situation, you and I see how similar his situation is to our situation We see that we share at root the same kind of fears, the same anxieties, the same inabilities to do anything to gain what we so desperately long for. We see how our own guilt, our own inadequacy, our own insecurities, our own problems are met by the promise of El Shaddai. And so now let's come to point three and look a little more closely at the nature of Abram's fears and ours. Take a look at the nature of Abram's fears. That's the first blank there in point three. His fears, and let's compare those To our own situation that we might see how what God did so long ago is of immediate relevance to your own situation and problems this week. First of all, let's look at Abram. Abram, who is our example. We see that in verses 18 to 22, where Abram's situation is described. Now remember something of the background of his situation before we see this. Remember that Abram, at the age of 75, was given the promise and the charge by God. At the age of 75, when most people would be thinking about retirement or have entered into it, Abram lived a little longer than most of us do, but still he was getting old at 75. Abram just at that point went through his most major career change and location, relocation. And because God said, I'm going to change your career, and I'm going to change where you live. I'm going to call you to a new land. I'm going to give you a new job. I'm going to change everything about your life. You're going to start everything over. And God gave him a promise, basically, of life and land. He said, Abram, I'm going to give you a son. At age seventy-five, he and Sarah had never had children. God said, It's about time you start a family, Abram. I'm going to give you a child. And I'm going to give you this land as your inheritance. All of this is going to be yours as a picture of what I'm going to give to my people ultimately. And so Abram's given these two promises, and eleven years go by. He hasn't got a square inch of the land, and he hasn't had a child. And so at that point, at 86, Abram thinks, well, maybe God needs a little help in this. We need to be a little more creative about how to bring this about. I need to cooperate in my own effort in order to accomplish God's promise. And so with Sarah's consent he takes his concubine. Hagar gets her pregnant, and they have a son, Ishmael. Thirteen more years go by. Ishmael's now a teenager. Abrams consigned himself to the fact that Ishmael's got to be the son of the promise. There's no other way, even though he always feels that it was compromising to do that. And so at age ninety-nine, twenty-four years after God first gave that promise of a son and of the land. Abram still has nothing of that promise except God Himself and that promise. And at age 99, God comes to Abram and he says, Abram, I want to reveal myself in a new way to you. I'm El Shaddai. I'm the giver of life. I'm El Shaddai. The word Shad, remember, is the word breast, refers to a woman's breasts. I'm the God with breasts. The God who gives life, remember in the book of Genesis, the name El Shaddai is always used in connection with fruitfulness of the womb, particularly in impossible situations, in giving life. And God says to Abram, Abram, I am El Shaddai. I'm the God who gives life. In fact, Abram, your name Abram, which means exalted father, isn't good enough. I'm going to change that name. And I'm going to call you Abraham. Which means the father of a multitude or the father of nations. And he says, I'm going to make you the father of kings. Abram This promise that you think I can't fulfill in its barest, I'm going to fulfill so fully that you won't be able to guess at the fullness of the fulfillment of all my goodness to you. And so what did Abram do with that? He still doesn't have a child through Sarah. And he still doesn't have any land. What does he do with that? And that's Paul's point in verses 18 to 22. Notice what he did. First of all, he faced the facts. He faced the facts that he could not begin to accomplish by his own achievements what God had promised, because he was dead. That is, his body was beyond menopause, you know. He had passed a time when he could have children. Abram was as good as dead in terms of being a father. A couple of you raised uh those three weeks ago the question of six more sons born to Abram in Genesis twenty-five, which is a few chapters after this, after this, and how could that be if you couldn't have any children? I believe there's a number of indications that that refers to the time long before Abram was ninety-nine years old, perhaps at the same general time that he had had Ishmael through Hagar So, those of you Bible scholars who want to pursue that want to take it up with me afterwards, I'll mention to you what those indications are. But I do believe that that is not referring to this time after Abram was ninety-nine. At this point, Paul says he was as good as dead. He was unable to have children. And I think there's something important about that. You notice Paul says that in verse 19? He faced the fact that his body was as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, and that Sarah's womb was also dead. And I believe that's important in a time when we're facing the onslaught of the New Age philosophy. Because one of the distinguishing marks of biblical faith is its realism. It is not the power of positive thinking. It is not imaging. It is not saying I will think about the reality of what I hope will happen and if I can just concentrate on it and imagine it good enough. and just visualize it, then it'll come to pass by sheer force of my imagination and will This is quite the opposite. It says Abram faced the fact, he didn't pretend that something was what it wasn't. He faced the fact that he could not have children. Biblical faith always begins by facing reality. And I find that some people that I talk to, as we talk about a problem in a person's life, some people I find resort. to a kind of a new age imaging, thinking that that's faith. Faith is is trying to think positively. Biblical faith is not trying to think what is not in fact true. Abram began by facing the fact that it was hopeless for him to have children. Looked it square in the eye. Whatever your problem is this week, this morning, you need to face that problem square in the eye and not pretend that it's something that it isn't. You will never be able to look to Jesus Christ for help in that problem. Whether it's sin in your own life, things that you find to be absolutely holding you in bondage, a hopeless situation, whatever it is, you will never be able to look to Jesus Christ as Abram did until you face fa face Squarely the magnitude of that problem. Abram began by facing facts. But then The second thing that he did was he realized that God would have to bring about physical life from the death from the dead to do it. He looked at the fact, he looked at his hopeless circumstance, and then he said, But God, if anybody's going to do this, you're going to have to do it. And so God was going to have to do the impossible. He was going to have to bring a child from two dead bodies. That's basically what the task was. That's what God had to do from him and Sarah. And then the third thing is that he believed he could. Now I want you to write that word believed in there because I want to emphasize that. That's what Paul's point here is in this passage. To emphasize that all Abram did was to believe that God could do the impossible. Abram did nothing to cooperate with it. There was nothing left for him to do. He was out of resources, out of ideas. He had done everything he could. He had shot his wad. God, there's nothing left for me You have got to do this. Look at how Paul emphasizes this in verses 18 to 21 Now look at this. Sometimes you know we tend to sort of get into a trance. You just sort of listen to the preacher, you know, and you sort of just you know gaze up there. But you know, if you have your Bible open there, I hope you do, look at what it says. Follow in these verses. Look at verse 18. Against all hope, Abram in hope believed. See, against all hope of what he could do, in hope, he believed Verse 19, without weakening in his faith, he faced the fact that his body was as good as dead. Without weakening in his faith. He said, okay, all I've got is to believe that God can do this. And so I face the reality, but that doesn't weaken my faith. I can look at the hopelessness of my situation And I still don't say, but because it's so hopeless, it's improbable. In fact it's impossible. He says, I look at the situation, but then I say, My God, as L should I And El Shaddai can bring life from the dead. El Shaddai can do the impossible. Without weakening in his faith, Abram looked at the facts. Look at verse 20. He did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God, but was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God. He didn't waver in unbelief. He didn't oscillate. He didn't think about how improbable it was and how light unlikely it was. And therefore he said, Well, that's really hopeless, you know I mean God can do a lot of things. He showed me the stars, he shows me the sand and all this, and he says all this stuff, but he really can't do it. I've got to do it. How many times do you and I find ourselves in that situation? It's nice to believe theoretically. The Christianity is true, but it doesn't really work Monday to Saturday. I've got to do it. I gotta get out there and I gotta hustle. I can't really trust that God will fulfill his promise. I'm not talking about passive Christianity. I'm not talking about where we simply say, well, you know, if God's going to do it, let him do it. I don't have to obey Remember right after God said, I am L should I, what did he say after that? Walk before me and be blameless. All you have to do is just follow me. Trust me He doesn't say sit down there and just think about it. Walk before me and be blameless. But you don't waver. You walk before him with your eyes on Jesus, saying, He's Al Shaddai. He is able to do the impossible. Then look what he says in verse 21. Being fully persuaded that El Shaddai had the power to do what he had promised. He was persuaded. Why? He was persuaded by the nature of God. He was persuaded by who God is and what he was like in his faithfulness. So he's persuaded of that. You remember when the three angels came to Abram and Sarah. And they announced that you're going to have a son this time next year. Sarah went into the t this tent and she laughed. She laughed a cynical laugh. She said, a ha ha, you know, sort of like R saying, right, mm-hmm. Cynicism. Too bitter over the years of disappointment to be able to really believe. And what does Genesis eighteen fourteen say? The angel responded, Is anything too hard for the Lord? Think about that. Is there anything too hard for the creator of the heavens and the earth, the one who formed your body, for the one who is Elohim that we looked at, the strong, faithful creator? Is anything too hard for Il Elion, for the Most High God who has done all in all created reality? Is anything too hard For else should I, if he has set his mind to do it? Is there anything too hard in your life that he's able to do? And so Abraham was persuaded. There's nothing too hard. And Sarah became persuaded also. And they trusted. And that's all they did. That was the only difference. The only difference from when he was 99, from when he was 98, was he said, I trust you now, Lord. I've come to that point of simply resting in what you will do. Now look at your situation. So that's the backside of it. You put in there you or even better your name. Put your first name in there To see that it's you personally that Paul is comparing with Abram in this passage. So put your name there in point B What is it that this has to do with you? Will you notice that Paul says in verse 23 He says in verse twenty-two about his believing, that's why it was credited to him as righteousness. And then he says the words it was credited to him were written not for him alone, but also for us. And so this is for us too. What is it you need to do? Number one, you need to face facts. Of all the facts that you need to face, there is none more basic than this: that you cannot be good enough. For God's promise of life. You cannot be good enough for God's promise of life and land because you are dead in your sin. You are dead apart from Jesus Christ in any possibility of doing anything to please him. Remember his promise of new life in a new land. Like Abram, you and I can do nothing to achieve that promise. There is nothing that you can do, whether you are without Jesus Christ Or whether you are in Jesus Christ, it is no different. There is nothing that you can do to achieve earning that promise. It is only by faith. If you have not placed your faith in Jesus Christ, it's time that you come and that you see the hopelessness of any other path. And that you place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, who alone has fulfilled the conditions of that promise. If you are in Jesus Christ, that you face the fact that you don't come to Christ through faith and then build on that through your own efforts. The only way you ever rest in the promise that is guaranteed is by your faith in Jesus Christ. And so secondly, what you have to do is to believe that God Himself has to give a new life Excuse me, that your only hope is in Jesus' payment on the cross as a substitute for you. See his death as enduring the curse for your sin, your wrongs, and your guilt. But of course you know that in order for that to be effective, God has to return Jesus to life. So that the payment has been accepted. God has to bring him back from the dead in order for you and for me to have life. And so the third thing that you do is that you believe that he could and that he did Verse 23, the words were credited to him. It was credited to him were written not only for him alone, but for us to whom God will credit righteousness. For us who believe in him who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. Because he was delivered over to death for our sins to make the payment. And he was raised to life for our justification to show that the payment was accepted. It has been made, and therefore he was acquitted, and you are acquitted in him. That you have life because El Shaddai has given that life in Jesus. The result is righteousness, which he states in verse 24. To us, God will credit righteousness, that righteousness which leads to the eternal life that he spoke of in verse 17. He's the God who gives life to the dead. And that glory which he speaks of in the new land. Verse chapter five, verse two, he speaks of that glory, of the hope of the glory of God, which is the land that he had spoken of back there in verse thirteen. You see how it all fits together? And what does that mean? What's the point of it all? The point is simply this that when you're discouraged about your life Your lack of progress in the Christian life, your feeling of powerlessness over your sin, your sense of hopelessness in some circumstance in your life. That's what you need to see is that the most impossible thing, which was the deepest need of your life, has already been accomplished in Jesus Christ. Your deepest need, the most impossible thing, is that you were dead. That you were dead in your sin. And it was absolutely impossible for you to do anything to please God. But God, in the person of El Shaddai, Jesus Christ, has already met that need. Because Jesus has died on your behalf and He has given you life. He has taken away your guilt. And he has forgiven you by grace. You have been acquitted. You have been justified. Not by what you do, but by what someone else has done for you. Someone once wrote, we don't grasp the gravity of our total depravity. Since we seldom do, it's also true We don't rejoice with elation over justification. We don't grasp the gravity of our total depravity. Since we seldom do, it's also true. We don't rejoice with elation over our justification. That's really true, isn't it? You see, if you and I realized what a profound, impossible thing God had done. In forgiving sinners like you and me, and understood the depth of our sin, not just those sins that bother us because they affect us But the root pride and arrogance of our lives. And to be able to see that for what it's really like: that independent, grasping spirit You'd be able to say, God has forgiven that. He has taken that, and he has cursed it in his son Jesus, and he has given me life in his name and a new hope to live Then understanding that, you would understand that you're not simply justified by faith and then sanctified by your works. But if you're to ever be sanctified and grow in your walk with Jesus Christ, that is just as true by faith as your own first coming to Jesus Christ was. You need to look to Jesus just as Abram looked to El Shaddai and say, I can't do it Hallelujah, Lord, that sin which plagues me, those things in my life which leave me feeling powerless, the circumstance that I'm in, which I find impossible, those things which so discourage me. Lord, you have already given me life in Jesus. And as I look to Him in faith, that releases the power of the Spirit in my life. You understand that? You try to work it out, it'll never work. You look to Jesus and say, Jesus has already acquitted me Because his justification, his life outside of me is already accepted before God and perfect. And I can rest passively in that righteousness. I can get up every morning and I can say, Satan can accuse me of anything he wants to today. But I stand with a clear conscience in Jesus Christ. Christ, because I've been acquitted in the Son. The promise is guaranteed. Nothing can take it away from me. And so not only has the most impossible need in your life been met in the past, but that hope of the transformed land, which is yours to come, is already guaranteed. Nothing can take that hope away. And so whatever it is that you face this morning, whatever it is that you face this week, whatever it is, as you look around you and you say, What is it that seems most impossible? A bad marriage. An impossible marriage. An impossible relationship. Many people look at their marriages today and they say, it's absolutely hopeless. I don't know how to get out of the hole that we've dug ourselves in. Nowhere I can go. People look and some say, I don't know what to do with my loneliness. I feel so utterly alone. No one understands the struggles that I have, the worries, the anxieties, and I try to share it with those that are closest to me. I just don't really feel that they understand what I'm going through. Or perhaps you just feel unacceptable. You feel like I just don't feel like people can accept me the way I am. I try to be something different as much as I try. I can't be what I want to be. I can't be that person that others would like, that would fit in, that would belong. And I don't feel acceptable among my friends, among my peers. Among those that I wish would so just love me the way I am, I'm unacceptable. Or I feel that I'm a failure I look at the things and mistakes I've made in my life and the things that I've messed up and I don't know what to do to make things right. I don't know how to unravel all the things that I've so tangled up. Relationships and All the different things. I don't know what to do about it. Or perhaps it's that you feel cursed with bad health. You find yourself growing more feeble. You find that there's some health problem that you've had, or had bad news, or expect bad news, or fear bad news. All of us fear death and the things that accompany it. And you say, Lord, why do I find so much of my joy taken, worrying about my health? Or discouragement at work, or whatever it is. Can you see how Abram is your father And you can look at those discouragements and then you can say, but beyond all that, and I don't know what God will do in answering your prayers and your longings and your hopes. In those particular circumstances, some have promises. Others, you don't have a promise for things to work out circumstantially. But what you do have Is the promise that just a little way down the path, there's Canaan. A little way down the path, you'll be out of the wilderness into the promised land. A little way down the path, you're the heir of a new world. And that new world, when Jesus comes, will be so far beyond your wildest imagination. That all the pain that you right now feel simply causes you to long more intensely for that promise to be fulfilled. And that causes you to long for Jesus. And to rest in the fact that he is your else should I. Amen. As Ken said, we'd been praying for weeks and for months for an impossible situation with Lauren and the situation of her marriage left Divorce coming up of this Wednesday, the trial certain, everything was set. No hope of anything beyond that. And then less than twenty-four hours before the trial, after all the praying and the longing, he calls up and he says, I don't want to go through with this trial Let's try again. Let's get back together. Let's work it out. It's not worked out. Need to continue praying about that situation Now I don't know about your situation and what hope there is in the circumstances, but I do know that I can offer it to you this morning, Jesus Christ. El shadow. Who has met your need in giving you life, has given you the hope of a transformed world, because he's the God of resurrection, and he can do the impossible in your life also. Let's bring our needs before Him right now. Lord our God We come to give you our longings, our disappointments, our fears, those things we can't control. Lord, we come to thank you that because of Jesus we have life, that because of El Shaddai we have the guarantee of the hope of a new world. And of glory with you. Help us to bring our problems, our troubles, our disappointments, all those impossible things in our lives to you, that you might take them. And that you might show us how you are El Shaddai to us, even as you did to Abram. For Jesus' sake. Amen.