I'm glad you added that not to the exclusion of Alan's sermon, but catch a little attention here. Turn to Romans chapter four. What is faith? I'm sure you think about that from time to time. Maybe we should start with what faith is not. Faith is not my achievement. Think of a Christian woman who said to her husband, When I die, put on my tombstone, I tried. I tried. Faith is not feeling that things are going to work out okay. Faith is not optimism that comes from the right biorhythms and a good night's sleep and a decent meal, so that when you're feeling down, you say, I don't have faith. Because I'm not optimistic. Faith is not a feeling. Faith is not mental assent It's not believing that Jesus died for my sins and acknowledging simply the fact of that. Faith is rather utter abandonment. Of all my self-confidence and self-reliance, and placing my hope in the promise of another. Faith is utter abandonment of all my self-confidence and all my self-reliance, and simply resting all my hope in the promise of another. And that's what El Shaddai is all about. As we look at the names of God and study now the name El Shaddai, I want you to see that this gets at what El Shaddai is all about. And Abraham, our father Helps us to learn the lesson in his understanding of that name that we need to learn in our own trust of Jesus. And I believe that as we seek to do that in trying to understand the meaning of El Shaddai for myself, The breakthrough came when I realized that there were two New Testament passages that were definitive commentaries on that incident in Genesis 16 and 17. Which explains what El Shaddai is. Remember, Genesis 17 is the first time God reveals himself, and what he later says in Exodus was his characteristic name to the patriarchs. And in Genesis 17, he reveals that name, El Shaddai, for the first time. And remember, we've looked earlier in this study of the names of God. On the fact that almost always the first time that God reveals his name is the key time for the understanding of the meaning of that name And so, in order to understand what else should I mean, you have to understand what Genesis 16 and 17 mean. In order to understand what Genesis 16 and 17 mean, you have to understand what Romans 4 and Galatians 4 mean. Because those are the commentaries on those passages. And so what we're going to do in looking at these, these passages are Sometimes difficult for Christians to understand, but I believe if we unlock the meaning of Romans 4 and Galatians 4, we'll not only unlock the meaning of El Shaddai and understand who our God is a little better. But it will also unlock uh a lot of the frustration that we have as Christians in understanding faith, what it is and what it isn't. So I'm going to spend two messages. We're going to be one. I realized that was hopeless this week, and so I divided it. We're going to spend two messages on Romans chapter 4, verses 13 to 25. And then one message on Galatians 4, if I don't wind up dividing that one also. Let's read then God's word to us from Romans chapter 4, verses 13 To 25. Let's hear God's word as He Himself addresses us through this word. It was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise. That he would be heir of the world. But through the righteousness that comes by faith. For if those who live by law are heirs, faith has no value, and the promise is worthless. Because law brings wrath. Where there is no law, there is no transgression. Therefore the promise comes by faith. So that it may be by grace and may be guaranteed to all Abraham's offspring. Not only to those who are of the law, but also to those who are of the faith of Abraham. He is the Father of us all. As it is written, I have made you a father of many nations. He is our father in the sight of God, in whom he believed, the God who gives life to the dead. and calls things that are not as though they were. Against all hope Abraham believed and in hope believed And so became the father of many nations, just as it had been said to him, So shall your offspring be. Without weakening in his faith he faced the fact that his body was as good as dead Since he was about a hundred years old, and that Sarah's womb was also dead. Yet he did not waver through unbelief regarding the promise of God. But was strengthened in his faith and gave glory to God, being fully persuaded that God had power to do what he had promised. This is why it was credited to him as righteousness The words it was credited to him were written not for him alone, but also for us, to whom God will credit righteousness, for us who believe in him, who raised Jesus our Lord from the dead. He was delivered over to death for our sins and was raised to life for our justification. How would you like to explain that in a few minutes? There's an awful lot there, isn't there? This morning you can see why it was uh wise to divide this into at least two sections, but this morning we're gonna Consider verses thirteen to seventeen, and then the next time, after the two messages concerning our vision for this next year. Then on the twenty-fourth of September we'll consider the rest of that passage. You've got to hang on, you know. Let's look then this week at two points and then the third point the next time. The two things I want for us to see about this passage that'll help us to get A handle on it so that when you look at it, perhaps you can understand more of what Paul is driving out there and how pertinent, how very practical it is for your living day by day, is to first of all notice The nature of God's promise to Abram and us. That's the first point. The nature of God's promise to Abram and us. And then the second point this morning: the nature of the God of the promise, the one who gives the promise. First of all, then let's look at the nature of the promise. And first, in looking at that, let's notice who this promise is to. So A is who? To see our connection. With Abram. You see that in verse thirteen as well as sixteen and seventeen. It's mentioned again and again and again so that we don't miss the point. Look at what he says. Paul says in verse thirteen It was not through law that Abram and his offspring received the promise. Not just Abram, but Abram and his offspring. Verse 16, therefore the promise comes by faith So that it may be by grace it may be guaranteed to all Abram's offspring, not only those who are of the law of Israel, but also those who are of the faith of Abram. Anyone who has the same faith as Abraham in God's promised Messiah is the one who has this promise. He's the Father of us all. As it is written, I have made you a father of many nations. He is our father in the sight of God. We are connected to Abraham. We are linked to him. The promise that was given to Abraham is the promise that was given to you. So if you this morning are resting in Jesus Christ as your hope for forgiveness of sin and new life, you have exactly the same promise that Abraham had. You understand that? No different promise. The covenant with Abraham has never been abrogated. That's why we baptized Joey this morning, along with his parents, Bill and Nancy. We are connected to Abraham in that covenant. Now, now that we have established That the promise given to Abraham is also given to us. What is that promise? And that's the second point. You see? What is the promise? Well, I'm glad you're all sitting down when I tell you this. Because look at what verse 13 says. It was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise. That he would be heir of the world. See anybody jump out of their seat. You hear what I just said? I just promised you the world. God said that if you are linked with Abraham with the same faith as he had, you like him are the heir of the world. You just sit there. I mean I mean say, you know, somebody just say, Yeah, hey, I'm gonna promise you the world. You say, well, yeah, it's nice, you know, but it doesn't really relate to my problems, you know. Now uh Jesus, remember, once said, Blessed are the meat, for they shall what? Inherit the earth And you know, and and here you are just sitting here feeling like you're an insignificant nobody. God just promised you the world. And you say, well, you know, Christianity is Kind of a fairyland sort of thing, doesn't really relate to the practical problems I have every day. God says, I promised you the world. One time I remember uh thinking Picting Jesus come to coming to me and saying, Alan, what is it that you want anyway? You know, you ever feel dissatisfied and feel like, you know, you just don't have it and you know and you you're you're You don't know what you really want. And I picture Jesus coming to me and saying, Al, what is it that you want? And I thought about it. That's worth thinking about. What is it I really want? First thing that came to my mind was security. Not have to worry about things. Then I thought, well, and also Lord, acceptance. I I would really like to know that I'm loved for simply who I am, unconditionally. Not have to worry about that. To not feel guilty, Lord, to not always feel so inadequate in what I do To feel like each day I haven't really done enough. That there's always more I could have done and I could have done it better. To not so feel so guilty and inadequate. To not fear aging. To not see my mother growing feeble and anticipate her death. To not fear what's going to happen to me as I grow older. To live in a world where all is beauty and peace, where there's no hospitals or prisons. Or slums, or pollution, or shortages of food or any other necessities. To be in a transformed new earth And to be able to say that I belong in that place, that it's home for me, and I don't ever have to worry about it being destroyed. And about at that point, the Lord's point came clear to me. Alan, do you see? That's exactly what I have promised to you. You are an heir of the world and not this world, but a new transformed world. Abraham was given the promise that he would be heir of the world. The promise in Genesis was that he would inherit the land. But just so we would know that that's not what God was talking about, that little bit of of uh real estate over there that's always being fought over between the Mediterranean Sea and and uh Jordan Uh Abraham never inherited a square foot of that in his life, and Hebrew says he was about walked about as a sojourner because he looked for a better city. And Paul goes on in chapter 8 to explain a little bit more about this promise. In chapter 8 of Romans, he uses that same word and says that you and I are heirs. And then he talks about that world that we're heirs of. And he says that this is a new creation. He says in verse 19 that it's a creation that this creation is waiting in eager expectation to see. And then he says in verse 21 that the creation itself will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into the glorious freedom of the children of God. We know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. Read the headlines, read your news, and see the groaning of the troubles of this time and violence decay. Not only so, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. Now you see, if that's your hope, how can you just sit there and say, well, you know, I don't really have anything to be happy about? I think of a woman though, she was a single mother, overwhelmed by her problems, bills that she couldn't pay Problems at work, problems trying to take care of the kids and provide a decent living for them. She was practically distraught. And she s she thought, if only I could solve some of these problems I'd be able to have some peace and joy. And then the Lord met her in a verse of Scripture. And he showed her that she was an heir of the world. And that he was with her and he would never leave her. And she said afterwards, nothing that day changed in my circumstances, but I had a new inner peace and joy because I understood my hope Brother and sister in Jesus Christ this morning, whatever your circumstance is, whatever you're facing this coming week, if you understand that you are an heir of the world, Nothing has to change in your circumstances to give you a sense of joy and exhilaration that cannot take away that peace and that joy in Jesus Amen? Amen. Yeah, for Presbyterians I wouldn't. I don't know how you get it over at Covenant Community there, Randy, but for us that's about a scale of three on zero to ten, you know. You're an heir of the world. Amen. Amen. You've got to think of that. Open your eyes to see that hope. But you know often why we don't see that is the next thing that Paul addresses. Because often you and I feel so inadequate. We feel that we're not worthy of that hope. And instead of being able to rejoice today and look this week at whatever the problems are and say, But Lord Jesus. I am an heir of a transformed world, and you who have given that to me love me and are with me, and you are a God who keeps his promises. Rather, we don't dare look up at him Rather, we feel like we're always shuffling our feet and looking down at them, mumbling apologies to them about how rotten we are. And we are rotten. But we keep our eyes on ourselves and not the promise. And that's what Paul wants us to see here. Look what he says. The third point. How do we get this Promise versus law. That's the heart of his argument. Look at what he says. Paul says it was not through law. Did Abraham and his offspring receive the promise that he would be heir of the world, this new transformed world? But through the righteousness that comes by faith, Now you see, he's pitting these two things together against one another. He's saying that it is not by law But rather, it is by faith. The promise is not gained by the law. That is, the promise is not gained by keeping the law. That is, the summing up of the law is to love God and to love your neighbor with your as yourself. So the promise is not gained by how much you love God and how much you love your neighbor as yourself. It's not gained by being worthy It's not gained by being faithful enough or committed enough or any of these things. It's not gained by your own achievement. Just as the promise of Isaac to Abraham was not gained by Abraham's efforts. In having a son through Hagar. It was not gained by what he did, but God purposely put him in an impossible situation. So that he would know that the promise could only be fulfilled by grace. Do you see what Paul's saying there? It was not through the law, but through the righteousness that comes by faith alone. Then it goes on to verse 14. For if those who live by law are heirs, then faith has no value. See, if it's something that you gain by what you do, faith has no value. Because faith is always an utter abandonment in my own self-confidence and self-reliance to rest in what another has promised. And so faith has no value. And notice this: the promise is worthless. Now, why does he say that? What does that mean? I think it's best probably illustrated by an example. Let's suppose that Kathy and I promised Dean that for Christmas we're going to give him a 12-speed ATB bicycle, for those of you who don't know what 12-speed ATBs are. Okay. We're promised we're going to give them this and say, that's what you can look forward to, son, for Christmas Dean, this is just an illustration. You understand that? Okay. Now let's suppose that having made that promise, we say now, but Dean, there's just a couple of conditions for this. First of all, between now and Christmas, you must keep your room absolutely straight. We can never come in and find stuff laying around on the floor or you forfeit the promise, you see. So your room's got to be absolutely neat and straight every day with your bed made by the time you go to school all the time And there's another thing, Dean. No more bugging your sisters. Never. One time we catch you putting it to them, Dean, and that's it. The promise is void. And just one last thing. This fall, we expect straight ones on your report card. Every time, no twos, one two, finish, that's it. You don't even get a tricycle, not even a used bike, man. That's it. Straight ones, you see. Now what does that do to the promise? You see, you understand what Paul means? The promise is worthless Let's suppose that Dean, even in a rush of zeal, says, Okay, okay, I accept the conditions, I will try to do it. What happens? Does that promise to him, which would delight his heart, would that promise be joy? No. Why? Because every time he thinks of that promise, he'd get depressed, knowing that it's hopeless to get it. And that I suggest to you is exactly what Satan does to Christians. We look at the promise, and then we look at ourselves and what kind of people we are, and we say, but you know, the promise is really hopeless for me. Because I don't deserve to have that kind of joy. I don't deserve to rest in that because of and we look at ourselves and our unfaithfulness and our lack of loving and our lack of of being in his word this past week and our lack of sharing Christ with any kind of boldness, somebody fell down on the floor and they said, Tell me how you're different. What do I do? To have the same kind of peace you do, and you mumble something, get out of it, and you say, Well, you know, it wasn't really an opportunity to share Christ. And so you and I go through making excuses and feeling rotten about who we are, and what happens? The promise becomes worthless. Because we're looking to ourselves. Why? Look what he says in verse 15. Because law brings wrath. See, it's either or. The law, as I've said before to some of you at least, the law is like a ten-foot measuring rod that says be ten feet tall. And every time I look at that measuring rod, I realize I'll never even make six feet. And so the law mocks me. Now, if the law is God's standard of perfection and righteousness, there's nothing wrong with that measuring rod. There's nothing wrong with the law. It's perfect, pure, and holy. But it's also powerless. It can't make me grow an inch. And so I look at the promise and it mocks me if I function by the law. But grace changes me. Paul says the law can only bring wrath. It can never do anything but to show you how short you are. But then he goes on, and where there is no law, there is no transgression. That's what the law does. It shows you your transgression. Therefore The promise, verse 16, comes by faith. Notice this good news, so that it may be by grace and may be guaranteed. See, not worthless, guaranteed to all Abraham's offspring. Not only those who are of the law of Israel, but those who are of the faith of Abraham, who's the father of us all. Do you see what he's saying? If the promise rests not on what you do, but what on Jesus Christ has done. which is by grace applied to you, then it is guaranteed. Because all conditions for the fulfillment of that promise are totally outside you and you accomplish nothing more for them. than Phil and Nancy did as they stood up here and received water upon them. Do you see that? That's why the gospel is such good news. And when you understand that and believe that, then you can rejoice in the promise. And only then. Amen. I didn't even ask for that one. Things are getting a little better around here. You understand that? Now, if you understand me so far That all rests on the second point, the nature of the God of the promise. And that's where El Shaddai comes in. Because you see, what Paul does after he's described that is he goes right on to verse 17 and he says, as it is written. I have made you a father of many nations. Where was that said? Genesis 17, right after God says, I am El Shaddai. Walk before me and be blameless. I'm going to make you the father of many nations. So now Paul's gone right back to that incident in Genesis 17. And he says, Now he, Abraham, is our father in the sight of God. That promise was to us too, you see. We're part of those nations that were brought into that. He is our father in the sight of God, in whom he believed, the God. Now, he describes God two ways. Look how he describes him. What he is doing here, I suggest to you, is explaining El Shaddai from that passage. And he says, this is the God who, one, gives life to the dead, and two, calls things that are not as though they were. Now next time we look at this, I think you'll see a little more clearly why I say that that is a commentary on Genesis 17, because he goes right back to the hopelessness. situation of Genesis 17 to show why it was that God had to reveal himself to Abraham as the God who gives life to the dead And that God is the God El-Shaddai. Remember we saw last week, El-Shaddai means literally God with breasts, the mother God. who gives life to her children by the giving of herself. God who gives life to his children by the giving of himself. Even Jesus giving his life so that you and I would have life in him, as we saw in John 6. Eat my flesh, drink my blood, and I will give you life By the giving of myself in sacrifice is death on the cross. And so this is how our God gives life to the dead. He gives not only the life of Isaac to Abraham, but that is the beginning of that chain of command of promises which issued forth and finally culminated in Jesus Christ. Who gave his life for we who were dead, for us who were dead, so that then we trusting him would have life instead of death. And you see, what God was doing there was showing I else should I must fulfill that promise. You can never fulfill an Abraham in your own effort. And just to show you that, God waited until Abraham was as good as dead. That's what he says in verse 19. That when Abraham saw that his body was as good as dead, then God said, Now you're ready to understand I'm El Shaddai, because you're hopeless in accomplishing anything to fulfill this promise. Just as you and I are hopeless to fulfill the promise of being heirs of the world, of having God's favor in any way based on what you or I do. And trying to follow Jesus, but looking only in faith to what Jesus has done for us, do we find that our response is to love him. And that love changes us. An internal change rather than an external change of the law. You see the difference? A change that comes from gratitude and spirit brought new life. And that's only from El Shaddai, the God who brings life out of death, spiritual life as well as physical life. But the point here, of course, is the spiritual life that he gives. There's a second way that he's described here. Do you see? He's Al-Shaddai who not only gives life to the dead, But he also calls things that are not as though they were. Now, what does that mean? The immediate particular reference is to the fact that God was the God of prophecy. And he can only be the God of prophecy because, as you see, he has perfect control over history. God was able to speak of Isaac, who was not, as though he were. I have made you the father of many nations, you see. I've already done it. Well, you know, Abram's saying that's a joke. I don't have any kids. At that point when God first said that, he hadn't even gotten Ishmael. And he doesn't have any child through Sarah, but God says, Abram, you who are exalted father, I've got to change your name. I've got to make you father of many nations. Abraham says that's rubbing it in, Lord. Lord says, No, that's calling things that are not as though they are. Because that's the kind of God I am. I am El Shaddai, who brings life from the death and fulfills impossible promises. By grace. And so you see what God is doing is he is showing that's the way his plan of salvation will be unfolded. As he speaks of Isaac. As though he already were. And then in Psalm 2 he says about his son, I have already made him king. And Jesus hasn't even been born yet. And then a thousand years later, Jesus is born and he is established as king, and God says, I'm going to complete all this. And you look at the world about you now, and it seems like I'm not in control. But I'm the God who calls things that are not as though they were. And I can speak of a transformed world in which my son reigns in perfect righteousness, in which there's no rebellion, no death, no crying and no tears, as if those things already existed. And he said, I want you as my people to taste them by faith. Because I'm the God who is in sovereign control over history. I call things that are not as though they were. I am El Shaddai. This past couple of weeks I've been reading in Time magazine and US News the fiftieth anniversary of the beginning of World War Two. I don't know if you've seen some of those but you're Going to see more things probably on the 50th anniversary of the beginning and the carrying out of World War II in these next few years. And it's amazing, very sobering to read through those accounts and see how close Hitler was to success. So many ways, uh the juggernaut of the German army and the panzers and the Luftwaffe All of what Hitler had mobilized seemed unstoppable. But there were just a few key points. In which, interestingly, for unexplainable reasons by the historians, key mistakes were made that turned the course of history. It was back in 1940 that Hitler, traveling through France with his panzers, The tanks rolling through all of the northern territory of France toward Dunkirk. had trapped nearly 400,000 men of the British and French army. No hope of escape The British tried to mobilize anything that could float, hoping that they might be able to get a few thousand out before their entire army became slaughtered. For some inexplicable reason, Hitler's personal order was understood by those who were rolling just a few miles to Dunkirk to stop the tanks. No one could understand it. All we have to do is go a few more miles and we can drive them into the sea and we will have won Britain. But for nine days the order was unchanged and nobody knows why. For nine days everything the British could mobilize to float came across to Dunkirk and they rescued nearly three hundred and 50,000 men. That changed the course of history. Shortly after that, it was expected that Hitler would invade Britain And historians say that if he had, he would have mopped them up or starved them out. There was no chance of survival. But for some inexplicable reason. Hitler decided not to invade Britain, but rather to turn east to Russia and to attack the Soviet Union. A fatal error in his strategy. Having done that, he made another error. He delayed attacking the Soviet Union for again some unexplainable reason. And attacked Yugoslavia, delaying his attack on the Soviet Union for one critical summer month. And that's what lost him, historians say. The battle against the Soviet Union, as well as a delay to Get some factories instead of driving straight on to Moscow. Little errors. Totally uncharacteristic of him in other ways. But perhaps the most fatal error of all was his decision not to continue the development of jet planes or the atomic bomb that Heisenberg had begun to work on. Can you imagine how history might have been different if Hitler had made those two decisions, all speed ahead on jet planes and the atomic bomb? But he didn't. Because God is the God of history. He's El Shaddai, who calls things that are not as though they were. And he controls the affairs of men, and he will fulfill all his promises. We see that same God working in the Soviet Union today, in Red China, in Eastern Europe, doing things that no one would have guessed at five years ago. And He's the same God who can surprise you in your own life. As you look at what you expect to happen and all those things you're worried about and fretting over, and all the inadequacy you feel. Look to Jesus Christ this morning. For he's el Should I. And you don't rest in what you do to feel worthy of that promise. You simply rest in the joy that Jesus has fulfilled every condition so that you can look forward to being an heir of a transformed world And a Jesus who will never leave you in your own current circumstances. For He's the God of history. And he can take that problem of yours and of mine, and He can show that He's the God who will fulfill all His promises. For he's else should I. And he can never fail. Let's pray.