Well, we're back from a tremendous vacation, very restful, refreshing time. My wife said I should have worn my Cape Cod tie that she just gave me, and I should have done that to remind you of what we were doing, but uh had a real good time. But we're glad to be back and to be able to continue in our study of the names of God to help us to get outside of ourselves to understand something more about the great character. And the wonderful understanding of who our God is as he reveals himself to us through his names. Because we haven't done it for a little while, I put a little review there for you You see that we've covered three names so far in this series. The name, Elohim, the middle. column there on your bulletin outline shows you the way it's translated in our English Bibles, particularly the NIV. Sometimes you'll find a little variation, but certainly not for this. Wherever you see the word God Capital G, small O D. It's the name Elohim, which means the strong, faithful creator. We looked at that back in the spring. Then we looked secondly at El El Yon. The name translated in our Bibles by God Most High. And the particular meaning of that name is that He is the possessor of heaven and earth. And then thirdly, we looked at the name El Roy, which translated, and the way it appears in the Bible, is the God who sees me. Particularly then meaning the God who sees my hurts and my heart, as we saw in the story of Hagar in Genesis 16. Well when I came uh a few months ago to begin the study on El Shedi, I thought that would be a piece of cake Because the name's so familiar to us, particularly through the song that Michael Card wrote and that Amy Grant particularly made popular, that you'll hear in a few minutes later on in this service. Because that name is so familiar to us, and because it's always translated by the name God Almighty in our Bible, I thought it was pretty simple what it meant. Now let's just come to a deeper understanding of it. But as I began to read the commentators and began to see what people thought about that word, I began to see that it was translated in all kinds of ways. Some people think that it means the nourisher and the sustainer. Other people think that it refers to the God of the mountains. Other people think that it's something like the Almighty Crusher, speaking of God's sovereign ability to crush his enemies. And the more I went on, the more confusing it all became until at one point I was pretty frustrated because I began to see in others, there's a bit of difference between the tender nourisher and sustainer and the almighty crusher. Now, you know, which is this name trying to communicate to us and why is there all this confusion? Well, I began to get back to where some of these things derived from, and I got so frustrated I finally decided I was just gonna have to do my own study. of every appearance of this thing, and it appears in 31 times in the book of Job alone. And so I came to do my own study on it And I came up with an understanding of the meaning of this name, which is entirely not unrelated, but is distinctly different from anything that I've read that anybody else thinks that it means. Well, uh, the more I studied it and the more I came to this conclusion, the more excited I became about what this name I think really means. And so I'm going to present it and I'm going to defend it to you in four weeks. And you can tell me whether you think it makes sense, and I hope that it will become as precious to you as it has to me. Because when we hear this name, El Shaddai, it can have a very precious meaning to us. And something which I think is entirely unique in God's revelation of his names to us. The Almighty One is revealed by another name And uh there's nothing especially unique about that. A lot of names reveal God's almightiness, his omnipotence. But only El Shaddai speaks of the particular meaning of his character. That I think is communicated by this word. And just to not hold you into any more suspense, I think what the word means is what you see there after it says El Shaddai, God Almighty. I think what it means when you boil it all down. Is that God is the giver of life out of death? That He's the giver of life in impossible situations. That he is the one who is able to give life when all hope is gone. And that's a pretty distinct meaning. And I want to take four messages, four different passages, to show you why I think that that is really the heart of what God's revealing in his name, El Shaddai. And as I say, I've become really excited about my own life as I've meditated on it. And I hope it'll be a word, a name that will become precious to you and needs in your own life too. Exodus chapter 6, verse 3, tells us that this was the key name by which God revealed himself during the patriarchal age. And so it's important that you and I understand something of its meaning. The name is first revealed to us in Genesis chapter 17. So if you haven't already turned, please turn to Genesis chapter 17. Do you remember I said early on in the series that the first appearance of each of the names of God is especially significant? Because it's there that God, more than any other place, will give the definitive meaning of that name. And I think we have that also here in Genesis 17. You remember that Genesis 17 takes place 13 years after the incident with Hagar that we had just read about, my last message about four weeks ago, back there in the end of July. Well, we took a look at Abraham's having Ishmael through Hagar. It's 13 years later now. Ishmael's a teenager And it's at that point that Genesis 17 opens. So let's follow along in God's holy word as I read now Genesis chapter 17, the first seven verses. When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to him and said, I am God Almighty, El Shaddai. Walk before me and be blameless. I will confirm my covenant between thee and you and will greatly increase your numbers. Abram fell face down, and God said to him, As for me, this is my covenant with you. You will be the father of many nations. No longer will you be called Abram. Your name will be called Abraham. For I have made you a father of many nations. I will make you very fruitful. I will make nations of you and kings will come from you. I will establish my covenant as an everlasting covenant between me and you and your descendants after you for the generations to come. To be your God and the God of your descendants after you. So far the reading of God's Word. Now I'd like to try and unfold these verses and the meaning of El Shaddai. Through five C's. Five C's. The first one, these are five C's and the five blanks of your outline. The first one is the crisis of Abram. The crisis of Abram in verse 1. What is his crisis? Abram was 86 years old when he had Ishmael through Hagar. That was not a supernatural birth. Abram had Ishmael in the way that anyone has children. He had sex with Hagar and she was able to bear a child. This was a childborn naturally. While Abram was still able to do something about it, even though not with Sarah, because Sarah was barren. And so when that first verse says, When Abram was ninety-nine years old, The significance of that is that now, 13 years later, when Ishmael's a teenager, Abram is no longer able to have children. Abram has now passed the point where it is medically possible for him to have children in any way. He went to the doctor. The doctor ran some tests and he said, sorry Abram, your days are over, fellow, for having children. It is medically impossible for you to have children now. Medical technology had ruled it out for Abram. So you see, now Abram is in a crisis situation Because he's assuming that God's promise is to come through Ishmael. And yet, in the back of his mind, there is that haunting voice that says, that was a compromise. It was not through Sarah. It was by adultery. It was not the best way to do it. God promised it, and you took the way that seemed the best way to bring it about. But still through all of this longing for God's promise to be fulfilled in Ishmael, Abram has that nagging voice through the ears behind him that says, this was really a compromise. God wasn't really able to pull it off in the best way possible. And so Abram realizes now that there's no hope of any other way And it's at that point in that situation that God comes to him in verse 1, when he's ninety-nine years old When he accounts his body as dead, Romans 4 says, that the Lord appeared to him and said, Now, Abram, after thirteen years of silence, God has not spoken since he spoke to Hagar out there in the desert 13 years before. And God now breaks 13 years of silence, agonizing silence for Abram when he's cried out again and again. God, what are you doing? And God says, I'm El Shaddai. Walk before me and be perfect. I am El Shaddai. And here we see the second point, the character of God. The first is the crisis of Abram now, the second is the character of God. Wherever you see this name, God Almighty, in your Bible, that's the name El Shaddai. As I said, it appears 31 times in the book of Job, more than any other book. We'll look at that later. But God appears as El Shaddai, wherever you see that name, God Almighty. Now the word shad, the root of this, there's other suggestions, but I believe this one is the one that certainly has the weight of the evidence to it. At the root of that, the word shad means a woman's breasts. And so you can imagine what Abram might have thought when God came to him at 99 years old, and God says, Abram, I am the God with breasts. Yeah, Abram's on, you know, El Elian I can understand. Elohim I can understand. Yahweh, I'm still trying to figure out. But the God with breasts And you see, I believe that this is what this means because every time that El Shaddai appears in the book of Genesis, it's in connection with fruitfulness in having children. If God appears to us in his definitive name as Father, and we're to call him our Father, then let's not forget that He also reveals Himself in this name as Mother. That he's the God who also has the characteristics of motherhood. Now I'm not arguing that we change our hymnals and we start addressing God as our mother who is in heaven and all the rest of that Father is the definitive name. But let's not forget that God has also revealed Himself with maternal characteristics when he calls himself the God with breasts. The God who is fruitful in giving life, but particularly in impossible situations. That idea of his uh speaking of his fruitfulness, I think um I listed the times it appears in Genesis for you to check out on your own, but particularly look at Genesis 49-25. For I think that gives you a feel of why I'm compelled to believe this is the meaning of this name El Shaddai. In Genesis 49, 25, uh, you have uh Jacob blessing his sons And when he blesses Joseph, he says in verse 25, because of your father's God who helps you, because of Shaddai, the Almighty. You see, it's not El Shaddai there, it's just Shedi, so it's not God Almighty, but it's the Almighty, Shaddai. who blesses you with blessings of the heavens above, blessings of the deep that lies below, blessings of the breast and the womb. And that word there in the Hebrew, blessings of the breast, breast is the word shad, and I think that that's a play on these words. Shaddai has given you blessings of the shad. Blessings of the womb, you're going to have many children. God's going to make a nation out of you. So what I think that God is saying to Abram in this situation Is it Abram? You've given up all hope. Looks like you're not able to have children. But Abram, I'm El Shaddai. I'm the God who can make fruitful in impossible situations. I'm able to do that which nobody could ever do medically or in any other way naturally. I'm the God who can give life In impossible situations, life even out of death. And so God says, walk before me and be blameless. And that brings us to the third point, which is the command of God. The command of God. Now, why does he say that? Why does God come and say to Abram, Abram, I am El Shaddai, the God with breast, who's able to give life in impossible situations, who's able to make fruitful Even a ninety-nine year old man and a barren woman. Why does God then say, Walk before me and be perfect or be blameless? I believe that God what God is saying there is Abram Stop walking in the flesh, trying to fulfill my promise on your own, by your own efforts. I've given to you a promise of what I will do. And you're saying that's not enough to receive by faith. I've got to worry, I've got to fret, I've got to work it out on my own. Abram, I've got good news for you. There's only one responsibility that you have, and it's to walk before me and obey me. That's a tremendous relief, isn't it? When you and I fret and And sweat and worry about how we're going to make an impossible situation livable in our own lives. God says Why mell should I? Your only responsibility is to walk before me, to trust me, to walk in the spirit and not in the flesh, and let me take care of fulfilling my promises. All you have to do is lay hold of that promise, and where that's a promise that God has given, that God will fulfill, trust Him to fulfill it. Rather than you and I manipulating and working out in our own ways how we're going to change a situation to make it livable. And so God says, I'm El Shaddai, Abram. You simply walk before me and be blameless. And then the fourth thing is that he reaffirms the covenant of God. Fourth thing is then the covenant of God. Now you notice that the whole focus of this restatement of the covenant that God had given to Abram beginning back in chapter twelve. The whole focus here now is not on land or blessings in general. It's all on fruitfulness and descendants. You notice that first of all he changes Abram's name. Abram means the exalted one, or the exalted father. God changes that name, Abram, to Abraham, which means the father of multitudes. Now you can't see that without realizing that there's a certain sense of humor to God in that. God says, Abram, you've tried all your best, your level best, to have children. You've tried everything that you could do to be an exalted father. You weren't able to do it. Abram Now that you're 99 and it's utterly impossible in any way for you to have children, I'm going to give you a new name. You're not just simply an exalted father. You're going to be a father of multitudes. You imagine Abram laughing up his robe and saying, Oh, come on, God, you might just rub it in, you know? Me, father of multitudes It's over, God. Check with the medical records. You know, I don't have any chance on this. But look what God says. Verse 2 I will confirm my covenant between me and you, and I will greatly increase your numbers. Abram fell face down, just simply the very presence of God. And God says to him, As for me, this is my covenant with you. You will be the father of many nations. No longer will you be called Abram, exalted father. Your name will be Abraham, the father of multitudes. For I have made you a father of many nations. I will make you very fruitful. I will make nations of you, and kings will come from you. And you see, God is now then making an impossible promise even greater, just to emphasize that only El Shaddai is able to fulfill his promises. And so he goes on, and he says that out of this nation, out of this his children will come nations and kings, you see there in verse 6. I will make nations of you, kings will come from you. And then he goes on in verse 7 to point out that this is an everlasting covenant. I can never go back on what I've promised, Abram. Don't ever worry about that I will establish my covenant as an everlasting covenant between me and you and your descendants after you for the generations to come, to be your God and the God of your descendants after you. And this leads us then to the question: how is God ever going to fulfill this? Ultimately, and that brings us to point five, which is the Christ of God. Now in your bulletin outline, you're missing part of that. So if you flip over your bulletin outline, Ken flips on the overhead there, you'll see that's what you're missing. The top part there should say the Christ of God, and then you should have this down to, you see, point B where your outline picks up. So if you want to fill it in, feel free to copy that down as I try to explain what that is because this is the climax of what this passage is about. He wants you to sort of look and see uh there's there's something missing in what he said here and you'd wonder why. This brings us, you see To the Christ of God because I believe that Jesus is the fulfillment of the name El Shaddai. And it's beautiful to understand how that's true. You see, in verse 6, God had said, I will make you very fruitful, and I will make nations of you, and kings will come from you. You remember Jesus said in John 8 56, that Abraham saw my day and rejoiced. And I believe that part of what is meant by that is that the kings that would come out of Abram, out of his descendants, were ultimately to issue forth in the king. The king of all kings, Jesus. That was the king that Abram so dimly perceived as the fulfillment of God's messianic promises. This was the king who was to come to fulfill all that was involved in the name El Shaddai. Why do I say that? Well, do you remember what Jesus said in John chapter 6? In John chapter 6, in verses 53 to 57, Jesus, I believe, opens up the application of El Shaddai to himself. Now in order to understand that, remember, how does a mother give life to her children after she's born them She nourishes her children, gives them life by giving her own life through her breasts. So as a mother feeds her children, she is feeding them from her own life. Jesus comes in John 56, and he says, basically, I am El Shaddai, and I will give life to my children. Through the giving of my own life, even unto death. For in John 6, verse 53, Jesus said to them, I tell you the truth. Unless you eat the flesh of the Son of Man and drink his blood, you have no life in you Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up at the last day. For my flesh is real food, and my blood is real drink. Whoever, you notice he doesn't just say spiritual food and spiritual drinks, so we say, Well, there's one, there's the real, you know, and then there's the spiritual He says, No, the spiritual is the real. This is real food. This is real drink. Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me and I in him. We are joined together in that covenant. Just as the Living Father sent me, and I live because of the Father, so the one who feeds on me will live because of me. Why? Because he is the shepherd to lay down his life for the sheep. And so you see, Abram's real need was not to have a son. His real need was to have forgiveness of his sins, to have God's taking him into his own family and kingdom, and to give him eternal life And whatever it is that this week has been bothering you and causing you to fret and to worry and to feel that your life is a little bit less than it could be, in fact maybe downright miserable, that's not your real need. You really, you see, is the assurance that you have the forgiveness of the living God. And that you have a place in his kingdom. And if you're trusting yourself and your own efforts to fulfill the promise of life, then the only ultimate issue of that is death. Your efforts are in vain. And God wants to bring you to that place where he brought Abram after even at eighty-six he was still trying to have that family, and God brings him at the age of eighty-nine and he says, Abram Have you given up yet? Now, Abram, maybe you're ready to hear that I am El Shaddai. I'm the one who gives life by my promise in my way. If you trust Jesus and His promise, trust the Son of the promise. El Shadi, who gives his life, even unto death So that you and I could live. And you will find life in Jesus. And finding life in him, you will be able to rest in him. Because having settled that, everything else in your life becomes settled out of that. I believe, you see, that there's a further meaning here Besides the matter of eternal life. And it is the one that you have there under point five, which is really 5B, that El Shaddai, or Jesus, shows his power. When you give up your own independent devices for working his will, we think that we can make ourselves happy, don't we? We really do. We really think that if we could just engineer people and circumstances to be the way we wish they would be. You know, if circumstances would just cooperate, if people would just cooperate, then we would be able to engineer happiness for ourselves. I think okay, we have that all things. Um and yet I've become increasingly impressed with how very foolish and vulnerable we are How very frail we are, how quickly and easily our lives can be changed entirely beyond our control. We think of Rachel's auto accident in early June, which changed her life and the life of her family. Judy Burkus' mother, Monday, went out to the store. She never returned. Had a massive heart attack while she was at the store. And was instantly taken, almost instantly, just a very short time from the first attack to when she was taken home to be with the Lord. Just this past Tuesday, I was sitting at the traffic light of Route 29 in Owen Brown. I had just come to a stop, the first car at the light. When I saw a van run the traffic light the other way and crush the front end of a Nissan center with a mother and two small children in it They seem to be okay, but their lives are utterly changed from that accident in an instant of time, entirely beyond their control. What is it that we're really able to control? We like to believe that we can engineer things to go okay for us, don't we? God at times brings us to that place of humbling before Him or outstretched prostrate. And we say, God, how am I going to deal with this? God says, you've finally come into the position where I've wanted you to be, so that you might know that I am El Shaddai. I am the one who's able to bring life out of death. Life in impossible situations. And so we have seen God do an amazing thing when there seemed to be certain death for the Weker baby And we celebrate the birth of little Philip this week. As we've seen Rachel laying in a coma, and we've prayed and asked God to bring life out of death. And El Shaddai has heard our prayers and he has shown that he's faithful, being able to do what no one can do. These El Shaddai in your life He said, El should I, when you're able to give up your agenda, when you're able to say, God, I'm not going to determine this is the way it's got to be But my one responsibility is to walk before you and be blameless. To walk before Jesus and to obey Him. To walk before Jesus and to search your word for your promises and to claim those promises. For you to be able to show your power in situations that I'm not able to control. Oh, there's people I'd so like to change in my life. If they could only shape up If they'd only just stop being obnoxious, if I could only just get them to be the way I want them to be, if there's only these circumstances that I could change and I could make things happen the way I want them to happen. But they don't. And God brings those things in your life, in my life, so He's able to come When we're at the end of our rope, when all is hopeless, and he says, now let me show you. I mell shall I. I'm the God of hope. I'm the God who gave you that promise, and I'm going to multiply that promise. Have you ever come at a place in your life when you've prayed for something You keep reducing that prayer, you know, to, you know, well God, if you won't do this, could you at least do this? And well, you know, God, how about at least, well maybe, you know, and then God shows you a promise in Scripture It blows it all away, and it's greater than what you had prayed originally. And you say, God, you're just mocking me with that promise. It seems so foreign to my experience now. That's what God did with Abram. When he said, Abram, you're no longer Abram. You're Abraham because I'm El Shaddai. How is it that God wants to show you this week that He's El Shaddai? Lay your agenda before Him. Take those promises and make it your one concern that you will trust him and that you'll simply obey what he has for you in this word. And then no one is else should I. Let's pray Lord our God, every one of us here, I believe, there's areas in our life where we say, Lord, I I really don't see what you're doing in that area. And I've all but about given up on that. I've tried everything that I could try. I've tried every manipulation. I've tried every strategy. I've tried every independent scheme. And Lord, you're coming to us this morning. And as with Abram, you want to reveal a new name to us. You want us to know you as El Shaddai. The God who gives life in impossible situations. The God who is able to take all our brokenness, and you're able to make life out of that. If we've trusted Jesus, you have taken our death and you have given to us eternal spiritual life. How will you not with that freely give us all things in Jesus? But, O Lord, how we clutch to our plans, how we clutch to those things that we say we must have to make us happy. Free us up, Lord. Free us up that right now we would be able to lay those things before you We'd be able to determine that this week we will simply seek to walk before your presence and obey you and trust you. And know you as El Shaddai.