My wife was wondering if uh the fact that we might have set a record there in quietness and placidness had anything to do with the fact they were three girls. Couldn't be anything to do with it, could it, nah? Whoever said boo probably doesn't have boys, huh? Okay. For a number of weeks now we have been looking at the beautiful name of God, El Shaddai. In the NIV and New American Standard and a number of other translations, it's translated God Almighty in your Bibles. Literally, it means the God with breasts. And it speaks of God as the giver of life. The giver of life, and particularly as we see it always used in the book of Genesis, we see that He is the giver of life in impossible situations. New Testament picks up on how God gave life, revealed Himself in the giving of that life through giving Isaac to Abraham. After Abraham was well past the time he was able to have children on his own, by uh showing that God revealed to him to Abraham that he was El Shaddai, the God who gives life in impossible situations. And makes the point in both Romans 4 and Galatians 4 that he's the God of grace. He's the God who gives life graciously and sovereignly. And so when we come to a text like Psalm 91 that we'll be looking at briefly this morning, a verse like verse 1 is all the more beautiful to us, isn't it, when we understand something of the names of God. When we look at Psalm 91, verse 1, you see, he who dwells in the shelter of the Most High. Do you remember the Most High? Was that name we looked at? El Elion. He who dwells in the shelter of El Elyon will rest in the shadow of Shaddai. Wherever you see that name Almighty in your Bibles, it's the name Shedai without the EL, EL, God, Shedai, Almighty. And so that verse is saying, He who dwells in the shelter of Alelion will rest in the shadow of Shaddai. In fact, this psalm goes on to speak of how we can rest in the sovereign care of that one who would never let harm come to molest us. Or anything come to destroy us. And so let's hear God's word and look at the promises of Psalm 91 and think of our own situations. As we look at that Psalm and understand how our experience either matches or doesn't match what God says here. Psalm 91, let's hear God speak to us. He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High, Elion, will rest in the shadow of the Almighty, Shaddai. I will say of the Lord, Jehovah, or Yahweh, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, my Elohim, in whom I trust. Four names of God in those two verses. Surely, he will save you from the fowler's snare and from the deadly pestilence. He will cover you with his feathers, and under his wings you will find refuge His faithfulness will be your shield and rampart. You will not fear the terror of night, nor the arrow that flies by day, nor the pestilence that stalks in the darkness, nor the plague that destroys at midday. A thousand may fall at your side, ten thousand at your right hand, but it will not come near you. You will only observe with your eyes and see the punishment of the wicked If you make the Most High, Eil Elion, your dwelling, even the Lord, who is my refuge, then no harm will befall you. No disaster will come near your tent. For he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. They will lift you up in their hands so that you will not strike your foot against a stone. You will tread upon the lion and the cobra. You will trample the great lion and the serpent. Because he loves me, says the Lord, I will rescue him. I will protect him, for he acknowledges my name. He will call upon me and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him and honor him. With long life will I satisfy him and show him my salvation. Those are certainly wonderful verses. Perhaps you've even memorized a couple of those or found them to be precious promises in times of trouble. But as I read them, do you find yourself thinking, those verses seem so true here on Sunday morning in this worship service? But they seem so untrue tomorrow morning as I face the real world. As I look at my marriage. As I look at the troubles in my home, as I look at the difficulties and tensions in the workplace, as I look at the problems in various relationships and circumstances of my life. As I look at my own health or lack of it, as I feel keen physical or emotional pain Somehow those verses don't seem to stack up in those situations as being true. Well, I have good news for you. There were two people in the Old Testament whose names are closely identified with this name El Shaddai, who had exactly the same problem. Their lives, circumstances, their experiences seem to utterly contradict this name Shaddai. And so I want for us to look at these two people this morning, and I want for us to examine their experiences, and I want us to see Psalm 91 in the light of that. To see if we can show how God would bring about a reconciliation between his promises and difficult circumstances. First of all, then let's listen to the testimony of these two. It's Naomi from the book of Ruth and Job. First of all, then, notice the conflict in their lives. Let's first hear from Naomi. Naomi is an example of pain mixed with guilt. That's the first. The first blank is the conflict we're looking at. And then under Naomi, pain and guilt. Listen to her story. My husband was Elimelech. Elimelech comes from two words, Eli, which means my God, and Melech, which means king. And so my husband's name means my God is king. My name is Naomi, and Naomi means pleasant one. I remember as we were growing up as teenagers in Bethlehem People used to comment, there goes pretty Naomi and handsome Elimelech. We had such fun there and we were so very much in love and people noticed us and they thought that we were a special couple with such promise and potential. And we were so very much in love. And so we got married. But shortly after we were married, there was a famine that came in the land We had just before that time two sons. Their names were Melon and Kileon. But when the famine came, my husband Elimelech kind of belied his name, because his name is a statement of faith, my God is king. And yet when the famine came, despite the fact that God commanded that we stay in the land, Elimanich said we needed to leave. We needed to go where there was food. And so we left the land of our fathers and we went to live in the land of our enemies, the Moabites. We settled there because there was food and we decided that we would raise our sons there. But we hadn't been in Moab very long, getting along okay, when Elimnite took sick and died. God took my husband when my sons were very young. And I was left alone. I really missed him. Why would God take my husband like that? But God did enable me to raise those two sons in Moab. And so I raised them and they grew up But um wasn't a very strong youth group there over in Moab, you know, weren't many Jewish girls there and two boys would come home and they'd say all the pretty girls were Moabites and so as they grew up they wound up marrying Two Moabite girls. Nice enough girls. Didn't seem anything wrong with them, except they didn't worship and serve the same God as we did. And so there was tension in the homes. And I was so sad because now my daughters-in-law didn't share the same faith as I and my sons did And then to make things worse, it wasn't long after that when, one after the other, my two sons, Malin and Killian, both died. And now I was utterly alone. There I was in a strange land, Moab, my husband dead. My two sons, all that was left of my family dead and all I had, were two Moabitus daughters-in-law And so because I heard that the famine had ceased in Palestine and there was food there again, I decided that I would go back home to Bethlehem. And I told the daughters, Orpah and Ruth, that they should just go back to their homes here. I finally persuaded Orpa to go back, but Ruth, well, she just wouldn't leave. She said she would rather die than leave me and go away. And so I finally relented and I told her that she could come with me. And when we came back to Bethlehem, I was struck by how much I had changed, how the suffering had aged me, and what it had done to me In fact, people were shocked when they saw me coming back into Bethlehem and they said, can this woman be the pretty Naomi that we used to know? And I'll admit to you, I was kind of cynical. And I gave them a sarcastic response, and I said, don't call me Naomi. Call me Mara. Mara means bitter. Because Shaddai has made my life very bitter. I went away full, but the Lord has brought me back empty. Why call me Naomi the pleasant one? The Lord has afflicted me. Shaddai has brought misfortune upon me. How can you square that name, Shaddai, the giver of life in impossible situations, when all he did in my life was to take away those who were dear to me, my husband and my two sons. How do you square Shaddai with that? Then you need to hear from the second person, from Job and his testimony. Now, before we hear from Job, you need to remember that Job uses the name Shaddai and El Shaddai more than any other Old Testament book. In fact, it appears 31 times in the book of Job alone and only 17 times in all the rest of the Old Testament. And so Job, who's known for calling God by the name Shedi, comes and he speaks of his conflict. And he says, Job, well you know, you've heard my story. You're all familiar about what happened in my case. You remember that I had seven sons and three daughters? You remember that I had a beautiful home, several acres overlooking prime land on the Potomac. I had there about 7,000 sheep and 3,000 camels Five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred donkeys, and I had quite a few people on my payroll too. Quite a portfolio, wouldn't you think? And would you believe? It was all wiped out in just one day. Just like that, without any warning. I don't know why. It was like an earthquake hitting San Francisco. One moment it was there, and hours later it was gone And I don't know what to make of it. Not only were all my goods gone, not only were all my riches and my business wiped out with no insurance But my sons and my daughters were all killed in an accident at the same time. All in one day. My wife told me to curse this God and die. But I refused to curse that God all my life. I have been known among my business associates. As a man who loved and served the God of heaven, I knew where my riches had come from. I knew where my family had come from. And I had served this God all my life. I was known as a man who wouldn't practice hanky-panky and his business ethics, and I was known as upright, and I wasn't about to turn on my God now, but my heart cried out, why God? Why would you take everything that was precious to me away in a single day like that? And if Naomi is an example of pain with guilt, for she knew in her heart That there was sin involved in their leaving Palestine and doing wrong things. Job is an example of pain with confusion. For as Job looks back on his life, he says, there's nothing that I can see that I did that God was trying to get my attention about. And then, as if one final crushing blow after all of this, my health was gone. And it broke out with these despicable, excruciating boils all over my body. And I had no rest day or night. Then, if even possible to make anything worse. I had three friends that came to try to comfort me, and the only thing they did that was worthwhile was sit with me for seven days with their mouths shut. Because when they began to talk to me, things went downhill from there. And they only added pain and misery to everything that I had experienced before. How can you square the name Shaddai with such an experience And so Job says to God in Job chapter 6, verse 4, the arrows of Shaddai are in me. My spirit drinks in their poison. God's terrors are marshaled against me. Shaddai has made me taste bitterness of soul. Shaddai is my accuser, not my comforter. How can you square Shaddai with such experience as this? But the problem is we see only half the story. And so sometimes when you and I are in suffering, we realize We're only seeing half the story. One of the hardest things about suffering is we always do it in the dark, isn't it? We never know what's in the mind and the purpose of God in our enduring whatever it is that we're enduring. Sometimes it's partly our own fault, as in the case of Naomi and Elimelech. And so, along with that pain, there's the guilty conscience that says, I deserve this. I know some of why I'm getting it. But God, I thought you were a God of forgiveness. I'm very sorry for that sin. Why can't I get beyond this? Or maybe in your case it's more like that of Job, and you say, you call yourself Shaddai. And for the life of me, I can't understand what you're trying to get my attention about. Why are things so difficult for me? Why is it that things don't seem to ever work out and that I can't get my life going and back on track where this particular life-dominating problem seems to overwhelm me? Pain with guilt? Or pain with confusion? And perhaps it's a little bit of a. How do we reconcile this? I believe that we are given in these two cases the clues to El Shaddai. That's the second point. The clues to El Shaddai. We see that it's precisely in our helplessness that Jesus comes to meet us. And show that he is El Shaddai, the God with breasts who gives of himself to give life in our impossible situations. Physical life and spiritual life. Let's see how that worked out in the case of Job and Naomi. First, look at the case of Job We see that after God revealed himself to Job, and do you notice that in that revelation that God gave to Job in those last chapters of the book, God never does answer his question. You notice God never does explain what had happened in the courts of heaven between him and Satan. He never touches on that. You and I, as readers of the book, are given that insight. Job is never given that insight. All God does is to show Job that in order to answer his questions, he would have to pour million-gallon truths into a one-liter brain. And so Job realizes that it's hopeless for him to ever understand the mind of Shaddai, that that's far beyond him. But he also understands something about Shaddai he had never seen before: that his purposes are perfect and done with infinite wisdom. But what happens in his life? In the last chapter of the book of Job, we see that God restores the lost lives to Job double. He gives them back not 7,000 sheep, but 14,000 sheep. He gives them back not 3,000 camels, but 6,000 camels. For he's El Shaddai, the God of life, out of impossible situations. He gives him not five hundred yoke of oxen, he gives him a thousand, and not five hundred donkeys, but a thousand He gives them seven other sons and three other daughters. And these, while not twice the number, are twice as good. And twice as nice. They might say that doesn't replace the others, but the fact is within the tragedy of a human situation, God does bring new life that he says was even more fulfilling. And what about Job's health? Not only is it restored, but Job is given twice the life. He lives not only the normal three-score and ten, but he lives to be a hundred and forty years. And the Bible emphasizes that they were full and good years. And so God gives life out of an impossible situation But more than the physical life that God gave in Job's situation was the spiritual life that was so intensified. For the emphasis of the book is that out of all this, Job saw God. For we read in Job chapter 42. Job replied to God, I know that you can do all things now, no plan of yours can be thwarted You asked who is this that obscures my counsel without knowledge, and surely I spoke of things I didn't understand, things too wonderful for me to know. You said, Listen now, and I will speak, I will question you, and you shall answer me. Before all this, my ears had heard of you, but now my eyes have seen you. And therefore I despise myself and repent in dusted ashes. Before this experience, you would talk to Job about his business And he would discuss with you his sheep and his camels and his servants and how great his portfolio was and how beautiful his lands, and he would speak about how God had given all of that. But now you come to talk to Job. You see a new look of peace and contentment in his eyes. And as you try to talk to him about the things that he's enjoying He stops you and he says, Those things are nice. But have you ever seen God? You say, Well, Job, yeah, I I you know I've studied scripture and I'm in a Bible study and we talk a lot about God and I'm getting to know him, but Yeah, it really is neat all the things that God has given you, how he's blessed your life and Job stops you again. He says, That's all good, but it really doesn't mean so much to me anymore Because now I've seen God. Have you ever seen God? You get a little uncomfortable with this and you say, Well, Job, you know, uh I you know, I've given my testimony too, and I'm an evangelical and I've trusted Jesus But Job, you know, it's just so great how much God's blessed you with all these things here. I mean, look at this place. It's bigger than the one you had before. And Job says, that doesn't mean anything to me now Because I've seen God. Have you seen God? Have you ever experienced Him personally in your own life so that Shaddai is your refuge? And so that you can say, I've dwelled under the shadow, under the shelter of the Most High, and in the shadow of Shaddai, for he's personal to me now. And whatever experience in my life, I go through it with him. Have you seen God? Is Psalm 91, verse 1, true to Job? Profound. For he has dwelt in the shadow of Shabbai, even with all the pain. And it's been eminently worth it to Job What about Naomi? Well, you remember what happened to Naomi after she got back to Bethlehem? Do you remember Ruth who had come back with her, that Moabitus? came to love and to serve the God of Naomi. And entrusting him, she committed her life to him And so Ruth could see that out of all this pain and even all the sin and all the mistakes and all the things that they messed up, God turned that and he brought a Moabitus to himself. So perhaps in your life you're saying, I've screwed up so much that I feel like my life's on the ash heap, and God really can't use me, and He can't use these circumstances that are full of sin for anything good. But out of Eliminex sin and lack of faith, God brought a Moabitus to faith in Jesus Christ. And he included that Moabitus in the line of redemption. Because not only did she come to faith in Christ, but she met another fellow by the name of Boaz, a kind man, a man that uh neither of them had figured in God's scheme of things. But God can bring a man into your life when he wants to. And he can bring the right man without your having to scramble for it. God brought Boaz. He brought Boaz to Ruth, and the two of them were married, and they had a son, Obed. And Obed had a son, Jesse, and Jesse had a son, David, who became king of Israel. And David had a line of descendants that issued forth finally in Jesus, the Messiah. And so, out of that tragedy Was woven into the line of redemption. The Moabitus Ruth as a sign down through the ages to you and to me that God is a God of all peoples. And that God has a worldwide purpose for his people. And that God includes all peoples in that plan. And so we come down to Jesus. And you look at Jesus. I believe it's significant that Jesus has called a root out of the dry ground in that definitive passage of Isaiah 53. The statement of his work is summarized. A root out of dry ground, you see, is a picture of new life, out of death. A root out of dry ground is a picture of new life in an impossible situation. The fact that Jesus is called the root out of the dry ground reminds us of that name, Shaddai, the giver of new life in impossible situations. In fact, in Isaiah chapter 11, verse 1, Isaiah referred to Jesus as a shoot from the stump of Jesse. Interesting phrase, isn't it? Jesse is the father of David, the grandson of Ruth and Boaz. And so you have again this reminder of those mysterious ways of Shaddai. Who brings in your life and my life, new life out of our death and our impossible situations. And so that shoot out of the stump of Jesse grew up And he lived a life of absolute perfect obedience to his heavenly father, never doing anything to displease his father. And what does that bring him to? That God that he served allowed him to be betrayed by his dearest friends, to be persecuted by his enemies, and finally brought to trial and condemned. Can you imagine what it was for Jesus to face Gethsemane and to perhaps in the Garden of Gethsemane To remember Psalm 91, he who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will rest in the shadow of Shaddai. How can you ever square the name Shaddai with being placed in that situation, so utterly alone, with all turned against you? And perhaps Jesus in that situation thought of Psalm 91 because it was from Psalm 91 that Satan had tempted Jesus just a couple of years before. For remember, it was from Psalm 91 that Satan said that he will command his angels concerning you to guard you in all your ways. They will lift you up in their hands so that you will not strike your foot against them. Therefore you can throw yourself off this mountain. Because your God is going to take care of you, isn't he? How that must have mocked Jesus As he wept and prayed there in the Garden of Gethsemane, facing the excruciating, humiliating condemnation of death upon a cross How can you square Shaddai with that terror and horror? Know how? Only by knowing the end of the story. For you and I look back on that, and we see not the pain and the suffering, but we see that in that we see the very essence of El Shaddai, the God of breast, who gives from his own life. Life to his children. For we see that out of Jesus' death, the ultimate sacrifice of himself, has come eternal life Not only his life raised from the dead, but you and I joined with him, raised to eternal life with Jesus. Amen. Amen. We have been given that life in him. And so you and I remember that every time we celebrate the Lord's Supper, that we're worshiping El Shaddai, who has given his life for us. And you think of the things that don't make sense in your life. And you look back at Psalm 91, verse 1: He who dwells in the shelter of El Elyon will rest in the shadow. Of Shennai. Is it true? It's most profoundly true. And not only here on Sunday morning, but in the deepest pain of your life. That verse is true. For it was true in Job's life, as he saw physical life multiplied out of death. As he saw his spiritual life reach new dimensions which he would have never dreamed of before. We see it in the life of Naomi, who sees a Moabite has come to faith in Jesus. And out of that, down through the ages, to have that daughter-in-law woven into the line of redemption as a sign of the grace of El Shaddai. And it's just as true in your life. The problem is you can't see the end of your own story yet. And so because you can't see that, you and I need to walk in faith, trusting Jesus. That he still is El Shaddai, intending to accomplish the same good in your life as he's done for all his people down through the ages. Are you trusting him this morning? Are you leaving your pain and your situation in the shadow of his care Let's pause now, and in the quiet of our hearts, let's bring those struggles, those things that don't make sense to him, as else should I. Let's pray. Lord our God, Satan would want us to keep separate the truth of Psalm 91:1 that he who dwells under the shelter of the Most High. Will rest in the shadow of Shaddai. And Satan wants us to forget all about that this afternoon. Tomorrow and this week, with our worries and anxieties and complaining and fretting, we pray that you will give us grace now to bring those things from the past week and from the coming week. And to bring them to you right now in the light of this truth.