So on behalf of the Belliville family, Rick, Michael, Molly, Andrew, and Tom. We want to extend our welcome to you and thanks for taking time out of your day to come and to help them to mourn a loss. On the occasion of death, and also to celebrate a life well lived by the grace of God and to the glory of God. Ellen Jennings Bellivo was a faithful and loving wife, a dedicated and devoted mother, a caring and compassionate sister and friend. And on June 13th, 2014, late in the evening, with her husband and all four of her children at her bedside We added one more title to Ellen's list of titles, that of the dearly departed. We gather today to mourn and to celebrate. Even though she was ill and fought cancer courageously these last several years, nothing can truly prepare one for the abruptness of death. And yet, here, as we remind ourselves in this service, that each of us has a same appointment with death. We look to the Word of God. Another reason that we've gathered is to seek comfort and to seek peace that can only be found in the promises of God's Word. So let me invite you to turn your attention to the Word of God, the words of Jesus Christ, as he encountered the death of a friend, Lazarus. In John 11, we read these words. Now, when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem, about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him. But Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. And Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. And Jesus said to her, I saw I and the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? Our Lord Jesus Christ makes two profound statements in that passage. He tells us that those who believe in Christ, even though they experience the physical death, nothing can interrupt the life that they have in Christ. And though believers may encounter the transition of physical death, not even death can destroy the life that Christ has given to those who believe in Him. Oh, how we need His Holy Spirit to be at work in us through this service to remind us of these truths. Let's pray together. Almighty, everlasting, eternal God, even though the world changes all around us, you remain the same God yesterday, today, and forever. We humbly acknowledge the uncertainty of our life upon the earth. You have made our days as a breath. Our years are as nothing before you. All flash, all flesh, you remind us, is as grass. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. So, Lord, we pray that you would meet us personally today and teach us that. Therein is our only hope, the Word of God, even Jesus Christ, the Word made flesh for sinners. So we confess, Lord, even in the valley of the shadow of death, that you are with us. And O great God of highest heaven, we pray that you would make us to recognize our mortality even today, to measure our days, that we might appreciate how frail we really are. Hear our prayer and give ear to our cry. Eternal 1 and 3, we pray that you would comfort us in our sorrow and in our need. And we ask for your blessing now as we celebrate a life lived by the grace of God. In the powerful name of Jesus we pray. Amen. Amen. When I tread the verge of Jordan, bid my anxious fears subside, death of deaths and hell's destruction land me safe on Canaan's side. Songs of praises, songs of praises I will ever give to thee. Let's stand and sing. Guide me, O thou great Jehovah. I mean, Lord, embrace the whole pilgrim through this heaven land. I am we, but thou art my hold me with thy farm hand. Bread on forever, bread up forever, leave me till I want no more. Feeling till I want no more Oh men now the prison countenance when the healing streams are floor Let the fire and cloudy live her lead me all thy journey through. Strongly liver, strongly liver. Be thou still my strength and be thou still my strength and sheal When I send the work of Jordan, did my anxious fears subside? Death of death and hell destruction land means a point cane and sigh. Songs of rave death, songs afraid. I will ever give to thee, I will ever give to thee Amen. Please be seated. Among the many pursuits that Ellen had in her life was the reading of good books. She was a literature connoisseur. If you ever spoke with her, you may have discovered that some of her favorite authors were George McDonald and C. S. Lewis. C. S. Lewis in uh what I think some would argue is his most sophisticated work, Till We Have Faces, it was his final work. Sophisticated means, man, he's hard to understand. But I believe Ellen Bellivo understood the message of this book. Most of the book is consumed with the tragic life story of the main character, Queen Which she has written down to present as a complaint against the gods. When she's finally given an opportunity to present her complaint to the gods, Instead of the story that she has written and has been rehearsing her entire life, what ultimately comes out of her mouth is an acknowledgement of all the ugliness within. It's a voice, the voice with which she is speaking is new to her. It's strange to her ears, and then she realizes that it is her real voice. After a long silence, the judge asks if her complaint has been answered. Yes, she says. And then I want to read a paragraph from Till We Have Faces. The complaint was the answer. To have heard myself making it was to be answered. Lightly men talk of saying what they mean. Often, when he was teaching me to write in Greek, the fox would say, Child. To say the very thing you really mean, the whole of it, nothing more or less or other than what you really mean, that's the whole art and joy of words. A glib saying. When the time comes to you at which you will be forced at last to utter the speech which has lain at the center of your soul for years, which you have all that time idiot-like been saying over and over, you'll not talk about the joy of words. I saw well why the gods do not speak to us openly, nor let us answer. Till that word can be dug out of us, why should they hear the babble that we think we mean? How can they meet us face to face till we have faces? Our dear sister Ellen, I believe, understood the truth that C. S. Lewis is alluding to in this story. That is That when we are honest about the sin that dwells within our hearts, only when we are honest about that sin. It is then and only then can we know ourselves for who we really are? Can we know God for who He really is? And can we then receive the gift of Jesus Christ? As a friend to sinners, as one who laid down his life in the place of the ungodly and the weak and the powerless Ellen enjoyed speaking. She spoke very bluntly to many of us. She spent time with words. She knew that words were the way that God challenges our hearts. The Word of God was precious to Ellen and her family. And uh one of her sons, Andrew, is going to come now and present the Word of God. Of God. I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and my pleas for mercy, because he inclined his ear to me. Therefore I will call on him as long as I live. The snares of death encompassed me. The pangs of Sheol laid hold on me. I suffered distress and anguish. Then I called on the name of the Lord. O Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. Gracious is the Lord and righteous. Our God is merciful. The Lord preserves the simple. When I was brought low, he saved me. Return, O my soul, to your rest, for the Lord has dealt bountifully with you. For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from stumbling. I will walk before the Lord in the land of the living. I believed, even when I spoke, I am greatly afflicted. I said in my alarm, All mankind reliars. What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits to me? I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people. Precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his The saints. O Lord, I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your maidservant. You have loosed my bonds. I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, and call on the name of the Lord. I will pay my vows to the Lord in the presence of all his people, in the courts of the house of the Lord, in your midst, O Jerusalem, praise the Lord. In just a moment, we're going to sing these words, verse 3 of the next hymn: Be still, my soul, when dearest friends depart, and all is darkened. In the veil of tears. Then shall you better know his love, his heart, who comes to soothe your sorrow and your fears Be still, my soul. Your Jesus can repay from his own fullness all that he takes Let's stand and confess our faith in Christ alone. Be still, my soul, the Lord is on your side. Perfectly the cross of free for pain We threw your power to the World Lorentwise. In every change, he faithful will remain Please fill my soul, your vest, your every friend Through the morning ways, leads to a joyful end. Be still my soul, your common undertake. To buy the flu as he has the eyes Your hope, your home bed and sweat not picture. All now mishall be bright as last Be still my soul. The waves and winds still blow. His voice will rule and while we live He steal my soul with dearest friends it cards And all is God can be a pleasant Who comes to soon? Your sorrow has your feet He's still my foe for Jesus and we pray. From his own pool as all he takes away. He's still my soul, he is racing on. When we shall be forever with the war. When this are gone, when grief and fear are gone. Sorrow for thy loves your rest, joys restore. He's still my moon change and All safe and blessed. Amen. What a promise. Please be seated. With all these flowers. That didn't occur to me that that would happen. The only thing that would please her more if there were a hundred candles burning with open flames with no hurricane lamps to create a fire hazard. She never stopped pushing our trustees on what could be done in this room to worship God. On behalf of Our family, I want to thank you all for being here and for the tremendous outpouring of support that you guys have been for us these past three years and one month. But in particular, even more for these past two weeks, which have been the worst. Your presence here is a testimony of the impact Ellen has had in our lives You are among the thousands, I think this is no exaggeration, thousands in the world who have prayed for her. Her and prayed for us, and we've all prayed that she would be healed. And we prayed that this day would not come. So clearly, it's not the number of prayers that matter. It's not the passion of our prayers that count. During this process, I've often visualized myself in the Garden of Gethsemane, like Jesus, when he prayed before he went to the cross. Asking God to take this cup away from me. We prayed that God would take the cup of death away from Ellen. We prayed that he would take away the cup of separation from us. But just like Jesus, we all have to pray the second part of that prayer, in which he said, Nevertheless, not my will, but thine be Done. And God revealed his will clearly. It was his will to take her. And he has done that. So I've struggled with that, and I know you've struggled with that too. Just this week, in that struggle, I was reminded of Romans 9, which is not a part of the Bible I typically go to for comfort. And I'm not sure why the Holy Spirit took me to that verse, that chapter. But in verse 2 of Romans 9, it says, I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart. Paul was not talking about death, he was talking about the Jews, but I chose to apply that to my situation. I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart, and I was just so grateful that God identified with our anguish and our sorrow. And then later on in that chapter, while acknowledging our sorrow and anguish There's a verse, the rest of it just cuts the legs out from anger and self-pity and questioning God when he says, But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? What will what is molded say to its molder? Why have you made me like this? But why are you, O man, who are you, to answer back to God? Well what is molded say to its moulder, why have you Made me like this. And I would I was comforted by that. I was comforted that by that because it reminded me of all that scripture teaches us that God is sovereign, God is good, God loves us. And He understands our anguish, our sorrow. He experiences that himself when Jesus went to the cross. And in every death, precious in the sight of the Lord is the death of his saints. So I was greatly comforted by that, that God, our sovereign creator, his will cannot be thwarted, though his ways are mysterious and beyond comprehension. In this life, we know that he is good, that he loves us, and he has our best interest at heart. Offer that to you. I met Ellen in nineteen eighty-one. I was station well, that's not true, eighty-two. I was stationed at a submarine base in Portsmouth, New Hampshire. And I was a pretty new Christian. I was twenty-four years old and I was single and I was lonely. And I was not one of these guys who is content with singleness. And I prayed desperately for a soulmate. I was desperately single and I wanted to be married. And I made no bones about it with God. And he, in an unusually clear sense of God's provision for me, I had to. This very real sense that I would find my my soulmate at my next port. And I did. A few months later we were I we went down to Charleston, South Carolina. I found a good church because I knew that's where I wanted to look, and I visited the Young Singles group in search of God's answer for me. I knew she would be beautiful, so I just scanned the room for the most beautiful girl. And there she was. And I'm serious, it wasn't much more complicated than that. Some of you guys Some people today make this so complicated. If you if you want an even more simple story than that, talk to Chuck Greenslet. When he and Grace connected. That's even funnier. But Ellen had just rev uh arrived back in the States from Sierra Leone, where she had served as a missionary nurse for nine months. And this will not surprise you when I can still remember her when I saw her. She was wearing an African safari type jacket. She had big hair, she had big lipstick, she had big earrings. And a big smile. And I just remember how can and she was very thin because go figure, right? Um she had had a bout with malaria and had lost weight, probably five pounds. And I've always marveled how so many such a small frame could contain such big things Her smile, her lipstick, her hair, uh her earrings. So I was so attracted to her. Given the fact that she looked very thin, my ministry of mercy to her was to take her to many, many restaurants in Charleston. And that developed a kind of a habit that I was it was hard to break after a while. So St. Augustine said, You have made yourself, you have made us for yourself, O Lord, and our heart is restless until it rests in you. But I remember reading at that time something by Jesus. Dietrich Bonhoeffer, where he observed that God creates a hole in the heart of a man that even he won't fill And Ellen filled the hole in my heart, and I was complete. So, when you heard Tom Hanks say in Jerry Maguire, you complete me. That was my line. That was my line to Ellen. And I told her that many times. She grew up in a medical family. So her doc her d father, her daddy, she called him daddy. Um she grew up in Gastonia, North Carolina. And God help the people who say South Carolina. Her father was a doctor, her mother was a nurse, her sisters a nurse so it's very medical family and they instead of allowing her to pursue her dreams which I've counted six Which include being an artist, a writer, a florist, a potter, an interior designer, and a counselor. They pushed her into nursing. And she was uh always regretted that. I never regretted that because I thought it was wonderful to have a nurse in the family. And she worked out all her other But even apart from her gift or gifts set um Um who here doesn't remember how witty she was and funny and smart and quick insight and thoughtful and kind. We've all been impacted by that. We Tim mentioned that she liked words and communication. And that's it's hard to overstate that. We used to I don't know, would you argue about in your marriage? We would argue about words. We didn't really argue, it was more like sparring. And I'm an engineer, so I only know a couple hundred words. About ten percent of which are bad because I had been in the Navy and I'd gone to college. So we were standing she was always pushing my boundaries. People talk about Ellen pushing out their comfort zone. She did that to me linguistically. And I remember standing in a line, I think we were going to an airport or something. And we were two couples, she and I. I hope that's right. And another couple who seemed to have a medical background too, because they were talking medicals speak. And she said that somebody did something prophylactically. And I about jumped out of my skin because I knew that was in my tenth percent of bad words. And that's when I learned my a new word that it just means like preventive, and it's okay to use that. Um I didn't teach her any of my bad words. But one time She we saw something going back and forth and back and forth and she said it was osculating. And I said that's not the right word. The right word is oscillate. I know this one. And she would not back down. And so I played that for as long as I could. Because I knew I was right. And it turns out that I was right. I didn't know what osculate meant. It means to kiss. I think to kiss passionately. So I like that word too. But It was I was right and I I enjoyed that. I I tell that story as often as I can. She would she would periodically send me emails. Explaining the difference between two, two, and two, and there, there, and there. And I assured her that my algebra teacher in ninth class Explained this to me. But she never believed me. Because you know how your computer somehow changes your words for you? Spell checker, thank you very much. And she accused me of using commas as decoration. And that is largely true. I was taught to put a comma when you're want to take a breath. So if I had been exercising or something, there were a lot more commas. But I was fascinated by the way, I was just fascinated by a lot of things about her, mainly the way she thought and the way she wrote. She loved words and communication, and if you ever got a note from her or an email, you know that it's not the kind of thing you just read quickly and threw away. Because you wouldn't get it. This wasn't fluff. You were being exposed to, but a stream of consciousness, and it revealed a heart that was closely knit to her Lord. She was passionate. She expressed love and joy and grief and happiness and gratefulness. And it all came out of her pen. It was amazing. She left behind 10 to 12 journals. And it makes the print in your Bible look large. And she left out all the little words. That's how I described how she wrote. Um and we found them, we got them out and we were reading them and you know it's complete silence and everybody's looking and studying these journals because you have to study them to understand them and read them. Read them. And we just wanted to share with you a couple um readings from her journals, and Tom is going to come up and do that. Fortunately, we're good at putting all the little words back in, so they are very challenging to read, but they're worth it. So this is from March twenty-fifth, nineteen eighty-four, the year before Michael, my oldest brother, was born. says, the last Sunday in March and my first journal entry. If anything is entered earlier than today, it will have been late entry, and to the best of my memory, Rick and I are convinced that to follow God's Psalm one oh three directive, forget not all my benefits. We'd better un we'd better write them down. This is an idea taken from mother's urge to keep diaries. You won't remember what happened. But a realization is here that what God is doing in and through us is Noteworthy. To recognize and name what God is doing, not what we are busily doing, will always be an exercise. I thought that was a beautiful foundation to the myriad of writing that she did follow. The next one shows her humor. It's about our dog, Alex. August 14th, 1993, 4:30 AM. I'm deeply missing Alex. He was the best. Just the best beast. Sweet. So precious with babies. No, with Andrew. Remember the kisses on in Andrew's mouth? The cuddle and dodge game? Never a harsh gesture. Never an unkind word. Ears up, tail up, he chewed Andrew's little hands and wrists through, but he would stop if Andrew yelled at him. Remember the hugs? How is it he never frightened any of the children? Never an act of aggression or offense. The beautiful eyes, deep and soft and into mine, so watchful. The nearness. He was always just he always just wanted to be near us, near me. Anyone in our family could say, you know, Alex was my dog. He loved catching Rick's cheez-its during Star Trek. Plop right by your chair under your feet. Play with me, play with me. Okay, you can brush me. He loved getting his food from the children. He loved absolutely lit up to go play with Michael. In fact, maybe he was mostly Michael's dog. Probably. We miss him. It's a rotten, rotten shame that he was hit and that he had to die. I'm sad. I'm sorry. Oh so very sorry. I wish I could change last Sunday afternoon Alex, you're a good beast. You're an excellent animal. With the greatest heart. Someone I can learn many good things from. We wish we had you back. We miss you awfully, little dog friend. And then I don't know when this is from. But it's from a very pivotal time in my dad's life. I see you've made Rick bored at work again. Looks like it's time to move out of APL. I'm sure it'll give him the strong sense to do so if it's to be so. She's talking to God here. Thanks for your friendship. Gottly, I feel like such a no-load oftentimes. and you give me an unmitigated acceptance. Just talking to you helps me feel calmed and helps me face that gotta do list. Do you remember Molly asking me, can't Jesus come back just so we can see him? It's hard to wait for you. Just talked to Mel the other day. Please bring him to yourself. And there's thousands of other entries just like those that are all beautiful. Thank you. Of all the stuff I learned from her, probably faith was the biggest. Exercising faith for me and for many of us is somewhat difficult. I'm an engineer, so I tend to be of the ilk that God helps those who help themselves. But for her exercising faith is like falling off a log. It just came so natural. In fact, um she is most like Lucy in the Chronicles of Narnia than anyone I have ever met. I mean she just saw Christ so clearly And I just tried to tag along, and it worked. I learned from her. One time we were driving in my old Volvo And Mike was about five and Molly was two or three. And the little piece of paper that I had put in the distributor to keep it working properly Just fell out. And the we the cars, the engine stopped and we pulled over to the side, and it was beyond repair with paper. So I had not I had nothing to do with it. I couldn't get it going. And we were it was hot. We were on the highway and I was really angry because I don't like losing control. And uh Ellen said, I think we should maybe pray about this. And I said, I don't want to pray about this. I think I actually said that to her. I just wanna I wanted to be angry and try and fix it myself. And then I looked at Mike and he's looking at me. Like, yes, that's the right answer. We should pray. It's what we do, it's what we say we do. And so okay, I said And I leaned into the passenger side window and we prayed and I prayed. God broke my heart. That's one thing that God's been so merciful to me about. Um when I knew I was wrong, he revealed it to me pretty quickly. And I repented quickly. And um so I did pray Sincerely and honestly, she prayed. Maybe Mike prayed. And I opened my eyes, and there are two guys behind me who had pulled up in a truck. And I looked at them and I kid you not. I said And so they almost just left, but they didn't. They had they had they were mechanics and they had in their truck what they needed to fix my car and I think I gave them twenty-five bucks which is all I had. Um that's just one of many examples When I started my business 25 years ago doing home inspections, it's literally it was a mom and pop shop and she did the phones for me. And um that was right up her alley. Because when people called in for an appointment, they would get so much more than an appointment. I would often show up to a house and the first thing that people would say is, that woman on the phone was so nice. Is she your wife? I almost wanted to call back and just talk to her. That happened very, very frequently. Not only did she have faith in God, um She trusted God to provide through me, which is remarkable to me. She trusted him that much. And one way this worked out is. She never criticized me. Um I and I I've been thinking about this. There is I think there are two ways to criticize, for women to criticize men One is a way that you just kind of slap them around until they see your point and they get it. And then they repent and move on. That's good. But there is a way to criticize a man that cuts to the core of who he is, his manhood. She never did that. She always trusted me. And I made some dumb decisions. which I could spend a long time talking about. But she knew that God would God was over all that and he tr he she trusted him to work through me. And that was I always respected her for that. And one of her biggest tests of faith came when I decided to leave my secure job at APL in nineteen ninety-seven. To do inspections full-time. We had four kids under the age of twelve, and I was leaving a good salary, great benefits, which included college tuition. And with very minimal savings and no other source of income. And that was probably the biggest step of faith I made too, and we made it together. And God made it work and she just had no problem with it. She knew how to rest in the finished work of Christ and understood grace Like few other people I've met. In fact, her faith and reliance on grace poor bordered on presumption. And it was I think God was pleased with that. Her faith was that strong. Her faith was so integrated with her life that it even pushed the boundaries of the laws of Maryland. And we have had many a laugh about her driving. She's a she was an excellent driver and she loved her Mini Cooper. On the front of your bulletin in your program is the picture of her in her uh Mini Cooper backing up after she got And she was just quite certain that grace extended to the rules of the road, and that those rules were mostly for people who didn't understand grace. Her good friend um Jane, her college friend, she has two great college friends and their pictures were on that. up front, Jane and Gail. They were three peas in a pod. Just last year I think it was they decided to all meet in Charleston, where it all started for all of them, all of us. And she was driving her Mini Cooper all by herself down to Charleston and Jane to she told Jane this story, and Jane told me I didn't know about it. There are a lot of stories I'm finding out I didn't know about But she pulled up alongside a policeman and she quickly deduced that he had a sus or somebody in the backseat. He was transporting them A prisoner or something. I don't know what the guy had done. But she smiled, gestured with her fingers. And winked, and he said, okay, somehow. And so she just drafted him all the way down as far as he was going at 80 miles an hour. She was right behind him. Her faith often it often rubbed up against people's comfort zones and expanded them. Many years ago She, before this edition was done, and by the way, she was involved in this this room you're in. There are many prayers that are written on the concrete floor Under this rubber floor you're sitting on, about asking God to heal her. That is part of the construction. God has answered those. He has healed her. But before that we had this it was a terrible room. And um she wanted they were decorating for some event. And she was all prepared to drive our minivan into the gym so she could stand on it to reach something high because I wasn't there with a ladder. And the only reason she didn't do that was because the doors didn't quite line up. And I remember that day, my comfort zone was rattled. She was she served on the trustees. And that was a stitch. Because she used to describe what it was like to be in a a meeting with Alan Bierkiss and Maybeth Williams. And uh how she was just so different than them. The way she thought about everything was just so different and she sought her ministry to push and she pushed on their comfort zone. They pushed back pretty good though. She didn't get much. She was in her element when a large number of young people were in our home. And she was always in the center of things. And it was in usually in situations like that where she touched so many lives. When kids would come over um to visit with our friends, I would try to make myself scarce because I thought that was more appropriate. that I would they wouldn't want me, but she would be right in the thick of it, smiling, laughing and playing with speed scrabble. It usually involves speed scrabble. Mike tells us that when she was out in Tacoma for seven months with him getting chemo, on at least one occasion a friend called him up and said, Mike, can I come talk to your Mother and he did. That's the end of what I have written. I just want to say that um Clearly, the biggest tribute that I could pay Ellen is just two This is where my kids usually laugh at me and it really helps me. But our kids, um, she just raised four such wonderful kids. And God gave us such a gift these past two weeks. You know, so many people die. And they don't have a chance to say goodbye. Um we had two weeks or a good week and a half when and all four of our kids were here and we had the chance to cry together and to laugh. Together and we read scripture together and prayed together and read and sung we sang hymns to Ellen and it was just such a merciful Thing that God did for us. And it was such a treasure for me to get to know my children better in that context and to see how her faith had worked it out in their lives. And so we are truly blessed, every single one of us, because Ellen has been in our lives. And I thank God for that. And uh Uh it's a ridiculous thing to think that it I told Tim Um we hang on to life so so tenaciously, and it's such a ridiculous thing because Because we know that to be, to live is Christ, but to die is gaining. And that one day we will all be with her, those who love Christ. So Thank you for being here. Um your support has been overwhelming. Um it's a it at least as emotional to me as the actual event of her passing. I forgot to say something. You know, as as strong as Ellen's faith was, she struggled. We how can you not struggle with this? Right. And one of the songs that just meant so much to her, I I'm pretty sure it was sent to her by Judy Feeney, but Judy could not corroborate that. But it talks about unbelief. And it's based on that story where the man cried out to Jesus, I believe, help my unbelief. And Julie. Be gone unbelieved, my Savior is near. And for my release was surely appeal By prayer, let me wrestle, and he will perform. With Christ in the vessel, a smile at the stone Though dark be my way, since he is my guide, 'tis mine must obey to provide. Those cisterns be broken, creatures all fail, the word he has spoken. Who should you prevail his loving time per Who bids me to paint He'll leave me alone in trouble to see while each air beneath the I have in review Confirms his good pleasure To help see me through Why should I complain of once more distress temptation He told me more or less the air of salvation I know from his word. Through much tribulation must follow the road We gone unbelievable Fly away Lord, I believe in quick my weak faith, let my obey. Have mostly openly be gone and believed. Be gone claw for me How did a that come no heart can conceive which she drank brighter that sinners might live his way was much rougher and darker than mine. Did Jesus first suffer And shall I reply Since all that I need shall work for my good The beauty sweet and vacant. No painful attendant will cease before long. And then oh how the conqueror be gone unbelievable by away. Lord, I believe increase my weakness with unobedience. Ever need all me God on me Be God far from me Be gone and believe Be gone far from me If I may take a moment of personal privilege. Before I deliver God's word to you, I want to say to you that I feel like a person who has And I know I speak for Kate as well. I feel like we are a couple of people who have come upon a house. And inside that house there is a great clamor of laughter and joy and friendship. Deep and profound, decades-long friendship. And we knock at the door. And at that door, three years and one month ago We met the person at that door. And that door was Ellen Bellivo. She opened a door to her life to me and Kate and Caroline And we came into that house that was her family, the Columbia Presbyterian Church. You were laughing together. You know each other so well. You've lived through many stories and Difficulties and prayers and tears. And Kate and I have remarked this week that it felt like we were peering in on a party which we hardly belong. But I can say to you that Ellen, born in Gastonia, North Carolina, I born in Charlotte, North Carolina, I felt as though she were a soul sister. She had a North Carolina lilt that I had largely lost, but she made me feel at home She never made us feel as though we were new. We instantly felt like we had known her all of our lives. She consistently demonstrated God's grace and love to us as a family. And she was a great transition into a rich An abidingly gracious community that is Columbia Presbyterian. And she was a profound part of God's leading us here in our transition. Here. So I stand before you as one who is humbled to deliver God's word to you. And so I do so by asking you a question. How safe do you feel living under divine grace? How sure are you of your future? To entrust ourselves to the free grace of God and Jesus can feel like falling backwards into the arms of a friend who may or may not be there. And if they are there, they may or may not catch us. You see, oftentimes trusting in God's grace can feel like falling backwards. Into the arms of a friend. We feel this most acutely when we face suffering and loss personally or in someone's life that we dearly love, like our sister Ellen. And when we face this kind of suffering, our assurance of that divine grace is threatened. Our confidence, if grace really works. Is shaken. Just as a person falling backwards is tempted to move a foot to catch themselves, so we are tempted in moments like this. Not to entrust ourselves to God's divine sovereign grace, but to trust in our own self-reliance. But indeed, our dear friends, we are here to remember Ellen Belavo, who was a woman who knew that so many Even, especially Christians, don't feel safe living under grace. Because she knew, This grace, I know she would want me to point us all to God's amazing grace. That she knew. And she knew it was this grace that, in the words of Martin Luther, enabled her to see Christ alone. To desire him alone and to strive alone for him. This verse declares that I'm going to read to us. This verse declares that as a result of Christ's work, God's love doesn't have a short-shelf life. Rather, God's grace and love promises to hold us secure for all eternity. We, as Ellen, can stand in grace. This was her testimony So I give you this verse Romans chapter eight, verse one. Therefore There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. May God bless this reflection on His Word. This verse holds together two mighty doctrines. Without diminishing either one, without confusing them, but holding them together. And these two great doctrines is Christ's work for us. And Christ's work in us. Therefore, there is now no condemnation This verse declares that Christ's work for us is grounded in and alone in his cross. Where the wrath of God on sin, our sin, was poured out fully on Christ. And through Christ and his work on that cross, we can say, trusting in him, there is no condemnation because Christ Has justified us because he took all of God's wrath, every last drop of it. And because of that, we are justified. Believing in him, we are now no longer condemned, but indeed, our status is completely and utterly new. We are justified in his sight. We are made righteous no longer under his wrath because Christ, in our place, has taken it all for us. There is nothing, Ellen would declare. There is absolutely nothing. And I say this to her friends and sisters at Living Well Studios and Homesteaders and Granite and a whole host of other women to whom she was close. She would want you to know this morning, dear sisters in Christ, and those who do not yet know him. She would say there is absolutely nothing we can do or could ever have done to merit God's grace. Christ has done it all. And we can stand securely in that grace Because now in Christ there is no condemnation. For he took it for us. His grace. Is more than enough. It is all that we need. Secondly, this verse not only declares God's work in Christ for us, it also declares The work of Christ in us. It means that the life that we now live Trusting in Christ is done in union with him. There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So, because of Christ's work for us, we are now by faith united to him So therefore the life we now live is in union with him. Therefore, by his spirit, which was Paul's great point in Romans chapter 8, that by his spirit and no longer by the flesh. But by his spirit alone are we enable to live and stand in that grace which has been secured for us. God and Christ's work for us isn't just giving us that grace and the rest is left up to our strength. No God's word demonstrate to us, and it was the testimony of Ellen's life, this grace is rich and sufficient and extravagant. But we can't stand in it by our own strength because we didn't achieve it by our own strength. Therefore, it is only by God's strength in Christ and our union with Him by His Spirit can we stand in that grace. This verse is short, but it is mighty, and it rings a bell that calls every human soul. To reckon with the truth that is in us. There is absolutely nothing we can do because we are so desperately broken at the deepest part of ourselves. That only God in Christ, for us and in us, can rescue us. And we can therefore stand. There is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Do you sense the wonder? The wonder of it all. For I will tell you that I believe in walking with and praying with and talking with Ellen Bellevo. She felt and lived this wonder. And as Rick said to us Though she knew this amazing grace, she also knew how much she needed it. She failed and failed often, and she was not bashful about her failures. She was open with her failures Because she knew his grace is sufficient to cover all her sins. This enabled her. Christ's work for her. Christ's work in her enabled her. To do three things. There are many things. There are three things as I was praying about this morning and what I would share. Three things that I experienced with her, and I know is the testimony of many who were with her. The first, that this grace Gave her great freedom. Not a freedom towards self-indulgence or selfishness But a freedom to love radically and generously those who are around her. She loved to counsel, I remember our first fall here meeting out in this foyer, speaking with her about her passion One of her passions was to provide biblical grace Christ-centered counseling. To the members and the community of Columbia Presbyterian Church and to whomever God would bring to us. That freedom that she experienced through God's grace gave her a desire to love those around her. And that freedom of grace led her to love generously, did it not? I experienced it. My wife experienced it. My daughter experienced it. As someone who knew her for a brief time, you knew it all the more, those of you who grew up around her and with her. Knew that she loved without condemnation, generously. Because it was that grace that gave her the foundation and the freedom that loosed the bonds, the chains of her sin, and gave her the ability to love radically. But not only did standing in this grace enable her to have freedom to love, it also gave her a deep and profound joy. A joy that expressed itself in hope. You see, Romans chapter 5 declares these words. Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace, in which we now stand. And we rejoice in the hope and the glory of God. Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings because we know that suffering produces Perseverance, perseverance, character, and character hope. And hope does not disappoint us because God has poured out His love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom He has given us. Her joy was because she had a great hope. And that hope was the hope of the gospel. That the gospel could change anything and anyone in its path because it had changed her. And that gave her a joy that when she met with you, It bubbled out of her. It bubbled out of her in her acts of kindness, her words of encouragement, her faithful prayers, her kind words in letters or emails or cards. It was because her joy in Christ was founded on a hope that did not disappoint her, though her suffering was real And she wanted to be done with this cup of suffering. She also knew that this hope would be with her in the midst of her suffering. Which leads me to the final thing which I witnessed in her that demonstrated the work of God's grace in her. Is that this grace gave her not only a freedom, not just a joy, but it gave her a deep and abiding assurance You see, assurance is not arrogance, but rather it is a strong and humble acknowledgement of what God has done for us. This explains how Ellen and we can face the pain of suffering. Because an assurance of God's sufficient grace gave her a peace and can give us a peace. That meets us most poignantly in our suffering. The time that I spent with her over these last three years, I learned the truth of these words: that pain strips away many of the distractions that parade around us as important. Suffering makes us more conscious of the important work of the Spirit in us and in others That assurance through the grace of Christ that was given to Ellen enabled her to have a peace. A patience, a long-suffering perseverance. She loved flowers. These flowers are here today as a testimony to what she so loved. She loved flowers and arrangements and gardening, and this takes time. It takes long suffering patience waiting for the rain and fertilizing. Cutting them, waiting for them to bloom, and then taking the creativity and hard work and love and pouring it into a beautiful arrangement My friends, as you look at these flowers, it is a testimony to the kind of creativity And hard work, and patience, and peace that Ellen demonstrated as she dealt with us My wife's testimony was in these last three years, when she would spend time with her, she always wondered, you must have something better to do. Ellen never rushed you. She was willing to stay just a little longer, to listen, to counsel, to love. That was Ellen, watching and waiting for the spirit to bring out a bloom. And she was the hands and feet of Christ in many of our lives, wanting to see what the Spirit of God would bring forth as a beautiful arrangement of His grace in your life and in my life. Life. That is alone the work of Christ that gave her a deep and profound assurance that led to a patience and a peace with us. us that is a testimony to her savior. Friends, What we see in Ellen, this freedom, this joy, this assurance. That's Jesus That's Jesus. Left to herself that would never be Ellen. It was Jesus. And it is what Jesus has done in Ellen, and it's what Jesus can do in us. Can we feel safe in divine grace? Our dear sister leaned back in this life. And she is in the hands Of the eternal, mighty, gracious, loving arms of Christ Jesus. And she would want us to know her life was a testimony to this fact. Is it safe to rest in divine grace? Yes and amen. For he is good, and his love endures Forever. Believe in him. Rest in him. For his grace is enough Let's pray. Our Father, we entrust ourselves to your wisdom, and that takes faith, which is not innate to us. We need you, O Lord, to come by your mighty Spirit, to give us eyes and ears and a faith to believe what your word has told us. We thank you for our dear sister Ellen Belliba. We thank you for her life. We thank you for the ways in which you have demonstrated your grace to us in her life and through her life. But Lord, we also cry out to you and we say, Lord, this is not the way it's supposed to be. But we can entrust ourselves to you that you know what our need is. And Ellen is no longer suffering. Lord, we would ask that you would pour out your grace on the Bellevo and her extended family. And all who are here, that you would help us to stand in this grace. Help us, O Lord, in our grief. Help us in our joy to celebrate Christ in her. And Lord, we would pray that by your power help us in our Also to joy in Christ in us. By your power, by your grace alone. We pray these things in Jesus' mighty name. Amen. You may have walked past uh several tables laid with um a lot of good food for us to enjoy After this final song and the benediction, um we're gonna gather. Stay as long as you are able to. This is another uh testimony to Our dear sister Ellen, and that if you were ever privileged to uh be in that home of the Bellevos, it usually had long conversation and good food. And And people lingered. A Christian a funeral or memorial service for a believer in Christ is really not for that person who has. Past. She is complete. It's for us who remain. And so with the word of God still in our minds, we Sing this song of assurance. And I want to invite you. I know that Pastor Randy would share this sentiment. If this testimony and song is not the assurance of your heart, then please Please fellowship around the table. Find someone, anyone to talk to, to ask a question. Who is this Jesus that Ellen Bellivo knew and loved so dearly? And um we will trust him with the results of that. Let's stand together. Sing. And the rain shine one eternal day, where God the sun forever rain. And gather I am by high, I am by high, I am behind. Chilling winds nor voice has breath can we set out for show. I am I am about for the bottom. I am I am I am there. Shall I reach that happy place? And be forever blessing my father's face and I am bone, I am down, I am b I am, I am done for the Brahman. I am bad. I am by I am I am born Amen. Go with the blessing of God. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you. and give you his reconciling, all redeeming peace. Amen.