Someday somebody's gonna wave back. We're asking the question these days, uh, who are you, God, and what are you like? And to get the answer, we're looking at the names of God. How God has revealed Himself in His Word by His names. We're wrapping up our study this morning on the first name by which God has revealed Himself in the very first verse of Scripture. In the beginning, God, Elohim, the strong faithful one. Created the heavens and the earth. And so remember that wherever you read that word God in the Old Testament, think that's the strong, faithful one. The strong one who revealed himself in creation, in his mighty power in all of creation, from the tiniest patterning of the miraculous DNA. uh patterns of life, uh, to the galaxies across the vastness of space beyond our wildest comprehension to grasp. He's Elohim, the strong one. And he's the strong, faithful one who never goes back on any promise that he's ever made to you and to me. He's Elohim, the strong, faithful one. But last week you remember we asked, why is that name given a plural ending so that it could be translated literally God's? Why the plural ending on Elohim? Is it because that back uh in the original early stages of revelation that uh this really in Israelitish religion uh was a polytheistic religion that it worshipped a number of gods and that uh gradually they developed and evolved to uh an exalted monotheism No, a thousand times no, for the word Elohim is always and only ever used when referring to God with singular verb and singular adjectives. But rather we have seen that in the Hebrew language that plural endings don't always mean more than one, don't always mean plurality. But a plural ending can signify other things. And one of the things that we saw that it can signify, as we saw the first point last week, is that it's the plural of what? The plural of Let's hear it. What is that? First plural. The plural of majesty. Thank you. Somebody got it. Okay. The plural of majesty. In other words, the Hebrew is referring to something given that ending which is superior or over the others in that category. So Elohim is superior to and over all the other L's. Or the Elohimes with plural verbs and endings, the powers, because that word remember can refer to human powers, can refer to objects of worship, can refer to spirits, occultic and angelic. But Elohim, with singular verb and singular adjectives, Elohim is majestic above all other powers in the universe. And so we saw that the risen Christ in Ephesians chapter 1 is far above all rule and authority. Power and dominion and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. For he's Elohim. He's far above all rule and authority And that's a comfort to you and to me. That's your security, and that's his claim to your loyalty. But there's a second meaning to this plural ending, and that's the one I want to go into this morning. The second significance of that plural ending is that it's the plural of fullness. You ready? Put it down. The plural of fullness And to demonstrate this, let me take you to Deuteronomy 6, verse 4. Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 4 is, of course, one of the most quoted texts In all the Old Testament by Jewish people. They call it the Shema. And it goes, Hero Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Now the context of that one single single simple verse is uh Moses' words uh to Israel after their forty years wandering in the wilderness, just before they're ready to go victorious into the land that God's prepared for them. And so he's impressing on them before they enter into this spiritual warfare who it is that they serve and how they're to serve him. And so Deuteronomy chapter 5, just before this, restated the Ten Commandments. And it's given then God's instructions for living. And then beginning in chapter 6, verse 1, we read this. Listen. And give our attention to God's word as he addresses us now through this. Deuteronomy chapter six, beginning with verse one. These are the commands, the decrees, and the laws that the Lord your God directed me to teach you to observe in the land. That you are crossing the Jordan to possess, so that you, your children, and their children after them may fear the Lord Yahweh or Jehovah, the covenant name of God, your Elohim. As long as you live by keeping all his decrees and commands that I give you, so that you may enjoy long life. Hear, O Israel, and be careful to obey, so that it may go well with you. so that you may increase greatly in a land flowing with milk and honey, just as the Lord Yahweh or Jehovah, the Elohim, the strong, faithful one of your fathers promised you Hear, O Israel, Jehovah or Yahweh are Elohim. The Jehovah or Yahweh is one. Love the Lord, your Elohim, your strong, faithful one, with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your strength. These commands that I give you today are to be upon your hearts. Hero Israel then, the Lord, his covenant name, our Elohim, the Lord is one. And you see that this is literally saying our God is one. So God with a plural ending emphasizing his unity, that he is one. One with a plural name. And that plural name is with this emphasis on unity an indication of his fullness. He is both unified and diverse. He is one and he's many. He's a there's a fullness to him that could be not captured by El or Eloh, the singular of Elohim. He's so full that his name is given a plural ending, and that's The Hebrew's way of communicating that fullness, that manifold diversity. Now, what's the nature of that fullness? Well, there's two, it's a twofold fullness First of all, a his being. And then secondly, B his creation. That's on the other side. And each of these has two parts. And I would suggest that they have very practical implications for your living today as a Christian in 1989. Now I warn you, this morning's message is a little different. It's a little more philosophical. It's going to require a little more strain of the brain. And uh, you know, whenever we think about God to consider his nature, we would expect that that would require a little more intensive thought, isn't it? Wouldn't we? Uh because uh to think about God and how majestic and wonderful he is we wouldn't expect would be a simple thing. And so uh bear with me. Try to follow what I'm saying this morning. I realize it's gonna require us to think about some things that you'll think, boy, you know, that there's a lot of implications to that. And they're very practical implications. But I want you to follow just what I can only touch on in very simple basic points to open up, hopefully, some windows to something about the nature of God as it's revealed in this name Elohim, who is one. First of all, concerning his being. Now, this implies, first of all, that he is triune. T-R-I-U-N-E, or the Trinity. He is tri-une. That is, he's three persons. In one God. Many people think that Elohim teaches the Trinity. I don't think that's fair to the language. It implies Trinity, it's consistent with Trinity. It sort of hints at Trinity, and that's as much as we can say. For instance, in Genesis 1. 26, God, we read Elohim said, Let us make man in our image, implying a conferring among more than one person there. And so there's an indication there that we have more than one person in the Godhead. You have even a clearer expression of it in a passage such as Isaiah chapter 48 in verse 16. Don't bother to turn to it now. Let me just read it to you. You might want to mark that down as an indication, clear teaching of Trinity in the Old Testament. Isaiah forty eight, verse sixteen. Referring to one who, in verse 13, laid the foundations of the earth and therefore must be the Creator, in verse 16, this person says, Come near and listen, come near me and listen to this. You From the first announcement, I have not spoken in secret. At that time it happens, I am there. And now the sovereign Lord has sent me. And so this one who's created all things is now distinct from the sovereign Lord who has sent him. The sovereign Lord has sent me with his spirit. So you have three persons in that one verse, all of them who are given the indications of deity. And you have other statements in the Old Testament, but of course it comes to the fullest, clearest Expression in the New Testament, where you have Jesus who's clearly presented as the Word who is God. And he is sent by the Father, who is of course God. And he sends his Spirit, who is of course God, for to lie to him is to lie to God. And there's many other indications that he is God Himself, so that baptism is in the name, as we saw this morning, of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, of the three persons of God. Now, I can't explain that. Nobody can, and all the analogies break down and sometimes are less than helpful. But the one thing I want you to think about this morning Is the fact that Elohim is one but is three in one is the basis for all love in the world. Without that, no other belief system or religion has a basis for love. For how can you and I know that love is any more than Conditioned responses, or chemistry, or programmed pattern evolutionary maternal instincts that are developed within the species How can we know that there is love anywhere beyond simply physical and emotional responses? Well, we know because the Bible teaches us that love is beyond creation. That before there was any creation. There was Elohim, who is so full in his fullness that the three persons loved one another from all eternity. God was never lonely and needed a creation to love. For God, the Father loved the Spirit and the Son, and the Son loved the Father and the Spirit, and the Spirit loved the Son and the Father from all eternity. And love is rooted in the very nature of God. Before there was any creation, God loved. Now that's very practical, I would suggest, to you and to me, because it means that when God says in 1 John 4, 8 and 16, God is love, and you and I are in Jesus, That therefore we are able to love because He is love. Now you're able to love your spouse. You maybe think that after this week you're not, but you are. Because the spirit in you, if you belong to Jesus Christ, is a loving spirit and has been from all eternity, because that's part of the fullness of Elohim. You're able to love your kids. You kids are able to love your parents. You're even able to love your coworkers at work and even your boss. Why? Because if the Spirit of Jesus is in you, that spirit of Elohim is a loving spirit. And he's been loving from all eternity. And when he dwells in you, his nature is to love. You see, if there was only one God, then God Himself could not intrinsically be loved, because to love requires a lover and a beloved. But Deuteronomy 6. 4 says, This one who is our Elohim, who is one, is in his fullness more than one. For he has three persons in one who have loved one another from all eternity and can love through you in Jesus. It also means that the second implication of this fullness of his unified being is that he always acts. With perfect consistency with all, that's the word to fill in there, with all his attributes. You see, he's not simply loving today and just tomorrow. You don't hope that he's going to ignore some of his attributes in order to answer your prayer. You don't hope that he's going to forget a few things of what he's like in order to do what you'd like him to do. But in everything that he does, however he treats you, always reflects all of what he's like, all perfectly joined together. Now, fortunately for us, God has meted out his justice on his own son in judging sin And so, because that justice was meted out to him, you and I receive that justice in Jesus. And when we pray and when we relate to him, there's nothing but his loving compassion to us with that justice. Meet it out to Jesus. But you see, what I'm saying is that whatever happens in your life, in my life, does not involve some tension of what God's like God doesn't have moods. You know, he didn't decide not to answer that prayer because he was in a foul mood that day But his fullness is in perfect harmony of all that he is like. And so whatever his providence is in your life, they may be seeming very severe, and for some in our congregation at this time God's ways may seem very severe, but those ways are always the perfect blend in His wisdom of all that He is in His fullness. Now, this was a basic to Elmer Dortzbach's teaching on suffering that he went through last fall. You see that God always acts in all that he does in all of his fullness perfectly displayed in his wisdom to us. There's a lot to think about that. But it gives us confidence in knowing that God in his fullness is perfect in his wisdom in all that he does for us. Now that's for his being. The Lord, our God, is one. Wholen and unity. But that unity and that diversity is perhaps even more clearly seen in his creation. Elohim's fullness is revealed in his creation. That's the second part on the back of your bulletin outline. And what I want you to see here is that this also is true in two parts. In terms of his things, firstly, and then secondly, in terms of his ideas. First, in terms of Elohim's things, the Lord our God, our Elohim. is one. He made a universe. Did you ever think about that word? Universe? Did you ever notice that the word universe has involved in it both the word unity and diversity? Did you ever think about uh the universe and uh you notice it uh Now the first thing that uh you notice when you consider the universe is the staggering variety of the universe. There's puddles and streams and rivers and lakes. And oceans and clouds. There's dogs and cats and gorillas. There's spiders and dust mites and elephants. There's all kinds of variety. There's rocks and mountains and hills and valleys and men and women and boys and girls and more gorillas. And monkeys. In every kind of variety. The universe has things that are tiny, medium, large economy size. Has things that are red and blue and green and yellow. Things that are hard and things that are soft. Staggering variety to our senses. But the question you see that uh nearly drove philosophers nuts through the ages If they looked at this seeming infinite variety of things, they asked the question, are those things ultimately unrelated and enchance chaos? Or is there some basic unity of reality that binds them together? Is there in fact, is the universe ultimately impersonal, chaos, simply a hodgepodge of things? that sort of somehow came into being? Or in fact, is the universe ultimately personal and therefore all of that diversity ultimately stems from a unity that gives them coherence and binds them together. Well, you see, the answer is only in the Bible. Only the Bible and its picture of Elohim. In his fullness and his unity, the Lord our Elohim, plural ending, is one. Gives to us the answer to both the unity and the diversity that we see in the universe. Only that helps us to understand how things can hold together Now, lest you think that this is simply some question for philosophers to debate, but doesn't really affect the decisions that you and I make as we live, let me suggest to you That it's only this kind of an understanding of this kind of God which is only revealed in the Bible and no other religion or belief system, no other philosophy. Has an Elohim as its God. It's only this teaching of Scripture that gives us answers to some of the deepest, most disturbing societal problems today. Such as racism, feminism, political power structures, all the rest of these things. Take, for example, just racism. What is the solution, ultimately, to societies dealing with racism? It's certainly not in man. For man's philosophy is that might makes right And that if I am going to exalt myself, it's at the expense of putting someone else down. Only when you believe that there is one God who has made both black and white and yellow. and that that God has made in the fullness of his diversity creatures who all bear his image, in all their dignity and distinctiveness, in equal value, that you have a basis for dealing with racism. And I suggest to you that only comes in the revelation of Jesus Christ in the pages of Scripture. No other book in all of the world has that answer to the problems of racism. Because it stems in the Creator, who is both one and diverse in his fullness, and therefore has made different kinds of people, who all bear his image, and have the same dignity before him. Or you take the problem of feminism. What is the solution to the fact of the war of the sexes through the ages, a bitter struggle in which Most often, in fact almost always, uh, men have been dominant and have been tyrannical in that dominance. What is the answer to the actions and the reactions, to the strife and the struggles, and all that you see, the sometimes helpful statements and sometimes inane statements that on the one hand either Only stress diversity or only stress unity as if there is no difference between men and women? How can there be difference and equality? The only answer is in Elohim. The only answer to that is in the pages of the Bible It says that Elohim is in his fullness one God who has made men and women, both in his image. Very different. Boy are we different. Thank God for some of those differences. Sometimes others I'm not so sure. But most of them I genuinely appreciate. Thank God for the differences, but those differences do not imply inferiority, superiority. For they are both from Elohim, who in his fullness made all things, unified but diverse. And so you're able, you see, to appreciate those differences in your spouse And sometimes you may not feel like you appreciate them so much, but when you know Jesus and you see that he has revealed Elohim in all his fullness to you, you're able to say, I don't have to make that person like me. In order to be able to get along. But I can appreciate the fact that we're different. And in our differences, we both reflect the fullness of Elohim, of God as He's revealed Himself to us. The second way in which that fullness is revealed in His creation is in a world of ideas, not only the things, but the ideas. The university. We have not only the universe, the world of things, but we have the university, the world of ideas. And again you see those two words wrapped up in that word university. Unity, diversity. And so as you go to a university, what's the first thing that hits you as you step onto the campus and into the research labs? The staggering number of facts and ideas, isn't it? The journals and the research and So much that's exploding in knowledge that even people in very specialized fields find it very difficult to keep up with what's being discovered in their own field rather than in all the uh other related fields. And then they being able to see how that relates to a bigger picture. And so we have a specialization crisis in our day. Because of a staggering number of facts. And the question, again, that scientists and philosophers ask in our day is is there any coherent truth to bind together all these staggering ideas? Is there any truth with a capital T? Or are there only truths with small T's discovered by the experts and constantly changing according to new information? Is there any coherent truth? Or is there only multiversity? You see, the classic word university assumed it was based on the premise. That there is a coherent truth, a unity to the diversity of ideas. And that's why in the classic university, theology was considered the queen of the sciences Because theology studied Elohim, who is the God who is both one and in his fullness was diverse. And that one God was the clue in the revelation of Himself to binding together all the different departments and all the different facts and understandings of life. He gave them value and he gave them meaning. But theology in our day, the queen has been dethroned. She's been raped and she's been sent into exile. And so we have left in our day only a multiversity, with nothing to bind our thoughts together. And I suggest to you that doesn't just affect the experts and the scholars. That's a crisis that you and I feel every day and every time we look at the newspaper. Because we're in a crisis of values A recent issue of Psychology Today said that values clarification has not worked in our school system and it's been all but jettisoned. Because values clarification has no unity to it. There is no way of telling who's right and who's wrong. It implies relativism. And so educators have even come to now say that values clarification simply doesn't work And even a secular journalist, Psychology Today, says we've got to begin in our schools to teach that there is a right and there is a wrong. And the best that they can come up with for any unifying concept of that right and wrong is, guess what? The U. S. Constitution. So all we can do is we can study that document and we come up with 28 different values and we say those values are what we'll teach as absolute right and wrong Because you see, there is no Elohim in our system. There is no God who has revealed Himself and says this is right and that's wrong. And there is no God who has revealed himself in Jesus and teaches with authority what is right and wrong. And so Time magazine a couple of weeks ago talks about the crisis of violence in our kids About the absolute amorality of kids who can gang rape and abuse and torture and man with apparently no sense Of a need for retribution or remorse or repentance. You have a columnist, one of the sanest in my opinion, George Will, who writes in a recent editorial about the cardinal in New York who went to visit the gang rapists who beat and nearly murdered that girl in Central Park. And he went and he visited the girl, uh the woman, in the hospital And then because he didn't want to play favorites, he went to visit the rapists. Because he didn't want to imply any kind of judgment about who was right and who was wrong And George Will says this trivializes tragedy and makes no distinction between the brute and the brutalized. But you see, it's only consistent because if there is no Elohim who reveals himself in the pages of Scripture, Then you not only have no coherence to tie together ideas, you have no value system to judge ideas or actions. I suggest to you that what we have here In the idea of who Elohim is, as he's revealed himself, and then as he has communicated himself through his son to us, is extremely practical to you and to me. Because without this God, there is no value, there are no judgments, and we are indeed in a crisis of morality. But you and I know that we can make statements of judgment, that you and I can hate wrong and love right because we know Elohim. We know that the Lord our Elohim is one God. And he's uniquely revealed himself. He isn't the generic God of American civil religion that we talked about. He is one God And that one God uniquely has revealed himself through the second person of his fullness, his own son, Jesus. That son, Jesus, has come because you and I have not kept his law. So Jesus has come and he has paid that penalty and he has died for you and for me, so that we would be acquitted. And that God could look at us and without compromising his justice, he could acquit us and he could declare us innocent and he could love us. And so when you want to understand the solution to society's problems, or you want to understand the solution to your own problems I invite you to come to Jesus. Because in Jesus, God has revealed both his justice in judging him and in his truth. And he's revealed his love and his mercy in sending Jesus for you. And so this Jesus could not only give you the answer to all of your questions, But he could meet your need in all of your problems. This Elohim, the strong, faithful one. For the God who in his majesty is above all powers is the God who is also in his fullness. With a God who meets all our needs and answers all our questions in the revelation of His Son, Jesus. Let's come to Him. And let's be secure and thankful that in this book we really have not only the answers to life's deepest problems. But the only answers, because of the uniqueness of this God, let's worship him now and bring our needs to him. Let's pray.