We're studying the names of God, particularly that unique way, through his names that God has revealed himself to us, to know who he is. And what he's like. And today we come to that first name that God has revealed himself to in Scripture, the very first name that appears in the pages of the Bible. And I must say that like Jerry when he uh was preparing last week I little realized how much I would need personally to be aware of this name, the way that I can know my God. And how much our congregation would need to go know that God is as He has revealed Himself in this name that He's given to us. This week has been a spiritual and emotional roller coaster for me as well as for many others of us. Tuesday, the high point of being in Suzanne's trial, a trial that looked so grim that the other side said as we were going into the courtroom to her, are you sure you really want to even go through with this? And then we found out after lunch that the judge was a Christian, the law clerks were Christians, even the court stenographer was a Christian. And they'd all been praying for us. And then we saw God answer that prayer in a wonderful, remarkable way in the verdict of that trial. We saw the answer to the prayer that uh we'd been praying for weeks, months, and some of us for years in the safe delivery of the Mitzel twins, simply for their very existence as well as then for the number of points of danger and the hurdles through which they passed. And then Ann Green found out that her dad dying of terminal cancer, who she's tried to share Christ with for many years. And now perhaps with only a few weeks to live. Perhaps days we don't know. Hearing about the Cokes and the problems of little Jonathan's liver and not knowing what that is and what that means and what's ahead of them. Hearing of Carl McKinney's heart attack. And of the alarm in his life and for Denise and what's going on in him. And then Friday. Hearing of the autocollision high speed with a tractor trailer, which there were four girls. Two escaping with relatively light injuries, one with severe brain damage, and the fourth, Rachel of our own congregation, deep brain injury. Seeing her last night all hooked up to the tubes, uh, her eyes glazed over in a coma, and knowing Our God really is who He has revealed Himself to be. How much I needed to know that. How much the Chisholms needed to know it. How much others of you in connection with the situations I've mentioned need to know, is our God strong and is he faithful? And perhaps you're sitting there this morning and you're thinking, you don't even know my situation. You could add mine to that list. I'm in a crisis myself, or there's some deep hurt or need in my life or in my family. Things that I'm struggling with, and I need deeply to know this morning that God is strong. And God is faithful. I think it's significant not only that God timed it for this morning, but that all the pages of Scripture and all the words, all the names that God has revealed Himself to us. The very first one that he gives us is that he's the strong, faithful one. In this study of over 20 names of God that we'll be going through. The uh we'll be covering them roughly in the order that they appear in the scripture. And uh that's with the exception of the fact that I will link up the Old Testament names with New Testament counterparts to show the unfolding of those in Christ. But generally, we'll be taking them as they appear. And the first one that God has given to us is the one in the very first verse of the Bible, Genesis 1:1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And that word God there is the word Elohim in the Hebrew. The word Elohim is a word which appears well over 2,000 times in the Old Testament. And every time you see in your Bible God, G-O-D in the Old Testament, it's that word Elohim or some form of that word, E or Elohim Or its compounds. You see it again and again in the names in the Old Testament. Samuel, Daniel Bethel, Elijah, Elisha, all have that El, the beginning, the root of this word, El Elohim. God No one really knows its root meaning. We know that it comes from the root L, which means strength, power, might, Majesty, preeminence. The word is used of the tall cedars of Lebanon. It's used of the majestic mountains of Hermon We can't prove it, but some indicate that that word is combined with the word Allah, which means to swear or pledge an oath. And when you take those two words and put them together, and then put a plural ending on it, which in the Hebrew is uh Analogous to R-I-M, they don't add S's or E-S, they add I-M to make plural, and so you have EM. And eventually you get this word Elohim. The strong, faithful one. The one who swears and cannot change. The one who's strong and faithful. The strong faithful one. And so where usually, as God's name uh appears for the first time in Scripture, you have The definitive meaning of that name. In this case, uh the idea of strength as creator appears here in this first verse, but it's that idea of faithfulness that becomes gradually revealed and unfolded and developed as you go through the pages of Scripture. And so you get to a passage like 1 Kings chapter 8 that Jerry read to you. In which you see that idea of his faithfulness strongly linked to it. So you have in Genesis 8. 23, O Lord Elohim of Israel, there is no Elohim like you. In heaven above or the earth below. See, he's the creator of it all. You who keep your covenant of love with your servants who continue wholeheartedly in your way. And then in verse 27, will God really dwell on earth? The earth, even the highest heavens, cannot contain you. He's the creator, he's the strong, faithful one. So there's these two ideas that appear in this word of this name Elohim, the strong, faithful one. And so you have those two ideas connected together. And you see in your bulletin outline that unfolded, point one then is that he is the strong one. I want you to write it down, even though I've said it and you've seen it there, because I want you to grasp in your mind wherever you see the word God in the Old Testament, you say to yourself, that's the strong one. It's referring to his strength. And there's two ideas associated with Elohim in order to communicate his strength to us. The first is that he is the creator. He's the creator. Genesis 1-1. In the beginning, Elohim created the heavens and the earth. Elohim created all things. That there is no God like you in heaven and earth. There's no Elohim. In heaven and earth, it's like you. Can the earth, can even the heavens contain Elohim? No, because he's created the heavens and the earth. And just to reinforce that, in the first chapter of Genesis, from chapter 1. 1 to chapter 2. 4, that creation account, Elohim appears 35 times. Almost every verse, Elohim said, let there be light, and there was light. Elohim said, let the expanse be between the waters. of the heavens and the sea. Elohim said, Let the water under the sky be gathered into one place, and let there be dry land. And Elohim said, let the land produce vegetation. Elohim said, let there be lights, stars, sun in the sky. Elohim said, Let us make man in our image. Elohim is the strong creator. What a revelation of power there is in Elohim's creation. Just this past spring, I was watching uh Robin out in our backyard build a nest. And I watched him go and gather up the grass and her beak, and she took it into the bush when she thought I wasn't looking, and knit for herself perfectly formed little nest there The robin's nest is utterly different from the nest of a Baltimore Oriole, which is utterly different from the nest of a crow, which is so different from the nest of a sparrow. Who taught the robin to make her nest unique to her species? Who taught each bird with those little pea brains? Uh they seem like they're sometimes uh so silly. We've had one that's been attacking our dining room window for the last couple of weeks and finally gave up on that and started attacking our car. Uh but You know, uh, you look at the thing and you think there's not much you could teach this thing. I try moving everything and it keeps coming back to attack it. But Elohim has taught that bird how to build its nest in just its own way. Where you take the surgeon wasp. The surgeon wasp is a rather remarkable little creature. It builds its nest out of a number of interconnecting chambers, and when it's built its nest, The surgeon wasp mother goes out to hunt for food because when uh the babies will be born, they will want meat. It's all they'll eat. And it's gotta be live meat. They won't touch dead meat. And so here on some nearby tree is an unsuspecting caterpillar. And down the abdominal walls of that caterpillar are nine microscopic nerve centers, too small for the naked eye to even see. But the surgeon wasp comes upon that caterpillar, and nine times with her lance, she punctures precisely an invisible nerve center inside that caterpillar. And before the caterpillar even knows what's hit it, it's utterly paralyzed and helpless. The surgeon wasp then takes that caterpillar and drags it to the nest and puts it in there. And then she lays her babies. And they have exactly what they want and need. Live meat. It can't escape and it can't fight back. It's just what they need. Now let me give you a suggestion. If you ever want to eat a caterpillar and want to make it last for more than one meal, make sure that you always begin from the tail end first. Because if you eat the head first, then the caterpillar will die and it'll decay and it won't be fit to eat the next day. But you can eat it from the tail first and keep working your way up toward the head and it'll stay fresh and alive. The surgeon wasp always lays her eggs on the tail end of the caterpillar. Who taught the surgeon wasp her anatomy? Who taught her to always lay her eggs on the tail end of the caterpillar? Elohim, the strong, faithful creator. In the minutest details of his creation, we see his power manifest. Life is so abundant. Not only in the large things, but in the very tiny things, even within the cells of our body. In what are just even now, after all these millennia being discovered, like genomes. And genomes are, from what I understand, uh the instructions, the code for reproduction of life. Quoting from an article on it, the human genome is the complete set of instructions for making a human being. Those instructions are tucked into the nucleus of each of the human body's 100 trillion cells, all except the red blood cells, which don't have nuclei. And these instructions are written in the language of that word, you know, deoxynoucic acid. Thought maybe I'd be able to get that out, but it didn't work too well. Anyway, what's called DNA to us. Those instructions are written in every little cell. DNA is found in the human cell nucleus in the form of 46 separate threads in each cell of your body. And if uh these little threads which are coiled into a packet called a chromosome were to be unraveled, and you were to be able somehow to stretch them into a string. From each cell of your body, each string would be over five feet long. Over five feet long, but only fifty trillionths of an inch across. You have one for each of a hundred trillion cells in your body. These remarkable little instructions that Elohim has placed in you. Are written in a code. That code is apparently very easily deciphered by the machinery of another cell. But for mere scientists, it's a formidable and time-consuming task. The entire genome of even the simplest organism dwarfs our imagination. The genetic blueprint of the Lowly E. coli bacterium, for instance, is more than four and a half million base pairs long. For a microscopic yeast plant, the length is fifteen million units. And for a human being, the genetic message in every cell Is three billion letters long. And that happened by blind chance in evolution It's the creation and the design of Elohim, the strong one who has put all these things together. And how abundant is that life that is made. Not only do we see it in the square miles of algae, And of the plant life of the sea that just seems to burst forth in profusion of life. But even in your own home, You realize even as you sit and listen to me, there's several creatures crawling in your eyelids that live in there that you're not even aware of. And they're there all the time. So you start rubbing them around, you know When you go home today, you might uh be pleased to know that uh the home's been watched by several million creatures that live in your rugs and your couch and in your bedding. They're called dust mites. They live as part of the spider family. Dust lights are far too small for the naked eye to see. But these little creatures That live by the millions in your home. And I don't care how well you vacuum it. Don't go home and think, well, I'm really gonna clean this place up. Get these little creatures out of here. We're not gonna have any of those foul vermin in my place, you know. You'll never do it For God's abundance of creation and profusion of reproduction is far beyond our imagination to grasp. But don't be too worried. They don't bite. They simply live off the flecks of skin that you are constantly shedding for their pleasure. But God has made an abundance of life Beyond anything that you and I can see, for he's Elohim, the strong creator. Not only in the tiniest parts of creation in the multitude of the dust mites or the infinite variety of snowflakes, but also in the cosmic Isn't that too great, too large for our eyes or imaginations to comprehend? Take the magnitude of the universe, and it's impossible for you and I to begin to comprehend it. If you were to take the sun and say that the sun is here up on this stage and the earth was a little ball six inches from the sun. And we were to say that the solar system and the universe were on that scale that six inches represents 93 million miles, the distance between the Earth and the Sun. then the planet Neptune within our own solar system would be fifteen feet out that way, up toward that wall And on that scale, the distance between our Earth and the Sun being six inches, the nearest star. Our nearest neighbor would be 26 miles away down in Washington, D. C. And that's the very closest. If you were to travel 40,000 miles an hour in a spaceship to get to that star, it would take you 36,000 years. To go there and to come back again. So don't think we're going to be able to pack enough food for somebody to make that trip and get back in time. The sun is so large that you could take our Earth and our moon in its orbit and place it inside the Sun You'd still have two hundred thousand miles to spare outside the Earth and it all would fit inside the sun. But our sun's only an average size star If you were to take the star and carries, his diameter is 400 million miles across. That means you could take the Saranteris and you could put a crust inside the Sarantares a hundred million miles thick. And then you could stick the sun and the earth whirling around inside the star and terries. And you'd still have over a hundred million miles of space beyond the earth before you'd even reach the crust. Of the star Antares. Our solar system, our universe is so vast beyond anything that you and I can comprehend. From the tiniest genome and chromosome and cell of our bodies to the vastness of space Creation reveals Elohim as the strong one who is able to handle your problem and my problem. That's why the scripture associates with this name Elohim the name rock. That's the B part of it. A is that he's creator, and B is that he's the rock. Elohim is the rock. Again and again you see Elohim associated with this term rock. For instance, in Deuteronomy chapter 32. Moses says, I will proclaim the name of the Lord. Oh, praise the greatness of our Elohim. He is the rock. His works are perfect, and all his ways are just. Or in Psalm 18, we read that, Who is the rock except our Elohim? He is a shield. For all who take refuge in Him. For Psalm 62, my soul finds rest in Elohim alone. Sometimes in your life and my life, that's the only place you're going to find rest, isn't it? It's in Elohim alone. It's not in your circumstances. It's not in what people can do for you. It's not in anything else except that you have an Elohim, who is the strong creator, and He's the rock My soul finds rest in Elohim alone. My salvation comes from him, for he alone is my rock. And my salvation. He is my fortress, and I will never be shaken. And when you think of him as the rock, the picture there is not of just some large boulder It's designed to help you to think of something like El Capitan in Yosemite Park, that huge edifice, hundreds of feet sheer up into the air. A rock so impressive that you look at it and you think, in whatever tempests and storms, nothing would move that rock. God says, think about me. When you look and you see the things in your life that you can't control and you can't manage, remember I'm Elohim, the rock. Nothing moves me, but I'm able to protect you. You're able to hide in me. You're able to find shelter in me as the one who will never move and is sufficient for your needs. But you and I need to know not only that he's the strong one who's able to protect us, we need to know also that he's the faithful one who wants to protect us. So that's the second thing there, that he is the faithful one. Not only the strong one, he's the faithful one. El Allahim. Elohim. The strong, faithful one. And if the first part of 1 Kings 23 emphasizes his strength, O Lord Elohim of Israel There is no Elohim like you in heaven above or the earth below. The second part of that verse emphasizes his faithfulness You who keep your covenant of love with your servants who continue wholeheartedly in your way. He's the one who swears and cannot go back on his earth. Oath, as Numbers 23 and verse 19 say, Elohim is not a man that he should lie. Nor the son of a man that he should change his mind. Does he speak and then not act? Does he promise and not fulfill? Oh no, not Elohim, for he's the strong, faithful one. And you see this illustrated again and again in the pages of Scripture As Elohim is used in connection with God keeping his promise, the promise that he gave to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. Again and again you see this in the illustrations of his faithfulness through Scripture. We have time for only a very few, but you see this, for instance, in the case of Noah. And God has put Noah and all the animals into an ark. And then he's destroyed all life from off the face of the earth. And after all life had been destroyed and the rain ceased, things got very quiet. And the ark continues to float and to bob up and down for a hundred and fifty days. There's no sound in all the world outside the ark, and things seem utterly desolate, and there's no word from God, until Noah must wonder if all life has ceased outside of this little island. And he wonders if perhaps God's abandoned him. And then you read in Genesis 8:1, but Elohim remembered Noah and all the animals in the ark. Elohim's the faithful one. And he can't forget his promise or ever go back on it. But so you see in the case of Jacob The one of the grandson of Abraham, to whom God had given his promises. Jacob, the deceiver, Jacob the heel grabber. I was so glad to hear that uh when uh Joshua came out just before Caleb, he wasn't grabbing his heel this week in the mitzvah. They came out rather peacefully. But wasn't that way, you know, with the Jacob and Ish Esau. Right from the moment of their birth, they were contentious. And Jacob was the deceiver. And when they grew to manhood, Jacob cheated his brother Esau out of his birthright. And so he had to run for his life. But even in the running to escape the land for his life, Jacob has a dream. And in that dream he sees a stairway ascending from the earth to heaven, and at the top of the stairway Above it stood the Lord according to Genesis 28, and he said, I am the Lord, the Elohim of your father Abraham, and the Elohim of Isaac. And I will give you Jacob and your descendants the land on which you are lying. I am with you, and I will watch over you wherever you go, and I will bring you back to this land. I will not leave you until I have done what I promised you. For I'm Elohim, the faithful one And I can never go back on my promise. Whatever promise that you have that you can find in Scripture, remember that it's Elohim who says it. And notice In many cases it will be prefaced by the fact that it's God, you'll see, but now you know. To read into that not simply God, the generic, a vague God that we spoke about last week, the God of American civil religion, but remember that it's Elohim. The strong, faithful one who makes that promise. And so Jacob, twenty years later, after going through the misery of all the contention with his uncle Laban, the two of them always trying to outwit and out cheat each other Jacob comes back into the land. And then there's a famine. And God says to Jacob, It's okay to leave and to go down for some time because of the famine where Joseph's uh made preparations for you. And he says to him in Genesis forty-three, forty-three six, verse three, because I am Elohim The Elohim of your father, Jacob, don't be afraid to go down to Egypt, for I will make you into a great nation there. And I'll go down with you, and I will surely bring you back. So at the end of his life, Joseph, who always loved and trusted Elohim as his God, Joseph believed that promise Joseph instructed his brothers. Do you remember there in Genesis chapter 50 and verses 24 and 25? Joseph says to his brothers, I'm about to die, but Elohim will surely come to your aid and take you up out of this land to the land that he promised on oath, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Joseph made the sons of Israel swear an oath, and he said, Elohim will surely come to your aid, and then you must carry my bones up from this place. And they must have laughed behind their beards and they thought, poor old Joseph. The guy always was a dreamer. Who in the world would think of leaving this place? We never had it so good No way are we going to go back to Canaan, where we had to scratch out a living there as sheep herders, but we're treated like kings here in Egypt. Poor old Joseph, he's still talking about those promises and fables that were delivered to Abraham and to Isaac and to our father Jacob. No way we're leaving. 400 years later, there were slaves in bondage. And Elohim came to them and he said, I've heard your groaning and your crying, and I'm going to deliver you from this land, and I'm going to bring you back just as I said. For Elohim is the strong, faithful one, even able to subdue all Egypt in order to keep his promise. Well, you take David, who loved and served Elohim all his life. David comes to the end of his life. And David says, Elohim, it said that I will put on your throne one who will serve me forever David on his deathbed in 1 Samuel 23 looks around him and he remembers those descendants that he had to offer. And he thinks of Amnon, the rapist. And he thinks of his son Absalom, the deceiver and traitor, both of them dead. Then he looks and he sees Ad and Ijah and Solomon and the others arrayed about him, and he says, Not one of you is fit to rule. But Elohim is going to keep his promise. Somehow he's going to do it. And so out of that line of deceivers and liars and greedy people, and those that are just like you and me, God brought forth his son Jesus. And it's interesting that when Matthew comes after describing the line out of where Jesus came, in Matthew 1. 23, how does he describe Jesus? Do you ever notice the connection? In Matthew 1. 23, Matthew says, the virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and they will call him what? Emmanuel. El. It's that same name. El with us. You see the strong faithful one, Elohim. Made promises to you and me so great that only Elohim himself could keep them And so Elohim, the strong, faithful one, sent his own son, Emmanuel, El with us. The strong faithful one, who was born under the law to keep that law that you and I could never keep. And so as you despair this last week saying, how often I've failed, how weak I've been as a Christian, how unfaithful. You look to Emmanuel, and you remember he's the strong, faithful one who's kept the law for you. And you think of how the one who's held you in bondage all your life and the sins that you cannot conquer. And you remember that Emmanuel conquered those sins, and when he died for those sins and his death, He died so that you would be free from the bondage of that sin. And he rose again so that life would be yours. For he's an Enuel, Elohim, the strong, faithful one. And he's come to be your Elohim. Oh Lord, I seek you, Psalm 63 says, my Elohim. Is he your Elohim this morning? Look on the back of your bulletin outline, and I urge you to work your way through that this afternoon. You think of the strong, faithful one I've described You think he's able to handle your little problem? Do you think the creator of DNA and genomes and dust mites and snowflakes The sun and the earth, the moon and the stars, and all creation, able to handle your problem And I'd like for you to write down your answers to that. What is that problem in your life that you can't handle? What is it that seems beyond hope for you? And then write, why is it that Elohim is able and trustworthy? Put it in your own words. And then how are you going to take this problem and trust it to him? What are you going to do with it? Bring it to Elohim. For he's the strong, faithful one, able to do all things, and he will never go back on his promises to you or to me. Let's come to Him now. Let's pray. Oh Lord our Elohim, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. For the God of David, the Elohim, who sent Jesus, your own son, Emmanuel, a strong, faithful one. Who has set us free from the guilt of our sin, from the bondage, and who has made us alive with Jesus Christ. We're a needy people. We bring the needs of our congregation as we have done, and we bring the needs of our own life to you. We believe that you are able. We believe that you are faithful. Help us in our unbelief, Lord, to see that you are Elohim, sufficient for every need. Hear us in this quiet moment as we give our problems and burdens to you Hear us, O Lord, and be sufficient in Jesus' name.