We're studying the names of God these weeks, the revelation of what God is like so that we may know Him. So that we may love him, so that we may trust him better. Knowing who he is, as he's revealed himself in his name. We have seen that the name of God is so central to our lives as Christians that everything we do, we do in the name or for the name of God. We're saved by the name of Jesus and no other name. Acts four twelve We pray in the name of Jesus and no other name. John fourteen thirteen Our security is in the fact that his name uniquely is set upon us as his people. Number six. We worship in the name of Jesus and no other name. Philippians two, nine to eleven. We evangelize for the sake of the name, Romans 1:5. We send out missionaries. For the sake of the name, 3 John 7. Every kindness we do The Bible says is to be done in the name of Jesus to bring him glory. Mark 9. 41 In fact, the Bible says that everything that you and I do, whether it is in word or deed, we should do it in the name of Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father by him. So it behooves us to know the name. It behooves us to know this name in which we do everything, and for which we do everything that we do as Christians. To know our security, our trust and our hope. To know what God is like, because we all have distorted pictures of him. And we need him to reveal himself to us, to change that, so that we might love him and trust him better. Well, we've seen that God's name is so full that there's no one single name. In fact, the Old Testament alone has over 20 names. Key names by which God is known. And we'll be looking at over 20 names in this study that we'll be doing together, roughly in the order that they appear in Scripture. Now be clear as we begin this study that there are three basic names for God in the Old Testament. There's first of all what I call his creator name, El or Elohim. That's the name that we have translated in our Bibles as God, G-O-D. It's the name El from which you get many Old Testament names, Samuel, Bethel, Daniel, El Limelech, Elijah. All those names with L are this name, the root for Elohim. We saw last week that that means the strong, faithful one. It's his creator name. The name that God uses in association with his power in creation. Secondly, there's what I call his kingly name, and that's the name Adonai. Adonai is translated in our English Bibles by the word Lord, L-Small-O-R-D. That's God's kingly name And then thirdly, there's what I call his covenant name. His covenant name Yahweh or Jehovah That name is translated in our Bibles by L small capitals O R D. And so whenever you see Lord with L small capital letters O R D. That's God's covenant name, Yahweh or Jehovah. No one really knows how that name was originally pronounced. Now, from these two names, Elohim and Yahweh or Jehovah, there are several compound names of God. And those are a number of the names that we're going to be looking at in the weeks ahead. But we're looking at in these couple of weeks that first name, the very first one that appears in Scripture, in the very first verse of the Bible, Genesis 1:1. In the beginning, God Elohim. created the heavens and the earth. And we saw that that word Elohim means that he's the strong, faithful one. He's the creator who made all things by his power, his wisdom, and his might. We saw that he is the rock of security, as the Elohim. He is the faithful one who swears and never goes back On any promise that he has ever made to you or to me. He's the strong, faithful one That name Elohim appears more than 2500 times in the Old Testament, wherever you see that word God. Remember, it is not the vague, generic American civil religion word, God, a God in which you pour any old content that you want in it that makes you feel good and gives you warm fuzzies. But it's Elohim, the strong, faithful one, who is uniquely revealed in his character and his acts on the pages of Scripture He's the one who sent his son Jesus, who is Emmanuel L with us, the strong, faithful one who's come with us to fulfill all the conditions of all God's promises. So that you and I could know him as our strong, faithful one. But having said all that, there's more to say about this name Elohim. Remember that I said last week that that name Elohim is constructed by the root El, the strong, mighty one, and probably the word Allah, which means to swear or pledge. And when you take those two and you put them together, they eventually come through some derivations to with a plural ending, the Hebrew plural is I am, to the word Elohim. But now the question that we have to ask this morning is why the plural ending? Because literally that word is God's. In the beginning, God's created the heavens and the earth. Why the plural ending? Some say it's because the roots of Old Testament religion were evolutionary and were polytheistic. That just as man evolved so man's thinking about relations with uh God and who God is and what Almighty is like and all the rest of these things are simply man's thoughts and they have evolved from primitive polytheistic religion to the exalted Old Testament religion of the minor prophets. I don't know if you ever took a course in college that said that But many of us had, in fact, just on the spur of the moment. How many ever took a course where I heard about this religions of, you know, Elohim that uh you know, polytheism evolved into the monotheism and all that stuff? Yeah, a few of you see we get that all around. You can see it in a lot of articles and books. And that's uh asserted, and this is one of the proofs for that, you see, that you have this original name for God, which really means gods. Now, is that true? Well, what's at stake is not simply God's name. What's at stake is whether we can trust the Bible. Because if the Bible is simply man's thoughts that evolved about God, then your life and your hope Are pretty shaky, and I would suggest, in fact, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15, in vain, because Jesus hasn't really risen. Unless the Bible is a supernatural revelation of God to tell you what he is like and not man's thoughts about him. Then we can't trust this book. And all you've heard of the testimonies up here and all that we come to do on Sunday mornings is absolute foolishness. But in fact, we know that the Bible is God's revelation. It can be trusted. In fact, we know that uh this root of this name Elohim is plural not because of polytheism. And that's very clear because wherever the word is used, wherever this name is used, when it refers to the true God, in distinction from false gods It is always used with singular verbs and singular adjectives. It is always Elohim, he does such and such and so and so. Never used ever in a plural sense. Why then is it plural? It's because the Hebrew language has a number of kinds of plurals. And this plural, there are two kinds of plurals, in addition to simply being more than one, that are used. And the first one I want to cover this morning and the second one I want to cover next week. Because both of them pertain to why Elohim is plural. The first one that I want you to see this week is that it is the plural of majesty. There is in the Hebrew what is called the plural of majesty. Plural of majesty, when a plural name is used with singular verb and singular adjectives. You see, the name Elohim is used in a number of ways in the Old Testament. Remember, the word el means strength or power, and Elohim are all kinds of powerful ones. It can refer to human beings who are powerful. It can refer to false gods. And it can refer to angelic powers. So that same word that we have translated, God, can be translated in other ways. And I want to give you a couple of examples of that. Because the point that I want you to see this morning That I hope will draw you more to Jesus. Is that wherever God reveals his name, Elohim He's revealing himself as the strong, faithful one whose majesty and might are above any other power. And that plural of majesty in the Hebrew is the plural of preeminence. It's saying that this one is greater than all the rest. And you see that in these three different cases. You see that in the best way to see the contrast is in what I have chosen as the text this morning, Exodus chapter 20. So if you haven't already turned to that, turn to Exodus chapter 20, and I want to read just the first three verses of Exodus chapter 20. And as I'm going to be doing through this series, often I'll have you, with your Bible, look at what your English Bible says, but I will read the Hebrew names. Just so you get a feel of the uniqueness and the way God has revealed Himself in this, okay? So you read in the English, and I will read the Hebrew name. Exodus chapter 20, the beginning here now of the Ten Commandments. And Elohim, the strong, faithful one, spoke all these words. I am the Lord. There it is, that covenant named for God, you see. I am the Lord your Elohim, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the land of slavery. You shall have no other Elohim before me Now you see that in verse 3, that first command, you shall have no other Elohim before me. It is God's declaration that you and I are to not have any other power, any other ideology or belief before this God who's revealed himself in the pages of Scripture. Three ways you see that. First of all, it can refer to human authorities. For instance, in Psalm 82 is probably the best illustration of this. The one that Jesus used when he quoted in John 10 to demonstrate his deity. In Psalm 82 we read, now again I'll read the Hebrew names. Elohim presides in the Great Assembly. He gives judgment among the Elohim. Now in your English, you see it says God provides in the greatest presides in the great assembly, he gives judgment among the gods in the NIV. puts God's in quote. But it's the same name as in Genesis one one. It's the same word as you have there as the first word in Psalm eighty two one, translated God. In fact, if you were to look at the Hebrew of this as literal as we can in the English He would go something like this. Elohim stands in the company of El. The word great there is mighty. It's the same word for God. The company of El. In the midst of the Elohim, he judges. Now what's going on here? Well you see the picture here is that God is in Congress He's standing here in the Supreme Court or Parliament. This is a civil court of mighty men on earth. And what God is saying here is that these men are ruling using their power for selfish ends. And they're not using their power to protect the powerless, they're using it to serve themselves. But Elohim is going to stand in their midst. And what's he going to say to them? Down in verse 6, the verse that Jesus quoted in John 10. Elohim says, you see, I said, you are Elohim. See what it says here? You are God. It's not talking about the fact. that they're deities. Simply saying, you are the mighty people, the mighty ones of earth. You are gods, or Elohim. But then it's clear that they're humans because he says, You are all sons of the Most High, but you will die like mere men. You will fall like every other ruler. So you think you're pretty powerful. You think that because you've attained uh to a seat in Washington, D. C. , or some other capital of the world. That you're special and you're not going to die. And that you're not accountable to me. But Elohim says, you are accountable accountable to me. You will die like mere men. And then he finishes with verse 8, a prayer. Rise up, O Elohim, judge the earth, for all the nations are your inheritance. So what? What's that mean? And I would suggest to you and to me that that's terrific comfort in our lives. For every one of us are under the power of people who we believe control our lives and our destinies. Now whether you look at Congress or the Supreme Court or President Bush or Premier Gorbachev or any other world ruler and you say, I'm afraid of what these people are doing. What's going to happen to our world and the decisions that they're making? Remember Psalm 82. The Elohim, the strong, faithful one, says, You're going to die like mere men. I preside in this Assembly. Perhaps in your life this week you're feeling more a closer power. Your boss, your husband, your parents, somebody in your life that you feel has their thumb on you. And you feel like uh you're helpless before their capricious decisions about your life. They can make you miserable And what are you going to do about it? And you're chafing and you're grinding and gnashing your teeth, and you're trying to scheme all kinds of ways to get back at them or get out of them or despairing or whatever you're going to do. God says, you have recourse to a higher court. I often tell people who feel like they are helpless under the domination of some power in their lives The Bible calls you to appeal your case to a higher court. You feel like you're helpless? Go to Elohim. Go to your Father in heaven and appeal your case to him who turns the minds of kings as the rivers of water. Do you believe he can change your boss's heart, your husband's heart, your parents' heart? He can change that person that you fear and dread to meet this week. You believe that you don't have to take things in your own hands? Have to rebel and take that authority into your own grip. That you can trust Elohim. I think of Suzanne Young just a couple of weeks ago. We talked about her trial and Things looked pretty grim. Suzanne was the epitome of helplessness. How is she going to get custody and sufficient support for her child? But we prayed to Elohim. And Elohim, in the person of Jesus Christ, put us into a courtroom that just happened to have a Christian judge. Who just happened to be open to all the testimony that she feared was going to be suppressed, and who happened to give a decision to take care of all the needs that she had. For Elohim presides in the great assembly, and he's able to take care of his people. For he is the strong, faithful one of ultimate majesty above all earthly rulers. He's able to protect you and me. I think of little Gladys Aylward, who had so much influence in Elizabeth Elliott's life. Gladys Aylward was a London parlor maid. She was barely five feet tall. And back in the thirties of this century, Gladys Aylward prayed that the Lord would use her on the mission field in China. She was rejected by every board, and so she went out on her own, traveling alone across uh Mongolia and into China. She established herself there and went up and down the hills and through the villages alone preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. She gained quite a reputation in her fearlessness. One time there was a village that she was living in, and that village had a penitentiary. a a penitentiary. It was a prison for the worst of their convicts, the murderers and uh the hardened criminals of that area. A riot broke out in this prison The men were killing one another. There were horrible screams and blood curdling shouts coming from out. It was so terrible that the Chinese army feared to go in. They didn't have a big enough army in the village to quell the riot. And so the Mandarin, the man of ultimate authority in the area, called Gladys Aylward and he said, You must go in and stop the riot. Imagine how she felt? Yeah, I mean, you know, she'd never held a gun, she'd never done anything. All she does is walk around up and down the hill preaching Jesus. You go in and stop this riot And she said, Wait, wait, wait, you got this wrong. Why do I go in and the soldiers stay out here? He said, Because you say you have the living God in you. Therefore they can't kill you Glad is trembling, but the gospel is at stake. If I back down from this, I'm finished. They will never believe a word I have to say Lord, can you protect me? And she sensed that God was impelling her in. And she said, okay. And they opened the gates and they let her in and they chopped her to pieces. No, that's not what happened. You thought that's what happened. No. She walked through those gates Trembling, she stood in the courtyard. There were bodies all around her, corpses. One man was coming, had a machete. It just cleaved another guy's skull in two came running straight at her and stopped a few feet short. She looked straight at him and she said, Give me that chopper. He stopped, looked her in the eye, handed over the machete She thought you better seize the moment while she had it. She yelled to all the other men, Get in line! They all stopped fighting. They all lined up And then she started yelling at him like a mother. What's the matter with you guys? What are you doing in here? You should be ashamed of yourself. And they all stood with heads meekly bowed Gladys Aylward became their representative to the Chinese government to improve their condition. She won their hearts, and from that day forward, in China she was called Awadh, the virtuous one. Now I'm not suggesting if you happen upon a riot that you and I just say, Well, we have Elohim living within us and he's the God above all authority Didn't someone just step in? We had a riot on our street once. I called the police. I thought I didn't want to have to prove a point here. But the fact is that when you and I are in the corner, we have a God who is above every earthly power. And we can go to him for our protection. You shall have no other human authorities before me, for I am the strong, faithful one. This word of course is most frequently used when used in the plural of false gods. And that's of course the primary idea of Exodus twenty verse three, you shall have no other gods, false gods before me. It's the idea that he develops uh then in Exodus twenty verse twenty-three. Do not make any gods to be alongside of me. Do not make for yourselves gods of silver or gods of gold. This, of course, is referring to the false ideologies, the false gods that those people worship. Now of course uh you shall have no other gods before me does not mean that I'm to be number one and you can have another God that's number two and one that's number three and one that's number four, just so long as I'm number one. Nobody else can be before me Though Hebrew, of course, it means in my presence. You can have no other God, no other ultimate allegiance in my presence. And that's anywhere And so Elohim is the one who demands absolute allegiance from us. He's the one who has said, My name is to be above every name. Deuteronomy chapter 6. Speaks of him as holding our ultimate allegiance. He's the one who demands that we worship him alone. Now, uh, I've said before that this false gods idea can refer either to ideologies, false beliefs about God, false religions or distortions of Christianity, God is saying here, you shall have no other ideas about God except what I have revealed myself, how I have revealed myself here in Scripture. For anything else is a false God. It's a false religion. When you and I talk about what we believe, we always have to go to the Bible to see what we believe. Otherwise we're putting a false God before Elohim and his presence. But it also can refer to those things in our lives that tentacle like entwine themselves around our hearts. To demand our allegiance and our devotion so that they become false gods to us. How do you tell a false God in your life? I would suggest that one of the best tests to know whether you have a false God in your life is to ask yourself, what if that thing were taken away? In your mind, remove it, as if tomorrow it no longer was in your life. What would happen to your peace and your contentment No, of course you'd grieve. No question about that. But I'm saying, could you still have peace and contentment with Jesus Christ? Or would you be angry at God that he took that out? If that thing would separate you from God and you would be angry at him That you would pout and sulk and say, If you took that out, I'm not going to serve you. If it would divide you, your heart from Jesus Christ, it's an idol, it's a false God. God says, Elohim, the strong, faithful one, says, You shall have no other Elohim, no other false gods before me, demanding your allegiance. It can be so subtle, can't it? The police were once talking about the tactics of a roving band of thieves that would go into stores, and what they would do is they would go in and uh force them Four fives and a couple of them or a few of them would create a big commotion in one part of the store. And everybody's attention would be drawn over to that commotion And meanwhile, while all that was going on, then a couple would slip over to another part of the store. And while everybody's attention was riveted over here, they'd help themselves to the cash register or to a few valuables and stuff things into their pockets and quietly walk out. Nobody was noticing them. I think that oftentimes you and I in our lives are so concerned about some obvious God, something that's sin and something that we have to avoid It's part of the evangelical big three or four, you know, that uh there's these other little things creeping into our lives. Their tentacles are slowly wrapping themselves around our hearts, some person, some thing. Some advancement, something that I've got to have. It becomes a false God to us. And we don't notice it because all our attention is riveted over here on the obvious sins that we discuss. But anything that comes between you and Jesus Christ is a false God. And Elohim says, You'll have no other gods before me. But finally, the word is used to refer to angelic powers. Angelic power. The spiritual beings of the universe. I believe that an example of this is in Psalm 138. In Psalm 138 in verse 1 You read, I will praise you, O Lord, with all my heart. Before the gods, before the Elohim, I will sing your praise I will bow down toward your holy temple and will praise your name for your love and your faithfulness, for you have exalted above all things your name and your word. And now the Elohim that are referred to there in verse 1, many people think are referring to the spiritual powers that are arrayed, watching all that we do. You know that as we sit here worshiping Jesus this morning, Hebrews 12 tells us that all the angels of heaven are gathered around us in this worship, and they are watching us as we worship, and they are joining in that worship. And so there's a host of powers, some good and some evil. Those powers are of incomprehensible strength. They are Elohim, strong ones I think you kids may have the best idea that when you watch in cartoons or in Superman films or anything else like this, these strong supernatural, superhuman powers that are invisible to us mere mortals. The Bible says that there are in fact supernatural powers, that there are in fact mighty angelic spiritual beings throughout the universe, some good and some evil. And they watch what you and I do. And they watch whether we set any other powers before us. The Bible tells us that these mighty powers That when Elohim sent Emmanuel Jesus and he died and rose again. Ephesians 1 tells us that Jesus Is the strong, faithful one who is far above all these other spiritual powers that are arrayed about us to harm us or to help us. For in Ephesians 1 we read, remember, part of our purpose as a church that Dan referred to earlier. Paul says, My purpose, my hope is and prayer is that you would know his incomparably great power, talking about Jesus. That power which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Far above all rule and authority, power and dominion. What's that referring to? Spiritual powers throughout the universe And every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. Now these spiritual powers are arrayed about us. And they are very involved in our lives. Part of uh the involvement of the evil ones is to make us oblivious to them, so that you even chuckle to yourself now and wonder if this is a fairy tale. Until you get involved in occultic activities. We'll find in other cultures and civilizations these powers are very real and very obvious These mighty powers are very evident before you and me. But Jesus is above them all. You're secure, en elohim, for his majesty and might are above all these powers. In fact, chapter 3 of Ephesians tells us that God takes these powers to be an audience. To demonstrate the might of his wisdom in you and me. Look what he says in Ephesians 3. He says in Ephesians 3:10, his intent was that now through the church, you and me, The manifold wisdom of Elohim, God, should be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. That's all these spiritual power, you see. And so that according to his eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus his Lord, these powers would see what? His wisdom. That's what it says. When God wants to take before all the myriad, thousands and millions and countless spiritual powers that are arrayed throughout the universe, he says, I want to show you, mighty ones, the extent of my wisdom. What does he do? Does he show them all the dust mites in your house that he's created? No. Did you show him what he can do to a surgeon wasp who knows the anatomy of a caterpillar, is able to puncture, as we talked about, microscopic nerve centers, and set her eggs on just the right end? No. Does he show them the cosmic stretches of space and all the galaxies and all the solar systems The extent that boggles your mind and my mind, but those angelic powers can go to and from those light year distances, and they can see the extent of Elohim's power. Is that what he uses? No What is he saying in Ephesians 3? He does to impress them with his wisdom. He says, I show them my people. I show them that I created people in my image, and that those people rejected and rebelled against me. And because they were helpless, I made a covenant with my own son, and I sent him to live under that law which I had given that they failed. And he kept that law And then I cursed him. I sent him to the cross. And I separated myself utterly from him. And I killed him. So that through his death they might have life. And he takes all these powers to the cross And at the cross, the wisdom and the might of Elohim are demonstrated. And so you, weak, helpless child of God. Are the ultimate demonstration of the wisdom of Elohim. For you have been forgiven, you have been changed, you've been given life, and you're going to be made like Jesus. And God says, that's because I am the strong, faithful one. But you're still in a battle. For some of these powers look down with a gaze of adoration. And others look down with a glare of hatred. And they want to tempt you to sin and to disobey Jesus. And they want to discourage your trust in Him. That they want to get you to compromise this week and not serve him with all your heart. So Paul goes on in the sixth chapter of Ephesians, and he refers one last time to these powers. And he tells us in Ephesians chapter 6 verse 12 that our struggle, brothers and sisters, is not against flesh and blood But it's against the rulers, the Elohim, you see, the authorities, against the powers of this dark world, and against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly realm And so he says in verse 13, therefore you better put on the full armor of God. How sad to see a Christian who says, I can live the Christian life without being part of a body of believers. Without meditating on God's word on a daily basis, without learning the habit of prayer in everything that I do, I can do it. You watch one after another fall by the wayside. For if you and I are to stand in the power of Elohim, we've got to put on the full armor of his might. Read that armor today, and know that that armor is sufficient. For all of your struggles this week. For Elohim will never leave you and he'll never forsake you. Worship His Majesty. Be loyal to His Majesty. Be secure in His Majesty. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. How we thank you that we have a strong, faithful one who is above every power on this earth or in the heavens. That we are secure because your name is upon us. But Lord, many of us haven't taken refuge in you, or we've been distracted by the false gods of this world. And we want to come back in this moment of quiet to take our refuge in you, and for some Lord, it may be the first time ever in our lives. We want to trust you and not ourselves. Hear us in Jesus' name. Amen