I'm gonna try and get a hold of myself first. That song was just sung. I learned when I was yet an unbeliever. Because we used to sing it when I was a Boy Scout out in wrestling grass and all kinds of places. Because my scoutmaster was the first person that ever proclaimed the gospel to me. And I can't not cry when I sing that song. All right. Um we're going to think about Romans 8, 31 to 39 this morning. And the reason that we're going to do that is last week Pastor P. D. preached on Romans 3, 21 to 26, to help us see that God is indeed gracious. And how is it possible that he can be gracious? What we're going to be working on today and even the next several sermons that I'll be preaching here are trying to think about some implications of that. What are some implications of the fact that God is gracious? Today, we're going to deal with the fact that God isn't judging me or you, his child, any longer. So let's uh read Romans chapter 8 and uh we'll jump in. Let's hear God's word What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No. No. In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth Nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, thank you that you worked in my life in such a way that this word of grace came to me. Might we, might I continue to learn it And enjoy it. And live inside of your grace. Help us to understand that we are not being judged by you. Because stunningly, you judged your son in our place Help this get deep inside of us, that we might think of you rightly, and particularly think rightly about what you think of us. Help us now, Holy Spirit. Open this word you've given. Use me, please. In Jesus' name. Amen. So we're going to deal today with the fact that God isn't judging me anymore. What this means is that as God's amazed child, I don't have to feel like my life is one big performance. Slaving for God's approval. You might remember that in Luke 15, the parable of the well We call it the parable of the prodigal son, but it's really a parable about two sons. That's how the story starts. A man had two sons. Do you remember what the older brother says after the father receives the prodigal back in? The older brother comes to the father and says, mm-mm-mm. You can see the finger wagging in the text if you look carefully. Mm-mm-mm-mm-mm. You're getting this all wrong, Dad. This is all wrong. He didn't perform, I performed. In fact, I've been slaving for you. And that's what the text says. He got it wrong. He misunderstood God being gracious, me being the glad and grateful recipient of God's grace, what that means is that performing by me Is unneeded because it's been done. It's been done by Jesus, who performed in my place What it means for me though is if I can get inside of this, if I can believe it, if I'm willing to own it for myself and enjoy it, is freedom. If I understand this, then not only do I know that God isn't judging me, but there's some other implications, and this is why this is the first one that we'll carry on in latter sermons with. If God isn't judging me, then I find the freedom for me not to judge me. I find the freedom to not have to perform for myself. I start to look at me like God does. That's the next sermon that we'll look at. But then there's more that are down the road, right? If I view myself the way that God does, then I can actually stop living under the judgmental eye of other people. I don't have to perform for them. And in fact, I don't have to make them this will be a latter later sermon, I don't have to make them perform for me. Like I I stop judging them too. To kind of put this together of where we're headed, if God isn't judging me, I don't have to perform for Him, for me, or for others. That, friends, is real freedom. As we get towards the end of this little mini-series, we'll think in some depth about not having to seek for people's approval. Because what I think that I'll get if I perform well for other people If I understand the gospel correctly, I already have what we seek there. And so I don't need it because I already have it from God. Okay, that's where we're headed today. What we're going to do is we're going to try and figure out the beginning of these implications of God being gracious to us for the sake of Christ. And so we're going to start today thinking about the fact that God is no longer judging his children. You can't do something to get out of God's family. Let me see if we explain it in the way that feels most rich to me. When God all those years ago, using that Scoutmaster and other Christian friends to speak the gospel to me When all that was going on, and when I first, God's Spirit worked in me, and I first came to repentance in faith. This is uh fall of 1989. Let's call it October, for just a marker's sake. When God drew me into his family in the fall of 1989 He knew the mess that I was going to be, including the mess that I am today. He knew all of it, every single bit of it Every detail of it, including the things that I'm 51, almost 52, all the things that I am yet to do He knew all of that prospectively of the mess that I was going to be, and he drew me into his family. You can't surprise him with how much you've messed up. He already knew it all. That's why you needed him. That's why he drew you into his family. That's why he gave up his son. Because it's what I needed and it's what you needed. God knew all that you do, He knew all of your junk, He knew all of your unbelief, which leads you and me to sin, and He chose to bring you into His family. Now, if that sinks down deep in your heart, it'll change you. It'll free you. Because it rightly adjusts your conception of God in really helpful ways. Well, that's what I hope that we can see from Romans 8. So let's jump in in verse 31 and first think about the fact that you should know that God isn't against you. Look at verse 31 with me. What then shall we say to these things? We're in chapter 8, Romans in particular. Probably Paul's thinking about what's happened from what he's been talking about from Romans 5 until now. What do we say To this great gospel, to not being under to begin verse or chapter 8, that we're no longer under God's condemnation. What do we say to these things? Well, here's the way that the Spirit inspired Paul to put it. If God is for us, and he is. God is for us and he is. This is the first of four whose. Who can be against us? Expect an answer? No one. He well well, why is that? How could that possibly be? That God is no longer against me when if I go all the way back to chapter one And two, I discover, hmm, there is good reason for God to be against me. Because I've done that long list of sins at the end of chapter one. That's me. Guilty. How is it that God could not be against me? Verse 32. He who did not spare his own son. This is an important sort of look back all the way back to Genesis 22, and you might remember the scene where God calls Abraham to sacrifice his son Isaac. And in that case, the sun is spared. And in this case, the sun is not spared. Which is stunning. I have you probably heard me say this. Um, I have three sons. You can't have any of them Mine. My sons. Pray for them this morning because they were all baptized. Those promises were spoken over them. But this father, this father, doesn't spare his own son How do you know that God's not against you? He didn't spare his son. What did he do instead? He gave us gave him up. This is also a rich phrase. We can't dive into all of it, but this is the this phrase it repeats through the New Testament. It's the giving over of Jesus. To death. He gave him up for us all, for those who are coming to Christ in repentance and faith. Now, if God does that, how will he, second half of verse 32, how will he not also with him graciously? Grace upon grace, give us all things, everything that we need for life and godliness. Won't God give that to us because He's for us? Now how do you know that God's not against you? Because he spared his own son in your place. He's not against you, he's for you. He proved it once and for all by giving up his son for your sake, for my sake, because it's what we most needed. I did say though that this is for people. This is for us all. Who are the all that's there? Paul is writing to the church in Rome to people who are saying, To a congregation of people saying, I need Jesus. I'm turning from my sins. I'm trusting in Christ. I need Jesus. And Paul saying to them, He gave us up. He gave him up for us all. Have you admitted your need for Jesus? Has you heard those vows? That the Pescatrices took. Could you say that for yourself? I I'm in need of a new heart. I'm in need of the cleansing blood of Jesus. Can you say that for yourself? Have you begun that daily repentance and faith lifestyle? If you are, If you're repenting daily, you're trusting in Christ, you're letting him call the shots through his revealed will in the Bible. If you've got a new master. Not only is God not against you, He's for you. And because God's for you You should realize then, second, that no one can charge you. No one can charge you. Look at verse 33 with me. Second, who? Who? Expected answer? No one. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect Well, you can't, because it's God who justifies. This is an incredibly important word, justifies the concept is uh the ideas of declaring someone righteous. We're not declared righteous because of how wonderful we are. We're declared righteous because we're coming to Jesus needy and sinful and saying, I need you. And Jesus takes our sin on himself and dies for it. And we get his righteousness, his perfect record, his performing perfectly. We get that record. And on that basis, God says, Righteous, imputed righteousness. Who could bring a charge when God's already justified? Who is to condemn? Verse 34, 32. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that, who was raised. So this is super important. There's like several really important things in here that we get like 30 seconds. So we talked a lot about Jesus dying. Super important, never want to diminish it. We need to talk more about the things that are beyond that in this text. At least as much as Jesus dying. Because if Jesus doesn't rise, Jesus rising accomplishes two main things Paul points out, one is it shows that Jesus' sacrifice on behalf of us was accepted by the Father. That's one thing. The second thing is Jesus rising is the beginning. Of something brand new. It's the beginning of what Paul calls the regeneration of the cosmos. He's the first fruits of what's going to happen. If he doesn't rise, we don't have hope that any of this is going to get any better. We need him rising. We need more than that, though. We need him more than that. See how Paul says that? Died more than that, who was raised. Okay, so he's raised. That's great See what it says next. Who is at the right hand of God? Okay, that's his location. But what's he doing? Who indeed is interceding for us. Um this is an undertaught. Sadly, it's an undertaught. um piece of um doctrine that in one sense jesus' work is completed he lives perfectly he died horribly he rose Gloriously, he ascended victoriously, and he sits at God's right hand, and he prays for you For you, as an individual, for you Every single one of you. One by one. Eventually maybe we'll preach Romans two. We'll see. I don't if I'm gonna get there while I'm here, but It's it's one-to-one that God relates to you. And Jesus prays for you. He intercedes for you personally and individually. This is an inestimably wonderful, wonderfully complex. Comforting piece of doctrine. No one can charge you Why? No creature can rightly accuse you successfully Not Satan, not you, certainly not another person. Your status with God is secure. You can't be condemned. Remember the beginning of chapter 8? Let's see if I can get there quick, the old iPad Bible. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. You can't be condemned. No one can charge you. God certainly isn't, because he's already charged his son in your place. So no creature can and God's not planning on it. Sometimes we keep charging ourselves. We'll we'll work on that, promise. But God is not. God's not charging you. Because He's already charged His Son in your place Which is why you can and should, then third, enjoy being free of God's judgment. You should enjoy being free of God's judgment. Judgment. Look at me at verse 35. Fourth who? Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Expect an answer? No one. And then he gives you the list of all the possible ways that you thought maybe you could be separated from the love of Christ. But they can't. But he gives them to you anyways, just so you know that none of them can. Tribulation? Eh. Distress? Uh-uh. Persecution? Nope. Famine? Not gonna do it. Nakedness? Embarrassing, but not going to separate you from the love of Christ. Danger? Scary, but not going to separate you from the love of Christ. Sword? Oh, you get to experience the love of Christ sooner. Fully And those are possibilities, friends. Just have to pick up stuff about martyrs, past or present. You just have to look at other Western countries. Have you read about in England people being arrested for praying? Outside of an abortion clinic? Arrested for praying. Outside an abortion clinic. Just to our north. I live two hours from Canada. Just to our north. The speech from the pulpit is policed. Australia, too. It's not far. We think it's far. It's not far. It's possible. Perhaps even likely. If church history proves it out. But can those things separate you from the love of Christ? They can't. As it was written, For your sake, we've been killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. Can that separate us from the love of Christ? No. That's a really weak translation, in my opinion. I mean, yeah, that's the word, but it doesn't give the the punch to it. Right? No. My daughter and I have a something that we do when we go to bed and she is walking out of our bedroom to head to her bed. They've told us before. We'll do this exchange. Love you. Love you more. Love you most. Impossible. That's what this should say. Impossible. Impossible. So what is our status when we face all of those things? Doesn't that break us from the love of Christ, but what is it like for what's our status with God? How are we to think of it? In, another very important word. In, not despite, but in, in the midst of, while they're happening We are more than conquerors. Super conquerors. It's also hard to translate. We're conquerors how? Well, it's because we get so strong, of course. Because we're awesome, right? No. Through him who loved us. We're dependent conquerors. We're conquerors by the Spirit, by the power of the Spirit that works within us. That same spirit who raised Jesus from the dead is at work in you. We know very I know very little of that. But we could use to know more. And then just just to be sure that you get it, just so that you can really enjoy being free of God's judgment. Paul goes on in verse 38. For I'm sure that's a way of describing what faith looks like. I'm sure that neither death nor life, and these are meant to be scripturally the fancy word that Bible teachers use as mirrorisms, is it's trying to get you the two extremes and say that it's them and everything in the middle. So that neither death nor life, angels nor rulers, things present or things to come, powers, height, depth, and just in case I missed something, anything else in creation. None of it will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Here's the way I put that together for my little simple brain. The creator won't The Creator Redeemer will not separate us from the love of God, and nothing in creation can. You simply cannot be separated from the love of God in Christ Jesus. our Lord. That's what it means to not be under the judgment of God. So how do you enjoy being free of God's judgment? It's not possible for you to get separated from the love of God if you've begun that life, salvage, repentance, and faith. God has opted you and His family with full knowledge of the mess that I am and the mess that you are. He doffs us in with full knowledge. And that's fixed and forever. Now why don't we feel this sometimes? That's the truth. It's the obvious Obvious truth of scripture. Why don't we feel that sometimes? I think it's because, at least Pastor Leaf found through Through decades of ministry, that it's because of a common confusion. And here's the common confusion: it's people confusing their progress in their faith, what we call sanctification. from the beginning of relating to God, of their justification, of being brought into the family of God. So we get Where we don't feel this because we confuse justification and sanctification. And thankfully our catechism helps us with this. So I'm going to read a question and I'm going to try and read the answer in a way that's helpful. Because this is the larger catechism, it's pretty detailed, but it's actually very, very good. This is Westminster Larger Catechism 77. What's the difference between justification My being declared righteous and brought in adopted into God's family, right? What's the from the beginning of my Christian life Right? The Spirit gives me a new heart. What's the difference between justification and sanctification of my progress in faith? Alright, here we go. Although sanctification is inseparably joined to justification, the two are distinctly different. They're different things. In justification, God imputes the righteousness of Christ to believers. In sanctification, his Spirit infuses believers with grace. And enables them to use it. In the former, in justification, sin is pardoned. In the latter, sanctification, it is subdued. It was beautiful that we sang about the double cure. Cleanse me from sin's guilt and its power. The one justification exempts all believers equally and completely From the avenging anger and condemnation of God in this life. The other, sanctification, does not work equally. In all believers. Nor is it completed in any believer in this life, but only grows toward perfection So here's why this is important to get right. Most of us, we're thinking God's judging us because we're judging ourselves because our sanctification isn't going the way that we hoped it would. I'll say that again. Most of us think that God is judging us because we are judging ourselves because our sanctification isn't going the way we would like it to. And so we take what we feel about ourselves and we assume that that's true about the way that God feels about us. Does that make sense? But it's also dead wrong. And incredibly unhelpful. Because your justification is not based on your sanctification. Your justification is based on Jesus and how he did. And best I can tell, he did perfectly. See, his not sinning is doubly important because he not only didn't sin, but he did every single thing that his father asked him to. Every single thing. And he did that for you and for me. And that's the record we have. As we cling to Christ, as we turn from our sins, and we cling to Jesus with desperate faith, that's the record we have before God. That's justification. God knows that our sanctification was going to be messy. He knew all of it. He still brought us into family based on what his son did. Not how we did, how we're doing, or how we're going to do, but based on how his son did, which is why he's not judging you anymore. Our justification isn't based on how our sanctification is going. When should you be worried? There are some people who should be worried. There are probably people in this room that are truly not Christians, if this is a common congregation of people. There are people more than likely here who are actually not justified. You might be church members. Everyone might think you're a Christian. You might think you're a Christian. How do you know? Do you have interest in making progress? Do you have interest in making progress? Do you have interest in your sanctification? Because interest in your sanctification is a good indicator of your justification. The people that I get worried about pastorally are not the people who are frustrated with their progress. Because that tells me that more than likely they're justified because they're struggling. It's the people that aren't struggling that worry me. If you don't have an interest in making progress in the faith, if there's no demonstrable difference in your life from five years ago, If your heart for God, your desire to turn from sin, is not growing, that is a problem. But the problem is not that you're not working hard enough at sanctification, the problem may be that you don't have a new heart. You may actually have a justification problem, and it's worth looking carefully to see if that's the case If you are concerned about that, please see one of the elders, see PD or I. We'd love to talk to you about that because it is critically important that you know whether you're actually trusting in Christ and turning. from sin. That is critically important. For many of us, though, we tend to switch these two around, justification and sanctification. And we think, I'm not sure I'm justified because my sanctification, man, it's like it's uneven, it's two steps forward and one step back. Sometimes it's two steps forward and three steps back, and I'm kind of like, man. Blah. How do you how do you manage that? What I have found, and I think it's why, remember, Paul writes this letter to a group like you. He writes this letter to a congregation. Why? Why does he write this letter to a congregation of Christians? Ah, now you're beginning to get it if you start to think about that. Because Christians have always struggled with this From the beginning, from 2,000 years ago when this letter was written. People have always struggled with this, and they needed to re-hear the gospel in a way that they go, oh yeah, that's right. My justification is not based on my sanctification. My justification is based on Jesus. And actually, it's my reflecting on my justification. That helps me make progress in my sanctification. That's why Paul always repreaches the gospel. You notice that in every letter. They've got a problem. He knows they've got a problem. He's going to get to dealing with the problem that they have. But the first thing that he does is he re-preaches the gospel to them in a way that they need. So that their hearts will be different, so that their lives will be different. God's interest is in you getting this right. God's call to us is to enjoy being free of his judgment To enjoy it, to get inside of it, that we've been delivered from our guilt by God's grace. And that should yield for us thankfulness. And that thankfulness, yes, ought to move towards a desire to obey. Because we're his kids, and his rules are good for us, and so we want to obey. We want to, because he calls us to, to, because we've been loved, to love God and to love neighbor. And in particular, to speak the gospel to neighbor, because that's the best way to love them. Because their greatest need is Jesus too But see, we don't we won't do that. Unless we think his love is real, that his grace is for me, and that I'm enjoying it. And so I give it away. I give it away easily, freely, enjoyably. Because we can go to people and go, you wouldn't believe this. gospel. You may have heard that word, but you have no idea how wonderful it is. Let me tell you about God and His grace. That's why it's critical that you enjoy. So what's the what's the walk away? Well, the title says it. Enjoy being free of God's judgment. Would you consider that? Would you ask for that? Would you ask that God would help you enjoy being free of His judgment You know, that's part of the reason why we come to the Lord's table. You see, if we have this needy trust in Christ, we're turning from sin, we're turning to Jesus, we're saying, I need you. I need you a lot. I need you to work in me, Holy Spirit. If we come to Christ, this needy trust, then you should love this table. You should love This is the place where God loves to meet his people, so that we would hear anew from God. And this is, I try and say this carefully. I'm not judging you. I'm not against you. In fact, I'm for you. No one can charge you in my presence because my very own risen son is interceding individually for you, right here at my right hand That's what you should hear when you come to this table. Let's pray. Father This is a lot for us to take in. It's a lot for me to even try and say. Holy Spirit, show us from the word that these things are true and they're ours. As we trust in Jesus, turning from our sins because we want to, because we found them empty in Jesus glorious Convince us, Father, that we're not under your judgment, that our lives would be different. That we would think about you different. So that we might think about ourselves and others differently. Help us too, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.