It's good to be with you. Um this is the At the same time, uh one of the most fun attributes to preach and one of the most difficult. Um it's the most fun because it um it i i for me at least it it um displays the the grandeur of God um in quite wonderful ways because it it focuses in on the uh distance between God and I But that's also why it's difficult, because it highlights the distance between God and I, which I don't like. But we'll we'll think about that as we go. So Psalm 147 in the first six verses, the heading here is important that you'll find it in, at least it is in the ESV, He Heals the Brokenhearted. Remember, those aren't inspired. They're just there to help us sort of get the sense of it. So let's hear Psalm 147, verses 1 through 6. Praise the Lord. For it is good to sing praises to our God, for it is pleasant, and a song of praise is fitting. The Lord builds up Jerusalem, he gathers the outcasts of Israel He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. He determines the number of the stars and he gives to all of them their names. Great is our Lord and abundant in power. His understanding is beyond measure. The Lord lifts up the humble. He casts the wicked to the ground. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, this uh psalm uh it's pretty obvious that the reaction of the psalmist to knowing That your understanding is beyond measure is to praise. And yet so often that is not my first move And perhaps it's not the first move of my friends here. We tend to like to think about how much we know. And argue with you about what you know that we don't know, and dispute with you about what we've come to know that you already know, but we don't like. So we do the opposite of the reaction here that you call us to. To humble ourselves and entrust ourselves to you. Convince us that we're wrong. Convince me that I'm wrong. Show us your glory. That we might trust you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Um very much appreciated Wayne's um uh sync up without knowing it with what I was gonna preach this morning. The Lord seems to do that numerous times in across liturgists, and I'm very, very thankful. that it's such an obvious work of the spirit. All of us have areas of our thinking where we are proud. where we think we understand, where we have things together. And because we do, we don't need gone. I got this. What are those areas for you? What are those areas where you're thinking you think You understand you got it. Sorry, Lord, you got more important things to do than this. What are those areas of thought for you? You see, uh the reason that I highlight this for myself and for you, I realize it's a very blunt question. You did after all hire a New Yorker. Um God's knowing of everything is only useful to you. If you're humble. It only works for you if you humble yourself. It doesn't work for the proud. Which is why so often it doesn't work for me, frankly, because I'm proud. What God does with his knowledge is beautiful. We're told here he heals the brokenhearted, he lifts the humble. And so the question that you're confronted with as we try and apply this doctrine, PD spent some time last week trying to help you understand the doctrine of God's omniscience, this trait of God and his all-knowing, and I'll review that uh very, very briefly. But um So so what? God's like that. What difference does it make for tomorrow? For this afternoon For the argument that I end up having with my wife or my kid or my coworker. So what? My wife's question always rings in my ear. So what, Matt? Why does it matter? What God does with his knowledge is beautiful. He lifts the humble He does something else with the proud. Here labeled as the wicked. Are you one of the humble? In the Psalms, the righteous, the humble, they're the ones that are repenting and believing. They're the ones that know their sins and they're turning from them. They've stopped trying to save themselves. They've stopped trying to live as though they were their own. And instead they've come and they've trusted in Christ and they've said, I'm not my own. I want to belong to you. I belong to you. So is that you? Are you repenting and believing the gospel anew every day? Submitting yourself to God, humbling yourself, seeking his help. And if you are, the promise of this text is that God will lift you up because that's what he does with his knowledge of all things. Is he lifts the humble? Yeah, we'll get there. I promise. That's down at the bottom of the text. But let's let's review a little bit first. Let's first agree with God's praiseworthiness. Let's agree with God's praiseworthiness. Look with me. I'm just going to kind of trip you through these first four verses here. Praise the Lord. Um praise commanded? Don't I have to don't you have to feel it? I'll just leave you to think about that. Why would praise be commanded? For it is good to sing praises to our God. It's appropriate. It's good for us to do part of what we were made for. We were made to praise God. So it's good for us too. It's good for us. It is, for it is pleasant. You're kind of like, it's not pleasant when I open my mouth. And I would say that it's that I think worship is an acquired taste. It wasn't always for me. When I first came to Christ, I can remember feeling very Small and I didn't know how to sing because we didn't grow up with music in my house. And so it i it was difficult. Um I also stand before you're testimony that you can grow in this. It's pleasant because it's fitting. Song of praise is fitting. Why is it fitting? Because God's worth it Right. Why is it worth it? Verse 2 goes on. The Lord builds up Jerusalem. The Psalm, it's not clear necessarily what the background is, but perhaps this is after the exile and he's He's rebuilding up literally the structures of Jerusalem. But certainly it's not just that, because he also gathers the outcasts of Israel. This word gathers is very, very um interesting. Maybe you've heard the stories that um mama birds, uh if there's a we I live in the west, we have wildfires. Mama birds will take their chicks and put them underneath their wings and hold them in like this. She gathers them and protects them. And occasionally firefighters will find a crispy mom and live chicks. Because they will have they will have gathered and protected and defended. And this is the picture that you're meant to see is that God gathers the outcasts. Now it's a very interesting word. It's very evocative. It's, I think, meant to not only to move us in terms of God's character and the way that he works, he sees, he knows. He cares. He acts. If you feel like an outcast here, if you're in a live stream, you're listening to this years later. You feel like an outcast. This is the God for you. It should also move us if God's like that. Then we ought to be the ones who look for the outcasts is what Jesus did fairly obviously. And so it should mark us as well He heals the brokenhearted. The brokenhearted in scripture, sometimes it's because they're experiencing sadness. I appreciated the reading of Job this morning because I, you know, Job, shh a man. He's wrestling through why why is this happening to me? What's going on? Where's up? Right? And so God comes along and he heals the sadness in in a very, very interesting way. With the doctrine of himself. He heals Job's sadness. With a bigger view of God, God heals Job's sadness. We don't often think that way. But we might be better off if we did. He heals the brokenhearted He does this many times by his spirit that we uh we the God of all comfort has granted to us one whose name is Comforter. One of the ho one of Holy Spirit's names also is comforter. So he works directly by his Spirit to restore our hearts. And he does it many times through his people. How many times have you been buttressed and held up by God's people coming alongside of you and encouraging you and simply being there with you? This is how God does it. He binds up their wounds. Now, as you get to verse 4, you're kind of like, oh, this has been really good so far, and you're like, and he determines the numbers of the stars, and you're like. But um that was kind of a a did did somebody like skip ahead in the movie or something? Right? Like how did we go how do we go from this to this? Because this isn't the way, the way this psalm, the logic of this psalm is not the logic many times of our heads and our hearts. We don't see any relationship between my heart being healed and the doctrine of God. We don't see those as like hit interfacing at all. They are other, but that is not the way the scriptures think about it. The way that God attempts to show himself to us in the Bible is to say, if you knew me well, your heart would be better. That's the move of the scriptures towards us. That's God's move towards us. That's why this isn't disjunctive at all. This isn't a skip jump. This is inextricably linked. He determines the number of the stars. This is going to be a little mind-bending here for a couple of minutes, but it's worth it, I promise. Remember the overall view of reality that we get from the scriptures is that there are that the nature of reality is two There's the God who existed. We don't have language to capture this because we're time-bound, but before he made the world, God existed. So there's God and there's the world that he made. So God the creator and the creation. The nature of reality is two, right? Okay, so God created from nothing everything. Which means that every single star is a handmade original. Maybe I've mentioned this already, but I have loved um that the James Webb Webb telescope is is up and operating. It's the best thing since sliced bread. You've seen some of these pictures? Now I want you to imagine something with me. There was a great picture that came out from the James Webb telescope this week. It's can messing up with all kinds of theories and I'm like Good. Um, but you send these pictures and we're like, holy cow, that is so incredible. And I'd like you to imagine with me God looking over your shoulders, you look at that picture and he goes, yeah. That's a nice one. I like that. Have fun with that one. Because it's exactly true of each and every single one of them Every single one. He determines the number of the stars, but it's more than that. It's not just something to the X power, right? He gives to all of them their names. So we look at the James Webb telescope and we see some it was a d was a dwarf star this week or something that they didn't know was there or whatever. And God goes, yeah, I have fun making that one. His name is And he speaks the name of a language that doesn't exist yet. For us, in our piece of time. It's yet to come about in another, I don't know, couple hundred years. Or it's a name from a language that died out a thousand years ago. Because God has knowledge of all those languages too. There's a comprehensiveness about God's knowledge. You're meant to see here that God and the world that He made, God Um, the world that he made because he's like this, that it's beautiful, it's creative, even an unlimited creativity. My wife and I have four children. Perhaps those of you who got children, um you remember all of the wrestling with names and the flowing out of baby book names and trying to make sure that family members were not offended and all this kind of stuff or whatever. We struggle or four names, four names. I told you the story about my daughter's naming. Yes not. Um my boys are older than my daughter. Um so three older boys, twenty-two, twenty, eighteen, and my daughter's twelve and a half. And they were old enough to go in the sonogram room and um when my wife was uh we were figured out what sex was the baby and um so the boys are in there and tonogram text us it's a girl And my wife and I had been, well, particularly I had been waiting for a girl. But the first name that we'd ever picked out was Abigail. Beautiful Bible name. Right. Okay. And so we say, oh great, it's a girl. Her name will be Abigail. Now my boys are Jacob, Jesse, and Joseph. And my wife's Julianne. Somebody got to meet her. And the boys looked at us, and there was a mutiny. It can't be Abigail. It has to be a J. And that's how she ended up as Joy Abigail. See, we we even the minor beautiful, but minor and fun, naming a child. And I I don't think they have figured out the number of the stars. We we haven't. Perhaps we'll never. But that number is known by God because he made each one a handmade original and he gave each one of them their names And it wasn't hard. He wasn't breathing hard afterwards. It wasn't even a challenge. Such as his ability We are to agree that God is praiseworthy. And so we worship the powerful, all-knowing God. Verse 5: Great is our God. You just saw it, heard it. Abundant in power. You can make all the stars and name them. And the way to understand this, a way of collecting his greatness, his abundance, his wonder, is that his understanding is beyond measure. You can't get to the bottom of it. There's no bottom He has true and full understanding. The human mind, they believe, can hold about 300 exabytes of information. The internet in 2020 was Forty zettabytes and growing by a lot every day. Those seem like big numbers. To us. God's like Is that all you got? He's not limited. Not in his knowledge or understanding. He's great, he's abundant power, his knowledge is beyond measuring, which is why you're encouraged to then three entrust yourself to the God who knows all. Now again, disjunctive seemingly for us, verse 6, the Lord lifts up the humble. He casts the wicked to the ground. We'll look at both of these. Who are the humble? Those who see and receive their limits and look to God. In faith. That's what the study Bible, I think. You can't put it better than that. So why I said it. Those who see and receive their limits and look to God in faith. That's the humble. Why would we react To God being like this with a chosen posture, a desired path of walking in humility Let's ponder that a little bit. God knows everything about you. That's what Psalm 139 wonderfully says. He knows all about you and cares. It's like you made each star, handmade original, it's got a name. You do too. In fact, some future sermon I'll I'll do Romans or I'll do um Revelation 2. 17, which is this incredibly beautiful, wonderful passage about God's tender care for each one of us who are his children. God knows all about you and cares. What does he do with his knowledge of you? He notes your humility in placing yourself into his hands and he lifts you up. Why humility? Humility should be the first of the practical consequences of us knowing God is omniscient, that he knows everything. Maybe you've had the experience where you thought you knew a subject pretty well. Uh and then you met a true expert and felt very small. You had that experience? This is how we should feel before God and His omniscience. It should cause us to feel small If now if we don't rebel against that and we don't hate that and we don't insist on being big, which are sometimes we do, if we're honest. If we allow ourselves to feel small, it will cause us to think and to speak humbler. It has the effect of diminishing trust in myself because I see and receive my limitations. And instead I entrust myself to God increasingly. Our temptation is to want to have this kind of knowledge that God has. At least is my temptation. Um, I can't, I was pondering this morning. Um the reason that I can't that I can no longer read the mystery novels that I voraciously read as a child and as a teenager is I can't bear with not knowing the end. Even mystery shows on TV, which I love, or movie, I have to finish it. My little puny creaturely heart cannot bear with not knowing. Tears me up. And this is my problem. I refuse to humble myself and to be small And to be okay not knowing. Jen Wilkins, so helpful, her chapter on omniscience. Our comfort lies, this is Wilkins, our comfort lies not in holding all knowledge, but in trusting the one who does. Encouraging you to entrust yourself to the God who knows all. With what should we trust God? And let me just trip through a couple of headings. With what should we trust God? The first thing that we should entrust God with is our sinfulness and our sins. The first thing that we should entrust God with is our sinfulness and our sins. 1 John 3. 20. For whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything. And I'm like, He knows everything about me? It's good that you don't know everything about me. It's actually good for all of us that we don't know everything about each other. That'd be bad. Be bad life. And yet, even though there exists a 24-hour-a-day video of your life with the soundtrack as your internal voice that exists. Thankfully not a meter, huh? But that 24-hour day video of your life with the soundtrack is your internal voice that you'd want no one to see. Because all of us would get canceled by each other if you could see and hear it. God's already seen it. God's already seen it. He's seen all of it. One of the virtues of getting older is that you become better acquainted with your sinfulness. Which provides two oper two two possible paths to you as you become more acquainted with your sinfulness. One possible path is that you become depressed and cynical and you you grow hopeless and bitter. And you grow farther from the Lord and people. You're like, I this isn't, I signed up for victory. The other path, much more wonderful by the way, that I commend to you. Is that you grow increasingly in your sense of how great is the grace of the Lord towards you? God's grace is way bigger than I thought it was when I was eighteen. We entrust to God our sinfulness and our sins. God is greater than our heart and he knows everything. He's watched the tape. He's already seen it. It's why he sent his son for us. Now, I recognize that if you're someone whose senses they're like, if your sense is oh, that tape exists I hope nobody sees it including God. Because that would be bad I recognize that that, if you're not trusting in Christ today, that's actually pretty scary. This is why the gospel comes to you as a kind plea from God It's kind for God to say, uh repent. Um, yeah, I I know you've been trying to do it yourself. The tape reveals that. The tape shows that. But I made you and I know what's best for you, and you know this path has been destructive and harmful. It has not offered you the goodness or identity that you thought you would get Turn from that. That's where repentance is. And would you turn to me because I offer you all that you had been looking for? I give to you through my son. Turn to him. The gospel is a kind plea from God to repent and believe. The gospel is secured by a father who loves sinners like us so much that he gave up his son. A son who knew the pain that grace would cost and wanted to bear it. This is comforting if you're one who's trusting in Christ, just like you don't tell God anything new by your prayer requests, though it's still good for you to offer them. God enjoys relating to you, hearing your heart. He delights in it actually. He bends his ear down to listen when you pray. But you don't tell God anything new by confessing your sins. He saw all from his exalted vantage point. This is the very reason he said his love on you because there would have been no hope for me or for you otherwise. This is meant, this kind of knowledge is meant to humble us, friends, to realize that we are beggars of mercy and grace, and we have the privilege of telling other beggars where to find the bread of life. This should help us to confess. our sins, our guilt, and our shame to God and to others who get it. Not to others who are going to throw it back at us, but to others who also get it, so that you might be healed. When you come to God in confession I want you to remember that what you're supposed to hear is something akin to this. I know. I know it's bad that heart of yours. But I gave my son for you. It's my delight to count his perfect life as yours and his death. By what all rights you deserve, I love you and give grace to you. That is what you are supposed to hear when you come to this table in a couple of minutes. That's what you're supposed to hear. So, you trust God with your sinfulness and sins. You trust Him with others' sins. You trust him with others' sins. God cares enough to know that which was previously secret To perhaps all but the perpetrator. That's what Romans 2. 16 says, that one day all will be made visible and God will do justice. You can entrust God with other people's sins. Why does this help us? Jen Wilkins says, this keeps us from the temptation to meddle. Because we can trust that God has also noted other people's sins. He's seen their faults. He's seen the mistakes that we've made. We don't have to fix all things now, of which I am terribly guilty. God will do justly, very justly, after having missed nothing. Hebrews 4 13, and no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. God has not missed a single sin done against you. And he will do justly. You can entrust yourself to him. Your worries. Zingerline from Jen Wilken. Rather than casting all your anxieties on the internet, guilty! Rather than casting all your anxieties in the internet, which cares for no man, cast them on God, for he cares for you. 1 Peter 5. 7. Warriors, I'm with you. And yet you nor I have added to our height or length or days. By our worry. In fact, we may well have shortened our lives by proudly thinking we could nowhere predict the future when that information isn't open to creatures. Helpfully, Jen Wilken pointed me towards Psalm 131. O Lord, my heart is not lifted up, my eyes are not raised too high, I do not occupy myself with things too great and too marvelous for me. But I have calmed and quieted my soul like a weaned child with its mother, like a weaned child is my soul within me. O Israel, hope in the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. Not in Google, not in your predictions or anxieties of what may come. Which I would note, if you're at all like me, typically distract us from profitably engaging what's actually in front of us today. Not in Google, not in your predictions or anxieties of what may come, but in the Lord, who knows and loves his people despite what he knows. For the sake of his son, he's worth trusting. And so let's come to his table, delighting in our Father, and trusting ourselves to his loving, merciful care as we humble ourselves. Let's do that in prayer. Father, we I we um tend to occupy ourselves with things that are too lofty for us. We get too big for our britches rather frequently. We react poorly to what you know and we don't when we don't like that. Uh convince us is good convince us it is good that you are the way that you are. Help us to follow the logic that we saw this morning That our knowing of you, that your understanding is beyond measure, would move us to entrust ourselves to you. Because you're trustworthy. And you're good. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.