Share with you uh about what the Lord, our Lord, is uh doing in uh the work in in China and even spilling over from China across the border into the entirely closed, until now, country of North Korea. I'm excited about what the Lord is doing here among you. Our Lord is a mighty God, and He is uh pleased when his people gather um in any nation, in this nation, uh to worship him and to give him praise, uh to bring to him their sacrifices of obedient lives. to him. And as we do so, he glorifies his own name in our midst, and beginning from this place, even through our prayers and our giving and our sending. to the very end of the earth. So I'm excited about what the Lord is doing and about what the Lord will, even more about what the Lord in addition wants to do through you. Now I'd like to open the word of the Lord together with you. And as I do, I pray that the Lord by His Holy Spirit will bless you and me as we study together. 2 Timothy Chapter two, verses one and two. Second Timothy chapter two, verses one and two. I'll be reading in the New International Version. Paul writes to young whippersnapper, a missionary, somewhat maybe like myself. Missionary serving uh Timothy serving in Ephesus. So as we read, let's keep that context in mind. You then, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things you have heard me say in the presence of many witnesses entrust to reliable men who will also be qualified to teach others. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you for your word. And Lord, we come to study your word, acknowledging that without your help, we cannot understand, we cannot know how to apply. We cannot even have the heart that would desire to apply it and then to oh uh to have the strength to obey it without your power, without the work of your Holy Spirit. in our lives. So we pray for this this morning that indeed by your word you would bear fruit in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now Paul, writing to Timothy, who's a missionary in Ephesus, also writes to My me, myself, who's serving as a missionary in in China. And he also writes to you who are here as the Lord's messengers of the gospel of Jesus Christ in Columbia and in the area surrounding you here. Now, when I look at this passage, I'm particularly encouraged because Paul's writing to Timothy, a man who's involved in work very similar to the work that we're doing over there in China. the work of raising up a new generation of indigenous leaders, in our case Korean, ethnically Korean, yet nationally Chinese, Korean-Chinese leaders for the local church there, who will be involved in as the Lord's messengers of the gospel, as the Holy Spirit is converting. gathering into the covenant community and then r uh bringing up uh sacrifices of praise and obedience uh to his glory. in this land and to the ends of the earth. Let me give you one example of what excites me in my ministry over there in China. When we left uh China in July of last year, we had to say goodbye to my friend. Chosu Kim. His English nickname is Charles. We always use nicknames in our letters and things because that's uh that's a safer way. to uh to communicate uh with the outside. Anyway, Charlesu was a particularly gifted young man, gifted for the ministry of the word And it was a great frustration for him and for us that despite his zeal and despite his his gifting and even through his own work, his preparation to be involved in the ministry, he could not get uh the paper that he needed uh to be officially involved in church ministry. He could not get into seminary and have his official uh training. Basically because of uh bureaucratic and political reasons, not a matter of gifting, uh not a matter of of uh whether in prayerful consideration those uh accepting applicants and denying applicants had identified the gifts for the ministry in him. So this was a great frustration for us to see his progress into the gospel ministry being blocked. by what we would think of as as trivial, unnecessary uh things. And yet upon arrival in the United States um getting settled in in Massachusetts. We arrived only to find that that he had sent us a letter. And I brought that that letter uh together uh w uh with me this this morning this this letter here uh as we opened it up gave us some great news. It indicated that the Lord had through personal relationships arranged that not only Chou Tsu but also his newlywed wife, who desired to study uh church music ministry in uh in the same school, that they had both been accepted uh into the school and that that the work of the church could go forward in in a very personal way in his life and um not having uh to go to a seminary, leaving his wife behind, but actually that they could even stay together as a couple. Our Lord is a great God and He can break down walls. uh that stand in the way of the progress of the gospel. Now, you know, in your ministry here, you are really involved in the same kind of work, indeed the same work that Timothy, uh that we are involved in. The work of of seeing the Lord gather into his church, his chosen people, that they might be regenerated that they might grow in their faith, that they may worship him, and they may go forth as his messengers of the good news into the world. Now as we do this work, we need Guidance. We need guidance to do a good job, to do it in the way the Lord wants us to do it. Now good guidelines are always helpful for getting a job done. And I in my own ministry had an experience of receiving some good guidance when three years ago uh Mark Bube, who I think was here with you last week, some of you met him, and another uh OPC missions executive came to the field to observe my ministry and to give me some guidance as to how my ministry could be more effective. I was somewhat discouraged in not finding my niche in ministry and in being so busy trying to do two jobs, teaching English and church ministry, that I I was uh neglecting family uh time uh and and that needed to be corrected. Now These men came and they observed that what was happening was that I was investing too much of my time in my English teaching responsibilities. Very easy to do in this kind of attempt-making situation because you have a school. With a a job, with a job description, you know, you prepare your lessons, you teach, then you follow up, you grade, you spend time with your students, and boy, the whole time in China could be just spent at the school that the Lord had not sent me to China for that work. And so these men, uh seeing that, helped me, I think also they're noticing that I'm somewhat of a of a mechanical sort of fellow, uh by setting up a time limit. for my work at the university. So basically I punched and actually had a piece of paper where I would write down the time I started grading these papers and when I uh stopped I would write down the time and counted, kept track of time. And when I came, took twenty hours. Ten hours teaching in the class, ten hours in preparation and grading, and I just stopped. Wherever it was I was, I just stopped. And This freed up so much time that I could invest in pursuing the ministry of the Word, a more direct ministry. and also spending good time with my family. Now this was some good helpful and even godly human advice that they gave to me But here in our passage today, we have something even better than that. We have, indeed, the Lord's will for our ministry on the mission field and our ministry right here on the mission field that the Lord has for us right around us. Paul lays forth for Timothy three guidelines. for a good missionary strategy. The first we notice in verse 1, where Paul says that we, in order to have a good witness, must be strong. In the grace that is in Christ Jesus. We must work to have strong, healthy Christian lives. It's vital that our verbal witness Is backed up, indeed, proven by lives which are consistent with that which we preach. Faith without works is dead, as James puts it, and a dead faith is not going to be the best kind of faith to produce in others, to reproduce itself in others in a in a vital, a growing, living faith. Now is it Now I believe that y'all are active in sharing your faith. Even the children, you know the answer to every Sunday school question there is, right? The answer is, if you don't know yet, Jesus. If it doesn't work, try God. It will work almost every time. We know what to say. But do our lives show that what we say when we say Jesus, when we say God, do our lives show that we love God? Do our lives show that we are willing to obey God, that He's our King, because we obey our parents like He tells us to, because we read the Bible like He tells us to, and we come and happily worship Him. Whether it's in China or whether it's here in the United States or wherever it is People are not so much listening to the words that we say, but they are more watching our lives to see if what we say is true or not. And more importantly, God is watching us, testing our profession of faith. So before we can expect to see a fruitful Ministry coming from us. We may be frustrated in that sometimes, but before we can see that, we need to be working really simultaneously as we reach out. We need to be working on developing a growing Christian lives ourselves. Paul again and again calls Timothy to, and us, to holy living. He says to him, set an example in speech, in life, in love, in faith, in purity. Be diligent in these matters. Give yourselves wholly to them so that everyone may see your progress. Watch your life and doctrine closely. Persevere in them because if you do, you will save both yourself and your hearers. And right here in the second part of this chapter of Timothy, we just read the first two verses of, we see this whole string of metaphors about a soldier, about an athlete, and about a farmer. Which Paul uses, God uses to encourage us to the hardworking, obedient Christian life. How about you? Do you want to have a fruitful, vibrant, and biblical witness? Well, first you must be working on your own growing relationship of trust and obedience with Jesus. Invest yourself in Bible study so that you'll be Thoroughly equipped. Develop your prayer habits, for this is good and pleasing to the Lord. Flee the evil desires of youth so that there will not be even a hint of sexual immorality about you. Take care that you are providing Not only for the material needs, but also for the emotional and spiritual needs of your family members, particularly you men. Or else, as Paul says in some very harsh language, we have denied the faith with our our lives. And are even worse than a pagan. Now, all of these things take a lot of work, but we'd be missing the most important point of verse 1 if we allowed ourselves to focus. on human strength. Paul does tell Timothy to work hard, to be diligent in the work of growing in faith But he doesn't tell Timothy to be strong in himself or to put his trust in his own power. Instead He tells him to be strong in God's grace, which is expressed for us, particularly in Christ Jesus. Now that is good news for Timothy Timothy, and that is great news for you and for me. For you see, our problem is not so much that we're just a little lazy and so need to be stirred up with a missions conference so that we'll go forward and do things for God. No Without God's work, first, we ourselves are dead. We are dead to God. We are dead to righteousness. We are dead in our sins. Now there was a movie not so far back called White Men Can't Jump. I don't know if you have heard of that movie, but I'd like to change the title a little bit. Dead Men Can't Jump. There's no way that we can move ourselves one inch closer to God, much less bring anyone along with us without God's grace, God's power for us in His Son, Jesus Christ. You cannot give away what you yourselves do not have. First, you must turn from your sins, repenting of them, and you must commit your life, laying it down, yielding it to the power of God. And God by his Holy Spirit, only if God by his Holy Spirit has regenerated you, can you do even this And only then, having been transformed by God's power, can we rise up and begin to move as his messengers. proclaiming the gospel. Only then can we come before Him and pray and praise and worship our Lord, who is worthy of all praise. For you see, Jesus Christ has done all that we could not do. By taking on for us human flesh. In that flesh, putting himself under the law voluntarily for us, the perfect law of God. Completely keeping that law without sin again for us. And then on the cross, taking upon himself, on his shoulders, the guilt of our sin. Paying that penalty in full. And then in time in history by the Holy Spirit. Regenerating us, clothing us, the chosen people of God, with the righteousness of Jesus, that we may be used mightily by Him for His work. Our lives, Christian lives, begin with God's grace, and they must continue with an awareness, indeed in practical expressions of, it's not me. Not my power, but God who has chosen to work in me that I have life and that I can grow and that indeed I can have the courage to share with you this good news. Which is God's power for your salvation. Now during my first term in China, I got a glimpse of what this looks like in the life of a single retired Australian missionary who worked for me at the university named Carroll. Now Carol being in her seventies wouldn't be our stereotype of the of the coolest chick on campus. We wouldn't maybe think the students would would be gathered uh around her feet to learn from her, would stream to hear what's you know what's the the latest bad But because Carol lived out the grace of God, it's very clear in her life that it's not because of me But it's because of God and His great power, and that even someone as weak, even someone as sinful as myself Could be changed into a new person and even come to this country to proclaim the good news of joyous salvation in Christ Jesus. And because of her life, combined with her words, students gathered to her. They desired to find out who was this at work in her life So I pray that you and that I, as we seek to share the gospel of God's grace, his provision for the forgiveness of our sins, In Christ Jesus, that we would be strengthened by the Holy Spirit to live out of that very gospel that we proclaim, demonstrating its truth to the unbelievers who are watching us. Curious to see if there's any truth in it. And modeling its application to those new believers that God brings into His church around us. Let's practice what we preach by being strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Verse 2 Here we find the second principle that Paul gives us, and that is that we need to pass on the gospel of God's grace in Christ. Under this heading, let's consider what is it that we're to pass on. Secondly, how we should pass it on. And third To whom should we focus as on whom should we focus as we pass it on? First, what is our message? Well, we've we've talked about that a lot already. It's basically The Word of God, as it focuses, as it reveals to us His plan of salvation in His Son, Jesus Christ. In writing to Timothy, Paul's theme is, Timothy and people of God, it is your job to first preserve and then to propagate. The gospel. If we fail to guard this message, we will find ourselves simply offering to men and women another alternative, another way perhaps by which they might find some peace, which we might call heaven. Just one of many roads to the same mountaintop. Nothing worth hearing. And if we do a good job of preserving the gospel And yet we fail to share it with others. We will be denying the very essence of that gospel by our lives. The essence of the gospel being the gracious giving to the undeserving of sacrificial love Now in these last four years of ministry in China, we have seen some things which are quite disturbing. Just among the foreign community seeing six uh acquaintances and cross-cultural minis ministry being detained by the authorities, interrogated, fined, often expelled from the country And then in addition, two actually being kidnapped and murdered for their work. among the Chinese and particularly among uh across the border among North Koreans. Now I wouldn't want to join in the chorus of those who try to gather money and stimulate prayer, which is a good thing, giving in prayer, by making things too uh simple and saying that these are innocent people who who um um are being awfully persecuted by a wicked government. Well there's Some of that's true, but I would have to also admit that we're dealing with unwise mission strategies often in those cases and even involvement in political linkages and political activities, which would almost be asking for at least something to happen. But nonetheless, these kinds of things happening around me serve to remind me. That what I've been sent to China to do is illegal, that is dangerous. And yet, even in that context That God uses this to remind me that I must not compromise the message nor compromise in sharing it with those around me. A great example to me is the Former the late and first generation missionary of the OPC, the Reverend Bruce Hunt, a book about him called For a Testimony will soon be republished, I believe. in the United States. Bruce Hunt, at great sacrifice, when the Japanese came into China where he was working among the Koreans for the OPC Uh and uh the Japanese required uh the Christians to gather before Shinto shrines and bow down. Um Reverend Hunt refused, and indeed taught his uh his uh disciples also uh to not uh bow down. And because of their refusal uh they were uh some of them killed and the rest of them imprisoned um for a long period of time, yet without compromise Bringing honor and glory to the Lord. Now you hear in your You might think of it as a comfortable situation as you live in the Columbia area. May think that that you don't have anything like that around here. But actually, although the specifics and the obvious nature of Satan's work to cause us to compromise our message and to fail in sharing it zealously with those around us His work in these ways is just as strong and perhaps even more pernicious than the set of dynamics which are so obvious and therefore we can't be prepared to fight against them in China. But you too must be careful to guard the deposit of doctrine that you've been given, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And to pass it on unaltered to those around you. So this is the treasure of a gospel which we must preserve and pass on. We operate as a light giving treasure to men and to women, to boys and to girls who are lost without it. And we offer it to God Himself as an offering of sacrificial obedience and praise. Well then having determined our message, how are we to pass on this uncompromised gospel? The God-ordained means is for us to preach the Word and to live lives transformed by its powerful truth. In the pastoral epistles, Paul describes this method to Timothy by using the word entrust. more than or I should say at least uh seven times to entrust. The method is entrusting First, we've received the gospel as a trust from God and from through the messenger that He sent to proclaim it to us. And now we are called in turn to entrust it to others. Now, you'll notice just by the word in trust that this involves a certain amount of trust. We must learn to trust God, and we must learn to trust the new believers that he is gathering around us as we give to them the gospel and as we entrust them with its ministry. Sure, on the mission field, in your mission field, we should Disciple, we should work with, we should cultivate new believers, and yet at a certain point, and probably sooner than later, we need to start cutting the strings. pushing them forward, that they might grow in maturity and even take positions of leadership in the church. In order for these new believers to grow in a healthy way, there must be a certain amount of separation and of trust. Now your pastor, uh Pastor Harris, I'm sure, in your as you watch him, has um been involved in trusting. This kind of trusting as he works with interns coming into the church. I I'm not sure of the exact details, but I would imagine that that uh Pastor Timothy uh had came into the church a little younger than he is now, and that uh the first time that uh Pastor Harris had to yield the podium to him and have him come up here and take leadership, it was not without a little bit of fear. and trembling that he did so. And yet the Lord um is desirous that this method um be what we use of of trusting him and in tr of trusting those uh that he has uh converted and gifted with Gifts for the ministry, even though they may be quite young. Now, this is not an an easy thing to do. It was not easy for the Committee on Foreign Missions to send me at such a young age to China as the only uh the only missionary family uh representing our church in in uh that country. But it was also not easy for Jesus to send out his disciples on those uh mission trip or to leave them uh at the ascension. It was not easy for Paul to having planted these churches and gotten it started, the churches being his his heart, his very heart, to leave those churches and entrust The ministry of the gospel in those places to young men like Timothy. But even though Paul and Jesus were so painfully aware of the sinfulness and the weakness of their young disciples, They nonetheless entrusted the gospel and its ministry to them because they knew that it was not God's will for them In Jesus' case, at least in a bodily form, to continue an earthly ministry eternally. But rather it was God's plan that they pass the baton of the gospel and its ministry to the next generation to others. As Christians, we all have the opportunity to experience the joys and the pains. of entrusting the gospel and its ministry to others, whether it be our own children as they grow up. They come to faith. And at some point we have to send them off. We have to push them out of the nest. Or whether it be with our spiritual children that God grants to us. Two years ago, the Committee on Foreign Missions of the OPC asked me to interrupt my ministry for return to the states for this really important meeting that they were holding. So here I was, and it was very difficult for me to leave the field for this very reason. Because I thought I was pretty important I thought that God needed me. And yet, being pulled off of the field somewhat forcefully, having to leave things behind, I know that uh God uh used My absence, probably even more than my presence there. For you see that two of the men I was working with uh intern uh Che and intern Pak had been given recent responsibilities. One, Mr. Che to lead the important college ministry. and uh Mr. Pack to uh to teach a class in the Bible school. Work that, according to my evaluation, they weren't quite ready to do on their own. And I think also they were somewhat unsure because they had come and asked me for help, which I gladly was giving to them. But the Lord pulled me off their backs. I wasn't no longer the monkey on their backs for that at least that time period, and I'm sure they were able to grow in ways uh that they could not have grown had I uh been there uh maybe somewhat oppressively watching over them. Knowing that God is faithful, we can let go and we can entrust the gospel His work of ri regenerating his own people. That's his work. We proclaim. He does the work. And then that gospel ministry among those converted To those who have the evident gift to be leaders in the church. The message, the method, and now the target, to whom Should we focus as we share the gospel message on whom? Should we focus? Well, of course, in our gospel, Ministry we should share it with anyone who listened to us, or even with those who who uh don't particularly care all that much to listen sometimes. But here in this passage, Paul is speaking to Timothy particularly about providing men for the ongoing pastoral leadership of the church. Now, in our day and age with so much desertion of the truth on this point, it's important to point out that it's men and not women that God is looking for to pastor and to rule in ordained positions uh his church. Now this is not a matter of inherent uh gender uh value, one more valuable than the other, nor is it a matter of Even ability. I've met a lot of women speakers who can speak a lot, give a speech a lot better than I can, certainly. But it is simply God's will for the church, his command to us. But as in but in China, as in many places here in the United States, the church has compromised on this point. And we need to be in prayer, to pray that the church in China, where although the Koreans are a little more faithful in this area, the church as a whole in China, I would estimate 50% or even more of the ordained pastors are women. We need to pray that the church would repent, that they would turn back to the truth, that God would raise up men who are willing. to be trained and to to take the leadership as under-shepherds in the church, and that he would not discourage women from act being active in the church, but to give them a zeal to be active in biblically appropriate ways. So God wants men to be entrusted with the ordained gospel ministry, but it's not just any old man that God wants either. It's faithful, reliable men, men like Timothy. Of whom Paul says in Philippians chapter two, I have no one else like him who takes a genuine interest in your welfare and who looks out for the interests of Christ. But you know that Timothy has proved himself because as a son with his father, he has served with me in the work of the gospel. Timothy was a man of good heart and of good ability. So as we are busy about the work of sharing The good news of Jesus Christ, we all have a special responsibility to keep our eyes open for those men and women with gifts that the Lord might want to use in particular places in his church, in the local church, and on the missions field. We need to have our eyes on our children. That the Lord would send forth at least as we give our money 10%, at least 10% of our children to go into foreign missions, I would pray. Let us look anew at our youth and consider how God might be gifting and preparing them. And as we find those with such gifts, encourage them. Speak to your elders that they might do something, even at a young age, to encourage uh them, give them opportunities to be uh involved. Because it's the job of today's church to identify To encourage, to train, to ordain in the correct circumstances, and then to send force The new generation of church leaders and missionaries for tomorrow's church So in our passage, Paul is not just giving guidelines for general evangelistic witness, but at the same time, he's actually setting up a system for the ongoing work of the church, providing for church leadership generation by generation, long after the current leaders are dead and gone. Just like Jesus by his Spirit had entrusted Paul with the gospel and its ministry, so Paul had entrusted to Timothy the same. And Timothy Was he to go to Ephesus and take over the pulpit from the local church and say, you know, I know what's right for you all and this is what you're gonna do? No, it's right here. His job was to And trust again the gospel and its ministry to reliable men, indigenous people who would come and be God's leaders in uh their own church. And then these local men, would they come in and control and and be the eternal king of of this body? Of course not. Jesus Christ alone is the head of the church. What's their job? They're reliable men who will be trained To teach others. You see, this is a never-ending cycle until Jesus returns. Whether it's a missionary working on the field, the session overseeing your ministry here or Christian, lay people active in sharing their faith, we need to have our eye. On the work of not just seeing individuals come to faith, but to see them grow in their faith and even become reproducing Christians, each one of them. And among them Those with the gift to take up positions of leadership in the church. This work of training fishermen instead of just catching fish not only makes mathematical sense. But it is God's will for our ministries, his command. It's what Jesus did as he made his disciples, fishers of men. It's what Paul did with Timothy, Titus, and his other co-workers. And it's what we should do in our ministries today as we follow this second major guideline that God gives us in His Word this morning, taking the uncompromised gospel message. And entrusting it to others, particularly looking out for the next generation of leaders. This is vital for you to apply This principle in your ministries here in the Columbia area. And it's important for me. I'm trying to shape my ministry in China. according to this principle as well. Because you see, ministry among the Korean Chinese is not best done by a big-nosed, white-haired Foreigner. Sure, I have a role. I believe God's called me to work there. But my role is to be behind, to be supporting and encouraging and training. Otherwise, the gospel, Paul uses this phrase right here, would be chained to me. May the gospel never be chained to us. But may God, as we trust others, as we work, and as we trust God in doing ministry in a biblical way, to work mightily from among us. Just quickly, the third guideline for ministry strategy that Paul gives is that not only do we need to be zealous and active in sharing our faith in this way that we've studied, but we need to root. our zeal and our activity in the local church. In the church. It's very easy for us to get all excited and to go off as a lone ranger and start to work. But between the lines of everything that Paul says here is the church of Jesus Christ. Timothy, having grown up as a covenant child in God's time, making a profession of faith, being trained and discipled in the church. Then as his gifts were identified, encouraged and ordained, and then sent forth to the harvest fields, all under the oversight of the church. And here in this very letter, Paul is dealing with church issues. How when Timothy leaves Ephesus to come visit Paul, how could he manage the issues in the church while he was away. I think it's here at this point of rooting our ministries in the church that today's missionary and today's Christian are particularly weak. As we get involved in missions outreach in our area, we need to first talk with our leaders and find out how it meshes with the work that's already going on. And as our ministry vision expands into regional and then international uh levels, we need to be in communication and cooperation and in submission to our presbytery and to our general assembly, to the church at large. Now As I've mentioned earlier, bureaucracy can be quite frustrating, whether it's baptized holy bureaucracy or the secular kind. But we must not succumb to disillusionment and go off on our own. The Lord's plan is through the church And we must always work in this way. Don't give up in that important aspect. As you manage the unique opportunities and challenges for witness that you have here in the United States, ask yourself, am I active in living out and sharing my faith? And am I rooting my activity in the church? Paul encourages Timothy and his ministry in Ephesus, and through him, God encourages you in your ministry here beginning in Columbia, but through your prayers and giving and sending as it reaches to the very ends of the earth, to be strong, not in your own power, but in the power of God which is there for us in Christ Jesus. Secondly, to entrust this message unaltered to others, particularly with a focus for the next generation of church leaders, and third, to root our ministries. And our lives in the church, which Jesus has purchased with his blood. May the Lord God give you and give me the strength to do these things. Amen.