We come now to the end of a three-week segment of a much longer series on confronting contemporary issues. Uh this series of three issues has considered the sanctity of human life a couple weeks ago, then last week a Christian's attitude toward homosexuality and homosexuals And now this morning the issue of environmentalism. And let me just mention that I thought it'd be good uh as I was preparing for this this week to make myself available today. Today we begin new classes and laughters, but if there's anybody who is not in one of those or was particularly um part of one if you're uh waiting to get started in today and I encourage you all to to be trying one if you're not part of one. Uh I will be in room A150, first door beyond the uh uh double sliding glass doors going down the hall. For anybody who'd like to discuss any of these three messages, uh the last two and the one today, so that we can uh perhaps work through a little bit more what the issue are and what God would have us to do in terms of our response. So that's just for today. And then of course the classes and laugh roots are all beginning and will continue. Now, uh concerning this issue of environmentalism, let me mention that you will probably be hearing a lot more about this. if you're going to be watching at all the Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway, because these have been touted as the first green Games of the Olympics in which environmentalism has been given top priority in the planning of them. For instance, the ice rink was built inside of a mountain. uh construction people were charged as much as seven thousand dollars for every tree that was unnecessarily cut for the bobsled and the luge run Uh the ski jumps were designed to follow the contours of the mountain, so nothing artificial, no towers and the other kinds of things Many other things like this. For instance, the people that all eat there thousands and thousands every day won't eat off of paper plates that will be thrown away. They'll be eating off of edible plates. So you could uh eat your dinner and then eat the plate too. But you probably won't because it wouldn't taste very good. The plates are actually designed to be recycled for plant and animal feed. But this is just an example of what's happening. And And uh the people who plan the Olympics know that um largely uh young people uh tend to watch these. And they're trying to reshape the thinking of an entire generation of people Now as Christians, of course, uh what can we do but to applaud this? It's a good concern. It's God's world. Occasionally, however we find ourselves thinking, we're not sure that we know where this thing is headed, do we? I mean, you realize that the people that have these concerns don't see creation as that which was made by a person. God, we know that somehow their view of the world is different from our view of the world, but in general there seems to be a sense among Christians. that well the results are good and I can't argue with that and so there's kind of a posture of benign neglect. Um, you know, okay, let's, you know, save the tree, save the world, that's good. Uh maybe not sure about the reasons, but Okay, doesn't seem to be much of a problem. Well, when we think about where it's headed, that's where we need to give some thought Christians and to give a clue about where some of this may be headed, have you ever noticed the bumper sticker that says Love Your Mother? And then there's a picture of an earth on that? You may have seen that kind of kind of bumper sticker. You see a fair amount number of them around Love your mother and then there's an earth. Well, that's pretty innocuous, you know, love your mother earth. Uh most people don't realize that that's is a very religious slogan. It comes from a new uh religion. It's a women's religion, which is a uh combination of ecology and radical feminism, which is a neo-paganistic religion uh which worships as a goddess the mother Gaia. And Gaia is simply the Greek word for earth. And in this religion, um Um there is the celebration through rituals of healing from rape, from abuse of men, from liberation from men And this whole idea celebrates the fact that women, as the bearers of children, are the symbols of power and creation. And therefore, uh anything that has to do with a male figure such as Jesus or God the Father is something it can't relate to, and so this is combined with ecological, environmentalistic concerns To produce a whole new religion. Now I'm not saying that all environmentalists uh are neopaganistic Gayo worshippers, uh, but it's one example of where things are going. In fact, and you see in environmentalism a very close tie with a lot of of radical feminism. So I guess the next issue we ought to deal with here is feminism. But I won't preach that. I'll have my daughter Heather stand and preach that. But no, I was just kidding folks. But we will have to deal with that issue somewhere down the road. This this morning, however, I want to just deal with the issue of environmentalism and where we're headed. And I have three concerns about that for us as Christians Number one, that because of this sense of uh benign neglect, it seems like a basically good thing, that we as Christians will not get involved in this. We'll just sort of stay aloof from the movement and say, well let it carry its own way. Uh it doesn't seem like it's doing any harm. But uh as you see at the top of the bulletin outline there, I have a real concern there because I think it's it's true that a right concern for the wrong reasons will always yield the wrong solutions. Um right concern for the wrong reasons doesn't tend to yield right solutions. It tends to yield wrong solutions. So we need to understand what's behind the thinking in order for us as Christians to know how God would have The second thing is that I think that uh we would if we do not get involved with and think about this whole issue of environmental We're going to lose a wonderful opportunity to be able to help people to see the relative relevance of Scripture in their lives and to bring the gospel to bear in this culture. Because most people today don't really care about the relevance of the Bible. They don't think it's very relevant to their lives, but they do care about trashing the environment What they don't realize is that all the solutions that are being proposed are really not going to provide the solutions that people are going to want That in fact only the Bible provides the solutions that we need for the environmental crisis. And it is a crisis. It's a real concern. And I want to minimize that for a moment. But we need to understand that it is only the scripture that provides adequate solutions that will not produce greater problems down the road. And that's what I want to look at. But it's also an opportunity to by sensitizing people to something that they do care deeply about, show that the Bible in fact gives answers and from that to help them to see their need for the Lord Jesus Christ as a personal Savior so that we can bring the gospel to bear on an issue that people care about. And I don't think we ought to miss that opportunity. Well we'll be very sorry that we do. I don't think we need we can uh afford to back off of the shaping of policies that are coming. We're down the road. We're gonna be very sorry that we weren't involved in that. And then the last thing that I just want to say is Is that I think that in some cases we need to see how God's word bears on us to repent of our own abuse of the environment and not just say this is other people that throw their rappers out there window and all that you know, it has to do with the whole the question of the use of energy and things that we trash and the rest of all this. Do we as Christians really value, honor, and stand in wonder of the creation that God has given us? made. So I think that there are some things for us to consider. And I think the uh one passage, because we're only going to give this one message to it, to consider from uh God's word is from Genesis chapter one, the chapter on creation. There are a number of chapters. we could consider but I want to just consider these five verses from Genesis chapter one, verses twenty six to thirty one. So if you have your Bible, please have it open to that and follow along as I read to you God's word to us on uh with this particular uh subject in mind. Genesis chapter one, beginning at verse twenty-six Then God said, Let us make man in our image, in our likeness. And let them rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air and over the livestock, over the earth, over all the earth, and over all the creatures that move along the ground. And so God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. God blessed them. He said to them, Be fruitful and increase in number, fill the earth and subdue it. Rule over the fish of the sea and the birds of the air and over every living creature that moves on the ground. And then God said, I give you every seed-bearing plant on the face of the whole earth and every tree that has its fruit with seed in it. They will be yours for food. And to all the beasts of the earth, and all the birds of the air, and all the creatures that move on the ground, everything that has breath of life in it, I give every green plant for food. And it was so. God saw all that he had made, and it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning, the sixth day Four points to notice from this solutions of scripture and the bankruptcy of any other alternatives in this area. First of all, notice that a personal God made all of creation. A personal God made all of creation. Verse 26. God said, Let us make man in our image, in our likeness. Let them rule over the fish and the rest of it. You notice that God is saying to himself, He's speaking, He's communicating with Himself, and He's saying, We're gonna make man, we who are personal, obviously are made in the image of the God who is personal. We reflect his likeness in our personhood. And so uh in verse 31 this God when he looks at the creation, he observes it, he evaluates it, he's pleased with it. Clearly God is separate from the creation. And that was beautifully illustrated in what Tom read from the writings of John Piper, how God even formed from his uh angels an audience that he could rejoice with. in the delight of that creation. And so this is diametrically opposed to pantheism, because in pantheism everything is God. In pantheism Uh this uh stage is God and the seats that you're sitting in are God, the tuxin river is God and the trees are God and the grass is God. Everything is God But the Bible says, and here's the next blank, that God is separate from his creation. God is separate from his creation. Why is that so important? Well, back as early as 1967, a fellow by the name of Richard Means proposed That the only basic solution to the environmental crisis that we're headed into is pantheism. Because pantheism, he said, back then gives dignity to the creation. Pantheism says if all of life is God, then all of life is sacred The only problem with that is that the only way that that has any impact is when the notion of God still is transcendent and sacred. But if in fact everything is God, then the notion of God has lost its separateness and its dignity, and so it's lost its meaning. It reminds me of an incident, uh scene from the old honeymooners uh shows. I mean I don't know if you how many of you have ever seen that. My parents used to watch Every Saturday night, Ralph and Alice Crandon they'd always fight and then they'd always make up, you know, and they'd always watch this. I mean everybody and all Americans were vicariously living their experience of all these fightings and making up you know. And there's this one scene that I remember, I don't know why, but as a kid that still sticks in my mind, where Ralph is coming in and he and Alice are going at it and going back and forth, yelling, screaming, all this, and he finally stops her and he just says he starts yelling Jackie Gleason. old style, you know. And he says, Listen, I'm king, you're nothing. Get that straight. You're nothing, and I'm king. You got that? I'm king, you're nothing. He goes on and on and on. Finally, she just gives him one of those withering looks and says Big deal. You're king of nothing. Now, I suggest to you that that's the dilemma of pantheism All of life is sacred. It's all God. What's God? Nothing. So there's no sacredness. And pantheism is bankrupt. As a solution for the environmental crisis. Only when there is a God who is separate from that creation who has made it with a dignity that reflects Himself Can there be any cause for us to try and want to be caring for this environment? That leads to the second point that you see here, which is that his creation was originally good. His creation was originally good. Five times in Genesis chapter one, God says, when he makes something, it is good, it is good. It is good. And then you see, when he comes down to verse thirty one, in summing it all up, God saw all that he had made, and it was very good Now, that is diametrically opposed to evolution, which again is seen within the environmental framework as basic to all of where it is headed. Because you see, as Joel Bells has written, there are two preposterous accounts of creation. Two preposterous accounts for all that we see. The one says that one time there was a cosmic collision of matter that spontaneously generated out of nowhere. And started a chain reaction of dog-eat dog connections and evolution to finally form life and then the infinitely complex forms of life that we see today, all by random chance. The other account says There was a personal God who at one point, for reasons beyond anything we can understand, decided to speak everything into being, including you and me. Bellz's point is they're both preposterous accounts because he means by that that neither of them have anything to do with anything we've ever experienced. They're all far beyond anything that we can conceive of or experience. But besides the fact that they're both preposterous, there is one in connection with this radical and significant difference between those two accounts. The evolutionary account has everything starting bad and evolving good. In the creation account, everything started good and then became bad. And there's a radical difference with implications for our environmental concerns. Because you see, evolution is hopeless Because in evolution you have creation, which is uh as you see the next blank, the Bible says that creation is not chaos Evolved by chance. Evolution says that what we live in is basically chaos that has evolved by chance. And evolution is a hopeless space for environmental environmental concerns because the basic rule of evolution is the survival of the fittest. It is simply those who are able to survive within the environment do so. Those that can't Well, they lose out. Therefore, in environmentalism, evolution has to break its own rules in order to bring about any concerns For instance, why in the world should a group of very smart and powerful loggers be restricted from cutting timber in Oregon because of some helpless spotted owl? Let the owl fend for itself. If it can't survive within the rules of the evolutionary framework, tough for the owl. The loggers win out. That's the way the game's played, isn't it? And so the evolutionist says, no, no, no. At that point we back off and we artificially introduce a protection for the weaker species. Say well who says you should do that? You're breaking the rules that's been guiding the game for all these millions and billions of years So evolution itself is bankrupt as a concern for this. It has to go against its own rules. Only a Christian can say the spotted owl has value. Because the Heavenly Father created that. And as Christians, we are concerned to protect it within the scheme of other priorities and all the rest of that. But only the Christian can even be concerned for that, consistent with his own position. That leads to the third point, which is that God made us stewards to rule creation under Him. God made us stewards. To rule creation under him. Look again at verse 26. God says to man, when he makes man in his image in likeness, he says to them, he says, Let them now rule over the fish of the sea. The birds of the air, over the livestock, over all the earth, over all the creatures that move along the ground. Verse 28, God bless them. And he says to them, Be fruitful and increase in number. Fill the earth and subdue it Rule over the fish of the sea, the birds of the air, and over every living creature that moves along the ground. And then in verse 29, I give you every seed-bearing plant. It's yours on the face of the whole earth, every tree, this fruit. They'll all be yours for food. Verse 30, to all the beasts of the earth, to all the birds of the air, all the creatures that move on the ground, everything that has life and breath in it. I give it you. I give every green plant for food. And we are to rule over that. We are stewards of that. And that is diametrically opposed to the egalitarianism that we see within the environmentalist. movements. It says that all of us have equal rights to life. All of us have the same rights. There's no difference. You and I are the same as snail darters in terms of our rights to existence. But the Bible says very clearly that you and I are of more value than many sparrows. We have more value than snailed arters. We have more value than birds and animals and all the rest of this creation. In fact, God has given us this creation to rule for our pleasure and our benefit Now some animals are for both pleasure and benefit, and others are simply for pleasure. For instance, cats are for no benefit whatsoever in case you bless you. You have mice, but uh other than that they're simply for pleasure. At least I haven't found a whole lot of benefit except for pleasure. Uh you know But we're to rule over these things. Now they don't know that. You've got to tell the cat that, you know. But he he hasn't read the Bible, so he doesn't realize we're supposed to be the ones in ruling. But that's the general way God has made it to be And that does not mean that we are given absolute control in this, because the Bible says that we are to rule with compassion. Because our God is a God of compassion. And therefore, we stand as Christians against animal abuse. Because where that violates the compassionate nature of God That's something that we, as given that authority, are to hold it in trust. And secondly, that means that we hold it in trust as stewards. We don't own it. We're guests on this planet. And we stand in wonder of the creation that God has made and invited us to enjoy. But we always recognize that we hold it in trust, not just to grab and to use and to exploit for our own ends. At that point, we stand with the environmentalist wherever he's coming from. But you see, for an entirely different reason. And that reason makes all the difference and will make all the difference in implications. Particularly in the animal rights movement, where animals cannot be used for experimentation, even if compassionate, for the sake of human beings. That violates scripture. Because God has given to us a compassionate use for the benefit of those made in his image, who are of more value. Now that means that you and I then have to say to the animal rights person when they're uh trying to get us to sign some petition or joy uh join with them in some protest and we look at that and we say it's not a matter of in uncompassionate use. It's a matter here of simply saying that the dog has the same value as a human being. And therefore the dog should not be used for the benefit of the human. We say, No, no, no. Now you say that the dog has the same dignity and therefore that puts me on the defensive. I say, no, no, it doesn't work that way. way because you're saying because the dog has the same value as the human, the human has the same value as the dog. What value is that? Look at the urban violence today. you see that we're fast moving into a culture where kids are shooting other kids because they dissed them, because they insulted them, revenge, whatever. We're saying our culture is saying human beings have no value. You're not raising the value of the animals. Our culture is lowering the value of human beings. Therefore, we are moving in an egalitarianism to a common denominator of no value, not dignity and value. Therefore, you've got to go back to Scripture in order to get the priority straight and understand why the dog has value. Because God made the dog, and as we as Christians are stewards to protect and to care for the life that God has made. And that leads to the fourth and the final point from this Which is that he will renew this creation in his final redemption. God is going to renew this creation, In his final redemption. Verse 31, we see that when God had made these things he saw, and he said it was all very good. We don't know how long man Adam and Eve, man and woman, enjoyed that creation. Luther thinks it was about twenty minutes. I tend to think it was probably longer than that. Uh, that they enjoyed it for some days, weeks, who knows But at some point then sin moved in. Man violated God's covenant. He disobeyed the one command that God gave that said, Don't eat from this tree. You can eat of everything else, you can enjoy all the rest of the garden. Don't eat from this. And man did that, and because of that there was sin and disruption, and in chapter three and verse seventeen You read that God says to Adam, because you have eaten from that tree which I commanded you, that you must not eat of it, cursed is the ground because of you. Through painful toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. God is saying here that that which has been a friendly environment in perfect harmony is now disrupted. The earth will no longer be friendly. You will be at odds with it. You will not be able to pet lions. You will find that mosquitoes will bite you instead of just landing on you. That everything now is in disruption. We are in an abnormal state. And that is such a precious, wonderful truth for the Christian. Because anybody from an unbiblical point of view has to view that what is is the way it is. There's nothing abnormal about it. That's true. just the way it is. We as Christians alone say, no, it is abnormal the way it is. It's not the way God intended it. And all the pollution and the disruption and the violation of ecological principles are part of that abnormality. And we are not capable of solving that ourselves. We are in a need of a personal and cosmic Savior who has come, a Messiah in the person of Jesus. And he has come to give his life to die for your sin and for my sin, both of our abuse of the environment and their abuse of one another, to forgive us of that sin. And to transform us and to give us new life. And along with that, the Bible says, to redeem the whole environment. Interesting that in Romans chapter 8, after Paul has talked about the sweep of salvation and all of what it means to be justified and sanctified. And adopted. It is right in that context in Romans chapter 8 that he points out that it's not just us, but it's the whole creation that is groaning under the curse. In Romans chapter 8, verse 22. Paul says, we know that the whole creation has been groaning as in the pains of childbirth right up to the present time. But what in fact is the hope, verse 21, that the creation itself will be liberated from its bondage to decay and brought into the glorious freedom of the children of God. And so we see the hope of the Christian that God, Messiah, is bringing all things to his final perfect purpose, a new creation. A new creation. The secular environmentalist has no hope, no basis for a hope. He's either hopeless or utopian. He's either saying, you know, we're gonna try the best we can, but it's probably all hopeless anyway, and they were saying that back in the sixties. We're in fact we're supposed to be wiped out and obliterated by the the nineties, according to a lot of the writing back in the sixties. And they're saying now, it's pretty hopeless. You know, we can try to scrap and save and Time magazine wrote this week, you know, maybe we're entering a new ice age, who knows, you know, and there's nobody in control, anything to be happening. And so it's a hopeless situation. Or there's this irrational leap of faith to say if we just do all this stuff, everything's going to turn out and it's going to be green and wonderful and pollution-free. But there's no basis for any of that. The only basis is that someone beyond us is in control. Believe me, if we don't believe that after the last couple of weeks We see the freeze and the ice and everybody is crippled and business comes to a halt. We say, you know, okay, well, you know, what do we do here? Just jack up some more technology When we look last summer at the floods in the Missouri and the Mississippi, we see how helpless we are. We look a couple of weeks ago at six point six earthquake in Southern California. California and the devastation of that and we say we need someone in control. If there is no one in control and it's interesting to read How the secular press writes this, US News and World Report this week. Utterly impersonal universe by chance and who knows what's going to happen, no sense of any personal God in control. And that's the hope of the Christian. The hope is that when Jesus died and rose again, he produced in his resurrection a first fruits of a new life for you and for me individually. And in addition to that, he produced a first fruits of a new creation. Therefore, we who had the hope of a personal glorification, who also hold the hope of an environmental glorification, work out of the first fruits of that for restoration, according to the plan. Of our Father. We alone have the hope. We alone have the basis for it. We alone have the sense of the dignity of it within its proper perspective. And therefore, in conclusion, I suggest to you three things. Number one, we've got to stop being intimidated as Christians by environmental. Since the late 60s, and a writer, particularly by the name of Lynn White, began dumping on Christians, saying that environmental crisis is basically the problem and the fault of Christians because it's Christians who say that the Bible teaches that man has dominion over creation and therefore that dominion gives him the right to do whatever he wants with it And it's because Christians have given us that basis that we have the crisis that we're in today. We've got to stand up and we've got to say, that's unfair. Christians have abused the environment the way everybody on the earth We have been sinful and guilty in that. And we see many examples where we just along with the rest of the culture have done the same things in trashing the environment and lack of technology. Concern for the future generations and all of that. But it is not because we were consistent with what the Bible taught. We refused to be intimidated by that. In fact, the Bible alone gives the answers. to this crisis that we're in. And you do that, show that by raising the four questions about pantheism, about evolution, about the rights, the value, the egalitarianism of the phylogenetic scale of being, people, these animals, all the rest of that. And then fourthly the whole question of what hope is there. And in doing that we can point to the fact that the Bible isn't simply able to defend itself. The Bible is the only thing that gives us the solutions that we need within this crisis. And as Christians, we need to be able to be confident in God's Word. To speak to that issue. Secondly, we need to not be arrogant in that, but we need to repent in ways that we have violated the principles of Scripture. uh lacked wonder for that creation that God has made, have abused it by our own misuse, flagrant uh wastefulness of energy and non renewable resources and all the rest of that. uh the trash piles, the amount of stuff that we waste. I mean th there are a lot of things that we need to and we can't get into that here now, but I'm just simply saying that each of us as individuals and as families have to stop and say, what is it that we're doing that could be minimized so that we can uh make better use of the environment to not add more trash than we need need to to be involved in helping the the energy sources to be lasting and make good use of them as stewards and all the rest of the questions that are raised in this. To sit down and think about it rather than just move along kind of being guided and Directed by guilt from television and Olympic Games and everything else. And then the third thing that we need to do, once we have repented from that, is to pray about our own involvement in the And I'm saying that obviously uh you're going to hear just in a few minutes about a new ministry that we're having here at Community Impact Committee And there are a lot of issues that we as Christians are being faced with. We can't all be involved in leadership and deep involvement in all of these issues. And as Dan talks about that, he's going to make clear that you know these are for things for us to choose from and to be able to be involved in certain aspects of what God's doing. But my concern is that Christians are just going to write this issue off and say, Well that's one I don't even have to think about. And that I think would be a pity. I think that God, I would be so happy if God would raise up from within this congregation leaders who would say that we're going to be involved in the environmental concerns of Howard County and Central County. Maryland, and we're going to say the right thing for the right reasons and be willing to say why. What is the basis of our hope in this? That God gives us us each the responsibility and the sense of his concern for his creation and the hope that he's given to us in the Lord Jesus. And the forgiveness of our own sins. Able to speak to this issue. Let's pray. Lord, we want to take a moment right now in the light of this your words, confess to you our own sin in ways that we have not been careful. Lord, forgive us. Thank you that you Forgiveness is available in the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray that you will lead each of us individually and as families to think through these issues and to set goals about our use of our environmental We might treat it with wonder and humility. Lord, we thank you that your word speaks to us of solutions that are the only adequate solutions within this. Crisis. And that you have given to us our hope in the Lord Jesus Christ. We worship you as the one who has made us All things. And that we are in an abnormal state now, that you are in control even of that state. We don't have to worry about whether uh we will enter into an ice age that will obliterate humanity or the sun's going to burn too hot and get too close and all the rest of these things. You have a purpose and you will bring that to completion. When you do, you will hold forth for your people a new creation, a new heavens and a new earth. Help us, Lord, out of the hope of To be involved in the ways that you call each of us, to bring the name and the gospel of the Lord Jesus to bear on These issues. Give us a boldness, Lord. A humble boldness. We pray, Lord, that you would be merciful to us as a culture in our abuse. And rescue us from moving down a wrong path or moving into deeper crises because we have not paid attention. Be merciful to us, we pray. And Jesus went. Amen. And