This week I was listening to an interview with an author of a new book, Habits of the High-Tech Heart. Living virtuously in an information age. The author was Quentin Schultz, and they were talking particularly about the effect of email Cell phones, things like this on the way we think and live, things that are supposed to make our lives easier, but in fact raised the level of expectation of response, quick response time, availability, accessibility, and they got into a discussion of the virtue of multitasking. Don't we feel virtuous when we are multitasking? He uh the author talked about a couple of examples of this. He said uh this has gotten to the point now where I was delivering a lecture in a large lecture hall of the university and uh I noticed that about a third of my students, most of them had laptops, and uh about a third of them were typing away, and I realized They're not taking notes for me. He said, they think we professors are oblivious. But he said the rhythm was wrong. I realized They had all put in their wireless cards and they were emailing. They were just, you know, dealing with their email while they're doing the lectures. So I I said, guys, you know Can I ask you if you gotta do your email, could you go outside the room and deal with it in the hall and the rest the rest of us, the one engaged in the material, have time here? What was fascinating was after the class, he found that somebody had circulated a note around the room that said, So this guy thinks we can't eat and listen to him too? And he said, you know, that just was one of those illuminating moments. He said, they don't get the point. You know, it's eating is like doing email while you're trying to listen to somebody, but it's efficient. And he says, efficiency has become a chief value in our culture. Efficiency and control. He talks about a a church where there was a worship service that was going on, the fellow's cell phone went off. He tried to ignore it, went off again, went off a third time, finally took the call. It was a small church. Pastor stopped the sermon. Everybody listened. Well, he took his call. Finished with a call, hung up, okay, now we can go on. And he says uh a lot of this technology is extremely self-centered. You know, it has no sense of community. I'm sure you've all been in a restaurant And you know, you're listening to somebody else's conversation, you're not particularly interested in. But he says we've gotten absorbed with efficiency. and control. Multitasking is the aim of the day. That makes us feel good. And I thought how relevant that is. In fact, you know, somebody emailed me this week. that said that uh from this congregation saying that some churches now are building in technology that blocks cell phone signals from coming into the sanctuary That's what it's gotten to. And he said, Are we going to do this in our new facility? I didn't answer I don't know or not. But you see, what this gets to is how Jesus is trying to get our attention on something that is so easily, subtly missed in the Christian life. And that is that Jesus didn't save us ultimately to work for Him, but to worship Him. Now the funny thing about this was, you know, this is where you guys always get the benefit of the second service. In after the first service, somebody said, as you were telling that story, my BlackBerry went off And with somebody in my cell telling me an update on a problem that they had. So he says, I feel this tremendous dilemma. Do I listen to you or do I, you know, see what my brother's dealing with who's been having some problems, you know. And so life gets so complicated that we lose the ability to stop and to focus And to love somebody. It just becomes something that's subtly moved off the radar screen. And that's what this first letter is about. The letter to the Ephesians. Seven C's, they'll be in each letter. First one, the church, is Ephesus. Let's see the map. Remember, this is the one on the southwestern corner. It's the first church of the seven in the series that John's writing to. John's writing from about sixty miles southwest of that church on the island of Pathos. a barren rock where he has been exiled. The city of Ephesus was a very opulent city, it was rich and cultured. It was the commercial center of Asia. It was a deep water port. had access to a number of roads. He was at the end of the Caester River. Large ships could pull in there. It was uh a very pagan city devoted to the worship of the goddess Diana. and the orgies and the banquets that were part of that worship. Paul came there on his second missionary journey, about A. D. 52, and planted a church there. Preached the gospel, people became Christians, they formed a church. He left Priscilla and Aquila there, left Timothy to be a pastor there John himself was at one point a pastor at the city of Ephesus. Later, when Paul was in prison in Rome Between the years 60 and 63, he wrote the letter with which many of you are very familiar. The letter to the Ephesians, 125 messages later. You're very familiar with that letter. That was written around 60 to 63 A. D. , sometime in that period. Now it's a bit over 30 years later, 30 to 35 years later, 95, 96 A. D. , John's writing these words, which are really the words of Jesus and you can tell that because they're in red. Actually it's because Jesus says that back in chapter one. He says, right uh what I say. So these are really the words of Jesus to the church given here. Second thing, the characteristic of the speaker, you notice that Jesus speaks of himself to the angel of the church in Ephesus right. These are the words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand and walks among the seven golden lampstands. It's a beautiful picture. You know you always got to use your imagination when you're reading the Bible. Somebody came to me this week and said, so what's with this given assignments for homework in the sermons now? You know, like read the whole book of Revelation. So I said, well, did you do it? Well, yeah, I did it. I never thought of doing it, and I did it last week, and I said, well, what was the effect? He said, Well, I was really blessed. And you will be really blessed because you know chapter 1, verse 3 says that. Blessed is the one who reads it. Sit down and read it. One sitting. Don't analyze it. Just get the images. Use your imagination. Picture what's going on. And you'll be blessed in that. And so when you look at this one little scene, you picture what's happening. Jesus is walking among these seven lampstands, the lampstands of the churches. They're the lights in their community. As Jesus is walking among those lampstands, he says, I'm holding the seven stars in my hand. I'm holding the seven stars which are the seven angels. Angels are messengers. I believe that that's referring to the teaching elders, the pastors of those churches. You know that's very comforting to me. Jesus says I'm holding the pastors in my hand. I mean, that's a real comfort to me as I seek to minister to you, to see this picture of Jesus holding me in his hand. But it's also a very sober warning to me because I'm his messenger boy and he's saying I must deliver this message faithfully. It not so much cleverly Vividly, but faithfully, so that you guys can hear Jesus' words, as John said, to you as the church at Columbia. So Jesus portrays this picture, and then he says, the third point, which we'll go over in each case, certain commendations and encouragements. And he commends them in three ways in verse 2. He says, I know your deeds, your hard work, your perseverance. And I know that you cannot tolerate wicked men, that you have tested those who claim to be apostles but are not, and have found them false. Three things he's commending them for there. First of all, he commends their diligence. He says, I know your hard work. I know your deeds, your hard work. And and that's certainly true, the Columbia Presbyterian. I mean, those of you that work in the nursery and And the children's church and the setup and the take down. You know, last week was John Sigmund's birthday and his wife Jen said, he really said this morning without any sarcasm, today's my birthday, got to take down the chairs. Yeah, he was doing it with a smile on his face, you know? Uh a lot of you work hard and you work diligently So much that goes on the worship leaders, the bands now, Nancy Hees in the back doing giant script and people are doing ministries with, you know, the Christian Service Brigade, Pioneer Girls, you know, Al Martin and And I mean, um Martin and Al, Al Edwards, Martin your hero. I mean just finish one upward season, the next one's right coming down the road, you know, and all the people that have to do with that, you know, a lot of churches have a full time staff for that program and These guys do it after 60-hour weeks, and it's just, you know, you're working hard. And you know, there's a lot of ministries I'm not even mentioning. I couldn't even think to mention them. But you know what? It doesn't really matter because Jesus says here, I see it. Isn't it comfort to you? Whatever you're doing, Jesus says right there, I know your hard work You ever aware of that? Do you ever think that Jesus says, I know your hard work for me? Maybe other people don't notice and appreciate a lot of things that people do here, behind the scenes, a lot of trustee work and a lot of things. Jesus says, I know your hard work. And I appreciate that. I see that. It matters to me. Besides that, he says, I know your perseverance The perseverance is dealing with something a little different. It's perseverance I call faithfulness under pressure. He really develops that. He says, I know your perseverance. Then in verse 3, he says, You've persevered and have endured hardships for my name. And have not grown weary, you continue faithful under that pressure. You don't give up. Maybe uh you're persevering in a difficult marriage And nobody else really knows how difficult it is. The pain is in your heart, the sense of feeling unloved and working at something that seems to Not have a whole lot of hope. Or maybe it's a job that you're in working with people that are difficult to work with. You don't know how to get out of it and it seems like that's where the Lord's placed you for now and so you persevere in that or a family situation or health situation Whatever else anybody sees, however much sympathy or lack of it you get, again, be encouraged, brothers and sisters. Jesus says, I know your perseverance. Does that encourage you? Jesus knows your perseverance. He sees that. He knows your heart. He knows your tears. He knows your pain. It's not unnoticed and it's not uncherished. Jesus says, I see that. And thirdly, he commends the church for its orthodoxy. He says, I see you guys, I know that you can't tolerate wicked men, that you've tested those who claim to be apostles, but are not. And you have found them false. Verse 6. You have this in your favor. You hate the practices of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. These men go around claiming to be the true leaders of the church. They've got the insight. They understand the secrets of spiritual depth Though only 22% of Americans believe there's absolutes, you believe that, and you hold to them, and you've tested these people. And you have found that these new man-centered teachings are false. And you've rejected that. You're discerning You understand the gospel. Jesus says, I see that, I understand that. I I I commend you for hating the practices of the Nicolaitans, because I hate those practices too. Who are the Nicolaitans? What were their practices? Nobody really knows. They come up again, Pergamon, Thyatira. So apparently it affected the whole area there in western Turkey. But not really sure where it came from. And I think that's instructive. Because it tells you and me that heresies come and go like fads. But you know. After a while nobody even remembers them. But the gospel in Scripture continues. Back in the 17th century, rationalism was the big thing. Everybody, you know, if you're in, you're a rationalist. It was a threat to Christianity, gospel, scripture. How many of you out here are rationalists? You know, I mean, do you know any rationalists? You know, nobody's a rationalist today I mean you can go back twenty years. Tom Harris, transactional analysis, big deal, you know, everybody, transactional analysis, I'm okay, you're okay, all right I mean who's into transactional analysis today? Twenty years. You know, Oprah, who's the latest guru with a New York Times bestseller book, you know. Where will it be in 20 years? Like the Nicolaitans, you know? Who are they? Would they believe? I don't know. But the gospel continues Jesus is saying, you're wise to hang on to my word. And you here, Columbia Presbyterian, hang on to Scripture. It's your only rock. Test all the things you read, things you hear, things you see. But what Scripture says, Jesus says, I commend you for that. Now, with all these great things, what could possibly be the problem? Jesus says there's a significant problem And the thing is that when you and I read it, we could be very tempted to think it's not really a big deal. He says, yet I hold this against you. You have forsaken your first love. You're efficient. You multitask very well. You do a lot of stuff But you've forgotten why you do it. You've lost your first love. This is one of the reasons why I believe that the book of Revelation was written at Last decade, during Domitian's reign, 95-96, rather than during R Nero's reign in the 60s. Because Paul wrote his letter to the Ephesians between 60 and 63, and there's no mention of any heresy such as the Nicolaitans. Apparently it didn't exist then. He does not address it. At that point he writes in chapter 6, verse 24, Grace to those who love our Lord Jesus with an undying love. So the lack of their love was not an issue. Seems rather unlikely to me that by sixty seven AD, in three or four or five years A whole new cult had swept in, had sought to be the dominant belief, had been rejected And that they had departed from their fervor and passion for Jesus. What seems to me to be the case is a new generation has risen up The gospel has come to the Ephesians who were held in bondage to Diana, the sexual license and the idolatry, the emptiness of that way of life. But now their kids have grown up. And their kids have grown up in the church. Their kids haven't seen this bondage. They take for granted the gospel. You know, there's nothing more painful for us parents, particularly people like me who did not come from a Christian background Who saw the grace of Christ extended to me and snatch me out of a hopeless family situation And see the grace of Christ sweep through my life, radically change. And then to watch our kids take it for granted. To see you kids who have grown up in the church, hey, it's not your fault. I mean, we you know it we don't blame you that you don't look at this as some new radical thing. It's all you've known. What's tragic is if you don't know your hearts, and Christianity becomes a burden to you rather than a release from your burdens, that's tragic. And I can only appeal to you kids. Jesus says here, this is a generation that's forsaken the first love. I think he's talking partly to people who have walked for years and gotten distracted in busyness and to a second generation. That has never known what it's like to grow up in a non-Christian home. Look at me. Now I remember it was forty years ago this month, September 17th. It was my first day at seminary. I remember driving to seminary, as I said, from a non-Christian home, flying in the face of all my father's wishes and warnings. Because I'd become a Christian. And I had no idea what God wanted me to do. Certainly being a pastor wasn't on my radar screen. But I loved Jesus. And I knew that after being through the college experiences I had had, I needed some answers. And I loved him and I wanted to know him. And I went very naively to come take some courses and learn about Jesus. And I look back with a certain longing. I've gotten busy. God forbid that I would get sophisticated so that I lose that fresh love for Jesus. God forbid that you, doing so many good right things so diligently, would forget why you do them. God forbid that you kids would take Christianity for granted, see it as a burden. Not recognize the treasure that is Jesus. That you need him just as desperately as your sinful parents need him. And he is your only hope. If you remove Jesus from the center of your life, everything else falls apart. But we can forget that, can't we? We can become like Martha, so busy rather than Mary, sitting at the feet of Jesus. Sitting and gazing upon the beloved is so inefficient I mean, you know, do you ever sometimes even feel guilty pausing to read scripture and to pray? Doesn't seem efficient, does it? I have so many things I should be doing. So many emails in so little time. Author of this book says I was getting up to 200 emails a day of people I'd never met asking me to do them favors because they'd read my book. You know, we live in a culture where expectations of what we can accomplish are not only unrealistic, they undermine quietness and meditation. And knowing the love of Jesus. The results of that, he says, are simply that your diligence becomes drudgery. You know, you still do ministry, but um you get more critical of those that aren't pulling their part of the load. You don't enjoy serving anymore. We all need breaks from time to time. I'm not saying, you know, just Keep going until you drop. But we need to serve because we love Jesus Perseverance becomes self-righteousness. Subtly we develop the attitude of victims who lack joy, but still maintain a death grip on the burden. Our suffering isn't deepening our relationship with Jesus. He just develops toughness of character and a subtle self-righteousness. Or, even more so, orthodoxy that becomes brittle. Because orthodoxy that becomes brittle without a love for Jesus gains a righteousness from being right. And there's all the difference. One time I asked myself when I was out praying, Alan, which would you rather be, loving or right? My heart said that's a no-brainer. I'd rather be right. I knew I was in trouble. Which would you rather be? Obviously, there's not an either-or ultimately. But if I lose focus of Jesus, being right becomes my righteousness. But Jesus doesn't leave us there. In his graciousness, he gives counsel and he gives commands. He says, do three things in verse 5. Remember, repent, and resume. Remember. Remember what it was like. Remember the height from which you've fallen. Look back. Look at the old days, the first days of your love with me. Those days when I was the focus of your affections. Look back as Ephesians chapter four, verse one says. Look back at that calling described in chapters one to three when you realize you were dead in sin, and God, out of his mercy, made you alive and seated you in The heavenly places with Christ. You see, the contrast here is not, and here is a critical point. What Jesus is saying here. And what I pray that you will hear is my purpose is not for you to look at your lack of love for Jesus. If the effect of this message is that you focus on verse 4 and say, Jesus holds this against me. I have forsaken my first love. Oh, what happened to my love for Jesus? Oh, how shoddy is my love for Jesus? Oh, how terrible. And you focus on all that, that's still so ultimately self-centered. The contrast is to take you back to chapter one Where John begins this in verse five by saying, Now to him who loved us And freed us from our sins by his blood. You slipped from Jesus as your focus Brothers and sisters, Jesus says, remember the height from which you've fallen. Go back. Don't look at your love for me. Look at my love for you. 1 John 4. 10 In this is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son. To be an atoning sacrifice for our sins. He loved you and freed you from your sins, he says. Amen, brother. Amen. You know, when I get to the point where I realize I'm doing stuff out of rote and duty, you know the one of the best things That helps me to come back in my love for Jesus is to ask myself the simple question, what would my life be like without Jesus Christ in it? But just how would my life be different if you had never come in? And I can think about that. And it's a scary thought. Remember, remember those days when forgiveness and purpose and hope were fresh And remember that he did that by shedding his blood. That's what he says To him who loves us, has freed us from our sins by his blood. Lord Jesus, you sacrificed your life for me How can I not love you? You've made me to be a kingdom with my brothers and sisters, to be priests in that kingdom, to serve you in your glory forever and ever. And then you look at that vision of him in verses 13 to 18, where you see this one whose hair is white. And his robes from top to bottom with a golden breastplate. And you look at his eyes and they're like burning coals. In fact, his whole visage is gleaming feet like glowing bronze. His face shining like the sun, with a sword coming from his mouth to speak words of truth and judgment John said, as we saw last week, I fell at his feet as dead. And I see that he is the one who took his hand, put it on me, and said, Don't be afraid. My strength and my power are for you, not against you. Unless you've taken me for granted. And Christianity is a burden to you and your family, and you just can't wait to get out from under it. Then you have something to fear from that one. But if you have placed your confidence and trust in Jesus, turn off the BlackBerry, the email, the cell phone this afternoon Spend some time gazing at Jesus. Not very efficient. May take you an hour, an hour and a half, and you may say, I don't know what I accomplished, and I I really have only gotten a few glimpses, but you know, there's times I'll spend an hour. And I may get three or four minutes of a real glimpse of Jesus, and that carries me for the rest of the day, the rest of the week, to connect To understand his heart, to see him. And Jesus gives you consequences. He says, you know, this is not a light matter He said, if you don't do this, I'm going to take the lampstand away. That's what he says there in verse six, is it? He says verse five. If you do not repent, I will come to you and I'll remove your lampstand from its place. That is, the lampstand is the light of the church, the light in the community, and he says, I will take away your being a light to your community. What happened to the church at Ephesus? From the records that we have, the church read this and they responded. They repented. We know that because Ignatius, one of the early church fathers, wrote about the church at Ephesus in the early second century, and he wrote of it in glowing terms, of its love for Jesus. So they heard. Now there's no guarantee for Columbia Presbyterian what's gonna happen. Will we hear? Will we stop and say, you know I'm doing stuff because I'm expected, I've gotten into the duty routine, and I've lost my affection for Jesus. After those glory days, things apparently went downhill. By 242 A. D. , the church, the temple To Diana was burned to the ground and it was never built, was one of the wonders of the ancient world. By the Middle Ages, a Christian traveler Went through that same area and said he found three Christians who barely recognized the names of Paul and John Today, if you go into that area, Ephesus is a ruin. There's nothing left. It's a tourist attraction. Mark and Pam Mazersky had been there and some of the others of you and Mark said again at the end of the second ser first service, he said, It's huge. It's just huge A couple miles from one end to the other, nothing but ruins What's going to happen to the church in Columbia, the future generations? The torch must be passed from us who began this work 26 years ago. To you kids, as you come to grow to know and to love Jesus and those who come brought into this But it can't be because we have a new facility, that's not going to guarantee it. It can't be because we have a lot of programs, that's not going to do it It's love for Jesus. It's Christians who look and they remember and then they repent and then they resume the works from a new impetus of gospel grace motivation. Christians who realize perhaps my relationship with Jesus has become a kind of a cell phone relationship. A cell phone relationship is this promise that a cell phone keeps you in touch and so you really are able to communicate more. You ever listen to people's conversations on cell phones? You know, I've never heard in all the conversations I hear of cell phones coming and go, I've never heard a meaningful, honey, I really love you and I miss you. And I'm sure it happens. I'm not saying it doesn't But you know, it's grocery list, so I'm here in a Home Depot, and should I get the blue one or the gray one? You know, and uh and this is you know and so with Jesus, you know, is my relationship I'm gonna keep in touch You know, my wife was incense Friday. I came home. She said, I just saw this ad and it says, you know, send pictures through your cell phone. Keep in touch with your family, as if that's all it takes Yeah. Do we have a cell phone relationship with Jesus? Kind of a passing, a play of tape, praise tape, listen to a Christian radio, you know, something that keeps me going But I never turn things off and just stop and gaze upon it. Love's inefficient. But without love is nothing. Jesus says the promise is, He who overcomes I'll give to eat from the tree of life in paradise. I believe that that's a twist on the Nicolaitans, possibly. The Nicolaitans went to their orgies of love feasts, and they justified that. It was compatible with Christianity. Jesus is saying I've got a love feast of the tree of life in paradise waiting for you, my bride, that you cannot begin to imagine now, or I will ravish you with my love. Look at him now. Don't wait. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, as we examine our hearts honestly, many of us have to. Admit, we've drifted. We've gotten so busy, we've gotten caught up in the values of efficiency and control. And the idea of stopping, praying, meditating, reading your word leisurely To gaze upon you, to see how you dealt with people, to see the Old Testament pictures of you and to bask in your presence To remember, you are the one who has loved us and freed us from our sin by your blood, to make us priests, to serve you in your glory. Is something that's dim. Make it fresh. Make it fresh, Lord Jesus. Make it fresh so that you revive in our hearts the reasons why we serve you. Out of our love for you, because of your love for us. Amen.