Ah, isn't God good? I was just sitting there as we were singing that song, and as I watched that baptism, I was just uh overwhelmed. With a sense of God's goodness to our family. You know, one day we had our firstborn baptized. I come from a baptistic background myself. Never could understand why you'd baptize infants. They don't understand what's going on, you know. Of course, I didn't either when I got saved. But um I thought about our daughter Becky and how one day we believed that because we had put our trust in Christ, that God had promised that he would be the God to our children. And uh that little girl will now start her first year in college. She's all the way out in Wisconsin. And she wrote me an email the other day. It was one of the most significant emails I'll ever receive from her. She said, Daddy, I went to a worship service out here, and suddenly everything clicked for me. Everything that I had ever learned that I thought I knew was true, all of a sudden it was true for me. And uh I realized that I had not given everything to Jesus in my life, and now I have. Isn't that great? So God's covenant is true, and I thought about all the ways I've ever failed my daughter being the good father that I wanted to be to her. And yet it's God who does it in the end. And parents be encouraged. The Lord will minister to your children. Let's turn to that prayer of the Ephesians. I'm told you're very well versed in the book of Ephesians. You're all scholars in the exegesis of this book. And so I have to be very careful I trust the Lord will give us wisdom and illumination of His Word Let's read in Ephesians chapter 3, beginning in verse 14. For this reason I kneel before the Father, from whom his whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you with power through his spirit in your inner being so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. And I pray that you, being rooted and established in love, may have power, together with all the saints, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ. And to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine, according to his power that is at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Well, as we look at this prayer, we really need the Holy Spirit to help us, don't we? We're actually entering into the prayer life of the Apostle Paul. And uh I want to add a little disclaimer here as we begin. I can't pretend to dogmatically tell you exactly what Paul had in his mind when he talked about these dimensions of the love of Christ. I think if we knew what he had in mind, we would be a lot different. But he wants us to think and imagine what those dimensions are within the bounds of Scripture and with the illumination of the Holy Spirit. And I believe that if you and I, and I include myself in this because I always learn, I can't wait to hear what I'm going to say. I always learn from the Holy Spirit more of God's love as I preach about it. And I believe that a marriage could be saved today. If we grasp this love of Christ for us, I believe that a relationship between a father and a daughter could be restored. A relationship between an employer and an employee, between a neighbor. Between a friend and a friend. And so let's pray and ask for the Spirit's help. Father in heaven, come now and let us see Jesus. Let us see the amazing, immense. proportions of your love for us and for the world, that you may be glorified. For we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, this passage, I really want to look at these dimensions. And we're told that the love of Christ is high. And when I started thinking about What I think of that is high, I think of stars. And it's always amazed me that many of the stars that we see no longer exist We're just getting the light from wow. We're getting the light that is finally reaching us from a distant star that once was. The nearest star next to our sun is Proxima Centurion. It's over four light years away. But the love of Christ is higher than that. And I think of the love of Christ being high, I think of it being high in quality and high in quantity. And it's high in its quality because it's pure. It's not defiled like your love and my love. It's uncommon. It's an alien love. It's a sacrificial, condescending, unconditional love. It's a kingly, majestic love, isn't it? It's a love between a king and his subjects. He decides to put his love on us and to call us into relationship with him. But it's also a lot of love. Our late director, Dr. Jack Miller, who just passed away this year, used to say that the love of Christ was excessive. We read it in that passage in 1 John, the love that the Father lavished on us. And in chapter 1, Ephesians talks about the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us. In Christ Jesus. Now this may seem like a trite uh analogy, but uh I used to be belonged to a small group uh in uh New Life Church in Philadelphia. And uh we used to have a potluck dinner every month, the fourth uh week. And uh we had a an Indian fellow who was a student at seminary, and it was his turn to bring dessert. Well, he brought Briar's ice cream. Now how many of you know that Briar's ice cream is about the best that you can get? It happens to be made in Philadelphia, but um I asked him, I said, now uh why did you bring Briar's ice cream? I mean, really, that's expensive. He says, Oh my friend, when I'm at home I eat the cheap ice cream, but when I come and bring food for others, I bring the best. And that's what God gave us in his Son Jesus, his very best. He who was obedient from his heart to everything the Father told him. without sin, who lived a perfect life for us and died a perfect death. The love of Christ is not only high, it's also very long When I heard that many of the women were gone on a women's retreat today, I thought it's good that I have some of these men. stories. And one of them is that I used to work in the Philadelphia Navy Naval Shipyard. And I had the privilege of seeing some of our large ships in dry dock. One of them was the USS Saratoga. And yet there are larger aircraft carriers in our fleets, in the Nimitz class, which have over four and a half acres of flight deck. Now imagine over four football fields to look out across. But you know if you went out to the edge of that ship, And you just looked at the horizon, at that ocean, you would see something even more awesome. Well, the love of Christ is much longer than that. It's never-ending, it's long-suffering, it's a steadfast love, as we've sung about. Let me ask you this. How many times can you return to Jesus to be forgiven for the same sin that you did again? Have you ever thought that God gets tired of it? Here comes Robert with the same old sin again. He thinks I'm going to forgive him. Is that what God says? Think of the story of the prodigal son. Do you think that the prodigal son could have gone out again and come back? Would the father have received him in the same way he said, look, you're not getting another party? That was it. I don't think so. Now I'm not talking about cheap grace here. I'm not talking about just being sorry that we got that we sinned. I'm talking about a genuine sorrow over our sin. And repentance is turning away in our minds and our hearts from that which is evil. But I believe that the secret of sanctification, the way that God changes us, is by leading us in a continual repentance every day. That's a way of life. It's just like discipline in the book of Proverbs. I tell my kids, it's like what you read in there is you're always finding out that you were wrong. We don't like that. But this is life for the Christian. We don't want to be afraid to tell people that we're sinners. And you know what? Your unbelieving friends want to know that you're sinners too. who is being changed by the power of Jesus Christ. And I think that happens as we continually Confess our sins and we come to Christ to be forgiven. And that cleansing each time lets us see a little bit more of the great love of Christ. You know, we have to really see the bad news before we understand the good news. Philippians 1 6 tells us that he is able to complete the work that he started in Jude Verse 24 tells us that he is able to make us stand one day blameless and with great joy. But because the love of Christ is unending and long, and his faithfulness to us does not mean that it's cheap. Because it's also a very deep love. And that love has gone to the very depths of hell for us. You see, it has to be deep because our sin is so deep, isn't it? Many of us struggle with sins that are deeply encrusted in our lives And we still see them even after we still see them in our lives, don't we, even after we're Christians. Do you know that some parts of the ocean Are 35,000 feet deep? Now I have a trivia question for some of you children here, especially. If you were to go to that part of the ocean which is 35,000 deep, 35,000 feet deep, And you had a two-pound ball, how long would it take for that two-pound ball to reach the bottom? How many people think 15 minutes? How about a half an hour? Okay? 45 minutes? It would take an hour for that ball to reach the bottom. That's what I call deep. Well, the love of Christ is much deeper than that. One of my favorite movies is The Hiding Place. And in that movie and in the book also by Kari Ten Boom, she talks about seeing her family members die at the hands of the cruel Nazi guards. And at one point her sister Betsy is dying. And she tells Betsy Betsy, I don't think I am struggling as a Christian, I don't think I can forgive these men for what they've done to us. And Betsy looks at her And says, oh Kari, don't you know that there's no pit so deep that Jesus has not climbed into that pit for that person and come out again? And we must one day go out of here and tell people how deep the love of Jesus is. I had the privilege of meeting Kari Tenboom later in California some years ago before she died. And she told us that a day came when she had to meet one of those guards after the war. And God told her that he wanted her to go over and shake this guard's hand and forgive him in the name of Jesus Christ. She said that was the hardest thing I ever did in my life. But she said, Jesus came near to me and reminded me of those words of Betsy. And I went over and I shook his hand and I told him that I forgave him because Jesus Forgive me. Some of us just struggle with hurts. Maybe they're not sins, but just hurts from other people's sins in our lives or just life circumstances. But Jesus can go into the depths of your heart and bring healing. Well the love of Christ is not only deep, it's also wide. How many of you remember that song we used to sing as children? Wide, wide as the ocean, high as the heavens above, deep, deep as the deepest sea is my Savior's love. Remember that song? But you notice it says, is my Savior's love for who? For me. You know, in America somehow we always come around to me. Even we're talking about the wide love of Jesus But folks, it's a wide love. Jesus is reaching out to people all over the world and in your neighborhood that you and I would not And we don't hear about that very much, do we? Do you know just as of 1984, over 10, 12 years ago, there were 80,000 people being saved in the world every day? 80,000 every day. What an altar call in heaven. Just in Africa alone, 20,000 people were being saved there every day. 30,000 in China. There is now a church in Korea that has 750,000 members. You talk about getting lost in the crowd. But God is doing an amazing work. And I'll tell you what, the action is not in America anymore. It's overseas. That's where we're seeing Thousands upon thousands of people come to Christ. You don't hear about the news, of course. Can you imagine seeing the evening news? Well, folks, today we had 20,000 people saved in Africa. No, you won't hear that, but it's happening. God really brought this home to me when I was in Uganda. We were preaching out in this remote region of Bunda Bugio, and we were doing some of the exploratory work there, and we preached in the marketplace, and this little man by the name of Bioruhanga. came up to me and he said, Sir, I need to talk to you. And we walked over to the to near a tree and he said, I need to confess my sins to you. I said, well, like a good Protestant. I said, well, you you don't have to confess your sins to me. You can go right to God in the name of Jesus and He'll forgive you your sins. And I thought, oh, that discussion's finished. He said, oh no, I need to confess my sins to you. I said, okay, I told everybody I'll be right back. He says, but we need to go to my house. And it's just over there. They pointed with their lip. Just over there. So we walked, and remember we went through some elephant grass and then uh we started going uphill and I noticed it was getting steeper, and about an hour and a half later We reached this house. And it was a dry season and it was dusty and uh there were the mud huts with the thatched roofs and there were little bear children running around and goats and chickens and There was a a circle, a perfect circle of coffee beans drying. And uh and I was sort of breathing a little heavy, you know, in my forties and and uh suppose I'm in my forties then or my thirties, dear. And um He pulled me into his house, and it was nice and cool in there, and I sat in this little chair that was sort of like a baby's chair, it was so small. And I said, Now, please tell me, what did you do? He said, Well, I killed somebody. I said, Oh, that is serious. Why did you kill them? He said, Well, my wife died of a terrible illness, and her brothers, who were from across the border here in Zaire, said that I had put a curse on her. And that's why she died. It wasn't a sickness. It was a spiritual curse. And they came after me with bows and arrows to kill me. I defended myself with a bow and arrow, and I killed one of them. And the local leader who was related to these people put me in prison and said I couldn't get out until I paid 40 goats. He said I was somehow able to pay those forty goats But I still feel like I'm not clean, I'm not forgiven. I said, Well, Beoduhanga, you're right. Because you not only have that sin of murder, but you have many more sins that you have to. Deal with because you're going to one day face a holy God. And the scripture came to my mind in Psalm 49 that says, No man can redeem the life of another or give to God a ransom for him. The ransom for life is very costly, and no payment is ever enough that he should live on forever and not see decay. And I said, Beyutohanga You need more than 40 goats. You need one pure, spotless lamb, and that is Jesus And I told him how Jesus had been given for him. And he accepted the Lamb of God and became a Christian on that day in that little hut. And then it hit me as I was walking away. I said, look at the love of Christ for this little man, that he would take me eight thousand miles away in Philadelphia and transport me here out into this village to walk up to that hill and sit in that little house and tell him of the love of Christ And that was God's sovereign, electing love put on that little man, planned before the foundations of the world, that he would find Christ on that day. Well, you know, I thought, well, at least one person somewhere up in those mountains knows Christ, and he'll go to heaven. A couple years later, after I'd been back in the States, I heard that this man had become a little evangelist and had started a church in his area and that our missionaries were meeting there every week. Through that one man's life. Well, how have you Understood the love of Christ for you. Have you really seized it and grasped it for your own? The scriptures here are not just telling us about an intellectual abstract knowledge. But in verse 19 it goes on, not only that it would seize it and make it our own, but that we might be filled to all the fullness of God. And I believe part of that means that we would actually be loving like Jesus. Let me ask you, what unbeliever that you know has such terrible sins that Jesus can't save him? Have you ever met people like that? You say, man, I've tried to witness to that guy or my employer. There's just no way he would ever hear the gospel message. And you've kind of written them off and given up on them. I used to feel that way about my father. My own father just passed away this year also. And he was a difficult man to love. He was a very critical man, not unlike me. And he never encouraged me. When I worked my way through college, I came home and he said, so now are you finally going to get a job? And uh kicked me out of the house one time because I was preaching to him too much as a new Christian. I guess I was a little obnoxious as a new Christian. But uh I used to watch my father beat my mother. They were finally divorced, and then he went on with other escapades in his life. And uh even as he as I got older and I had a family, he was never interested in my children. And it was very hard, uh, but I came to the conclusion that I needed to forgive my father and I needed to start loving him as my father. And I thought of all the good things he had done for me as a child. Taught me how to play baseball, how to shoot a bow and arrow, and He had in many ways been a good father to me. So I told him that, and I said, Dad, I want you to know that I've forgiven you for a lot of things that you did in my life. And he said, Bobby, he said, that's all water under the bridge. I said, Dad That water is still running under there and affects your life and mine. And we need to talk about it. He started calling me two and three times a week, asking me questions about the scripture. And I thought, well, he just wants to argue, which he liked to do. He used to find that, you know, what does the third candle mean? And he said, there's always contradictions in the Bible. I want you to explain all these contradictions and stuff like that. But he started asking sincere questions. Well, my father was a uh retired bus driver from the Philadelphia bus system, and he was always proud of the fact that he had a key to all the men's rooms. in all the bus stations in Philadelphia. He could use any one he wanted. That's what you get after working for the bus system for twenty-five years. How many going to be people want to be dress bus drivers now? Huh? Okay. And one day he went in one of these men's rooms and he found a Gideon's Bible. And he thought, well, I'm trying to learn more of the Bible. I think I'll take this home with me. Took it home and he called me up at the mission office and he said, Bobby, I'm in big trouble. I stole a Bible. What do I do? I said, Dad, you're gonna have to deal with the man yourself. I said, Dad, you know, I bet if you sent five dollars in the mail to the Gideons and told them that you just wanted a Bible to read, they wouldn't mind. And he did that. They sent him tons of tracks and literature. And he's reading all this stuff and he'd call me up every week and he'd say, now it says Romans 3. 23, you know, all sinful and short of the glory. Romans 6. 26 with wages of sinner death. And you know, on around Roman you know, John 3. 16 says, Is this the way I get saved? I said, that's right, Dad. You're getting it. You're getting it Go ahead and pray that prayer. Ask Jesus into your heart, you know. Okay, well I'm thinking about this. Next thing I know, he was in a bus, and the bus driver was a born-again bus driver. Preached to him on the bus and led him in a sinner's prayer in front of all the passengers. God works. He called me up. He said, Bobby, is this right? I said, Yeah, Dad. Sounds like you're on the right track. And if you prayed that prayer and you meant it, you're a child of God. Well, I can't say my dad changed as fast as I would have liked him to change. He still called me up sometimes and give me a hard time. But the funny thing is he started apologizing. He was very sick with emphysema in his last days. He had it for 25 years. He was on oxygen all the time. He couldn't walk from here to there without being out of breath And um before he died, we celebrated Christmas with him. And he was real grouchy and he was yelling at everybody because he was in pain And after the next day after Christmas he called people up. All the relatives said, I want to apologize for the way I acted. Another time he called me up and he said, uh Bobby, uh I've been thinking about by the way, don't call me Bobby, it's Robert. I I said that down in the south one time and I found out people like the name Bobby. But uh Bobby Lee, you call me Bobby Lee. But uh He called me up one time and he said, you know, Bobby, it just occurred to me that uh, you know, you're not just a pastor here in the United States in some little town. He said, But you go all over the world and you're bringing the message of Christ to a lot of people. And he says, I want you to know, I'm really proud of you. And my wife said, Lois, she said, Don't forget that, Robert. Savor those words, and I did. And I know that Christ worked in my dad's life and he's with Jesus now, I believe. And uh Let me ask you, can you believe that God would save your relative or that neighbor or that employee or employer that's hard to love? How high is your love for others? How pure and uncommon, unconditional is it? How long does it last in the face of offenses? How deep does your love go into the sin and pain of other people? And how many different types of people does it include? Do we really care about people who live halfway around the world? Well, folks, this isn't something that we can do in our own strength. Verse 20 gives us this great promise to him To him who is able to do immeasurably more than all we ask or imagine. You know, I always used to think this was the Cadillac promise verse. You know? If you really needed something, God is it. You know what this is talking about in the context? It's talking about how God can reveal to you his love for you. Isn't that what it says? To him is to be able to do measurably more than all we ask or imagine. What's he been praying? That we would understand this love that surpasses knowledge. Let's respond in faith then to the love of Christ, in communion with Him, and relying on His Spirit. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we do thank you for the great love with which you have loved us through your Son Jesus. Lord, we think of it may not have been 8,000 miles. But it was certainly a long journey that you made to reach us in our rebellion, in our stubbornness And oh Father, we know how your heart yearns to reach those around us who do not know you. And Lord, we cry out to you for mercy, for grace, to be able to love these people the way you've loved us. For we ask it in the name of your Son and for His glory. Amen.