Thank you for coming this morning. These are our January lectures. And my sense is we're going to have Enough people to be in the community room next Sunday. I doubt we're going to get 170 plus. Now that'd be great. But I doubt that's going to happen. So what we'll do is, depending on today's attendance, we we can move to the community room a little more comfortable down there and also gives the worship team an opportunity to actually use the space to get prepared for worship. And um but they've been gracious and and uh getting through quickly Let's begin with prayer and uh map out briefly what we're going to do and we'll get started on uh today's class. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the opportunity we have. To come together again as the gathered body of Christ. We ask you, Father, that you would give us a greater joy in gathering together as the body of Christ. And in our gathering, may we be able to encourage each other in new and fresh ways this new year. We ask that you would enable us by the love of Christ, through the power and presence of your Holy Spirit, to encourage one another. to understand the calling you've given to us and to live it out as you've called us to do. So we ask for your presence, your power, and wisdom with us this morning and in the morning. coming weeks. In Jesus' name. Amen. So in these January lectures, our desire is to gather together everyone into one class that is able to be here. and to focus on particular subjects. And this year we wanted to look at this concept of equip and deploy. So what we're going to be looking at over the next three or four weeks is we're going to start off broadly. And then we're going to get to some more narrow, if you will, ways in which even more particular individual to you. And then we're going to finish the class again moving out more broadly. And what we're going to specifically looking at the question, as you see here, the church's mission and our calling. Where is there an intersection between the mission of the church and our calling as Christians? Our calling, I want to suggest, needs to have a very broad definition to it. Our calling, and what I'll be using as that word, is to be understood as encapsulating both our call as followers and disciples of Christ that includes not only our quote-unquote spiritual gifts but also the gifts and talents that God has invested you with to do the work that you do every day, And so central to our class is going to be this recurring theme. And those of you who've been around Columbia Presbyterian Church. for any time um are going to be familiar uh with this verse. Let me begin, and it is um It is Ephesians 4, 11-16. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, and the shepherds and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry. for building up the body of Christ, until we attain to all the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine, by human cunning, by craftiness in deceitful schemes. Rather, speaking the truth and love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ, for from whom the whole body joined and held together by every joint which it is equipped. with each part is working properly, making the body grow so that it builds itself up in love. The idea of the church's mission, when we use the phrase the mission of the church, what tends to come to your mind? What is, when you think, what is the what is the church's mission? Not just this particular church, but what is the church of Christ? What is its mission? Anyone To tell the good news of the gospel. Exactly. All right. And so anyone else want to add? Discipleship. The Great Commission I'm going to actually include with the telling of the gospel. The Great Commission, which involves making disciples. Right? Okay. All right. Do you mind me asking just briefly? When you say making disciples, what what are your thoughts? What do you invest in that word disciple? teaching and training uh believers how to live once they you know understood the the the message of the gospel. Right. We are called to live in a in a way that's different from the rest of the world. To equip believers with an understanding of what it means to walk with Christ as they've come to Christ through the Great Commission of Telling of the Gospel. We are to make disciples, meaning what does it mean to follow the Lord and both doctrinally uh and otherwise, right? And to live in the world, understanding we're both in it, but we're also distinct because of our relationship, our union with Christ, which is what Paul is pointing to here. So all of those things are absolutely true. And we're going to be looking at what it looks like in the context. What does it mean to understand my calling as a Christian within the activity of the church? However, what I want to do today is to specifically ask, is there a way that we can also broaden our vision for what it means to be a discipleship and what it means to be uh trained as a disciple because if many ways if we stay simply in this neighborhood that we've just spoken There is an enormous chasm between Sunday mornings and Monday mornings. So we, if we fail to bridge the gap between my calling as a Christian and my life in the church, And we don't properly seek to equip and encourage the saints for doing ministry outside the physical body of the church, but actually out into the world. Then we will have failed a key part of our mission. Because what we have to be careful in doing is we we all recognize that How much time do we spend outside the physical walls of the gathered body of Christ or in relationship with others? I've done the math and it's a vast majority. If you look at the amount of time we're at work, That we're in conversation and relationship with those outside the church. It's a vast majority of our time. So we can narrowly define this as equipping the saints for doing ministry in the church. But I want to suggest that I don't think that's all that it is. We're going to be looking at that element, but it's not all that it is. So today we're going to be looking at it, what it means broadly. So the next slide, I want you to consider these two texts. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us. us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. As the work of those who belong to the Lord is established. That is It flourishes, it grows, then Proverbs 11:10 makes a lot of sense. When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices, and when the wicked perish, there are shouts of gladness. And so the issue is not that we're to sit around and and you know be glad at those who are perishing. That's not what is meant by the proverb. But this idea of that if the righteous, those who belong to the Lord, and their work is being established by Him, blessed by Him, and it's flourishing And we seek to do that work in the name of the Lord, which is the mission, one of the mission aspects of the mission of the church, is to remind Christians that the work we do Is a part of our discipleship, then we will recognize that we ought to ask the Lord to establish our work, but not just for our own blessing. Because as our work prospers, Proverbs tells us, so does the city around us. So, what does this look like scripturally? How important is this to the Lord? I would say the next passage we're going to look at, which is going to serve as the central text for today's discussion. Is understanding how important the work we do is to the Lord. It's found perhaps in an unusual place. It's uh in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 25. It's uh it's a lengthy text. Um about ten verses. So let me read it and then we will look at this together When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him, he will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And he will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. When the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry, and you gave me food I was thirsty and you naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me Then the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the king will answer them, Truly I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me no food, I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink. I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison and you did not visit me. Then they also will answer, saying, Lord. When did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick in or in prison and did not minister to you? Then he will answer them saying, Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. It's a weighty passage. Agreed? Extremely weighty. So my question for you is, how are we to how many of you have at least I I've preached on this text, but I know many of you have read this text. How many of you read this before? All right, so you you you certainly heard it. Okay, that being said, how then having heard it How do we believe it should be applied? How do we understand it? When you hear this, what comes to your mind as an imperative? Have your eyes open, okay? Christian life is others focused. The Christian life is others focused and service to others. Yes. As we're serving others, we're also serving Christ. Anyone from over here? Wanna add? Anyone? Anyone? Sharing the love of Jesus as he has loved us. And what's interesting is how is sharing the love of Jesus described in this passage? Meeting needs. Exactly. Okay. Now, let's go one step further. Where or in what context comes to your mind are we to do these things? I heard two things. Someone up right here? No. Yes. You can't go out doing setting that at home. That's exactly right. All right. Any other context come to your mind? When you hear these things: feeding, giving drink, visiting, welcoming in. What are the what are are there images that are coming into your mind? And if so, what might they be? So like daily interactions with people in your everyday aggression like outside of church, outside the church body. Everyday interactions you may have with people where you can build bridges with people define need that they have that you can be or Or commonalities, affinities that essentially build a bridge of a relationship between you and somebody else like the church. Yes. Okay serving those that we come into contact with on a daily basis that we interact with that have needs. I'm going to call here and then come back to here. Yes? Okay. The guy by the road, when you pull up or you see someone in the I'll come right back to you. Okay. Salvation Army. So what kind of work, when you say this work, what kind of work is coming to your mind? What kind of work do they do? We actually have a word for it in the Christian world. Phrase. Mercy. Mercy Ministry, yes. I was going to say you asked us for some females. Yes. family, church, community. I think uh important children's family that they can have Correct. And then you have sometimes the people right around you at first. Correct. We're not aware. Maybe you should quit because you're not aware. We're not aware of the people who can use it. Mm-hmm. That's right. It's kind of like when you should be treated. Yeah, it's it's it's never exclusive anything. It's not exclusively those who are in the body, and it's not exclusive. exclusively those in the world. It is these overlapping circles because where we exist in all these different spaces, right? These different contexts. All right. Yes, one more. Yes. How do we define those circles? Mm-hmm. Sure. So right, so one of the issues comes how do we define the context because the community that we live in has very different needs and and than the needs maybe next door in in uh Baltimore or the needs needs in DC or needs in Silver Spring or whatever the or whatever the case may be. So yes, we but I think it's it's okay to understand that based on this uh description here, first of all, they were s he he's describing something which was a surprise to those who heard it. First Even those who followed the Lord, the righteous ones, did not recognize that the work that they were doing was actually in service directly ministering to Christ. Yet they did it. The others didn't realize it either. Both were surprised. So there's a great degree of illumination that is happening in the moment that is described in the passage So I think it's safe to say then they were just going about their specific ways of life in the different spheres that they existed. So Jerry, in one way we could define these overlapping circles as the places where the Lord has you now. Not where you think you ought to be or you might be, but where we are. So if you think about your specific spheres, of of work. So you have your immediate family, you have the body of Christ, you have the different organizations you're involved in, the place where you work, the place where you play, the place where you the places through which you travel. These are all these spheres that overlap each other that play into what is being envisioned here in this passage. But I want to suggest, or I may ask this question. All right. So, given this idea of what has been described here and the images that come to mind, I'm going to ask for some honest. So it's good to be honest here, okay? What percentage of your time is spent doing what is described here? Hmm. You're shaking your head, dear sister. Zero percent. But what if I told you you're completely wrong? see an argument to the other side. What is that argument? Uh that just living out my life and as I run into things I Okay. So it's uh yes, George. I I don't know you can ask her. I I didn't say zero percent, George. I I didn't. She said zero percent. So what did you mean? Okay. So she she's simply saying by what she's seeing described here, and as she understands her own daily activity, what's being described here is To for her, a f a not a foreign existence, but not something she experiences regularly. That's what she means. Okay? Anyone else? Yes. At my place of work everyone there is lacking nothing material. But there are plenty of thirsty people and plenty of hungry people. My place to go to be aware that they have needs go far beyond their material wealth. Yes. Yes, yes. Spiritual needs needs to be meeting practical needs. God uses that to reach where the the the the spiritual dead the spiritual yeah I just speaking from my own right yes well I'm thinking that uh I think how we're very blinded. I have many people in my office responding to my students having a second thing. I mean and and That's right. That's right. So y and and again, th that's a part of the spheres that you that that you're operating in. Right. Exactly. You you're you're aware of those. Um and so there's there are a couple of things that are going on here. It is perfectly correct to look at this text and understand it on the on the street level. It is There are acts of literally providing water and food for those who are hungry and thirsty. Absolutely. But we also can understand that we, scripturally speaking, can expand our understanding, our vision of what this looks like. So we talked about spiritual thirst. So we may work around people who don't need for physical food or physical drink, but who are very clearly hungry and thirsty for something And we can seek to, in our relationship with them, seek to provide a place of welcoming in. A hospitable place where they're not going to receive judgment. A safe place where they can speak. So over the next few minutes, what I want to do is expand our application of these verses. We don't have to change the definitions, but expand the application. It most certainly means, most certainly means. literally providing food and drink. And which, by the way, this year I'm hoping to share with you some expanded ways that we can care for the needs of those in this community. We have lots of students, children in this community who go home on the weekend and they hit a food desert. They do not know where their lunches or dinners are going to come from. And when they do come, they're so radically malnourished, it affects their their performance in the school. The closest elementary school to this church has a program called Blessings in Backpacks. It cost $100 per student per year. They've already eaten through the budget that people give to. So that's two th they have about twenty plus students who need this program. It's food. What it so what they they we they have the ability to provide meals at discounted rates or free rates. to students, but what happens when they go home on the weekend? And so every weekend they get a backpack that has in it meals. And so they've already, so there's a way right here in our own neighborhood where we can be active in this. No doubt. So, but let's look at two, how do we understand the actual work that we do? So together, let's consider this for just a minute. Now I want to I want you to be aware that the sources and books that, and we'll be providing a list of these. There is what is the mission of the church, making sense of social justice, shalom and the Great Commission, Pastor Kevin DeYoung. And another is from Pastor Tom Nelson, Work Matters, connecting Sunday worship to Monday's work. Vocational Stewardship for the Common Good, Kingdom Calling by Amy Sherman. And this is The Pastor's Guide to Fruitful Work and Economic Wisdom, Tom Nelson. And How Should We Then Work by Hugh Wetchell. And finally, I'll end with our discussion on this today. It's Lester de Coster. And it's called Work, the Meaning of Your Life from a Christian Perspective. So with that in mind, let's consider these verses. Now notice. What we hear in these verses, it says, I was hungry, and you gave me something to eat. DeCoster in this brief book describes ways in which we can apply this activity In ways perhaps we haven't seen before. So we're going to look at these different categories together and then we can discuss. He says, God Himself Hungering in the hungry is served by all those who work in agriculture wholesale or retail foods, kitchens or restaurants, food transportation and mass production, innumerable support services enterprises that together make food production and distribution possible. But the question is, do those who work in these economic zones or spheres, do they think of it? And those who are believers, do they think about their work? as the provision, the tools which God has provided to provide food for those who are hungry. Secondly, I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. Okay? What about folks who work in either protection or establishment or even public policy as it relates to municipal and private water services. Purifying waters, exploration or for a desalinization of water, well drilling, pipeline, plumbing. installation or maintenance, manufacturing or servicing water-related equipment, working in countless water-related goods and service industries. All of that is touching water. I needed clothes and you clothed me. I think you see where this is going. Textiles. Building and repairing of dwellings. Sales of clothing and shelter items, fire or police or military protection of property that does this very work. Real estate, insurance, goods and service occupations related to shelter and comfort. I was sick and you looked after me. Medical services, counseling, social work, health insurance, serving others through work in any field that is both That serves both physical and mental health-related occupations. I was a stranger and you invited me in. Clearly, this is um sh this definitely involves the role that I play as a pastor in the church It also can be all kinds of issues, even he suggests, what about those who work in the delivery of mail? They deliver messages of encouragement, invitation. People work in all kinds of communications that facilitates this kind of invitation. Finally, I was in prison and you came to visit me. Social services, lawyers, judges, education, politics, and government, providing employment. Human ro human resources, human rehabilitation, and liberating services that so many desperately need. What he's suggesting is Not whether these roles are engaged with these things. The question is, those who are believers and followers of Christ, who are disciples Do they understand their actual work, the place of work, and the talents which God has given for them to do that work? Do they see that as being bound up in their calling as disciples and doing this very work? If this is merely seen in the in the sphere of mercy ministry, We are too narrowly defining what it means to provide for those who have need. It most certainly involves mercy ministry. But it also involves a whole series of other uh occupations. So what are your thoughts about this? Yes, George. is a professing Christian who says, I can't wait until Sunday gets here where I can be practicing and sharing my faith. Completely forget it. That as the Holy Spirit comes into our lives, the Spirit is going to guide us in what type of job to be going. We're not going to get into pornographic stuff or it's a drug. And and we're going to find out we're going to understand that the way we construct our stuff, the honesty we show Preparing for others, working as a change. Uh, who is here to use unique techniques for us to enroll in our faith and So I want to get back to that. I'm going to circle back to that very idea, the role of the Holy Spirit in shaping how we approach the work that we do. Yes? Uh on first the flesh we tend to think of invisible because Jesus often used the thirsty woman well. That's exactly right. That is exactly right. And that's per s it i yeah, if that's what precisely what we were bringing up over here. What if what what if you work in places that um that are surrounded by people who clearly have enough. Are we saying they don't they don't they're not thirsty or they're not hungry, right? We can see that. We hear it. And so there's an opportunity to be ministering in Christ's name in that place. Yeah. Someone suffering mentally. That's exactly right. It's good. Yes, and then come back to you. Yes. passages we can speak to the kind of backwards nature of the people that have where he's like the least of these are the most important. Christ is the obviously in the church, right? Right. And yet but would we minister to Yeah. Seeking that not people that we necessarily can benefit from knowing and stuffing and doing good things for, but going out and finding people have no part in our social spheres. In some ways people that society, the world sees us being lowly not worthwhile. Yes. Ministering to them, not just to their physical Administering to there's there's bureaucracy as well. Does that take a certain degree of relationship? Yes, then necessarily people that's crazy administering to those people. Why are you saying time with the least the listener and the and if you can spend time you can break away conversations but you can spend time with those people that sit and wow. Right. And what he's commending is the service to others. the other person uh centered nature of discipleship. The idea that it's not we don't seek to serve those who simply scratch our backs back. We invite those in who we know we're gonna get invitation from. It's giving those without the expectation of receiving anything in return. Not because they can't, but just because that's not our expectation we ought to give. I think Jerry, you had your hand up and then Yes. Right. Right. Right. Right. Correct. So here's here's so let me build on that and then I'll come right back. And it's this. So let's compare what you and I do together, Jerry. So I'm a pastor, I'm working with people, I'm visiting with people, people are coming to me, and all kinds of needs, you know, but they're not necessarily coming to you for those same kinds of needs, right? And so we tend to, in light of this, in light of this, we tend to see this perhaps more easily fitting within my sphere of occupation. And less so in yours. And I want to simply suggest, while it may be different, and we may have to search a little harder, God was not wasting his time in investing you with the gifts that he's given you. And called you to actually work and provide for your families and provide for yourself and just said, Well go back to your economic merry way. Right There is something, and this comes back to the Holy Spirit's guidance, asking the Holy Spirit, and this is the role of the church, to remind us, to encourage one another. And to stir one another, ask for Holy Spirit to work and give us a vision for those within our workspace, within our spheres Economically, socially, relationally, whatever the case may be, those who have needs, those who are the least, and those who may not appear to be the least, but are nonetheless broken and hurting. It is to suggest that we've already been given a great treasure of gifts Of relationship and networks that you're in, that God is in you, and you are in him, and he's put you there May the Holy Spirit enable us to have a greater vision for, okay, who's thirsty, Lord? Who's hungry? How can I have the eyes of faith to see that and give me the grace and strength to respond? in a way that is appropriate in relationship uh and and caring. There was a hand back up over here. I don't okay, yes. Right. Right with ministry. Right. Yes. If that's about quality that you're going to take even after a ministry, we can look at that while you can use the Yes. Yes. That's right. Yes. That's exactly right. No, it it is. I mean it it I don't ride my bike like I should, but that that's a another discussion for another day. But but it is but that is that is correct. Ministry not in the sense of locating just ministry within the walls and life of the church, but the occupation which God has you in. Whatever that may be. Yes. I think you're sort of trying this in with the previous passage, which is about the use of our channels. Correct. And I think many of us maybe shortchange ourselves if we don't have the kind of talents that could do this effectively. But that's That's not what the scripture is saying. That's exactly right. Absolutely. Our occupations I wouldn't do well as a lawyer. Right. A lawyer may not do well as a pastor or chaplain. Right. Um but I think that's aren't you kind of saying that's exactly what I'm saying. What talents do we have? Are we using them? That's right. And so one of the one of one aspect of the mission of the church is to equip you and encourage you and remind you that the talent you have been given is your ministry. That's what you've been equipped for, yes. Yes. We don't let they see the impact we might have lived. So true. That is Yes. Which is like which is the reason why this pastor likes to mow grass. Because I work in this in a sphere of you know in ministry. I I don't get to see the finished product. But when I'm done mowing the grass, I can look back and go, I okay. I started that and I I finished that. You know? And uh and so it it's like, yeah, it it you we don't know. We and again this but neither did those who were Here. They didn't know, right? They didn't recognize the full import of what they were doing. That's again trusting in the Lord's work through our work. So let me finish with a couple of quotes here. And how many have heard of Dallas Willard? Anyone? Okay. This was what he said. He said, the place of discipleship is wherever I am now. It's whatever I am now, and whatever I am doing now. When I go to work at USC and I walk in the class, that's my place of discipleship. That's the place where I am learning from Jesus how to do everything in the kingdom of God. And that's why it's important for me to understand that Jesus is, in fact, the smartest man in my field. He is the smartest man in your field. It doesn't matter what you're doing. If you are running a bank or a mercantile company or a manufacturing plant or a government office or whatever it is, he's the smartest man on the job. And that is a place of discipleship for us. James Davidson Hunter, he's professor at University of Virginia, says, in short. Fidelity to the highest practices of vocation before God is consecrated and itself transformational in its effects. So the work we're doing, whether we always see it or not, is being used to the Lord to bring about transformation and impact. The question is, what kind? Here I'll finish with this. Paul makes this important point, for the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Our attitude towards our work, the excellence of our work, and our relationship with our co-workers would dramatically change if we walked in the spirit at work. The question I want to leave you with are these, and we can explore these a little more next week. How would you describe the culture in which you work? How has that work culture shaped you as a worker over against the shaping of the Holy Spirit in your approach to the work? And finally, what disappointments have you faced in your workplace? What might God be teaching you through them? Yes? I feel that uh our country, our world has a major problem in the spiritual country. That's right. And that's exactly right. In and it's even a reality for Christians that we forget our spiritual hunger. and how it is to be fed. That's exactly right. Yes. Yes. Right. Yep. And as we do things that we we help people in whatever way Right. Ambassadors. Ambassadors for Christ. Exactly. Yes. That's exactly right. Right. Right, and that's the right, so not only giving us the eyes of faith to see the talents which He's given us and the place in which we work as a primary place of discipleship. In our walk with Christ, how can we then see the needs? But Lord, not just see the needs, but how can you give me the strength and the courage to enter into those needs, whatever they might be? So we'll continue this discussion. I hope it's stimulating. I hope it will be more so. Thank you for your participation. And let me pray for us. We will close. Father, thank you for this morning. I pray most of all that your Holy Spirit would encourage each of us in our work this week. Wherever it is, that is a place of discipleship you have set for us. And we would ask for your Holy Spirit to help us honor you with the talents and gifts that you've invested us with. That you would give us the eyes of faith to see the needs before us. And as ambassadors for Christ, to have the courage to enter in. Lord, there are so many other things that we will talk about. But in this and for this day, I pray. That tomorrow morning will be infused with greater meaning. Whether we're students, whether we're stay-at-home parents, or whether we go to a workplace Or whatever it is that we do, may you give us the understanding that that is a place of discipleship. Lord, do this in us, we ask. Make us more and more into the image of your Son for your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.