This morning we're going to continue looking at Matthew chapter 9. We thought that you guys were getting too much out of the series on contentment, so we decided to interrupt it with a couple of messages on Matthew 9. Which will shock you from your reverie. Last week you'll remember we talked about Jesus as the compassionate shepherd We talked about how his desire was to see the needs of his lost children met, that they would have those needs met, and that they themselves would be brought into the kingdom. And you recall that the assignment I gave you last week, those of you who are here, was to write down the name of at least one person to pray that their needs would be met and that God, the Lord of the harvest, would send a laborer into that harvest. Now I'm not going to embarrass you and ask you to raise your hands, but as we as we hear God's word this morning, I want you to be thinking of that person again as well. I want you to be focusing upon the person whose needs you've identified. Because this morning we're not going to look at the compassionate shepherd. We're going to look at the Lord of the harvest. We're going to look at who indeed is this person to whom the disciples were commanded to pray. There are several questions that this passage raises for us. Who is the Lord of the harvest? Who is it that we're to pray to? Secondly, how will he answer our prayers? We're praying that needs would be met. How is he going to do that? And thirdly, can we trust him to bring in the harvest? Can we trust him? Let me read the passage again so that you recall where we are. We're at Matthew chapter 9, verse 35. Jesus went through all the towns and villages Teaching in their synagogue, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. Well it may seem obvious to some of you, but the answer to the first blank, number one, is Jesus is the Lord of the harvest. The first time I read this passage I was somewhat confused because I'm not used to people speaking in the third person of themselves. And I'm not used to people giving commands to a third person when that third person is themselves. But the context here speaks clearly. Jesus is the Lord of the harvest. We see that as we look at him being personally involved in the harvest. You recall last week that we focused on the fact that he is active in meeting the needs. He's active in bringing people to himself. In verse 35, we find that he's healing every disease and sickness. He's gone through all the towns and villages, and he's healed the diseases, and he's healed the sicknesses. He's feeding the hungry. Chapter 14, we remember from last week. There are 4,000 people who are hungry because they've listened to Jesus all day long. And instead of being practical, instead of being self-serving, Jesus doesn't send them off to go buy food. He tells his disciples to sit them down and he feeds them. Even though he has no resources. But perhaps the most important thing Jesus is doing in this passage is also found in verse 35 Where it says that he is teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom. You see, Jesus is proclaiming the gospel and he's meeting the ultimate need. The Lord of the harvest is the one who does that. We also find that he is the one who calls those that come. He is the shepherd who calls his sheep. No one else can do that. No one else. Who called the twelve? Jesus did. Who called us? Jesus did. We may often be sent as an ambassador with a message that is not our own. And we might become deceived into thinking that we're calling the sheep, but that's not true. Jesus calls the sheep. And we'll see that more in a few minutes. But he also sends the workers. And this is the second passage here. He acts as the Lord of the harvest was asked to act. You recall in verse 38, Jesus says, ask. And that's a command, and it's oftentimes in other places translated, pray. Pray the Lord of the harvest that he will send out laborers into his harvest. It could mean beseech, it could mean ask, it could mean plead. But Jesus is commanding his disciples to pray to a particular person, the Lord of the harvest. That that person will send out workers. I want you to look down at chapter ten, verse five. Because here it says clearly that these twelve, the ones that he's commanded to pray, these twelve Jesus sent out With the following instructions. Do not go among the Gentiles or enter any town of the Samaritans. Go rather to the lost sheep of Israel. As you go, preach this message. The kingdom of heaven is near. Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse those who have leprosy, and drive out demons. That is the answer to the prayer they were commanded to pray. It's the next thing that happens in sequence. Jesus is identifying himself as the Lord of the harvest. What do the disciples do? They preach the kingdom is near. The same thing Jesus does in verse 35. They heal the sick, the same thing Jesus does in verse 35. They meet the needs. They're acting as the ambassadors of the Lord of the harvest. Jesus Jesus indeed is the Lord of the harvest. It is his harvest field Understanding that, we need to look at the second point, that the harvest is his. This is where it gets exciting. This is the tremendous news. The harvest belongs to Jesus. Why is that exciting? Well, because he's sovereign. He is sovereign over who comes. I want to read you a section from John chapter ten. Jesus is speaking to the Pharisees who have questioned his teaching. And Jesus says, I did tell you, but you do not believe. The miracles I do in my Father's name speak for me. But you do not believe because you are not my sheep. My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one can snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one can snatch them out of my Father's hand. My Father and I are one. Jesus calls his sheep. Jesus keeps his sheep. That's tremendous. If you're a sheep today, you can have the confidence that nothing can shake that relationship with Jesus. And you can have confidence that as you go out and meet the needs or pray for the needs to be met, Jesus is the one who can meet those needs. And once Jesus does, they never go unmet. Never. In John 13, verse 18, Jesus speaks again of the fact that he's sovereign over who comes. I'm not referring to all of you. He's speaking here of Judas Iscariot. This is after he's washed the disciples' feet. He's speaking to the twelve in the upper room. And he says to them, I am not referring to all of you. I know those whom I have chosen. Jesus knows his sheep. That's John chapter thirteen, verse eighteen. John chapter fifteen. One of my favorite passages. When I have difficult times in my relationship with the Lord and I wonder if perhaps I have not the reserves to maintain it, I turn here. John chapter fifteen, verse sixteen, Jesus speaking to the twelve. You did not choose me But I chose you and appointed you to go and bear fruit. Fruit that will last. Again, Jesus is pointing out that he is the sovereign Lord of the harvest. He is so sovereign he can not only choose us, but he can send us. And not only does he send us, but he gives us Fruit. We are part of that harvest process as his disciples. And the fruit that we have, he promises, will last. As you are involved in the harvest process, you can have the confidence that it is not you who is at work. It's God. It is not you who might sustain or fail to sustain that fruit. It's God. And God will not fail. Prayer then becomes crucial. One, because Jesus commands it He says, Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. That's reasonable enough. But that isn't the only reason. It's also because the Lord is capable of answering your prayer. And he does. He brings the fruit. He promises it. And that fruit will remain. But if Jesus will call his sheep and Jesus will protect his sheep, why should I be Praying and why should I be paying the price to be in the harvest? He'll do it by himself. All I have to do is sit back. No. Not at all. Not at all. Because Jesus has asked you. Jesus has commanded you as his followers to be part of the process. You don't have a choice. We'll get into that later when we look at the costs for not involvement in the harvest But right now you don't know who the lost sheep are. Jesus sends his disciples in in Matthew 10 to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. They're not there yet. My study of the church tells me that the church is Israel. And so as Jesus speaks of the lost sheep of Israel, he's speaking of all those who will come to him and be part of the people of God. That could mean your mother-in-law that you don't like. That could mean that neighbor that is a pain in the neck. That could mean that boss or that employee who is always causing you problems. Or that customer who says, I want it yesterday. It could be anybody that you don't like. But you know what? If God calls them, they won't be people you don't like. Too often I get set in the mindset of saying, okay, God, just get me through this crisis. That's short-sighted. I don't want to get through a crisis. I want those people to come. I want them transformed so that they are a delight to the Lord. There's not going to be one person in heaven that you won't enjoy being with. But you're going to be terribly surprised by those who are there. So prayer is important. It's the way we have access to God, and it is God who changes. I'm constantly telling people that I work with in evangelism that we are not to convince To convict or to convert. That's not our job. That's the job of the Father, the Lord of the harvest, the Spirit We're not to convince, convict, or convert. Our job purely and simply is to tell, to teach, and to testify. We are to bear witness. That's it. God does the hard work. And you know what? God decides who will take a role in the harvest. God decides who will do what job. And the truth is that there are a lot of different parts to the harvest. Some people may sow, and may sow exclusively. You may get so tired of sharing the gospel with people who spurn it. With people who have nothing but pity on you for the time that you spend and a lack of concern for the God you love. You may be busy weeding. You may be pulling weeds. There may be people you know who've hurt enough, but who constantly have other things springing up. You may get tired of telling people about the new age as they're sucked in. You may get tired of telling people about other views of who God might be. You may get tired of even your own children coming to you with questions that could lead them astray if they weren't answered properly. Or you may be one who gets the opportunity to reap, who is there as God gives fruit Sometimes I get tired of being the person who has to care for the kids in the neighborhood because their parents don't. I'm sort of known in the neighborhood as the one who likes to have squirt gun wars. It always escalates. Sometimes they come with a squirt gun and go away with a bucket. But while they're trying to get me with a bucket, I'm refilling my squirtment so I get them with a hose. Mutual assured destruction. But you know, in playing with them, I build a relationship that allows me the freedom to tell them when they're right and they're wrong. And as I listen to their language, fifteen feet away from me, it's a lot different than it is next to me. They know right and wrong and they're seeing things happen. You may be called to share with that boss of yours and to plant seeds, never to see it harvested. or that mother-in-law, or that father-in-law, or that that stepson, or whatever family member or friend really is hard for you to be around. Because they don't like you. They don't like the stand that you take. They don't like the rules that you enforce. But you're sowing and you're cultivating You may have actually had opportunity to have seen someone pray and been part of that process. I'll never forget the first person that I had the opportunity to pray to receive the Lord with. It was back in June of 1979 and I was on a naval air station in Whidby Island, Washington State. We were out with the navigators, we were doing what we then called cold turkey evangelism. You go out and and you just find somebody and you talk to them. And I've known lots of people here who've been intimidated and terrified by that. And let me tell you, I have been too. But we went to the meth hall, the enlisted men's meth hall, and there were two of us together. a guy that I'd never known before who worked on the mace with the navigators. And he and I sat down in the mess hall next to a young man named AJ We asked if we could share our our meal with AJ, and he said sure. We asked if we could share a spiritual meal with AJ, and he said, well, gee, I don't know why not. And as we shared with him over the next forty-five minutes, he said, Yeah, I need that. And I was astounded. I'd been sharing the gospel for five years by that point, and I'd never seen somebody come to know the Lord in a first-time contact. AJ did. And I guarantee you there had been people who had sown the seed, and there had been people who had cultivated and pulled weeds because nobody comes on the first contact. Well, almost nobody. But the point is, is that he did. He came on our first contact, and I'm sure there had to be people who were praying for him, people who had been showing the gospel. But that day, July 7th, 1979, was the first time that I had seen somebody come on a first contact. And that was a tremendous gift from God. It was a tremendous encouragement. But I don't fool myself that I convicted, convinced, or converted. I don't fool myself that I was the first contact he had with Christians or the gospel. But I do know that that was a tremendous blessing for me. You might be called to demonstrate a godly response to persecution. This is a real good one. Nobody likes this. But you know what? If you do this, if somebody harasses you, if somebody at work makes it difficult for you to advance, Or if somebody in your neighborhood makes it tough for you to have friends, if somebody really persecutes you because you live a godly life, if they taunt you, if they harass you, You're following in tremendous footsteps. You're following in the footsteps of Jesus Himself. And you know what? You have a promise that that's going to happen. Jesus says. The world will hate you because it hates me. There are cases in our own congregation where people have undergone that. And if you want to be encouraged sometime, come to me and I'll let you know some of the cases and you can go talk to the people. But it's tremendous to see what God does through that and the blessings He gives. The truth is that there are many who will work in a harvest field without seeing fruit. I think of the people in Vacation Bible School this week who've sown tremendous seeds. I think of the people who've worked in summer camps and had a week, constant contact 24 hours a day with kids who need another Lord. Unless one of those kids comes back years later and lets you know what an impact you have in their life, you won't know it this side of heaven. But the thing you have to be confident of is that you have had that impact because the gospel does not return void. Right now you might be thinking, this all sounds pretty depressing. Suffering, persecution, sowing and never seeing fruit? The difficulties of sowing, you may find somebody who has tremendous needs that you are called to meet. You may find somebody who drains you and snaps you of energy. A good analogy would be that case of someone drowning in the water. Who's flailing around because they don't know how to swim? And you jump in and you try and save them only to find yourself drowning because they're all over you like white on rice. And you can't breathe because water is three feet above your head. Their feet are on your shoulders. But that's a wrong analogy. That's a tremendously wrong analogy. It's completely wrong. Because the wonderful truth here is this And I want you to listen very closely. If you miss this, then I fail. This is the point. Jesus does not command Anyone to take part in the harvest without equipping them first. We talked last week about not having the financial or emotional or or time, the resources necessary to deal with the harvest. But I want you to look right now at Matthew chapter 9 or chapter 10, verse 1. Because you recall the sequence here is that Jesus says, pray, ask. The next step is that Jesus called his twelve disciples. Chapter 10, verse 1. He called his twelve disciples to him and gave them authority. To drive out evil spirits, and to heal every sickness and disease. Only once he had done that did he send them out and give them the command to raise the dead. Sometimes we think that the scene goes more like this. Peter, I want you to go raise the dead. What? Me? Yeah, go raise the dead. But that's not the way it goes at all. Jesus calls his twelve and says, I'm giving you power. I'm giving you all the resources you could possibly want, desire, or need. And then he says, go. And what's Peter's response? Well, it doesn't say here, but I imagine Peter got up, walked off, and went. Because he came back and reported that he had healed the diseases. He had cast out the demons. What God calls you to do this week, He will enable you to accomplish. Listen to that. What God calls you to do, you will accomplish. Do you believe that? Here in cynical intellectual Colombia Land of spiritual depression. It's hard sometimes to realize that those people need Jesus. Or if we know they need Jesus, it's hard to believe that they'll receive Jesus. But you know what? Jesus says, I know my sheep. My sheep hear my voice, and they follow me Sometimes he may not tell you in advance that you've got the power. Sometimes it may be more like the feeding of the 4,000 or the 5,000 Where Peter comes to Jesus, where one of the disciples comes to Jesus and says, Hey, Jesus, it's getting close to dinner time. Shouldn't we send these people away so they can go back home and have dinner? Jesus says, no, no. Sit 'em down. Uh Jesus, we don't have the food. I'm sorry to break this to you, but we don't have the we don't have the resources to feed these people. That's okay, Peter, just sit 'em down. You know what happens? Jesus has resources. Peter doesn't know. Peter obeys. He follows through. The twelve sit down, the four thousand. And you know what happens? They eat till they're so full they can't eat anymore. They cannot eat anymore. Now they didn't know they had those resources, but they had Jesus. I want to ask you this morning, what's different between them and you? If you don't have the resources, let me ask you this. Do you have Jesus? Do you trust that what he commands you to do, he will give you the resources to accomplish I need to move on. I want to look at this last section, the costs. We don't need to spend a lot of time on the the first part, the cost of involvement in the harvest, because I think we're all well aware of that. I think we're all aware of the time that it would take to get to know people I think we're all well aware of the emotional drain it takes to speak with and to care for the lost. Those who hurt, those in marital crisis, those whose children have failed. Or are continuing to fail to obey. Those whose children spurn their parents. We know the emotional drain. We also know the financial. We see the homeless. We see the hungry. We get tired of paying taxes to take care of them, much less doing anything on top of that. And we see the overwhelming flood. Of poverty. And we realize that our resources simply aren't enough. And you're right, yours are not. But those that God places on your heart, He will give you the resources to care for. The key here is to pray that God would send laborers into his harvest, to pray that God would give you the burden for the right people, and then act. We tend to be aware of the embarrassment of opening our hearts and our souls to someone. to share about the Lord whom we love dearly, only to have them refuse him and us, or worse yet, to spurn him, or to laugh at us for being foolish enough to be spiritual in an age of the intellect. We know the hurts and the rejection that we will face, and you will face it. But Jesus doesn't give you resources only to meet other people's needs, He gives you resources to meet yours as well. And those are the times you draw closest to Jesus. But before we pass on and look at the cost of non-involvement, I want to challenge you with a particular passage. I want you to be aware that this is not Some special super Christian command. This is not something that the spiritual are to do while we who are young and weak and immature rest on our laurels. You'll recall the story of the rich young ruler who came to Jesus. His question was, teacher, what good thing must I do to get eternal life? Jesus talks about the Ten Commandments and tells him to obey them. And he says, I've done all these things. Jesus then goes on. If you want to be perfect, go. Sell your possessions and give to the poor. And you will have treasure in heaven. Then come and follow me. This wasn't a test for a step into spirituality. This was the basic entrance requirement for discipleship Think about that. We're not talking here as Jesus is telling his twelve to pray for workers, that there is a class of prayers and a class of workers Jesus sends those prayers in the next passage to be workers. Jesus tells the man who wants to follow him to be a worker This is not just the cost of being a worker, it's the cost of discipleship. But what are the costs of non-involvement? If I decide that it's too heavy a price to pay. What price will I have to pay instead? Well before we go any further, I want you to know one thing. And I want you all to be clear on this You will not keep anyone from heaven. You have not the power. Don't think so highly of yourself as to think that if you fail to share, people will go to hell. That's not your power. Remember, you're to tell, to testify, and to teach. You're not to convert. You can't convert And when you go away from an encounter and all you've been able to do is sow the seed of the gospel, you've not failed. Because it's Jesus, the Lord of the harvest. And only Jesus who can do that. You might fail to help someone in struggle and you might prolong their suffering. That's true. If you see a need and refuse or fail to meet it, they may end up suffering longer because you haven't acted. But the most horrifying price of non-involvement dealing with the subject of people's salvation is this You lose any blessings. You fail to bring honor to the Lord you love when you fail to act. You hurt yourself and you hurt your Lord. Do you want that to happen Not only will you lose those blessings and hurt Jesus, but if you stay uninvolved, you're going to have to give an account of yourself. There will come a day of reckoning. There will be a time when Jesus looks at you with tears in his eyes and says, Why? Why? Let let me pose these three questions to you and see how you answer them. Think of the one person you were praying for this last week, and I'll trust that you were. Do I believe that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and that no one comes to the Father but through Jesus? Is that bedrock? Is that something that is so concrete in my life with the Lord that I have no question? Is Jesus the only way of salvation? Number two, do I really care for this person? I say I do and I think I do, but do I really care about the outcome of this person's faith? Do I care about their hurts? Do I care about their state with the Lord? And now comes the clincher. Have I or am I going to do anything about their needs? You see, if one and two are true, if they're really true, you will act You cannot believe that Jesus is the only way, and truly love somebody with with a sacrificial love, a Christian love, and remain silent as they're plunging headlong into hell. You can't. And so if you're not acting, then one of the other two aren't true. Either you don't care or you don't really believe. You're not aware. You don't understand. You have forgotten the horrors of hell And moving on, Jesus himself has very harsh things to say about those who are uninvolved. Not only will he come to you with tears and ask why. But he will also come to you, and I'm going to read a passage here that describes the judgment in heaven. Matthew 25. When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, he will sit on his throne in heavenly glory. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate the people one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He will put the sheep on his right and the goats on his left. Then a king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, take your inheritance, the kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world. Now listen to this. For I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you invited me in I needed clothes and you clothed me. I was sick and you looked after me. I was in prison and you came to visit me. And the righteous will answer him, Lord, when when did we see you hungry and feed you? Or thirsty and give you something to drink? When did we see you a stranger and invite you in? Or needing clothes and clothe you. When did we see you sick or in prison and go to visit you? The king will reply, I tell you the truth, whatever you did for one of the least of these brothers of mine, you did for me. Then he will say to those on his left, teach you guys to sit over here. Depart from me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry and you gave me nothing to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me nothing to drink. I was a stranger, and you did not invite me in. I needed clothes and you did not clothe me. I was sick and in prison and you did not look after me They also will answer, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty, or a stranger, or needing clothes, or sick, or in prison, and did not help you? He will reply, I tell you the truth. Whatever you did not do for one of the least of these, you did not for me. Then he will go away then they will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. That's not the only time he talks about that. But the question you have to ask yourself here is, if you don't care for the sheep, are you one of them? And that's not simply those that are now part of the church. That is all of the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Going on in John 21. This is where Jesus restorers Peter. And I want you to listen to the one thing Jesus says in response to his question of love. When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon, Peter, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me more than these? Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said, Feed my lambs. Again, Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you truly love me? He answered, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. Jesus said, Take care of my sheep. The third time he said to him, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, Do you love me? He said, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said, Feed my sheep. Lastly, in 1 John 3, verses 16 through 18 John, the same apostle who wrote the last account, says, This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers. If anyone has material possessions and sees his brother in need, but has no pity on him, how can the love of God be in him? Dear children, let us not love with words or with tongue, but with actions and truth. Jesus Himself commands not only that we pray, but that we pray. If you are a disciple, if you are a follower, if you are a Christian, you will be a worker. That may take different forms It may mean that you are a warrior in prayer and that you have a heart burden for the needs of those who surround you. And that may be all that God gives you to do. It may be that you have an opportunity to sow the seeds of the gospel, but never see fruit. You may not be given the opportunity to see people come to know the Lord, and you may get frustrated because you have so much to give and so little to see. But Jesus will equip you. Or you may be gifted and blessed by God to see people come to know the Lord. There are people who are like that, frustrating as it may seem. But thank God that there are. Because the people come But you need the confidence of this that Jesus, the Lord of the harvest, is the one who calls the sheep. And you can participate without feeling a failure because Jesus succeeds. You need to ask yourself this morning, do you trust the Lord of the harvest as he sends you to care for his sheep? Remember, Peter, do you love me? Yes, Lord. Feed my lamb. If you love the Lord, you will feed his lamb. That's a challenge that I'm not the one who throws it in front of you, but Jesus Himself does. As you pray for the workers, are you willing to become one? Are you willing to be a follower of Jesus? Let's pray. Lord, we pray that you would fill us with an awareness of the love you have for us as your sheep. That you became man, that you lived a perfectly righteous life, that you died a death which belonged to us and not to you, that you have called us to be part of your family, to be fellow heirs. But Father, we pray that we would not stop there. Burden us with a concern and a zeal and a compassion for those who have hurts. Especially, Lord, for those who have not yet come to profess you as their Lord. We pray, Lord, that you would be active in our lives, helping us not only to know that we love you, but to feed your sheep. Father, we need you to work in our hearts. Because we have not the resources. We have not, to be honest, the desire. But Lord, we love you. We pray that you would strengthen and build that love and that that love would expand and be spread among those. who are yours but not yet knowing it. Father, we pray this week as we reflect upon the one person that we have prayed for, that you would give us wisdom To know what resources we have and to act upon those resources, that they might know you as their Lord, that they might see their needs met by a compassionate shepherd. Father, we ask that you would receive greater glory and that we would have a part in bringing it to you. In Jesus' name. Amen.