So if you were watching the inaugural day events along with forty million other Americans, and if you heard Rick Warren's prayer ending with the Lord's Prayer And then at the end of the service, Reverend Lowry's Prayer with a number of biblical references, including Micah IV And even President Obama's inaugural message saying, as Scripture says, with a phrase from 1 Corinthians 13, you might think that America was a Christian nation. But then you would hear after the inauguration, you would notice, even watching it, that there were not many people praying the Lord's Prayer with Rick Warren. And afterwards, I heard a number of people interviewed who criticized President Obama for having an evangelical pastor participate in the inauguration. And um you think about the fact that 85% of Americans polled in a recent poll said that Christianity is a hypocritical religion. Seventy-eight percent polled said Christianity is old-fashioned, and 70% said Christianity is insensitive to others. And so a number of people who were Criticizing President Obama on this felt like they were part of the mainstream thinking. And it caused me to reflect on the fact that in fact President Obama represents a new religion in America, which is basically the religion of toleration. The religion of inclusiveness. I found it interesting that a number of people who were criticizing him for having an evangelical pastor, after they criticize him, say, but On the other hand, I affirmed that he was reaching out to people who were not like him. And he was including them. You see, that's the important thing. that we're all included. And toleration in this new religion means not simply civility, but it is affirmation, it is acceptance, not simply to not judge, but to say we can be included together because after all that that's what's really important in this defining moment is simply getting along and being part and parcel of the movement of what's going on. Well, as I thought about that I reflected on a new book that has been produced by two researchers called Soul Searching: The Religious and Spiritual Lives of American Teenagers. Very interesting book in which they define a new religion as moralistic therapeutic deism. Moralistic therapeutic deism, they say, the new major religion in America has three basic tenets to it. Number one, don't be a jerk. That's the moralistic part. Number two, God is there to make us happy and to feel good, particularly about ourselves. That's the therapeutic part And that he doesn't interfere in our lives, but simply is there to call upon when we need him. That's the deism part. It is totally non-judgmental. They say that uh young people, particularly, who ascribed without understanding, there's it's not an official term, nobody would say, I'm a moralistic therapeutic deist. But people who in fact hold to this kind of uh vague nebulous religion uh would assert uh it's totally non-judgmental. Some would call themselves Christians, some would call themselves Muslims, some would call themselves Jews. So as I reflected on what Jesus says as we enter into our month of missions, you remember last week when we looked at Acts 1. 8 And we saw that before Jesus' ascension, he said to the disciples, You will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria. and to the ends of the earth. And we saw that Jerusalem is people that are close to us, people in our hometown, people our neighbors, our family who are like us, people in Judea, people a little bit further away, but they're like us. People at the ends of the earth, foreign missions, we understand that, crossing cultural, religious boundaries, geographical boundaries to get the gospel to them But those people in Samaria are the link. It's the link between evangelism and missions. It's the people who are near us but are significantly different from us, where you have to cross boundaries of ethnicity. of cultural practices, of religion, things like this. And as I thought about that, I realized there's really two ways that you can think of Samaritans that we talked about last week. Two ways you can think about Samaritans in our culture. One is those who are culturally, religiously different Different ethnicity across obvious boundaries. These are people from different cultural backgrounds. But the second way is to think of people who may be from the same culture But their worldview is radically different. The Samaritans, who had a whole different way of looking at things, these are the secularists, the moral therapeutic deists. The people where like the Samaritans and the Jews there is not a whole lot of contact. They're sort of suspicious of each other. The irony is in this religion of tolerance. There is a kind of a begrudging acknowledgement that evangelical Christians are part of the culture. But seen as people who are more impediments to progress than as those who contribute something really positive to the culture. So there is, like the Samaritans and the Jews, this sense of suspicion, some hostility, the sense that the less contact I have with these people, the better. And unfortunately, for many Christians, Secularists and moral therapeutic deists are people that are looked at as a threat. They're people that we We just have an aversion to, you know, don't want to have a lot of contact with these folks because they're a threat to my way of life. And that kind of attitude does not make a good basis for evangelism. So, what I want to offer to us this morning is as we apply at the beginning of the missions month The idea of Samaria in Acts 1. 8 as a link between evangelism and missions. The idea that we need to be crossing certain barriers In our own world, in our own thinking, in order to be effective as a church, so that we are more mission minded I would like to apply that more toward the second category of people. How do we cross boundaries toward secularist moral therapeutic beats as well as others who are unlike us? And if I was to offer to the three points I made last week, a fourth point that Jesus makes in his interaction, John 4, with the Samaritan woman. then that would be the idea that he is creative in overcoming hostility to get to the heart. What I want to do is offer, as we go through John 4 quickly, ten lessons picking up the insights as we proceed through that very interesting, fascinating. conversation which I always love to go back to between Jesus and this woman. First of all Notice the thing we looked at last week. Be intentional. Jesus was intentional to get into this conversation. Remember John 4. 4? Now he had to go through Samaria didn't really have to. There were other routes to get from Jerusalem up to Capernaum, but because Jesus knew there were people there for whom he had come to die There were people in Samaria that were his own, and he needed to have contact with them. So I remind you again of your list of ten suggestions that I gave to you last week to be intentional in crossing some barriers and boundaries. in your own life to contact people that you wouldn't normally engage in discussion with. You may have contact with them at work or contact in your neighborhood, but not much discussion And I'm asking you, what what have you done with that? Have you been praying through those ten suggestions? Are you thinking, what are one or two or three of these things that I could do by the end of February? So that at the March Lord's Supper we might have a couple of stories shared. Here I crossed this boundary, talked to this person I wouldn't normally have contact with, cultivated some relationship. Here's what God has done. So think about that. Please continue to pray through that list and ask God to show you what He wants you to do with it. Secondly, remember we talked about how Jesus crossed uncomfortable barriers, the second lesson from this in verse seven to nine. Do you remember In asking for a drink, Jesus crossed gender, cultural, ethnic Number of barriers that were uncomfortable. When the Samaritan woman came to draw water, Jesus said to her, Will you give me a drink? His disciples had gone into town to buy food, so he's alone there. The Samaritan woman says to him, You're a Jew, and I'm a Samaritan woman. How could you ask me for a drink? For Jews do not associate with Samaritans That leads me to the third lesson in this story, raise curiosity so that the person asks you questions. When she said that, Jesus could have very easily said to her, Well of course Jews don't have anything to do with the Samaritans, because you guys have the wrong Bible. You've screwed that up. You don't worship in the right place. And the Messiah will come from the Jews, not from up here. So of course we don't have much to do with you. And then they would have gotten into a heated debate, you know, and off they would have gone, defending and attacking and all the rest of that. And that's so often what we do. Or In my evangelism in my early days, I would think of evangelism as you talk to a person until you can finally get the conversation into some spiritual arena where you get the opportunity to dump your summary of the gospel on them and then the ball's in their court. The problem with that is, of course, they have no interest in the gospel at that point So they just tolerate my going through what I need to go through and then um you know where it goes from there it's you're just kinda awkward, you know, and okay, you're done yet, you know, and all right. Uh but it doesn't it's not very fruitful. So I've long since learned that the principle that Jesus gives to us here is that you raise some curiosity. You don't dump, you just try to be creative in thinking about what have I experienced about Jesus or what do we have in common Which this person may be interested in. They don't understand it, but I'm just going to talk about what Jesus has done in me, or something that is of common that Maybe they'll be curious about it. So what Jesus says is in verse 10, if you knew the gift God of God and who it is that asked you for a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water. Uh you know, what's that got to do with anything? It's not religious, it's not it's not dealing with the Jew Samaritan thing But they're at a well, and so he picks up on that thing in common, and he says Well, you know, you think, what am I talking to you about? If you knew who was talking to you, you'd ask, and I would give you living water. And that hooks her. She says, Well, sir You have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where can you get this living water? Living in that culture meant running water, moving water like a stream as opposed to a pond or lake or well. So there's a that little bit, but then there's the deeper meaning of course that he has about what living water is. But of course, she can't resist as so many people today with a little bit of animosity, getting a little dig in. Are you greater than our Father Jacob who gave us this well and drank from it himself as You know, you Jews aren't the only ones that have the holy places. You know, this is where Jacob was, right here. This is our well. You better than him A little bit of a dig there. But he's gotten her interest. She's curious. She's listening. What's going on here? Now, fourth lesson we see from this. Do not get bogged down in religion Man, that is so especially important today. Focus on Jesus. Do not get into talking about churches, organized religion in any way if you can avoid it. She gets in her religious dig, but he does not pick up on it. Verse 13, Jesus answered, Everyone who drinks this water will be thirsty again. He stays on the water idea. But whoever drinks the water I give him, whenever thirst, calls attention to himself. Off of religion, on to Jesus. Indeed, the water I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. So he's pushing it a bit further. Don't defend Rick Warren or Evangelicals or our record or this or that. You may need to at times get into certain attacks upon evangelical record or this or that, but Usually the attacks have some truth to them. It's better to acknowledge it, but we're not talking about that now. I'm talking to you about Jesus. The interesting thing is, you see, that while the evangelical church, the church through 2,000 years, is extremely vulnerable to a lot of accurate attacks, Jesus is not. In all my years of ministry, I have never heard a person criticize Jesus and say, yeah, but Jesus, you know, he wasn't so great either. Never heard that. So as long as you stay on Jesus, what he has done, what he can do, you will tend to avoid arguments. People will listen, particularly in an age where narrative and story is the big thing, as you talk about Jesus in your life and what he has done How he is for you, living water, or however you want to talk about it, the conversation will tend to progress. But in doing that, fifth lesson from this narrative is to aim at the heart. Not simply about you. It's not about your experience. So when He when Jesus says this about the water in verse 15, the woman says to him, Sir, give me this water so that I won't have to get thirsty and come to the well here and keep drawing water. That sounds like a good idea to me. Great, you know. I wonder if it's almost a taunt like, yeah, you know, I don't have to come and drink anymore. Hey, give me that. That's fine So at this point, Jesus aims right for her heart. Go call your husband and come back. Now why does he say that? Because he wants you to get in touch with her thirst. That's the thirst he's talking about. The thirst that she has had for men to love her and to make her feel loved. Go call your husband and come back. To which she responds, honestly, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You're right when you say I have no husband. The fact is you've had five husbands. And the man you now have is not your husband. What you've said is quite true. And that leads to the fifth Lesson from this, you always expose sin with gentleness, with great gentleness The way he said that was all important. If he had said, Yeah, you're right, boy, you don't have a husband. Man, you've got five, and the one you have now is not That'd be the end. I can imagine that Jesus looked at her with great tenderness and said so very gently You're right when you say I have no husband. The fact is you've had five husbands, and the man you have now is not your husband. Reading that I thought this week of the old 1973 Roberta Flack song, you know, Strumming by Pain with His Fingers. Singing my life with his words, killing me softly with his song, killing me softly. He goes to her heart and she's exposed. She's ashamed. She's confused. She's flustered. How could he possibly know that? But she feels naked and exposed before him. And so what does she do? She does what so many people do, and they do it right down to this very day. She flees to religion. And so once again, you see, if you can get off of Jesus onto religion, onto stuff about the church. On to the religious right. On to, well, all kinds of stuff, you see. I I remember a couple of years ago I told you Jean Dean and I, my son, were in Nova Scotia. We were staying at a pretty bed and breakfast on a farm, and um the next morning our hostess had a wonderful breakfast, and we were enjoying the breakfast. And she was one of those bed and breakfast kind of people that kind of joined you. And so we talked, got into conversation, and soon we're into the gospel. And I don't remember even how we got into it, but the the conversation got more intense, it got more personal, and I began to apply what we were talking about, asking her about herself and her relationship with Jesus. And as we were moving closer into that, all of a sudden she said out of nowhere, So what do you think about gay marriage? It sort of took my breath away. What? Gay Mary, what's that got to do with what we're talking about? Well, are you one of those people that that thinks it's okay, or are you one of those people that are against it? With some menace in her voice. And so I knew that this was to get off of Jesus. I tried to uh to deflect it and to move back, but she wasn't gonna have that, you know. So no, no, no, and I wanna know. What do you think? So at that point I had to try and demonstrate that the God of compassion with absolute authority. It's not a matter of what I think, what I believe, it's what he says. Here's what his word says on that, and to move back into her life, but she kept going back to that. And even though the conversation ended reasonably amicably, we never got back really to her relationship with Jesus Christ because she was put off and irritated. And you never threaten Jesus and you don't derail him. So what the woman does is that she says Well I can see you're a prophet. You, yeah, yeah, yeah. I don't know who told you that, but you know, you you must be a prophet here So let's let's talk about religion. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you Jews claim that the place where we must worship is in Jerusalem. And Jesus masterfully takes that comment to derail, get off of her heart, her thirst for men, her Situation of shame, and he declares, believe me, woman, a time is coming when you will worship the Father neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem. That's not the issue. You Samarans worship what you do not know. We worship what we do know for salvation is from the Jews. Doesn't skirt the issue Yet a time is coming and now has come when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth, for they're the kind of worshipers the Father seeks, better the heart again. God is a spirit. His worshipers must worship in spirit and truth. Interested in that? Come to the ninth lesson in this. Excuse me, the eighth lesson Keith Miller once said that ministry in people's lives is like running your fingers around the edge of their soul until you feel a crack, and then you move in. You try in your conversation with them moving, as I generally find, from the frivolous and the silly, and the enjoyable and the light. To something that is more serious and perhaps intense, back and forth, until there is some statement of longing. And you pick up on it. The eighth lesson: watch for a simple statement of longing and connect it to Christ. Verse 25, the woman says, I know that Messiah called Christ is coming. And when he comes, he will explain everything to us. There's a bit of longing there, isn't there? You know, we can have this discussion, but I know that there is one coming, and he'll make everything clear. That little bit of longing. And so Jesus picks up on that. And I believe he says to her very quietly. I who speak to you am He He picks up on the longing, and once again, in intimate gentleness, he confronts her with himself. He offers himself to her. Do you want the answers? I'm here to give you the answers. And to give you the living water. Interesting, it's just right at that moment that the disciples come up. Count on the disciples. You know? I mean they're like us, you know, great timing guys. And they come up and they're probably seeing Jesus and this woman close. I'm thinking that he is saying this to her. He does not say, hey, I who speak to you, I'm him. Here I am. It's it's something that is said to her heart closely, softly, and they come up and it's really awkward And there he is, he's talking to a woman, pretty close, and Jesus married a woman. She only looked very spiritual. So they come up and they, you know, John says, so nobody asked him anything. I love that verse, you know. Nobody asked him anything. They thought, we're not touching this, I don't know, you know, but you And so there's a little bit of fiddling around about what's going on and finally somebody says, Hey, well, we got lunch here. Could you excuse us? We just need to get the lunch. And so she took off, leaves her jar there. Takes off. She's thinking about what Jesus said. So the ninth thing is that Jesus uses that to open their eyes to the harvest. He takes this so that they will see that the harvest is right before him. Now Tim read you the whole passage. But I want to just focus in on verse 35. Jesus said to them, Do not say, four months more, and then the harvest. Not now. It's coming. You know, don't need to cross these barriers now. Don't need to do this now. Wait till the end of the missions conference. I'll keep putting it off and then I won't have to think about it Don't put it off. I tell you, open your eyes and look at the fields. They are ripe for harvest. See that woman? Hit it in the sidecar That's a thirsty woman. If we had not come and crossed the boundaries to go through Samaria, we would have missed her. We would have never had this opportunity. You guys, there are thirsty elect people in Samaria. Just last week, I had the privilege of someone who has been on a spiritual pilgrimage for years. Searching, moving one way, another, to finally come to the place where we bowed together and he gave his life to Jesus Christ. Said, Lord, I give myself to you unreservedly. What a thrill Incremental movement, closer and closer to the fullness of Jesus Christ. Open your eyes, Jesus says. Take that step this week. In these next couple of weeks, through this month of mission. To say, I'm not here just to hear about missions. I am part of the mission. Lord, how do you want me to cross a barrier and share with a Samaritan? Because, tenth lesson, I am convinced that he alone is the Savior of the world. Many of the Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me everything I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they urged him to stay with him, and he stayed two days. And because of his words many more became believers. They said to the woman, We no longer believe just because of what you said. Now we have heard for ourselves and we know that this man really is the Savior of the world. He is not just for evangelicals. He is not just for white middle class people. He is not part of a tribe or a subculture. He is for all of us. But it takes people crossing barriers and a church that displays the diversity of those barriers crossed. To give the credibility to the fact that He is the Savior of the world. And that's what we pray for at CPC and as we move into this month of missions. Once again I ask you, are you really convinced that the only escape and resurrection of Jesus Christ for every single living man and woman, boy and girl on this entire planet Are you convinced of that? Are you convinced of that for your neighbors? For the people very unlike you at work That you come in contact with. He is the Savior of the world. He is the living water. And He is the only one that can supply that So the very best thing that I can do for you is to get off of religion and off of politics and tell you about my Jesus. Follow him. Perhaps you're here without the living water, and you need to see the water that he offers to you. Come. Come to Jesus. Not Columbia Presbyterian Church. Jesus Christ. Or if you are a follower of his, follow him this week to cross the barriers. Because he is so precious and so indispensable that you are available to him to use you. Perhaps have the thrill that I did to pray with such a person and see them give their life to Jesus Christ. Let's pray. So, our Father, we perhaps come before you now with mixed feelings. It's thrilling to see Jesus. Lord Jesus, you are so amazing. I just love looking at the revelations of you and this conversation. Thrills me. Just what a privilege to preach this again. I just love that conversation of Jesus with that woman. I love to think of what your heart is like as it's demonstrated. In the gentleness, the creativity, the focus, the love that you displayed toward a woman of shame. To reach into our heart and say, here I am, I that speak to you, and the longing of your heart Lord, we who want to follow you, help us to trust you and love you, to speak of you more freely, to speak of you with one another. Lord, if we don't talk about you freely with one another, how do we expect to ever talk about you with people that aren't interested in hearing about you? Make us freer in talking about Jesus, in seeing how you connect not only to our thirsts, but to the thirsts of those in our lives. We ask you, Lord. We ask you to do that this week. And we want to make ourselves available for that. And so we do now to see what you will do in Jesus' name. Amen.