Opened your bulletin this morning and had a chance to look at the sermon topic. That many of you have knots in your stomach. Evangelism. You may be coming from the position of evangelism as something you feel an obligation to do and feel guilty for not doing. Or you may be somebody who's here this morning as a visitor or a friend, or somebody who's even been coming for a time. And fearing evangelism from the other end, what are they going to tell me? But this morning as we look at evangelism, I don't want anyone sent into a flight of panic. I don't want any of you responding in a catatonic state because of your guilt. I hope you're not totally tuning it out because of being overwhelmed with either the immensity of the task. For the incredible small number of talents you have to be part of the process. But if you are fearful this morning as we begin, I hope that you won't be as we end, because today's text is one which offers great comfort on the topic of evangelism. Sometimes as we think of evangelism, we respond with some pre-programmed defenses and see if any of these strike home with you. I'm not mature enough. I'm not educated enough. They might ask something I don't know the answer for, and I will be embarrassed. I don't have time. And for those of us here in Columbia and Howard County, that's really true. We don't oftentimes have visible time. But perhaps I think one of the most significant is we don't have the relationships. You know, when we first moved into Colombia, it was incredible. We had an opportunity to get to know some people who lived nearby us who were so incredibly open. To the gospel, to Jesus, that they came by and asked how they could get to heaven. You don't have that happen very often, and and and uh it's a tremendous encouragement when it does, but It doesn't happen often, and you're right, many of us don't have those sorts of relationships. But as I look this morning at why we don't share, I think perhaps the most comprehensive and inclusive reason we have that we don't share, we don't involve ourselves in the process of evangelism. Is out of fear. We oftentimes will fear because of one of two reasons, either because of circumstances, such as those things listed above in the defenses that we immediately raise. Or even more, because of fear of either failure or rejection. What if I offer myself to these people? I open myself up and share the intimate things Jesus is doing in my life. And out of their fear they turn the conversation immediately and I'm hanging. What if they don't want to love the God who is so important to me? What can I share with them afterwards? If I can't share that. Or what if they reject me? What if because I even raise the topic, they won't even talk to me anymore? Now, I'm not speaking about this academically You're not listening academically. This is an emotional topic for us. This has happened to a number of us, and I guarantee you it's happened to me. There have been times of failure. More often than I'd like to acknowledge. And there have been times of rejection. As a matter of fact, when I first began to date Anne, my wife, for those of you who don't know us. The first weekend I met with her father, we were upstaying at his house for the weekend so that we could go visit some friends. He looked at me over breakfast and said to me, Well, Steve, what are you going to do with yourself? Oh, what a question. At that point I wasn't going into the pastor, but I looked at him with a smile and said, Well, I'm going to go into full-time church work. His jaw dropped. And for the rest of our relationship, until he died a year and a half ago, I was his father confessor. And there was a gap, there was a distance that was insurmountable And he was always justifying himself and always, in a sense, rejecting. But even more so with Anne's sister and her mother. Um, you see, we got pegged. I was into full-time church work from the minute we got married and uh then I was in seminary and And uh her mother had one of these all-inclusive sorts of mentalities that all roads lead to God. And when I started speaking of an exclusive relationship with God through Jesus Christ, it offended her. And it offended Ann's sister. And it got to the point that Ann's mother would call up and say, Is Steve home? And if I was, she wouldn't be. She simply wouldn't come visit. I understand rejection. But I would like to share with you briefly this morning the fact That she's now singing in the choir of the OPC Church we left in Southern California. And Anne's sister is a member of that same church. And so don't let your fear of failure or of rejection overcome the conviction you have that you need to love these people. But there's another rejection that we fear, and that is that if we share improperly, we might drive people away from Jesus. The Jesus that we've come to love, worship, adore, will be somebody that they spurn. And it happens. There was a friend of mine in college that I began building a relationship with. His name was Jerry. My first year in college we did a lot of wild and crazy things together. My second year in college, we did some more subdued and sane things together. And I began to try and help him to see who Jesus was. And one evening there were two students who were involved with a Christian organization on campus who sat him down on the sidewalk Outside the dorm. And as they sat him down, they told him, I cannot to this day contain my anger. They told him that if he did not come to accept Jesus, they would not let him up from the sidewalk. That twisted him. No longer would he allow me to talk to him about Jesus, he wouldn't allow me to talk to him, period. It can happen, but those students, and I hope that I'm not judging inappropriately, were not speaking the truth in law. And I don't see you here speaking the truth in those ways. But there are reasons that we don't share the gospel. There are reasons that we don't tell people of Jesus. They handicap us. There are reasons that many of you here may not want to listen to the gospel. You may not want to hear about Jesus. That's travesty. Because the Jesus that I know is the one that all of us here need. He's the one we sang about in Rock of Ages, Cleft for Me. Naked, come to thee for dress. Helpless, come to thee for grace. There is so much wonder in Jesus that we need our blind eyes to be opened. And if we share from open eyes, and pray that God would open the eyes of those who listen, they will see the Jesus who is. Not the Jesus we create, the Jesus who is. And this morning's text, I know this is a long introduction, but bear with me, please. We're almost there. This morning's text is a passage that teaches simply of introducing Jesus to those who don't know him. If you fear because of your immaturity, if you fear because you're not educated in the gospel or apologetics or other big words, take heart. Because as you watch Andrew and Philip this morning, they're not mature. They'd only known Jesus for a day or two. They're not educated. There's so much about Jesus they didn't know. But you know what? They're effective. Because their goal is to introduce Jesus. Let's read John chapter 1, beginning in verse 35. The next day John was there again with two of his disciples. When he saw Jesus passing by, he said, Look, the Lamb of God. When the two disciples heard him say this, they followed Jesus. Turning around, Jesus saw them following and asked, What do you want? They said, Rabbi, which means teacher. Where are you staying? Come, he replied, and you will see. So they went and saw where he was staying and spent that day with him. It was about the tenth hour. Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, was one of the two who heard what John had said and who followed Jesus. The first thing Andrew did was to find his brother Simon and tell him, we have found the Messiah! And he brought him to Jesus. He looked at him and said, You are Simon, son of John. You will be called Peter. The next day Jesus decided to leave for Galilee. Finding Philip, he said to him, Follow me. Philip, like Andrew and Peter, was from the town of Bethsaida. Philip found Nathaniel and told him, We have found the one Moses wrote about in the law, and about whom the prophets also wrote. Jesus of Nazareth. the son of Joseph. Nazareth, can any good come from there? Nathaniel asked. Come and see, said Philip. When Jesus saw Nathaniel approaching, he said of him, Here is a true Israelite in whom there is nothing false. How do you know me? Nathaniel asked Jesus answered, I saw you while you were still under the fig tree before Philip called you. Then Nathaniel declared, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. Jesus said, You believe because I told you I saw you under the fig tree? You shall see greater things than that. He then added, I tell you the truth. You shall see heaven open and the angels of God ascending and descending on the Son of Man. I want you to focus on two things this morning as we look at this passage. I want you to focus on the model of evangelism, and I want you to focus on the motivation of evangelism. Or to put some second titles to those, evangelism made simple, which is the model, and evangelism made urgent, which is the motivation. But there are three examples we have of people introducing Jesus to others. And I hope they encourage you because they do me. We see John introducing the disciples to Jesus. We see Andrew introducing his brother Simon to Jesus. And we see Nathaniel being introduced to Jesus by Philip. Let's take them one at a time. We'll run briefly through the whole encounter, and I think we'll draw some conclusions. John introduces his disciples. He's walking with his disciples, and they say, they listen to him, and he says, Look, the Lamb of God. And as a result, they follow. And they come into contact with Jesus. The first thing you have to understand, and I'm sorry about the outline, as I looked at it, I had to change it. The three C's that you have of clearly Credibly and certainly should be inverted. It should be cr uh certainly, credibly, and clearly. So note that please. The order is important. John the Baptist introduces Jesus, and he says, the Lamb of God. And John is a unique individual, and he is sent by God to prepare the way for Jesus. And he's given a wonderful gift from God to do that. And that is a divine revelation of who Jesus is. John is certain in what he says, he is convinced That Jesus is God. That Jesus is the Lamb of God in all that that entails. He is the Messiah, the one come that Israel has waited so long for. He's now here. And John can with confidence say to his disciples, that's the one. Because John has a personal relationship with Jesus. In our terms today, you would say that John has a saving relationship with Jesus. He is in intimate fellowship with him spiritually. And that is a precondition to evangelism. But not only does John certain, as he shares with his disciples, who Jesus is, he shares credibly. You see, he's sharing with men who have given their livelihood to follow him. Men who have a hunger to know righteousness. Men who have opened themselves to his teaching because they understand who he is, what his message is, and their need. John has touched the life of his disciples. And so as he says to them, the Lamb of God, they can come and follow Jesus without further action. It's enough. They know. They were men who were seeking peace with God and knew John well enough to know that he had some answers they needed. And when he gave them, they acted. They followed Jesus. But important for us, and perhaps one of the major applications we need to look at as we study these examples this morning, is that John spoke clearly. So often I think of myself as I try and talk to people about the God that I know and love. And I find myself mimicking John, saying, the Lamb of God. And that speaks clearly to me and probably to most of you. When you think of the Lamb of God, you can think of Passover, the sacrifice, the gift Jesus gave of his life. It's emotional. But when you share with your neighbors and friends who haven't got fifteen years in church and haven't studied the Bible for 10 of those years, And you say the Lamb of God, they see a little white fluffy animal walking off someplace, tenuously somehow attached to God. They don't understand that you're speaking of God Himself. They think that there's some little white fluffy animal somehow attached to God. And it makes no sense. We have buzzwords, code words, shorthand that we use today that makes a great deal of sense to us. If I were to say the word Bible thumper, I guarantee you everybody in this congregation, everybody sitting here this morning would know what I mean. And it would not only communicate something in terms of content, but it would hit you in the gut You'd either appreciate a Bible thumper or you'd be distanced. But you don't have a neutral attitude as you hear the term. In our particular environment, there's a shorthand that might not be so clear to other people, say in Kansas, when we talk about a government employee. Many times I've been out greeting newcomers as they come in and I'll ask them what they do, which is not a very smart question in this area. And they'll get kind of a sheepish grin on their face and they'll say, Well, I'm a government employee. And you leave it there, unless you're me. But it means something very clear to us, and it's not only content, it's emotion Baby boomers, baby busters are in the same way. If you understand the terms and who they relate to, it gives you an emotional as well as a content response. But that's what John was doing in his introduction of Jesus. He was giving emotion. He was speaking multitudes in a paragraph. But here's something I don't want you to miss this morning. And if if if you get one thing, get this. As John introduced the disciples to Jesus, that's all he did. Introduced. He knew who Jesus was, and he helped them to understand who Jesus was. He didn't touch upon convicting or convincing them at all. If you want to get this one sentence, please write it down, but at least get it. It's not our job to convince, it's not our job to convict of sin. It's not our job to convert anyone. That's not my goal this morning. Not that I do that. You see, my job this morning is to teach Your job as you evangelize is to tell and to testify. It is God who will convict, convince, and convert. You don't have to feel the pressure. John had a successful effort in evangelism. His goal was to introduce, and his disciples followed. And as they followed, were told that they spent the evening with Jesus. It says in verse 39. So they went and saw where he was staying, and spent that day with him. Because it was about four in the afternoon. And the next thing you notice is that Andrew has come to a relationship with Jesus. And has followed Jesus and has shared Jesus, introduced Jesus to his brother. Jesus finished the evangelistic process by convincing Andrew. And the other disciple. One evening with Jesus brought them to the point of a saving relationship with Jesus That's our goal. Introduce people to Jesus. Andrew and Simon. As soon as Andrew found who Jesus was, We're told the first thing he did, verse 41, the first thing Andrew did was to find his brother Simon and tell him, we found the Messiah. And he brought Simon to Jesus. Again, Andrew is now certain of Jesus. Not because of what John had convinced him of, but because of what Jesus had convinced him of. He'd spent the evening with Jesus, and the next day he went and he found his brother. The testimony of John got Andrew to follow Jesus. The witness of Jesus got him to stay. Well, what did he do? He didn't go find a street corner and start talking about the gospel with the goal of converting everyone who listened. He went to his brother. He went to the one he cared for, the one he was close to, the one he had a relationship with that would allow his brother to listen. I can't imagine that Simon and John were at odds with each other because why would Andrew Simon and Andrew at odds with each other, pardon me. I can't imagine that Simon and Andrew were angry or distanced from each other because the first person that Andrew wanted to introduce to Jesus was Simon. So, in understanding this text, my understanding, my approach to this is that Simon was one who would listen very carefully to what his brother had to say. It wasn't an opportunity to try and convince Simon. Andrew had found something so wondrous, so incredible, something they had waited for generations to see. And the first thing he could do was to think of sharing it with his brother Simon. It wasn't a job. It wasn't an obligation. It was a privilege. Now, Simon probably knew Andrew inside and out. And Andrew did something very risky, something that we're fearful of doing. He put his reputation on the line. Now, if if I were to ask you to think of your relatives, to think of those people that you are bound to by blood, that you will be in relationship with till the day that you die. And I were to ask you to think about trying to share Jesus with them, you'd have a mixture of reactions. Some of you would have the privilege of saying, I don't need to introduce because we already share. Some of you may not have relatives who are distant from God. Others of you may have the wonderful opportunity of being in constant communication with relatives who, though distant from God, are open To your faith and your relationship with him. But if you're like me, you have relatives who are not only not close to Jesus. They're distant from the very idea of Jesus. And for you to think this morning about trying to share with them the way Andrew shared with Simon is painful. Because while you love your relatives, you feel constrained. But that's simply become an area you don't talk about. Has simply become an area that's off limits. Let me encourage you this morning, because that is not a permanent situation. It was so off limits with my mother-in-law that she would call before she came, and she would not come if I was anywhere near the house or would be during the time she would visit. But God continued to use that relationship and that testimony, amongst other testimonies and relationships, and he brought her to an understanding of who he was. You see, I've seen the process completed with my sister-in-law and my mother-in-law. There are others I've not seen it completed with. My brothers are not Christians. And I still deal with that, and I still pray for them, and I still try and share with them. I would encourage you to do the same because you can see God transform them They may not listen to your words as well as they listen to your love. But you have to maintain the relationship. And it has to be a redemptive relationship. It cannot be simply a low-level relationship. Don't give in. Lisa Bilke has been in Germany over the summer, and she has uh been in relationship with her sister for as long as she's been around. And she had the opportunity this summer of seeing God draw her sister Hilda to himself. Because she continued to not because of this, but she in part was part of the process as she continued to pray. As she continued to share. And as a result of that, God gave her the privilege of seeing her sister pray to receive Jesus after years of sharing Jesus and introducing Jesus to her sister. And there are other stories that you could tell. I'm sure many of you out there have similar stories of God faithfully working through relationships. But again, the goal is not for you to feel a success or failure, depending upon whether or not they receive Jesus. You cannot, by character You cannot by character be silent about God to those that you love. Well, not only was Simon certain and credible, but he was clear. Think for a moment as Simon introduces, or as Andrew introduces Simon to Jesus. He says, we have found the Messiah. That speaks very clearly to Simon. It speaks so clearly to Simon that it's Simon who later confesses Jesus is the Messiah. In the great confession, as Jesus asks his disciples, Who do you say that I am? It is none other than Simon Peter who makes the confession that his brother made to him as he introduced him to Jesus. You are the Messiah. You are the Son of God. It took a while for Simon to become really convinced of that and for it to settle in. But that's who Andrew introduced him to. Two years before. But it's Jesus again who is convincing Jesus convinces Simon as he speaks to him and says, You are Simon, you will be called Peter. From that moment on, Peter follows Jesus. Philip. Philip introduces Nathaniel to Jesus. Again, he is certain. He's convinced of who Jesus is, even as Jesus has just grabbed Philip off the street. The next day, Jesus decides to leave for Galilee. Finding Philip, he said, follow me. He's so convincing in his follow me that Philip then goes out and finds Nathaniel. Jesus, Philip spending time with Jesus, came to know who Jesus was and was so convinced, saw so much wonder in who Jesus was. But as he went out, he found Nathaniel. Nathaniel was a friend, Philip again, like Simon, or like Andrew. These names are convincing, confusing me as well, so hang in there. Philip found Nathaniel and put his reputation on the line, much as Andrew had done with Simon. So much so that as Nathaniel responds with a what do you mean, Nazareth? You're crazy. Philip doesn't say, oh, you're right. Don't worry about it. He says, what do you mean? Follow me. Come and see. It's exactly that. He says, come and see. Come see this Jesus. And he'll convince you. And he did. But Daniel declares, Rabbi, you are the Son of God. You are the King of Israel. Jesus convinces Nathaniel. In every case that you see in this passage, it is Jesus who convinces the ones who are introduced to him. In every case where you introduce someone to Jesus, it is Jesus who will convince those people that he is the Messiah, the Savior, the Son of God. But if evangelism is such a frightening thing and such a painful process and has so many risks, why even begin? Why should we go from our state of comfort, of relationship, of acceptance? Well, because we have a motivation. If we know who Jesus is and what he gives, if we can sing Rock of Ages and know what it means to have someone we can trust Someone we can hide in and cling to. Someone who meets with us in our deepest needs. Someone who has provided salvation for all of us who trust Him. How can we not sing his praise? How can we not share that with those who don't know him? As we look at Jesus, we have to conclude that the song we sang before the sermon was true. He is worthy. And as he is worthy, we must give him praise. We must. If we know Jesus, we cannot be silent and fail to praise him. He is so incredible. But there's a dual motivation. Not only is it because we know who Jesus is, and we cannot be silent in singing his praises, in speaking Speaking to him and and and appreciating him. But we know the needs of those who are not close to God. They have every need that we face day to day. They have financial needs, they have emotional needs. They're in crisis of every shape and variety. Life without some hope becomes impossible and untenable. They have health concerns, they have family crises, If you were just to think about your own family or friends that you're close to, those who you are most close to that do not know Jesus, you could come up with a litany, a list. Of their needs that Jesus is uniquely able to meet. But beyond that, something we so seldom think about today, as we think of hell, Many churches today have come to the conclusion that there simply is no hell. That there simply is no place of eternal torment. Evangelical leaders of stature equivalent to John Stott, who himself has now said that there is not an eternal punishment. We waffle on the doctrine of hell because it's painful. But as truly as the Bible speaks of heaven, it speaks of hell. It is a place of indescribable torment. As we look in the parable of Lazarus and the rich man, we see the rich man in torment. Seeking some comfort, some solace, if not for himself, at least for his brothers who are still alive, so that they can escape the eternal punishment he has now entered. The Bible speaks of hell in ways that are overwhelming. And frankly, I don't know about you, but I don't like to think, and I usually don't think about my family and friends that I really do care for. Facing that, and so I simply don't think about it. It's not that I find ways for them to escape, but I just simply don't think about it. Because it's too painful But that's a motivation. It's real There is something we need to help those we love escape But I'd like to sort of conclude the section on motivation by pointing out to you something about evangelism. We think of evangelism as something we have to be trained in through something like evangelism explosion. Where it's a whole method and a program, and you've got to sign up for 16 weeks to be able to do it so that you can know how to share with people in various different circumstances and be able to do it faithfully. Be ready for their questions. Be able to do something that will just razzle-dazzle them. I don't mean to belittle evangelism explosion. It is an excellent training tool. But if anyone here has concluded that that is evangelism, you're sadly mistaken. And I can understand why you would flee from evangelism. Because not everybody's prepared for that. Not everybody's gonna do that. But that's not evangelism. I want you to listen, because evangelism, when you boil it down, is simply this. Evangelism is simply praising God before those who don't know him. It's telling of what God has done in you to those who don't know him. It's not hard. It's not something that requires you to have a certain particular kind of personality It simply requires that you know who Jesus is, that you're open to seeing what he has done, and that you have close enough relationships that you can tell that to people. As we reflect this morning on evangelism, I'm going to ask a few follow-up questions. Do you know God? Have you come to that certainty that John and Andrew and Philip had? Is he someone close to you? Do you know who this Jesus is? This Lamb of God, this Messiah, the one who Moses and the prophets wrote about. If you do, do you have redemptive relationships? What I mean by that is simply, do you have people who will listen to you talk about the crises you go through and how Jesus makes it possible? Do you have people that you care enough about to serve and to attribute that service to Jesus? Do you have people that you can talk freely with so that they know what's going on in your heart of hearts? Thirdly, can you speak clearly to those people? Do you know Jesus? Do you have redemptive relationships? And can you speak clearly? Can you speak in a language that communicates to them, not in one that comes out of the church If you do, if you have those three things, then I encourage you to introduce those people to Jesus. There are a lot of ways that you can do that on your own in relationship with them. We as a church are trying to make it easy for you to do that through structure. The sermon series coming up starting next week on self-image is something people need to hear. People today are in crisis over who they are. How can they have confidence in anything, including themselves? I guarantee you, I stake my reputation, that if you bring people to these sermons, Allen will not embarrass you. And the services won't embarrass you. The intent is to make this a comfortable place for people to come so that they can be introduced to the Jesus who will convince them. Do you have times of building relationships with people just to get to know them? Do you put that in your schedule? If not, if you like athletics, join the Hoops Fellowship where you simply play. How many of you don't want to play? Now, granted, there's problems because this is a men's basketball league. If you women want to orient yourselves to getting something like that going, I would applaud you with wholeheartedly. But there is a hoops fellowship where men can bring men to play together. There's a men's fellowship breakfast that will happen next Saturday, and we'll have a body life about that in a few moments. Bill will come up and tell us about what happens at the men's breakfast. There's the ladies' night out, where you can get to know women in the church and women from outside the church. There's learning and fellowship communities that follow the worship service Sunday mornings. And for the next series of weeks, for this semester, we're going to be teaching on family, another area of crisis in our culture. People need to hear what God has to say about family. Our intent is not to embarrass anyone in that time, but to point them to what God says about family. But most importantly, and as I close now, you need to do this one thing. You need to trust that Jesus will convince. That you're not a failure if you introduce. And nobody responds. You're not a failure if you invite and nobody comes. Your job is not to bring fruit into the kingdom, not to see people transgress. That is our hope. It is our ultimate goal, but it's not our field. That's God's And so as you come to the idea of evangelism this morning, don't be frightened. Because it's not your responsibility. to convince. And it's not so difficult to enjoy people. And frankly, going over time, but I want to share one last thing. I would challenge you this morning that if you really believe Jesus is the exclusive way to peace with God and to an eternal life with Him, and you really care for the people around you, family, friends, whoever. Those two cannot be true if you're silent. Somehow one of those two isn't true. You can't have a private faith. You can't be silent as you think of your friends. The only way you can be content to do that is if you either don't really believe that hell awaits them. Or if you don't really believe that hell is period. And so I challenge you this morning, let God convince you. And let God free you from fear of rejection, fear of failure, so that you might know Him and share with Him the task of evangelism. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we do thank you that you have called us to yourself, that you have convinced us of who you are, that we have the privilege. Of knowing you. And Father, we do pray that you would communicate to us those people that we need to be close to, both for our own needs of relationship, but also for their needs of knowing you. Use us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.