This morning we're going to be looking at a passage in Matthew chapter 9, verses 35 through 38. So if you would like to turn there, you may But before we begin, there's a story that was reported in the Times Reporter of New Philadelphia, Ohio that I'd like to read about. This was a report in September of 1985 regarding a celebration at a New Orleans municipal pool. The party around the pool was held to celebrate the first summer in memory of no drownings in the pools of the city of New Orleans. In honor of the occasion, there were 200 people, including 100 certified lifeguards, enjoying the time at the pool. As the party was breaking up and the four lifeguards on duty began to clear the pool, they saw in the deep end of the pool a fully dressed body. They found Jerome Moody, age 31, and they tried to resuscitate him, but it was too late You see, he had drowned in a pool surrounded by a hundred lifeguards, celebrating the fact that in that season they'd not lost one person to drown. I wonder how many visitors and strangers are among us. Drowning is loneliness, hurt, depression, doubt. While we who could help don't realize they're drowning. We Christians have a reason to celebrate. Most certainly we have a reason to celebrate. But the mission we have, the great commission we've been given. is to rescue the perishing. Often they're right next to us. And I imagine there are several here today who would say they fit that category. As we look at Matthew 9, we can focus on Jesus as our compassionate shepherd, and that's true, he is. He is the shepherd of his flock. But as we look at the context of this passage today, we see that he is traveling the villages and towns, and he's seeing the crowds. Those, he points out, are the harvest. Jesus today is looking and focusing upon the harvest. He's focusing upon the needs not of the saved but of the lost. What I hope will happen as we study this passage is that we will flush out the Great Commission. We won't be focusing upon Jesus and how he cares for our needs, which we know are many. But how he uses us as under-shepherds to focus upon the needs of the lost. We need to learn to battle our insensitivity, our desensitization to the needs of those around us. We so easily, like all sinful human beings, become so inwardly focused upon our need, and lately there have been many here. We're aware of the hurts in our congregation. We're aware of the hurts in our own lives. But I think in becoming focused upon those, we have lost an awareness and a sensitivity to the needs of those around us. As I was traveling in San Diego this last couple weeks, I would go to General Assembly meetings and I have to drive about a half an hour's distance And as I was driving along several times I'd see this man, and I took it to be his wife with him, who were dirty and disheveled, who had a bag full of whatever, and a sign they held up saying, We will work. For food and shelter. And three of the six days that I drove to the meetings, they were there standing on the same corner with the same sign. And I wonder, what would I have done? If it had been my home instead of my parents. As you travel downtown DC And you see the homeless. What she responds What was Jesus' response? It's here. And I'd like to read it Jesus went through all the towns and the villages, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the good news of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion on them. Because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest. As we look at this passage, we see three things that Jesus does that I think we need to do. The first of these is that he sees the needs. That's the first blank under number one. As he travels the towns and villages, he sees the needs. He's not blind. He's not insensitive. He sees the sick. If you look at chapter 8 and chapter 9, you see continuing occurrences of where Jesus is aware of the hidden sick. He's profoundly aware. As you look at chapter eleven, he sees the weary. He sees those who have need of a shepherd. As you look at chapter 14, he sees the hungry. His disciples are ready to say, Send them away so they can buy food. And he sees the hungry profoundly. And he sees the needs of those who are ignorant of God. So he teaches in the synagogues. He's moved with compassion. We need to look at this and say, what needs do we see today? What needs should we see if our eyes and our hearts were open? We're in Colombia, a beautiful planned community. We see people who have everything and nothing. Do you see the sickness? Do you know the people outside of our body here? This morning again we're focusing upon the crown. We're focusing upon the harvest. Do you see the sickness in those people down the street? It doesn't have to be cancer. It doesn't have to be Some sort of a terminal disease. Do you see the ear infections in the children at night that keep the parents up? Do you notice the flu that wipes the mother out because she's got two other kids to watch? Do you see the sickness? Do you see the weariness? Or like the rest of us, are you too weary to look? Do you see the need? Do you see the poverty? Columbia is a master plan community and and because of Ross's foresight, some say, and others will call it other things. You may have a $300,000 house backing up to a subsidized housing apartment complex. But even here they have housing. Do you see the poverty of Baltimore or of Washington? When you watch the news at night and you hear of the violence and the stabbings in the in the public housing projects, have you desensitized yourself? Do you see the hopelessness? When you look on the crowd, what do you see? Do you see the people who are facing an eternity of suffering? Or do you see the people who are pain in the neck? These people, they may even be Pamela I have some family that I wish weren't family, to be honest. I'm with you. I'm sinful. And I see the pain that they cause Sometimes to the exclusion is being the pain that they feel. But the profound truth is that these people without Jesus are going to face an eternity Of health that we cannot conceive of. Are you ready for that? Not only does he see the hurts, it would seem that that would almost be enough, because then we almost share them. But he shares, he experiences the hurts, and that's the second point. Jesus is not only willing to notice that the poor, that the hungry and the sick are there. But he somehow enters into it with them in a way we can't understand. Think for a moment. The God of the universe who created creation. who made all that exists, who lived in the throne room of heaven, in a place where he was worshipped and magnified, where his righteousness and holiness were sung of and enjoyed. Became the baby in a family so poor that they put him in a hay trough when he was born. Matthew is constantly portraying for us the reality of the fact that Jesus is compassionate, that he experiences the hurt and the suffering of those that he faces, that he sees. In this very passage, he sees the crowds, and he understands that instead of being horrible people Who he should hate because of their sin, he responds instead by seeing them as sheep who are harassed and helpless and without a shepherd. They're without him. He's there, but they don't know it. There are lost and perishing people that God is planning to call. Who will be with you in heaven as you worship that Lord, that shepherd. But they have hurts that are unmet. They need you. They need your prayers. In chapter 14, Jesus is moved by his compassion to heal the sick. By the way, A is his heart goes out to the people. And that's what we're speaking of here. He's moved by compassion. In chapter 15, we see that he's moved by the hunger of those who were listening to him teach. In chapter 20, we see that he's moved by the blindness of an individual to give him sight. Jesus is not willing simply to see. He experiences. And that's frightening. I don't know if that frightens you as much as it frightens me, but there's enough pain in my life and in the lives of those around me that I don't feel a need to seek out ways to experience more. And I'd almost rather Jesus hadn't put this passage in the Bible. But the truth is he did, and because he is the shepherd that he is, we must heed it. Jesus acts because he shares the hurt. Do we The people in Baltimore or in DC who are homeless. How do you respond as you tour? When you drive through those depraved sections of Baltimore, do you lock your doors, roll up your windows, and speed? Or do you take a moment and pray? Let's take it closer. When you hear your neighbors fighting down the street. Because their marriage is in shambles, and many of them here are. You take a moment in prayer or do you close your windows and pretend that it's not there Closer to home. As you see the children down the street who were neglected by their parents, perhaps even abused emotionally or maybe even physically. Who come to your door because you're a kind parent. Do you say, not now? I can't be bothered. I've got my own choice to do My kids are busy playing. Or do you invite them in? Or do you pray? Or do you take some sort of action to meet the need Let me read a story of a young man. Howard Hendricks tells a story of when he was first in Dallas. He was invited to teach a junior high class in Sunday school. He says, and I thought I knew something about junior high kid. But there was a boy in that class that the textbooks had never taken into account. I mean let's face it they had never met Dave. Dave was in my class. This kid gave me fits before I ever came to class and all during class. And long after class he was still thrashing the room. I tried everything. Finally I came to the superintendent. Look, friend, one of us has got to go. It's either Dave or me. Which one do you want? I'll never forget his answer. Howie, before you go, I want you to promise me one thing. Friend, I'll do anything. What is it? I'd like you to go to So I took the address down and I had the hardest time finding the place because there were no numbers on it. It was at the little shack at the end of a long dusty lane. I finally came to the place and I knocked on the door. A very disheveled woman answered, Yeah, what do you want? Just then little Dave stuck his head around the door. Hey mom, it's my Sunday school teacher. Of course, she was very embarrassed. She invited me into a very dimly lit room, and when my eyes became adjusted to the light, I noticed a human form over against the baseboard. Which I later learned was Dave's father, who had been dead drunk for nine solid months, who'd lost his job and of course the income. The dear mother had to go to work, but she had no training, no background, and no experience at keeping body and soul together. Of course, she came home after those long hours of work, extremely fatigued. She'd take all her venom out on poppin' on this little boy. I drove out the long dusty trail and when I got to the end I said, Thank you, Lord. I've got the answer to Dave's problem. Dave's dying for somebody to give him legitimate love and attention. Next Sunday when I met Dave, I called out to him, Hey Dave, if I come early next week, will you be here? Sure. Will you? Yeah, we'll get together before the class. The janitor told me that at seven o'clock in the morning, when he came over to light the fires, Dave was sitting on the front steps waiting for me. And Davey and I became real close friends. I discovered what he wanted to do more than anything else was to take a ride in the car. I owned a Ford and I took old Dave around a little park in our area called White Rock Lake. Where I discovered that he liked to go fishing. So we went fishing together, and I started to build a bridge into David's line. I can still remember he was the biggest kid in the class. Every now and then when we'd be sitting around and some kid would begin horsing around, I could see Dave sitting his full length. Saying, shut up. All the heads in the class would come back into line. He and I became real close friends. As we look at the needs around us, our honest answer will probably be that it hurts too much to even think about experiencing the hurt. We have enough to bear on our own. But when we think like that, we've lost the fact that it's not on our own that we bear what we bear. Jesus is trying to teach his followers. He's trying to teach us how to be compassionate. You see, not only are we his sheep, in a very real sense, as his followers, we are his under-shepherds. We have a dual role. We're ministered to by him. And because we have been, we then minister to others What are we commanded to do? Well, in this passage it's pretty easy. To be honest, it's really easy. You see what Jesus says here is ask the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest field. That's not if you would like to. It's not, I think it might be a good idea. It's an imperative, it's a command. As you reflect on this past week, how many people have you prayed for? How many kids coming to your door have you prayed for? How many families having a dispute have you prayed for? Have you seen the needs? They're there. There's no question they're there. He commands us to pray for laborers. But I think it's subtle, but it's very clearly there that he's also commanding us to pray for the needy. That the needs will be removed. We have a very pointed prayer we're to make. Next week, as we study this passage in depth on the Lord of the harvest, we'll see that he also will send us out. The prayer is the first step, but we'll be sent as well. But the key for us this week as we begin to look at this is prayer. Are you praying for the need? Are you praying for the workers? See, Jesus is opening our eyes and breaking our hearts as we understand the needs that surround us. There was a seven-year-old named Andy who had to have his left arm amputated. On the happy day that Andy returned to his school, his grade two teacher had an unusual assignment for all of his students. All of his fellow students. She had asked each one to tie his left arm behind his back. And then to do work with his right arm. All that morning the children became aware of the difficulties that Andy faced. It wasn't easy to turn the pages of a book, and it was nearly impossible to write because the paper would keep slipping. It was Andy's turn to teach. Because you see, he had learned the tricks necessary to function with one arm. And as these students understood his plight, he was able to help them. Jesus has helped us. We need to help those who have not yet been helped. We find ourselves overwhelmed. Again, I understand that there is little left over when you care for your own situation We oftentimes will look at the plight and say, I have not got the resources to face this. If you only knew the problems I face They're probably not much different than the person sitting next to you. I don't have the time. My neighbor may become a Christian. What am I gonna do? Follow him up? Yeah I don't have the emotional reserves to help that family with the marital problem. I don't have the reserves to deal with my own problems I don't have the finances to help those hungry kids. What am I gonna do? Make my kids starve? I don't have the wisdom. Their problem is so far beyond me that I can't even begin to think about what to do. I don't know what to do. If you're doing it on your own, you're right. You have no resources. If God's not put the people on your heart, you'll never be able to help them. But are you willing to let him put them on your heart? Are you willing to let him provide the resources? I want you to think for a minute about the scene of the 4,000 people who come to listen to Jesus. His disciples come to Jesus and say, Jesus, it's dinner time. We don't have the food to feed four thousand people. Why don't you send them on their way so they can go and buy some food? I can really identify with that But Jesus says, no, have him sit down. Sit down. Yeah, we're gonna feed him. We're gonna feed him? With what? We got a few small fish and a couple of loaves of bread and we're gonna feed four thousand people? Yeah. And you know what happened? He fed 'em He fed them to the point that they were so full they couldn't eat any more. As you look at your resources and the problems you face, I want you to identify with those twelve disciples. And I want you to be astounded that Jesus asks you to do what is impossible to do. But I want you also to realize Jesus did it. And Jesus will do it again. It is not impossible, and what he asks, he provides The third blank is Jesus acts. In case you missed it, B was he teaches his followers. I realized that was rather subtle. But the third blank is that he acts to remove the needs. He meets the secondary needs. He solves them. He provides the health and the site. Miraculous but he doesn't. He feeds the hungry, he fed the four thousand, and he fed the five thousand, and he had less resources than you or I But he's God, and he still is. And he teaches the ignorant about God and about life, and he gives hope to the hopeless It's so easy not to think about those people around us who have no hope. They have no future. They're hanging on by the skin of their teeth. They're treading water so they can keep their nose above. They've got the rest of the head buried, but they've got the nose above, and if they can just manage to keep up the energy, they'll breathe Those are the people that surround you in Colombia. We talk about the peace dividend, and here in the DC area we look at that as lost jobs. We talk about the upwardly mobile, but we don't realize the gap between rich and poor is becoming greater and the middle class is becoming extinct. As you look at the people who surround you in these comfortable homes with affluence, are you aware that they are walking a tightrope? And some of them are so overextended on their credit they wonder what they're going to do next month. Jesus meets those needs. But the most wonderful thing is that that is not the most important thing Jesus does. And we're here today because he's done more. One of the sang songs we sang talked about how he came down to earth to show the way. He got on the cross to pay our debts, and he got from the cross to the grave and from the grave to the sky to take us with him. Jesus meets the ultimate need. And he's met it for many of you here. For some of you possibly today, he has not yet done that. You may not have yet received salvation from Jesus, but he died to provide it. He came as a man, he left that throne room of God where he had the worship of angels to become a man. To sleep his first night in a stall, to live as an itinerant preacher, to die on a cross as a criminal, to pay your debt, not his. But he rose from the grave. And in rising from the grave, he brings us with him to heaven. And if that doesn't make you want to stand up and dance in the aisle, then I want you to think about it. That's a tremendous gift. You have so many resources. You have the Lord of heaven. You have a compassionate shepherd. What more do you need? And because we have that Lord, He sends us out to bear witness of what He has done. As you look at the past week, have you focused more upon the job problems or the marriage problems or the children problems? Or have you focused upon the Lord who has given you life? We have become so lethargic. I have become so lethargic in facing the issues of my life that I forget where I am and whose son I am. Jesus wants us to have a part in the harvest He wants us first of all to pray for workers for the harvest. He wants us to pray for the needy. He wants our heart to break I want you to look at the questions on the bottom of the page, and I want you to write one more in when we're when we're done with the first two. But what are the needs that surround you? What has God brought to your memory as you've listened this morning? Secondly, how can Jesus use you to meet those needs with compassion? Think about that. And this is the one I want you to write in. You don't have to write the question, but you need to write the answer. Who are you going to pray for this week? Doesn't even say how many times. But I want a name. I want you to focus this so that you know who you're going to pray for this week. Say God will send a worker into that harvest. It doesn't have to be local. Doesn't have to be somebody that you're particularly fond of. Doesn't have to be somebody you hate. But it has to be somebody who needs And need the Savior. Let's pray. Lord, I am so grateful that you have called me to be your son. That in spite of the difficulties that I face, you have given me eternal life, that you have set your seal upon me with the Spirit, that you have given me your spirit to face the difficulties and the challenges of the world. my life. Lord, I pray that too for all those who are here, for those who know you as their father, as their daddy. I pray that that would become more true and more real this week. That the Spirit would minister in their lives, that they might be able to enjoy what you've given them. So, Father, I do pray too that you would break our hearts. That you would take the scales from our eyes, which protect us from the pain, from the need, from the hurt that's around us. Father, I pray that we would see the actions of those who bother and offend us. And see the needs that are behind those Not that the offense is good, not that the offense is without blame, but Lord, that we would, as your under-shepherd, see the need. See those that you are yet calling to yourself, and Lord, that we would be unwilling to be inactive. Lord, break our hearts that we might pray with fervor, with energy, with faith. Be with us as we continue to worship you this morning. And Lord, I ask that you would be enthroned upon our praises. That we would be shaken from the sleep of self-focus, and that we would look upon you, that we might rejoice In the worship we have the privilege of offering you. We pray this in Jesus' name.