Honor and a privilege for me to be able to introduce to you a guest preacher who is very familiar to an awful lot of you. If you attended this church anytime between night I almost said 1889. Wow. 1989 and 2010, you would know the name Steve Green very well. He counseled you. He, in my case, and my wife's case, officiated our marriages. He was engaged in our family funerals. He preached, he led worship. He was an assistant pastor here at this church, the first assistant pastor, and he had a 21-year ministry among us. And he is very much a part of who CPC is, an integral part of our DNA historically, and God has blessed us through him. I heard via a text message, I think a text message or an email a month or so ago that he was going to be in town. Would it be okay if he worshipped with us? As if I give people permission. No, you can't come. I say, hey, how about you come and you preach? And so here he is, and he is going to minister to us once again after he ate us of fourteen, fifteen years. Fifteen years. He's gonna do us. Well he's got it down to the day almost. Welcome Steve Green, our dear brother. It's kind of hard not to remember life-changing events. Uh my glasses are gonna come on and come off because to read I need them off. To see you, I need them on. So if I don't put them back on, I'm probably giving you a message. But I do bring greetings from my kids, Katie and her husband Ben, who are both here, Ben Calvert, whose parents are Gordon and Irene John, his wife Carolyn, David, who has no wife and is still living a single life as a teacher. Daniel and his wife Kylie, and then Tim and his wife Claire. Many of you probably have memories of them. Some of you, I'm sorry. I do remember events with Christian Service Brigade and being on the roof of sheds on the side of the Potter's house, but I can't really effectively blame it on their mom because she's not here to defend herself, but I'd like to. What I'm going to do today is focus this on Jesus. It is the story of the woman at the well. It is an incredible picture of who Jesus is. For me, it's also incredibly special because this was the last message I preached before I preached two weeks ago. It was the message I preached in our church in Maryland, in Maryland, I'm in Maryland, in Oregon. Two days after Laura was diagnosed. So if I get emotional, give me grace. As we focus on this passage, I want to begin with asking you to do something as I read it. I want you to think about where you place yourself in this story. Typically, when we read or hear or watch a story, we either think of ourselves as the narrator, as an outside observer, as the main character, sometimes, depending upon the context, as the villain. But I want you to be thinking today as you hear this story read, and it is a long story, where do I sit? Let me open in prayer. Father, Son, and Spirit, you are God. There is no other. You are Savior. You are a justifier. You are sanctifier. You are our hope. And I pray that as we hear this story and as we reflect upon what it teaches us and how it shows us the incredible character of Christ. That you would feed our hearts and our souls and our minds, and that you would grow us in Christ-likeness, that we might be kingdom builders, not our own, but yours. And I pray, Lord Jesus, that we would long for and love you the way that you deserve. In Jesus' name. Amen. So if you have a Bible, we're going to read John 4, 1 through 42. And again, please think about where you fit in this story. I'm going to move this over before it falls. Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples. He left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near the field that Jacob had given his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there. So Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well, and it was about the sixth hour. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you, a Jew, ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? For Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. Jesus answered her, If you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, give me a drink, you would have asked him, and he would give you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with, and the well is deep. Where are you going to get living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us this well and drank from it himself, as did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water that I give him will never be thirsty again. The water that I give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water that I may not be thirsty or have to come here to draw water. Jesus said to her, Go, call your husband and come here. The woman answered him, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You are right in saying, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one you are with now is not your husband. What you have said is true. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me. The hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know. For salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming and is now here. When the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that the Messiah is coming, he who is called to Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Just then his disciples came back and they marveled that he was talking with a woman. But no one said, What do you seek? Or why are you talking with her? So the woman left her water jar and went away into the town and said to the people, Come, see a man who told me all th I ne I ever did. Can this be the Christ? They went out of the town and were coming to him. Meanwhile, the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat. But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. So the disciples said to one another, has anyone brought him something to eat? Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of the Father who sent me, and to accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months and then comes the harvest? Behold, I tell you, lift up your eyes and see that the fields are white for harvest. Already the one who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for eternal life, so that the sower and reaper may be rejoice together. For here as the saying holds true, one sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap that for which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. Many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So when the Samaritans came to him, they asked him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. And many more believed because of his word. They said to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves. And we know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. So as you hear that story, where do you fit? I want you to keep thinking about that as we go through the message. It's an important concern. But as we get started, I want to make a distinction between knowledge and wisdom. When I first preached this, I talked about the fact that when I see a dashlight on my car, I I see a light. It might be orange, it might be red, it might be green, but it's pretty, and it's wonderful, and I enjoy looking at the light. I know that a light is lit. That's knowledge But wisdom is to understand the meaning of that light. As we hear this story, we see that Jesus is in Samaria. Okay? We may or may not know what significance his presence in Samaria holds. We see that he's at a well and he's thirsty and a woman comes. Providentially. Because he has no way to draw water and he's thirsty. So this woman comes and he asks her for a drink. If we don't understand, are we having a problem with the mics? Okay If we don't understand a number of different important issues related to his presence, related to gender, related to relationships, we miss completely the significance that his disciples understood. Jesus is speaking to a woman. He's speaking to a woman from Samaria. Now, Jesus left Jerusalem and went to Galilee, and there is a large space in between that is Samaria. And the passage says that he had to go to Samaria, but the truth of the matter is most Jews would bypass Samaria. They would go along the Jordan. If they really wanted to, they could go along the coast. But most would not set foot in Samaria because to a Jew, Samaria was a black vacuum. Jews also do not have conversations with women that are not part of their family. So here is Jesus talking to a Samaritan who is a woman, breaking cultural taboos. But not only that, this is a woman that was not simply somebody he shouldn't talk to. It was a woman rejected by her own culture. She came at noon, the hottest part of the day, so that she could avoid the disdain and rejection of the people of her own town. She was unwelcome. But as Jesus came to the well and she drew up to the well with her water jar, he engages with her. He interacts with her. Now, we might look at what he says, give me a drink, and think it was done in a form of command. A demand. Woman, give me a drink. Her response says no. She very clearly says, why do you ask me for a drink? Why are you talking to me? Why do you even acknowledge my existence? This opens the category that I want to look at today called the other. Jews have no dealings with Samaritans. If you look at the story of the good Samaritan, when Jesus finally asked the scribe who was the neighbor to the wounded man, he doesn't say Samaritan. He says, the one who helped him. He couldn't even say the word Samaritan in the context of a positive. So I want you to think for a moment. I want to step out, give you an opportunity, because this category of the contrast between an image bearer and the other is profoundly relevant for our culture. Who is the other in your life? Who doesn't belong? Who doesn't fit? Who do you fail to acknowledge exists? Other people you will not associate with? Perhaps people who have hurt you significantly, people towards whom you might have become bitter. Are there categories of people that you will not, like the Jews would not recognize the Samaritans as image bearers? Are there categories of people you struggle to recognize are image bearers? It might be subtle. It may not be harsh, but it puts them outside. There are people that you will not acknowledge or interact with or enjoy. People you wouldn't invite to dinner. People whose dinner invitations you wouldn't accept. Samaria was in this category for the Jews because Samaria the Samaritans had rebelled against the line of David. The history of Samaria is that there was the son of Solomon. Who was Rehoboam? And God, because of Solomon's sin, took ten tribes away, and they became the nation of Israel, which later became the nation of Samaria. That was a rejection the Jews found difficult to accept. But not only did they leave the line of David, they refused to worship God as God commanded. Jeroboam was afraid that if he allowed the people to continue to worship in Jerusalem at the temple where God calls them to worship, that they would return to the kingdom in the south. So he created two gold statues of calves and began to worship the God of Israel in Samaria. And in every recounting of the kings of Israel, the best that you can hear is they continued in the sins of Jeroboam. Some were a lot worse. But none of them overcame the sin of Jeroboam. And they had fought against the restoration of the temple. When Nehemiah came back, when Ezra came back, when they were brought home from Babylon, the Samaritans fought against the ability to restore the temple and the walls of the city. Jews had a lot of reasons to be upset with Samaritans. But again, this woman was not just a Samaritan, she was a woman. Jews do not speak to women with whom they are not related. What they can do, if they want to have a conversation, is they can ask for the woman's husband to come. And we'll talk about that in a moment. But they didn't speak to women for issues of ritual purity. But this particular woman Samaritans wouldn't even engage with. That's why she came at the hottest part of the day to get her water. So this woman was so far out of the realm of potential relationship for Jesus that it was absolutely breathtaking. That he acknowledged her existence, but he does so much more. How does Jesus treat the woman He's there at the well. She's coming hoping to evade all contact with anybody. And Jesus initiates a conversation. Give me a drink. The woman slabergasted. But not only does he open a conversation with her He then invites her into a deeper conversation. You may think that in verse 18 or 16, where Jesus No, it is 18. Where my eyes are not as good as they once were. Those of you who think I haven't aged, I've aged. Jesus said to her, go and call your husband and come here. You might think that that was an attempt on Jesus' part to humiliate the woman. Her response is, I don't have a husband. And then Jesus says to her, You're right, you've had five husbands, and the man you're with now is not your husband. Oh my goodness, how humiliating is it to be exposed? But that's not Jesus' intent at all. Jesus' intent is not to shame her, or he wouldn't have said, come here. Jesus is trying to institute a conversation with this woman and her spouse so that they can have a deeper, more appropriate interaction. Far from pushing her away, he's pulling her in. Then he does the amazing And verse 26, Jesus declares to this woman that he is the Christ, the Messiah. He's not made that clear to his disciples yet. But he tells a Samaritan woman that he is the Messiah. He's treating her with dignity. He's treating her with compassion. He's seeing her to the depths of her soul. This is not a cursory examination. It's not, oh, you're a woman, you're a Samaritan, go away. Jesus engages with her because he knows this sheep, this lost sheep. He's not even in the land of his flock. He's in the land of the lost, and he gathers this lost sheep to himself. And her response when the disciples come back is she leaves her water jar, which she came to get her water for the day. goes back to the town and instead of hiding from the town, she engages the town. The transformation has begun Come and see a man who has told me all that I ever did. She has recognized who Jesus is, and she wants to bless her town. with a relationship with the Messiah. And they come In verse 39, many Samaritans from that town believed in him because of all the woman's testimony because of the woman's testimony. He told me all that I ever did. So, when the Samaritans came to him, They asked him to stay with them. Not only does he go to Samaria, not only does he engage with a woman at the well and then continue his ministry. He's not in Samaria because he's in a rush. He's in Samaria to accomplish his ministry. His ministry to those that the Jews would call the other. And when the town says, stay with us, he stays with them in the town for two days doing the work of God to bring the lost to life. Jesus not only treats the woman from the city well, he treats the Samaritans well. He brings them to new life. So I want you to see that Jesus recognized that the Samaritans are image bearers. He engages with them. He saves them. He brought them to justification But one of the things that's so critically important to see in all of Scripture is that justification is the beginning. Many people that I know, especially people that I work with in my counseling ministry, see justification as a be-all-end-all. If I'm saved, I'm good. But this passage and so many others talk about what follows. Jesus sees image bearers, treats them with dignity, brings them to new life, and then blesses them with sanctification. It's not a word that we hear a lot in the evangelical church, but it is an incredible blessing we must dwell upon. John fourteen, fifteen. If you love me, you'll keep my commandments. Same thing is repeated in 21 and 23. This is the last conversation Jesus has with his disciples on the way to Gethsemane before he goes to arrest on the cross. He gives the commandment in chapter 13: love one another as I have loved you. But then he gives further teaching on the way to the garden and says, If you love me, you will keep my commandments. In Ezekiel chapter 36, where he's talking about taking away a heart of stone and giving a heart of flesh, washing with clean water and making clean, he says, I will place my spirit in you and move you to keep my commands and obey my decrees. I want you to think for a moment of a circle. You've got the circle. The circle is the Christian life. In the center of the circle is Jesus. When you think about the Christian life, is your goal simply to be inside the circle? Is your goal to simply know that you're safe and that you have eternal life and that you are blessed to be in the kingdom of God? But maybe you want to kind of flirt with the edges a little bit because it's fun. It's energizing. Or Do you see that Jesus is at the center of the circle and dive deep? Because Jesus deserves your love. You deserve fellowship with him. He's breathtaking. He's absolutely mind boggling. be able to recognize fairly quickly which of those two is more definitive of your response. It says you think of this, do you see this as a passage that teaches you skills in evangelism? Let's go back to who you are in the story. If you tend to think that you might be a student of Jesus, or perhaps even the main character, and want to emulate Jesus, you see this as an opportunity to learn great skills in evangelism. I'm going to go and do like Jesus. Then you miss the point of the story. The point of the story is to fall in love with Jesus. Because no matter what sins you wrestle with, no matter how many times you fail, no matter how much you struggle with feeling welcomed by Jesus. Jesus has saved you to the uttermost without end. Jesus is absolutely the center of our world And what we want to engage with is deeper relationship with Jesus, deeper experience of his love, the energizing reality that he is calling us to grow and to live the truth. of the life he's given us to experience greater and greater sanctification, greater and greater freedom. And out of that love for Jesus, then to recognize that not only am I an image bearer, but every human being around me is an image bearer. And every person with whom I interact deserves love, mercy, respect, and dignity. And that's how Jesus related to the Samaritan woman. The lesson to take from this passage in all of Scripture is Jesus is amazing. And he loves you without limit. There is no sin you can commit that will take you from Jesus. We read it earlier in John 10. No one can snatch them from my hand. For the Father who's given them to me is greater than all. And no one can snatch them from the Father's hands. So nobody can take you from Jesus. But in Hebrews 13, 5 we read the story on the other side. I will never leave you or forsake you. Can't you rest in that truth? Because it's yours And that's what you pursue as you pursue Jesus in the middle of your Christian life. You are safe. I know that when I lose sight of that, sometimes I have a difficult time being willing to actually look at the reality and the complexity and the depth of my sin. It's ugly. I want it to go away. I want it not to be true of me. But because I am so completely loved by Jesus. Seeing the depth and the presence and the reality of my sin is necessary for me to be able to recognize how deep the love of God is. It's also quite necessary for me not to feel superior to the people around me But as we look at the fact that people are at odds with God, Jesus doesn't leave the town of Sikar untouched. He's not saving them and saying, go and be yourself. He's saving them and saying, now I want you to grow in the identity of Christ. I want you to obey my commands and keep my decrees. I want you to live that life of freedom that's only found As you experience the reality of the treasure of sanctification, of growing in Christ-likeness. The difficulty is, as you grow in Christ-likeness, you may find it something that people who want to hurt you will abuse. And they can. Because we're not in the business of treating people on a balance of how they treat us. We're in the business of growing in the reality of our love for Jesus, which is unshakable and has given us every benefit we can possibly accrue, and none of it is at risk. We don't obey Jesus for the blessings we receive by obedience. We obey Jesus because of the blessings we have received and the freedom we have now to live in that power and to enjoy his pleasure. Brothers and sisters, Jesus is amazing. He is your hope. He is your Savior. I hope He's your love. And He is the one who gives you the Holy Spirit by whose power you are sanctified Let's pray. Father, we come recognizing our complete dependence upon you, our need for your work in our lives, and the fact that it is already given. There is no risk, there is no question, there is no problem. And so, Father, we come asking that you would cause us to love Jesus the way he deserves. In your name we pray, Amen.