Of a holy moment there, I hate to break it. Talk. Especially when I feel like I need to ask. Did you mention what to do with the slips? Tom, the survey slips? I don't think I mentioned. Okay, why don't we say, first of all, I'm concerned that somebody's there thinking I still can't think about what I appreciate about this church. Or I'm still not sure what to put down about what I think I'd change. And um please put that away so you're not thinking about it all during the message because maybe the message will give you an idea and some wise guy is going to put down this the preaching. You know, I didn't like the message this morning. So put it away and on your way out, just please put it on that uh high table that's just outside the door where the bulletins are coming in. That'll be the place to deposit it and we'll pick it up and get it then. Sometime during uh 1992 we planned to go to two services, and I'm going to get a taste of that this morning. Because I'm preaching two services right after I finish here. At the pronouncement of the benediction, I will be off like a shot. Stay out of my way. I'll be heading for my car. And going down to Covenant Church, Burton's, the pastor there, Bob Myers, is sick. He asked me that since I had a message prepared and they are combining their two services to one eleven o'clock service, could I come down and preach the same message there? So I will be taking off And I mention that to you, uh not simply so that if you don't understand the message this time, then follow me down to Covenant and you'll get it a second time and maybe you'll understand it then. But more because uh I regret not being able to fellowship with you and uh if anyone's new here or a broad family or friends that I can't meet you. back at the door there, but my absence, at least you'll understand, it's because I'm driving furiously down 29 to get to Covenant Church, Burtonville, and be able to preach God's word there. Let me begin this morning, however, by asking you a question. How do you feel about 1992? What are your feelings as you think about entering this new year? What are your hopes for 1992? Think about that. What are your fears for nineteen ninety-two? What are they? We all, I imagine, have a combination of hopes as well as fears as we think of this new year. global and national hopes, as well as personal hopes and dreams. Global and national fears, after all, it's an election year coming up. As well as personal fears and dreads. I remember that one night a while back I was full of fear and discouragement. In fact, I was so full of fear and discouragement that I couldn't sleep. And if you know me, if I can't sleep, there's something radically wrong. And so on that night I got up and I went downstairs. And God directed me to a passage of Scripture, in fact, to one particular verse that evening. That so altered my outlook concerning how I view the future that I was able to find peace Contentment, confidence. Actually, praise God before I was able, before I went back to bed. I pray that God will do that for you this morning as you look at this new year. I pray that he will use this passage, this verse in your life to help you to think about the future. In a way that will give you confidence, a way that will help you as you look at 1992, full of all the uncertainties that it holds for all of us. And I hope that uh Tom spilling the beans on what the point of it is w at least hel keep it uh you know, you still got some vagueness in mind there about what what is this really about? But the passage is Luke chapter ten. I'd like you to turn to that. Luke chapter 10, verses 1 to 20. The verse is verse 20. Now you recall the situation here. You remember that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem for the last time. He's coming to the end of his ministry. He's moving down from Samaria down into Judea. And so he appoints 70 or 72. The text isn't clear whether it's actually 70 or 72. Uh different texts state different numbers. That's a minor point. But he appoints either 70 or 72 ordinary working people People with no special gifts, people who have no special notice in their worlds, people who aren't particularly influential or rich. People very much like you and me, and he appoints them to go ahead of him and to in a special mission declare his kingdom and that he the king is coming. To proclaim the kingdom of God, to heal, and even to cast out demons. Now let's take a look at this in Luke chapter 10. See God's Word. And see what, in fact, he tells them to do and then what happened. In Luke chapter 10, beginning with verse 1, let's hear God's word. After this the Lord appointed seventy-two others, or seventy, and sent them two by two ahead of him to every town and place where he was about to go. He told them, The harvest is plentiful, but the workers are few. Ask the Lord of the harvest, therefore, to send out workers into his harvest field. Go. I am sending you out like lambs among wolves. Do not take a purse or bag or sandals, and do not greet anyone on the road. When you enter a house, first say peace to this house. If a man of peace is there, your peace will rest on him. If not, it will return to you. Stay in that house, eating and drinking, whatever they give you, for the worker deserves his wages. Do not move around from house to house When you enter town and are welcome to eat what is set before you, heal the sick who are there and tell them, the kingdom of God is near you. But when you enter a town and are not welcomed into its streets and say, Even the dust of your town that sticks to our feet we wipe off against you. Be sure of this The kingdom of God is near. I tell you it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that town. Woe to you, Kharazan! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the miracles that were performed in you had been performed in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. It will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you. And you, Capernaum, will you be lifted up to the skies? No. You will go down to the depths. He who listens to you listens to me. He who rejects you rejects me But he who rejects me rejects him who sent me. And what happened? How did it go? Verse 17. The seventy-two returned with joy, and they said, Lord, even the demons submit to us in your name. And he replied, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven I have given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and to overcome all the power of the enemy. Nothing will harm you. However, do not rejoice that the spirit submit to you. But rejoice that your names are written in heaven. I want you to notice three things. In this incident that can help you and for me and me as we look into the tempestuous year of 1992 that lies ahead. Number one, first thing to notice, is the fear of the unknown that they had. The fear of the unknown in verses 1 to 16. These guys had never done anything like this before. They'd never been sent out on a preaching mission to heal and cast out demons. And they were sent out not alone so that there'd be some comfort, but they were sent out two by two, so there wasn't much comfort. Just one other person who was probably just as scared as you were. And I don't imagine that their fears were greatly calmed by what Jesus said in verse 2 and 3. After he says the harvest is plentiful and the workers are few, asked the Lord of the harvest, therefore send out workers into his harvest field. He says, Go! I'm sending you out like lambs among wolves. That's a great comfort, isn't it? Here you are. You're a lamb. Go out there among those wolves. I'm sending you. And so there's a couple things for us to notice about the first about this fear of the unknown. The first thing is that they're sent as lambs among wolves. Recall just a year ago now, we were on the brink of war. War with Iraq A war that we had no idea, and there were some very dire predictions about where that would lead, and many expectations that come this time, this year, we'd still be in that war. And we felt in some ways that we were as lambs going out among wolves. And God preserved us in that hostile area. That's very different this year. We don't have any such thing globally imminently threatening us. The world looks more secure. But what about your world and my world? We all have stress. We all have situations where there are people that we realize don't like us. People that either inadvertently or purposely will intend harm for you, for me, in this next year. And perhaps they're thinking they're doing whatever goodness there is a favor by getting us out of the way. And so in many ways you and I walk into hostile areas that are unknown. We don't know what lies ahead. But more obviously relevant to us is the second fear of the unknown, the fear of a financial unknown. There's no guaranteed income for them. There's an insecurity about whether their needs will be met. Look what he says in verse 4. It goes from verse 4 to 8, but look what he says there in verse 4. Do not take a purse or bag or sandals. Now, you know, I mean they might be thinking, we're going out, how long are we going for? Maybe a few weeks. We don't know how long they were gone, but he says, uh, don't take anything. I'm not giving you anything. I don't have any money to give you. But don't worry about it. Your heavenly father is going to take care of you. And that makes he makes that plain in verses four to eight that they're simply to go into the town and God will provide through someone there that will take care of them God will provide for them through ordinary human means. There must have been some times when they wondered when the next meal was where the next meal was coming from. Times when they felt tremendous insecurity about how they were going to be provided for. Jesus said, trust your heavenly Father. Trust in this unknown that he will take care of you. Do you realize that since Thanksgiving in this country, about 110,000 people have been laid off of their jobs? And that's in the boom, holiday season time. The Washington Post recently had an article in which they said something like this: this recession is unprecedented. And we don't see any end to it. We don't see anywhere that it's going to turn around. Now for the bad news. And then they went on to talk about how healthcare is going out of sight and people aren't able to afford basic health care anymore. Nobody's got an answer to this. The average net worth of the average middle-class American is less than it was ten years ago. We're going behind, not ahead. And taxes? You realize that currently every dollar west of the Mississippi in federal taxes goes to pay for absolutely nothing but the federal debt. I mean excuse me, the interest on the federal debt. Currently the interest, just the interest on our national debt is $206 billion a year. That's more than twice what the federal government pays for all of its highway program, all of its science program, all of its school programs, farm programs, and all jobs programs. Over twice. What the government spends for that. And as one political commentator said recently, and the Mississippi is moving east, friends Bad news economically, as we look at 1992. Jesus says, you're going out. Into an uncertain mission. Trust your Heavenly Father. I will take care of you. And then you add to that, thirdly, the overwhelming task of fulfilling the Great Commission. They're sent, after all, to declare that the kingdom of God has come. And so they're going out to state The king is coming. Verses 9 to 16. He makes plain to them what they are to declare, what they are to do in that. You're to go out and you're to tell an apathetic people, and some people who will be resistant. People who will want nothing to do with what you say. He says you go out there and you tell them about the realities of heaven and hell, about Jesus and what he can do. You go out there and tell them about sin and forgiveness. You go out there and tell them that there's a reality that they don't perceive with their physical eye. And that that reality is infinitely more important than the day-to-day concerns they have about meeting their obligations and paying their bills and getting things and experiences here. And Jesus is saying, you go out and you tell these people about that reality. You and I have that same commission. And we look, what do you expect in 1992? Are you excited about how God's going to use you in leading people to Jesus Christ? Or is that one more burden? Is that one more unknown that you look at and you say, well, he didn't use me very much in 1991? Why should I expect he's going to use me anymore in 1992? You need to remember that these people who were sent out were not gifted preachers. There were not people who had any unusual talents. We don't have any inkling that these people were charismatic types who could draw crowds. The power was simply in the message and in their conviction that Jesus had sent them to do it. And so because they were convinced of that, they went. And what happened? What was the result? You see it there in verse 17. The 72 returned with joy. And they said, Lord, even the demons submit to us in your name. Their fears were turned to joy. And so that's the second point I want you to notice, the joy of victory. There's the fear of the unknown, but there's the joy of victory that we see here. First of all, there was the experience of Jesus' protection. Excuse me. Yes, his protection. No one apparently was stoned or killed. Whatever hostility they endured, they all came through it. Everybody came back. Secondly, there was the experience of Jesus' provision. Nobody starved. Nobody went hungry. Apparently God met all their needs. They saw God's hand in providing them. Daily, they saw him providing their daily bread, probably in many cases in very ordinary ways, perhaps in some cases in somewhat spectacular ways. But the most amazing thing is what they specifically mention in verse 17. What's that? Notice. Their experience of Jesus' power. The 72 returned with joy, and they said, Lord, even the demons submit to us in your name. Their experience of his power was overwhelming. Now imagine yourself in their situation. Just a short time ago, you've gone out, you've never preached before, you certainly haven't gone around healing people. And so you go out and uh you give it a shot. Believe that Jesus is has wonderful powers, that he is the Messiah, He sent you, so you go out and you try it. And you find people are listening to you. And then you see some people who are sick, and so you try praying for them, and you see that they're healed. And you begin to build your confidence and you say, God is with us. And God is really using us. People are listening and they're beginning to turn to Him as Messiah. They're ready for His message. Then all of a sudden, one day. You're confronted with evil itself. A demon-possessed man comes up to you and he begins to threaten you. He begins to blaspheme. And all of a sudden you are scared witless. You realize now that you're up against something that is far out of your leg. I mean, here now is the occult facing you. I remember, as I've shared with you before, the one time I was faced directly with demonic powers, and I will never forget that experience. You will never forget it if you are face to face with the power of Satan in demonic manifestations. And so, as you stand before this person, cowering, wondering what to do, you think of what Jesus has done. And so you say it's our only hope. It's either run as fast as I can or try what he has said. And so with some fear and some trembling, you pray, and then you command that demon to depart, to leave, to get out in Jesus' name. And what happens? All of a sudden, you see the demons fleeing like frightened squirrels. And you see this person who's screaming profanities and threatening you all of a sudden become calm and return to his right mind. And you say, this stuff is real. I mean, Jesus really means this when he says it. Christianity really works. This is heady stuff. Have you ever had that kind of experience? Have you ever had an experience where all of a sudden you are surprised because you realize Christianity really works? I mean it's one thing, isn't it, for us to talk about how God delivered us from Iraq a year ago? How God has brought down atheistic communism and crushed it, and how he has uh dissipated the Soviet Union and formed a Commonwealth which is not communistic and as Dick Farnes shares with us, is in fact open to Christianity in unprecedented ways even for a military chaplaincy. For Christianity to be the ideological substitute? It's one thing for us to hear about all those things. It's one thing for us to hear about what God is doing in Howard County and raising up a coalition. Of churches over 70 coming together to pray in October for renewal and revival, over seven hundred people at that. And for us to see churches cooperating together, to begin to do evangelism, even Jewish evangelism together. For us to see God working in cities throughout the United States to plan in 1992, Jesus marches, prayer marches. down through cities to declare that Jesus is Lord and to pray publicly. Seventy cities lined up to do that this May. Cities and capitals all over the world, even possibly Albania, where up until uh just recently it was the death penalty to even believe in God. It's one thing to see God do all those things. It's another thing to see as reality in your own life, isn't it? In some small, insignificant way, but some way that shows you personally that God is real and alive and powerful. Just two weeks ago, actually a week ago last uh this coming Monday, two weeks ago, tomorrow We are having one of those typically exciting, scintillating family devotions where everybody's on the edge of their seat about spiritual realities And we came to our prayer time and we prayed. And then we dismissed, and everybody cleared up the dishes. And at that point, Julie said, Dad, would you do me a favor? Julia had worked for somebody in in the summer and had lost one of the checks that uh they had paid her about $70. She'd been trying for about six weeks to get a hold of this person. Tried calling, calling. Always secretary answers, says I'll pass on the message. Nobody ever calls back. No messages ever returned. No interest stopped. Dead. No possibility of getting through this guy. She didn't believe the guy even got the messages. He was just being screened. She was being screened out. Said that maybe if you try. So okay, I'll try. So I picked up the phone, I called, got the same secretary, same message, same business. When Julie could hear what I was saying on my end, finally hung up the phone, she said, that's it! It's exactly what I've gotten for six weeks. You're not going to give him that message. He's not going to call back. He didn't get any further than I got. The whole thing's hopeless. So I said, well, okay. And in something that, you know, this isn't typical, but it was just kind of an impetuous, impulsive rush of faith, I said, let's stop right here. Let's ask God to do the impossible. So I just stopped and I prayed two things very specifically. Lord, cause that guy to call back. So that you'll show your power to us. Honor yourself now. Cause that guy to call back. And secondly, I pray that that check will come by the end of the month. That was it. I went downstairs. Half hour later Julie comes down. She says, Tad, you're not gonna believe this. That guy just called me back He's never called back before. He just called me back. Did not only call back, he apologized for not sending the check. And then he said, I'll have the check out this week. And if I don't, here's my home phone number. You can call me at home to make sure that I send it out I said, great. Let's pray that God will do that. You know what happened? Czech didn't come. We lost his home phone number. That's a great ending to the story, isn't it? We prayed that God would still work. And on Friday, the check came. Now when that check came, I don't know how it affected you, but you know, to me, what was more important than the check, and for Julie too, I think this was important. was the fact that our Heavenly Father had heard and had answered. He had shown himself alive in our life. That he was hearing us, that when we prayed, God heard and God cared and God answered. I believe that's something of the feeling that these people had as they came back. Lord Jesus, you're alive. Your power is evident in us. Now notice though, and this is the most important thing in all of this, how Jesus responded to them. Notice his response. Of course he was thrilled for them. Verse 21 says that he was full of joy. He even adds to the significance of what they did. Verses 18 and 19, he says, I saw Satan falling like lightning from heaven. I've given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions and to overcome all the power of the enemy. Nothing will harm you. You see, Jesus is saying, when you were out there casting out those demons, I saw Satan and his kingdom falling like lightning from heaven. His kingdom is being vanquished. And in verse 19, I believe, is referring power of the snakes and the scorpions to them symbolizing the demonic conflict that was going on because Satan is symbolized as the serpent. In fact, appeared as the serpent in Genesis. And so I think he's saying there that I've given you power over all demonic powers and even Satan himself. Is not able to resist you when you function in my name. But then notice That without dampening their spirits, Jesus gently redirects them to a different focus as the source of their joy. You see, this is a real spiritual high for them, somewhat like you and I would experience after a personally answered prayer that was very specific. like the one I shared, were coming back from a tremendous retreat in which you had been deeply ministered to, or some profound spiritual experience. And Jesus then says, however, do not rejoice in that spiritual high. Do not rejoice that the spirits submit to you. There's something even more significant, more important, than fleeing demons. And it's this. Your names are written in heaven. You see that? So the third joy The third thing to notice is the joy of heaven. The joy of heaven. You see, what Jesus is saying here is that in heaven there is a book. And that book is the most important book in the universe. In terms of your happiness and your misery are concerned. That book is referred to several times in Scripture It's referred to in Exodus chapter 32 and Psalm 69 and Daniel 12 a number of times in the New Testament, particularly in the book of Revelation. And it's called in those places the book of life. And Jesus is saying here that this book of life contains a ledger, lists of those who belong to God, who are his children, by faith in Jesus Christ. who hope not in anything that they do or could ever do in order to balance the ledger of their sin with their good deeds before God. But their only hope is in what Jesus Christ has done on the cross, in his becoming a substitutionary sacrifice for your sin, for my sin, that that alone and that totally is sufficient. For God to be able to look at you in your sin and me and my sin and to see Jesus and what he has done and to reckon what he has done to your account and to my account. And say, you are justified, you are acquitted, you are innocent, you are forgiven. Come. You can come into my family and you can come into my heaven. I enter your name in that book. Jesus is saying that if your name is in that book, that one simple fact Far outweighs anything else, good or bad, that can happen to you in 1992. Imagine it for a moment. If I could, and this is what I was thinking that morning, those dark hours when I was so discouraged, and I thought, I pictured in my mind. Lord, there is this book. It exists. There is this book in the courts of heaven. And if I could enter into the cosmic computer system so that I could call up and find the particular page. And I could go down through those entries and I would look on that page. I would see at a particular place, on a particular page in that book, the name. Written in gold, Alan Herbert Harris, Jr. And to see that name in that book of life Means more to me than any experience. Any high or any low, any fear of anything unknown or any joy experienced in this life. Anything that could happen in nineteen ninety two. As Johnny Erickson has written Our gladness cannot hinge on the next celestial lightning bolt or sun-splashed moment of meditation. Our joy is based on the fact that our names are written in heaven. However, do not rejoice that even demons submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven. That joy is more wonderful than anything that can happen to you here in 1992. Imagine seeing your name in that book. What would that do to you? What would that do to your year if you could just see for one moment? Yes, it's there My guarantee of eternity is secure. I will be with Jesus and all of his joys and all of his delights in his kingdom to share that with him for eternity. Who cares what happens in 1992? The greatest joys, the keenest disappointments are that compared to the fact that you know your name is in that book. You know something else? He writes that name in permanent ink. So the first thing is that it's more wonderful than anything that can happen here, and the second thing be is that it's more certain. Nothing can take it away. No rejection. No loss of a job. Nothing that can happen to you. No health report from any doctor. Not even the threat of death. Nothing can take away the fact that your name is written in the book of life if you're trusting Jesus Christ this morning. Now come on. Somebody ought to be able to say amen to that. Amen. Those are the people whose names are written and they're sure of it, you see. When we know it. Then we can claim it and it outweighs anything else. Are you sure your name's there? Amen. I'm glad Because if you're not, there is nothing more important for you today than to make sure that you close with Jesus Christ. That you turn from your own self-dependence to Him and His finished work to be the one hope you have of having your name written in that book. What difference does that make to your fears? What difference does that make to your hopes? Let's go to the Lord now. Together. Lord our God, how we would so love To see in our mind's eye, see, Lord, even in reality with our physical eye, that book And to see those letters on that particular page, our names written in the book of life. Because of what Jesus has done for us. Lord, how that would transform everything else that we're worried about and that we're hoping for. Oh Lord, give to us the eyes to see that because of Jesus we can be convinced our names are written there. We pray that everyone here would have that conviction and that assurance. But Lord, we pray that you would transform us as a people. Look with the uncertainty of 1992 to understand that nevertheless the one thing that is certain is that you are faithful to your covenant. And that our names are in that book of life if we are resting in Jesus. Give to us that conviction and that joy, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.