In May of 2001, I preached uh this same text, Deuteronomy six, and um wanted to bring it back out. I believe that it is um It's a vital word that God has for his church today, and that if he would give us ears to hear it, we would be transformed by it. So I uh would draw your attention to the uh to the title even there in your uh bulletin, Christian Education 24-7. But maybe I should focus you by way of introduction on the subtitle, because that's the point. Subtitle, whether you public school, Christian school, home school Whether you uh have children or not, all of us, all of us, God's covenant people, are called to this high privilege. of home education and to support home education. I want to make my point clear, I hope, that by the end of this message we see that God calls us. to transfer the trust to the next generation. And he calls us to do that in such a way that highlights his power, made perfect in our weakness, that highlights him as the covenant-making, covenant-keeping God, and us Humble, honest, recognizing the fact that we cannot keep the law that God has obligated us to. And in his grace he provides Christ to keep that On our behalf, and to provide us a righteousness that is not from the law, but by faith. A righteousness that is the God kind of righteousness. And it's been imputed to our accounts, credited to us, based on the work of Jesus Christ and Christ alone. What I uh might offer to you also, with all due respect is uh I will not preach a sermon here today offering arguments, uh homeschooling better than public schooling, better than Christian schooling, better than some hybrid model. or any uh likelihood of that design. In fact, uh sadly Many of you are already aware that our our our task, our responsibility to transfer the trust to uh support and to be participants in honest and humble home education is being disrupted and divided by Satan, the enemy of the body of Christ. By causing us to focus on our educational choices. Now, someone approached me after the first service and said, I didn't even know there was a controversy. Then thank God Thank God if you're unaware that brothers and sisters in Christ um tear one another down based on uh preference. that they've uh uh the choice that they've made how to school their children. And so um as I prayed this message through and as I thought about how to introduce what I wanted to say, I I want to call us as God's people to repentance. I want to call us to repent of uh the the rush to judgment where we don't have all the facts and evidence. And I discuss these issues of repentance with every uh educational choice person, if you will. The Christian schooler, the public schooler, the homeschooling family We need to repent of judging one another based on things that we don't know, imputing motives to another group. In fact, we need to repent That there even is the other camp discussed. We're God's people, and we're called to serve Him in unity. We need to repent of attempting to gain our righteousness via the choice that we've made how to school our children. And we need to repent of it today. Because I believe our enemy would like nothing better than for us to continue these skirmishes about educational choice, school choice. So that we would lose sight of the bigger picture, the higher calling that we have as God's people to be in support of one another as we transfer the trust to the next generation. And so I call you and myself to repent. With all due respect, but with the solemn uhness that I can muster, church, we must reject that kind of living. So let's pray together, shall we? Father, I pray that uh you would um intervene in our lives where we are arrogant and and prideful. And Lord, uh regardless of uh whether our children uh uh take a carpool across town to a Christian school or make a pathway through the woods to their public school or they walk down the hallway to the room in our house where homeschool takes place We need you, the power of your spirit, to bring unity again to your body. Would you be pleased to do that in us, Lord? Lord, I pray that even as I pray and as people hear my words, that it would not be me in view, but your uh gentle spirit drawing us all. To once again rest in you for our righteousness and to uh rest in you for all things Father, even in this moment I pray that you would cause our hearts to repent of the notion that may be crossing our minds. I sure do hope they're paying attention to what He's saying. For it's about us, God. It's about me. And I pray that you'd work that in us to your glory and for your sake. We pray all things in the name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Um, and that's just the introduction So uh if you would, uh maybe it's not a golden oldie yet from uh from my vault. Maybe it's not even silver, maybe it's wood, but uh from uh From May of uh two thousand and one with uh some major additions, major uh uh revisions, uh I'd like to present a message on Home Education, Christian Education 24-7. From Deuteronomy chapter 6. I want if you would To think with your sanctified imaginations, imagine the setting where the people of God have gathered in one large group The man of God rises with the Word of God in view and proclaims to the people the Word of God. Can you picture that scene? Where there's gray hairs, gray headed people among the crowd, there's middle-aged people with gray hairs beginning among the crowd. There's younger people in the crowd that maybe just celebrated the first anniversary of their marriage union. There's Tall children, short children, and children of all ages that are gathered because it's the people of God gathered. And they're gathered to hear the word of God proclaimed. And the man of God stands and says these words. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God. The Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart and all of your soul and all of your might. And these words that I command to you today shall be on your heart, and you shall teach them diligently. To your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up And you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as the frontlets between your eyes, and you'll write them on the doorpost of your house and on your gates. Can you picture that scene? Are you living that scene? Where God delivers his word to you and me today The context of this passage takes place like many times when Moses in the first five books of the Old Testament, the Pentateuch, many times Moses will review for the people. The covenant obligations of God's covenant people. The context of what's taking place in Deuteronomy 6 and Genesis 15 and Deuteronomy 5 and other places all throughout these five books is a history lesson here on a Hittite treaty, a suzerain vassal treaty. It's kind of like a contract, only different. It's a covenant But it's not between two equal parties. It's a covenant between a sovereign, conquering king And the people who have been conquered, between the servants of the sovereign And Moses picks up on that which is very familiar to the people of the time, this suzerain basal treaty, and he says to them, Hear Oh Israel. Shema Israel. Whatever. Peter Lee, I need to pronounce this for me. But this this this phrase that grabs your attention And verse 4 is not just, hey, hey, listen to what I have to say. It is an emphasis in the Hebrew that says, listen Obedience is expected from what follows. Now there's a very serious tone To what's being said there. Shema Israel. Listen. Obedience expected The sovereign Lord, who has told you that he has conquered your heart, that he has obligated you to keep the covenant. And then by his grace, he has become for us the covenant keeper. Christ, who knew no sin, became sin for you and for me, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him, became a curse for us and lived as one under the law. Just as we are under the law, and yet never once, never once failed to fulfill the obligation of the covenant. And he did so on our behalf. I want this to be in our minds as we read this. Because Moses is issuing to the people of God, hear, O Israel, obedience expected. The Lord your God is one. And you remember Alan's lesson from a couple of weeks ago? This is a capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, Lord Yahweh, the covenant maker, the covenant keeper. Praise be to God. He doesn't issue the commands and then say, well Have at it. I hope you'll do fine. See you in heaven, I hope. No, God in his sovereignty draws you and me by the power of his spirit, by the preached word. And he is about the business of conforming each one of us to the perfect image of Jesus Christ. And he does it this way. A command. This is no ordinary command. Hear, O Israel, the Lord thy God is one. The reminder, He is sovereign. We are His servants. And you shall love the Lord your God with all of your being. All your mind, all your strength, all your heart. And immediately our minds fast forward to the New Testament and the teachers of the law, the scribes, the Pharisees, teacher, Jesus Rabbi, tell us. What is the greatest commandment? And where does Jesus take them? Right here. The greatest commandment is this, Jesus says, You shall love the Lord your God with all of your heart, all of your mind, all of your soul, and all of your strength. And the second is like unto it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Call to repentance in view again. Love your neighbor as yourself. And so Moses doesn't say, Hero Israel. You shall obey the Lord your God with all of your being. Here, O Israel, you shall worship the Lord your God with all of your being. Here, O Israel, you shall dutily serve the Lord your God with all your being. Moses, inspired by God's Spirit, records for us, here, O Israel, you shall love the Lord your God with all of your mind and all of your soul and all of your strength. And we recognize again that Scripture verifies Scripture and it proof texts itself. And Scripture comes to our minds and says You cannot love except you cannot know what love is except that God first loved you. While you were sinners, while you and I were enemies of God, rebellious in our state of hopelessness and helplessness, Christ died for sinners. God demonstrates his own love for us in this, that while we were his enemies, Christ gave his life for us. So we see God's love demonstrated. And we have the call to love him because he wants us in relationship with him. Oh, it's a relationship like none other. Make no mistake, this is a relationship of intimacy with the transcendent, holy king of all creation. I can't explain that to you. No one can. That God Almighty would relate to us intimately, and yet He does. And He does so through Christ perfectly. That we have been forgiven full and free, and we have been given the righteousness of God to relate to Him. He calls us holy and blameless, and He draws us to Himself. Draw near to me, and I will draw near to thee. So he gives us this command. There's a purpose behind it. Look at verse 2. The purpose is Moses says. You see, the text just preaches itself. The purpose of this command is so that you may fear the Lord your God and your sons and your daughters after you. And we know that Scripture on and on and on again talks about the fear of the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord is what turns nations to God. The fear of the Lord is what the apostles lived in. Read Acts 2 and 3 and 4. And they continued in the fear of the Lord. Because it's a recognition that this intimate relationship we're called to is not an intimate relationship like me and my tennis buddies. I just got some of those recently It's a relationship like none other. Where I see his love demonstrated first, and I respond with an answering love. You shall love the Lord your God with all your being. You see, we get that confused in our everyday relationships. We wait for the love to come before we'll give the love. spouses and kids, right? Husbands. Well, when she starts loving me, uh then I'll then I'll lead the family. I'll show you Well when he starts loving me properly, I'll you know, whatever. That's my female voice. Or the kids When my parents start acting the way Christians are supposed to act, then I'll obey the commands of God that they lay before me. This relationship is where God demonstrates His love and we respond in love, and then we are enabled to love one another. And in unity we love one another, so that the watching world, Jesus said, will see our love for one another, not our skirmishes, not our bickerings. Not our backbitings, but our love for one another, and they'll know that we are his disciples. And in fact, they'll see our good deeds and they'll be drawn to give praise to our Father in heaven. These are all promises of the Word of God. So when Jesus says, On these two commandments, you shall love the Lord your God with all of your mind, all of your soul, and all of your strength And you shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments hang all the law and all that the prophets have said about God. What he's saying is Why is it not right to murder somebody? Because God is life, he's the author of life, and to take another life in murder is not to love him Why should I have no other gods before the one true God? Because that reflects the adulterous nature of who I am, and it does not love the Lord my God. Why is it not fitting and proper for me to be a bearer of false witness? Because God is truth. And in him there is no error. And so for me to lie is to show forth that my heart does not love the God of truth. You see how all the law and all the prophets hang on. You shall love the Lord your God And so the context is this covenant. The content is a command to love the Lord your God. Because obedience and service and worship and duty and obligation and all those things flow from a heart of love Paul the Apostle says, we are compelled forward by the love of God in Christ Jesus. And so this concept, how is this thing worked out? How is this command lived out All day, every day, 24-7, always on, honestly, humbly, lived out before each other, and before the face of God. We read this confessional prayer, and we acknowledge, Lord, even the things done in secret are known to you. There is no secret hiding place. And that causes terror in a heart, but also, brother and sister, let that cause comfort. to take hold of your heart. He knows you in your deepest, anxious, most fear-ridden place of your heart. And he is well aware that he is the one who can meet you at that need And he says, the command that you need is to love the Lord your God with all of your strength, all of your mind, all of your heart, and all of your soul. So I believe this uh concept of delivering the command takes two kind of different folk foci focuses And that is there's an inward focus that begins. And they must be in this order. They must be in this order. If these orders get reversed, we're in big trouble. The first and foremost is, Moses says, They will be on your hearts. It's an inward meditation of the Word of God, the Word of God with God, going into the secret place and reviewing and rehearsing and renewing your minds with the wonderful truth. That he is who he says he is, and Christ has done what he says he has done, and acknowledge humbly and honestly As you meditate on God's word, that you are who He says you are as well. That you're a sinner in need of His grace Unworthy of the name Christian, but made worthy by Christ Himself, who loved you and gave Himself for you. Amen. So this inward focus. I mean we could have read any psalm today. Psalm one. The blessed is the one who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly. But Not in the council of the wicked, but but on God's law he meditates day and night. You know, when we teach the communicants class, we talk about how to intake God's word because we say, listen, this is one of the ordinary ways that God's going to grow you up as a Christian, and that is the Word of God. So you've got to take it in in order for that to take place. You hear the Word of God, you read the Word of God, you study the Word of God, you memorize the Word of God. But last and Foremost, probably, as you meditate on the Word of God. As the Word of God permeates your being, it becomes part of your thinking and your acting and your doing. And you roll the that's what meditation is. You mull it over, roll it over, pray it over, rehearse it, review it, work it out with your friends I am not a big proponent of being late to everything, but through my actions you might wonder sometimes. I'm late for every appointment I run to And a lot of tim I see my family laughing back there, by the way. A lot of times what I'll do is grab some coffee, put that little safety lid on, and run out the door And I've got two favorite cups, one that I got at the zoo and one that I got at Hershey Park. The problem with these cups are they're really great, they fill up nicely and stuff, but the lid It's just a little pinhole for air and a bigger hole for the liquid to come out. There's no safety catch. There's no twisty thing that keeps the stuff from spilling So that whatever's in that cup, as I put it up next to my body, and I try to come out the door and lock the door and I'm carrying the laptop and everything and it falls off my arm. Whatever is in that cup when it gets jostled comes to the surface. It comes to the surface, it spills down the chest, you've got to go change your clothes, you know, it's just a mess. Whatever's in that container, when it gets jostled, will come to the surface. And that's what I believe Moses is trying to get the focus. Meditate. These statutes shall be written on your hearts. prior to any outward instruction of trying to deliver them to somebody else. And I tell you, I confessed to Dana last night. How in the world am I supposed to get up and preach? A message of teach diligently the law of God to your children and and come on everybody, let's be great parents and I can't teach that But I can hold the Word of God up to you and say, this is truth And so when your life and when my life is jostled by providence, when the trials and the pain and the pain that we expect, because Jesus said, in this world you will have trouble. But take heart, I have overcome the world. When providence jostles our container, what comes spilling out? Sadly, too often, yuck comes spilling out of me. Anger and impatience and all types of fleshly pursuits. And that's why it's a call to us to have this word written on our heart. So there's an inward focus, a meditation of the heart. Brother and sister, there's a outward focus. Because as oft quoted The Uncle Ben Parker line this summer. With great power comes great responsibility. With the great and high privilege of knowing how sweet the Lord's salvation really is, we have an even greater responsibility to diligently teach that to those around us. And immediately around us are these children that God has blessed us with. But I submit to you, that's why we're called to covenant community here. Listen, whether or not our children are schooled at home, schooled at a Christian school, schooled at a uh uh public school, or some hybrid of the of the lot We all live and exist in a world that hates God and hates everything about God. This world is not going to promote God and godly values. in the lives of those around us. So irregardless of where our children receive education about math and science and those things, we are called as God's covenant people. to be about the business of supporting this transfer of trust. I'm a firm believer. That we are people of God, we live and move and act out of conviction. And so I know that many come to those educational choices by conviction But I would reiterate again, we cannot let those preferences distract us from this calling, this high privilege. To transfer the trust. With great power, with great privilege, comes great responsibility. And so Moses says, teach them diligently to your children. And this is where it gets good. What's he say teach? Teach them the statutes. Now this is another Hebrew idiom here He's not identifying three or four times in the day where you formally instruct your children when you rise up, when you lie down, when you take a road trip. That's it What Moses is saying is, as you go, teach these things to your children. And how do we do that? It's right here. Teach them the statutes. So that when you come across an opportunity to show your children how you break God's commands and how you need Christ desperately in your life. They're right there with you. They're right there with you on the journey. They already have a sense that that's going on that dad mom and dad are weak and frail and hopeless and helpless and dependent on God, but we cover it so well or we put it down so nicely that uh we come away with this kind of anemic view of of transferring the trust. We we we let our younger people think, hey, Christianity's a great thing and it's really great and And all all all things work together for good on and on and on. And we try to highlight how wonderful it is to love Jesus But we don't let them see how wonderful it is to love Jesus, if you get my meaning. Because when I fail you or another, and the law of God presents itself, it points me to my need of Jesus. That's one of the threefold uses of the law. It points me to Christ. And if I'm taking along my family with me on the journey, honestly and humbly Then they get to see that too. And they get to see how good the Lord really is, instead of a lesson about how good the Lord really is. I think about a um a story that I came across, an incident where a a father had um systematically participated in a deceit with his wife over um over a period of years And it was uncovered in this uh horrible, tumultuous uncovering. And so the deception that he had lived for so long was well uh well known to her. And one day she came across the scene of uh one of the kids calling Daddy a liar. And Daddy's response. You do not call your dad a liar. Do you understand what your father is not a liar? You do not call him a liar. As the mom witnessed this, she thought to herself, You are a liar. You're a big fat liar Our lives are in shambles because of your lie. Don't give him that impression. Can you imagine a scenario when instead of scene one playing itself out, do not call me out, I've not done now do not bear false witness, Junior Scene two playing itself out. You know what? Do y you shouldn't use labels to to talk to dad and work that through, you know, the name call and stuff. But interact with that son or that daughter and say, you know what? Daddy's heart is full of lies. And I've participated in some whoppers. I'm I'm tempted to lie almost all the time because I don't want anybody to see my real heart. I'm afraid they'll see it and they won't love me. And I can't quite bring myself to rest in what Christ says about me and it's a struggle of my faith. And I do lie. I lie because of that. It's not excusable In fact, quite the opposite. It's something that you know what you remind me of again. I need to repent of. I need to run to Christ. And Junior, so do you. Can you imagine those two scenes? I believe that's what's being talked about here. Teach them to your children as you go. Listen, the reason that I I I I'm in cell and we come to worship and I I work in the lives of the youth workers and stuff is because it's self-centered. You all have impact on my children. And I have impact on your children. I want you to confront me in sin and arrogant ways. Why? So that So that we can all live honest and humble lives before the face of God. Why? Because the next generation is watching. I don't want them to see a bunch of hypocrites our age trying to grunt out some spiritual fruit and pretend like we're joyful in Christ. I want them to see real peace. Real contentment. And I believe that the response to this passage is just what we prayed earlier. We're called to confess, to agree with God. God, I agree with you. I don't love you the way I should. I don't rest in Christ as the one who has the way I should I'm responsible to confess that and to live that Honest agreement with God, which is what confession is, to speak the same. It's a Actually, the way that word's constructed is kind of neat. It says to say the same thing, to speak the same word, to agree with God. Honest agreement with God Is the beginning of deliverance from the bondage of the sin. Honest agreement about that sin is the beginning of deliverance from that sin. Now the victory and the freedom has been purchased once and for all, those sins on the cross of Jesus Christ. But you and I know this. The scriptures call us to it. Confess your sins. Honestly, humbly, God opposes the proud It's a prideful heart that causes a father to rear up and do not call me a liar. It's a humble heart that draws Junior in and says, you know what I am a liar. And left of my own, I continue in my lies. But praise be to God. He loves me enough to intervene and to bring people who love me into my life To confront me, to rebuke me, and to walk alongside me as I grow and they grow. That's why I say it's a self-centered pursuit When I go to Cell Group, I'm looking out for the lives of my brothers and sisters who are my age and younger because they're influencing my children And I'm influencing theirs. There's a whole host of application to this. I'm uh woefully out of time to try to apply these things. But I would submit to you that this church is already on good uh progress toward mixing these generations, not isolating them from one another But living out honest lives with each other. Listen, young person in this room, you're responsible You are responsible to agree with God that you're a sinner as well, and you need Christ. And we're responsible, all of us. In the fall, Wednesday nights will be filled with adult men and boys and young men doing CSB activities. Adult women and young girls and women with the Pioneer Girls. On Friday nights there'll be youth groups taking place. If you have a middle schooler or a high schooler, come and be a part of that Figure out who your kids' friends are and be their friend and show them who Christ is in your life. Let's complement this and support this home education privilege that each of us is called to. Whether we have children or not, we're all called to be in support of this uh Home education. Let's not let these minor skirmishes and bickerings distract us from the higher calling of transferring the trust that God has given to us. To the generations that follow after us. Let's pray together. Lord, we uh cry out to you. No words that I say today uh mean anything unless your spirit take them and penetrate our hearts with your truth. So I pray that you would do just that. And Father, we um We do submit ourselves as a congregation. We want this day and each day to be testimonies to the transforming power of your amazing grace. And we pray that you would work that out according to however you see fit. For we ask it all in the name of Jesus. Amen.