Well, Christmas is a time preeminently of joy. That's why I wear silly ties like this, uh, you know, that plays jingle bells, but I realized After I got here this morning, my battery's died over the years, so you kids wanna play jingle bells, I gotta get a new battery first before Christmas. It's a time of joy of playing ties, you know, and listening to music and eating special things. Sometimes getting that special present that you were hoping for. Time of lots of joy. There's another kind of joy There's a joy of a sense of deliverance, a rescue from some great terrifying situation. I remember uh just this week I was reading uh about a family that was spending Christmas at the beach Uh they lived in Australia, so it was a little different. And uh course in Australia you can go to the beach, that's the beginning of summer there. And uh they were at the beach enjoying Christmas Day and Three teenage sons were out playing in the surf and they began to go out a little further and all of a sudden they got caught in this powerful riptide and were being carried out to sea into their deaths. And two surfers came tearing down the beach and dove in and rescued them, brought them back up to the beach, and when they lay there gasping for breath, there was a tremendous sense of relief and joy that their sons who they had thought were lost for a few minutes were saved. That's the kind of joy that Isaiah's talking about in chapter 9 that we're looking at, messianic prophecy this year. It's that kind of situation. Remember, turn to your in your Bibles to Isaiah 9 if you haven't already. Remember, last week we looked at the background, the situation in Isaiah. Nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who are in distress. In the past, he humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, but in the future he will honor Galilee of the Gentiles by the way of the sea along the Jordan. You remember that Isaiah wrote this somewhere between 732 and 700 BC, and the northern part of Israel, that part that was called Galilee. The two tribes, Naphtali and Zebulun, had been invaded by the Assyrians in 734 and 732. With tremendous destruction, people had seen their homes burned to the ground. They had seen people that they loved, murdered. And these people who had lived in that terror and were living again in terror that this could happen again, another invasion. In fact, one came in 701 BC. Where God delivered them. But they're living in this terror. And Isaiah says that there's going to be a time, there will be no more gloom. Galilee is going to be in fact delivered. The people walking in darkness, verse 2, have seen a great light. On those living in the shadow of death, a light has dawned. And so he talks about a joy that they're going to experience in verse 3. You've enlarged the nation, speaking to the Lord. You've enlarged the nation, you've increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people. Rejoice at the harvest. That's the first picture of joy. The joy of harvest He refers in verse four to Midian, and he compares Midian and Assyrian. He says that it's just like back when the Midianites were keeping you from enjoying your harvests and they were plundering you and pillaging everything that you had and you were eking out an existence even though you worked as hard as you could. But then God sent Gideon and in verse 4 he says he shattered the yoke. And when he did that, you had a harvest, and that harvest you could enjoy. You weren't just anxious about the natural elements. You were delivered from those who were robbing you of it. And so there was a tremendous joy at the harvest because God had delivered them. He says it's also like the joy in verse 4, you see, of plunder. As men rejoice when dividing the plunder, and we saw how that was referring to the fact that Midian, who had been plundering Israel for so many years, And plundering other nations. All of a sudden, when Gideon was raised up of God to deliver them, the people swooped down into the plain of Jezreel, and all the pickings of all the hundreds of thousands of Midianites were theirs to take. And they were instantly millionaires without any taxes to pay, and they rejoiced as those who divided the plunder, as those who picked whatever they wanted for their own riches. Because he says in verse 4. Now you notice that in verses 4, 5, and 6, it's not so clear in the English. But you have three reasons for this joy. Each of those verses in the Hebrew begins with the word for. So in verse 4 you have, for as in the day of Midian's defeat, you've shattered the oak that burdens them, the bar across their shoulders, the rod of their oppressor. You've rescued them from bondage and their drivenness, a picture in our day of the fact that you, Lord Jesus, have shattered the yoke of our guilt and of our chains that have bound us. Then verse 5, the second four, the second reason. For every warrior's boot used in battle and every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be fueled for the fire When this one comes who's the light that's going to appear to the Gentiles, then he's going to bring a peace that will be an enduring peace, an everlasting peace, a peace that will never end. And we've begun, those of us who have entered into the peace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the peace with God of our sins forgiven, begun to taste of that peace. But we live in a world where there's still such a lack of peace, don't we? Tom referred to in Catherine's office, someone who was murdered. This Presbytery just yesterday. One of the men reported about a missionary that he was acquainted with working with one of our missionaries in Suriname who had been murdered in his own home just a week and a half ago. And I thought of how at that presbytery. Yesterday somebody said something at that presbytery made me so angry that as soon as that person walked out the door, I went out there and got them in the hall. And I said, What you said made me angry. And uh we talked for a good while and wound up being able to embrace and to leave, hugging each other, reconciled fully. We live in a time where there's tension, there's still that lack, there's that longing to enter into the peace. That Jesus has described, even among brothers and sisters and family. But then you come to verse 6. And in verse 6 you have the third four, and it's the climax of the passage. He says in verse 6, 4 to us a child is born. To us a son is given. And the government will be on his shoulders. And he will be called the wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, and of the increase of his government in peace there will be no end. He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever. Zeal of the Lord Almighty, the Lord of hosts, Yahweh Sabayoth, will accomplish this. Now, as we enter into this, as I say, one of the richest of all passages in the Old Testament to describe the Lord Jesus Christ, and certainly one Most used of the Old Testament in Christmas cards and greetings among Christians at Christmas time. I want you for us to notice a number of things. We'll be looking at these two verses for the next three weeks. But just by way of introduction, I want for you to notice a detail that I personally have found very encouraging about this. You notice the tense in which these verses are written. You notice in verse 4 he had said, You have shattered the oak. And then he says in verse 6, for to us a child is born and a son is given. Now this is written, as I said before, somewhere between About 730 and 705 B. C. So over 700 years before Jesus was born, Isaiah says a child is born. Past tense. Perfect. A child, a son has been given, is given to us. In the Bible, that's called the prophetic perfect, or at least that's what interpreters of the Bible call it. Because the Hebrew just has two kinds of tenses. There's the continued, the uncompleted, and there's the completed. And this is written in the completed. What it's saying, prophetic perfect, is simply indicating that this thing that's going to happen in the future is so certain in God's sight that it's as good as done. Now you have to understand that that's like somebody writing somewhere in the 1300s, Columbia Presbyterian Church has been established. We're talking about that kind of time span. And so Isaiah is describing here now the hope of our deliverance in terms of a child that's born and a son that's given that's going to happen over 700 years in the future. And we'll see how specific this prophecy is. But notice the assurance there that God, the Lord of hosts, will accomplish this. Now you see, he reverts back to the future. He's clear that this is a prophecy of something that's going to happen, but it's so sure That it can be stated in the completed tense, it's as good as done, because when the Lord of hosts, the one of all the hosts of the angels, the sovereign God of heaven, determines that something is going to occur. Nothing in heaven or hell or in all creation can stop it. And do you realize that that means in terms of this whole passage that whatever is keeping you from joy this morning Whatever is robbing you from entering into the freedom that Jesus Christ has purchased for you, that will end. That prohibition of your joy will be removed soon As soon as the Lord Jesus returns and perhaps sooner in a foretaste of that deliverance that He is pleased sometimes to give to us in our situations. Notice also, as we look at these verses, the threefold identity of this one who is going to bring us this joy. He says in the beginning of verse 6 that this is a child. For unto us a child is born. And secondly, he parallels that with to us a son is given. And then, thirdly, you see that this child who is a son, a particular son, obviously every child is a son, but this one is designated in particular as the son. Is also a ruler, because the government will be on his shoulders. And so we have here now this one who's going to come to deliver us, who is a child and a son, and a ruler. Now imagine yourself before Jesus was born. Put yourself back in Isaiah's time for just a moment. And imagine that Isaiah is saying to you. In this sin-sick, terrifying world that you and I live in, he's saying there's going to come one who is going to shatter the yoke of our bondage. He's going to deliver us from all our fears and terrors. And this one is going to come, and he's going to establish a peace that will never end. There will be no more war. All soldiers' implements, even their garments, are going to be destroyed and burned and never used again. But this one who's going to come is not going to appear meteor-like in history. Because as soon as you begin to think of someone like that, you think of someone that's going to come bursting on the scene, a kind of a Superman. And here he is, and everybody's going to recognize that this is the world's deliverer. But Isaiah says, no, it's not going to happen that way. This one's going to be born like an ordinary child. A child is going to be born. It's as simple as that. But that child who is born is a son who is given. Now you notice the distinction. The child that's born refers to Jesus' human nature. He's a child that's born. Human. But he parallels that very precisely with the fact that he's a son. Who is given. He doesn't say a son is born. That refers to the pre-existence of Jesus. Do you remember how in John chapter 3 In verse 13, Jesus described, or John describing Jesus' nature, uh refers to him He says there, no one has ever gone in to heaven except the one who came from heaven, the Son of Man. And so the Son of Man is the one who came from heaven. He's a visitor to our planet, as it were. He's the child who was born, but more than that, he's a son who was given, pre-existent, who came to us here. And this one is going to be the one who will be a ruler of the ultimate new world order. A new world order of peace and of prosperity that none of us have ever seen in our family devotions. We're reading in 1 Kings these days, and we've been reading about Solomon's rule. And our tongues sort of hang out as we read about what it was like to live in Solomon's day. The riches, the prosperity. Guy had fourteen thousand horses, you know, he wanted to go for a ride. He had a huge pool that held 18,000 gallons in his backyard anytime he wanted to take a dip. And all the things we've been reading about But Solomon failed. This ruler is the one who's going to have a kingdom that will never fail. And so this one who is the ruler, Isaiah then describes. What's going to characterize this one? What's he going to be like, this one who's going to bring about the deliverance that we're so longing for? And so what does Isaiah do? Hey, if you've been around here for a while, for the last five years, it ought to be very familiar to you. What does he do? He gives him names. He says, Let me give to you four names to describe this one who's going to come as the deliverer. Now once again, just to review in case you haven't been around here for all these five years, remember that in the Hebrew, names are very descriptive. They're not simply for the sound. When Isaiah says he's going to be called the wonderful counselor, the mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, he's not saying that sounds good, kind of has a rhythm to it, would fit well if somebody ever wrote an oratorio to use it, you know. It's not that kind of thing at all. When we called our first daughter Heather Lee, we called her that because it kind of fit nice. It was a lilt to it, you know, Heather Lee Harris. I mean it was not only alliterative, had three points. This middlewind was kind of, you know, had a kind of a flow to it, you know, and we used to call her Heatherly and made up songs about Heatherly and all this kind of thing. But we did not call her Heather because she resembled a Heatherbush. There was no comparison between heather and what grows in our backyard. Not so in the Hebrew. You name someone because it described their character. It was what they were like. Didn't matter very much how it sounded. It was what they were like. And so Isaiah gives to us four names here. And those names are four pairs. Each one has a base and a description. Not only that, but some commentators have observed That these four names, each one is a pair that has both a divine and a human counterpart to it. Not only that, but if you look at the names closely in the Hebrew, can't pick it up very easily in the English, in the Hebrew, in the first two, it's the divine name first and the human name second, and in the second two, it's the human name first and the divine name second. To bring about a perfect symmetry to just by way of Hebrew hinting describe that this one is going to have two natures perfectly fused into one person. You notice that the names are, first of all, the wonderful counselor. Wonder of a counselor. We'll go into that in a minute But wonder, speaking of the divine aspect, counselor the human. Then he's also the mighty God. In the Hebrew, it's God of a hero. God first, who is a hero, second. And then he goes to the other two, that he is a father from eternity And so the Father, the human part, the eternity, that he is the one from eternity. And then that he is the Prince of Peace That his peace, that establishing of peace, he is the peace. Our God is peace. Yehovah Shalom. And so this one is the one who's going to come to deliver. Now I want for us then to look at these names. We're going to look just at the first two this morning, the second two next week, and then wrap it up the week after. First of all, then let's notice that this one is the wonder of a counselor. That's his first name that's given here. The wonder of a counselor. Now in the NIV, of course, you have that he is wonderful counselor. In the King James, you may recall that he is to be called wonderful, comma, counselor. We believe, and I think it's fairly safe to say that Wonderful and Counselor are not two separate names. The reason that that was thought to be the case was because the word wonderful is actually a noun in the Hebrew. It's not an adjective. And so it was seen that, well, wonderful, he is he is a wonder, literally. Uh he's also a counselor. But because you have that flow, the other three are all pairs And you have that uh symmetry that I described, and you also have the fact that he's a counselor. But what kind of counselor? What Isaiah is describing here is not simply that we have one who's a counselor. This one is a wonder of a counselor. Now why why do I just say it that way instead of simply saying what kind of counselor he is? He's a wonderful counselor. Because Isaiah saying something far more than that this one is a wonderful counselor. Now I want to do this looking at these names by dividing each of them into two parts for us to look first of all at what this meant to Isaiah and then what it means to us. So first of all, let's be honest to the text. Let's put ourselves back in there. And instead of just making it kind of something nice on a Christmas card, let's find out what did it actually mean when Isaiah gave it. Well, when Isaiah spoke this word, he is a wonder of a counselor, he was using a word that was extremely meaningful to Israel. That word wonder was the word that was used concerning signs and wonders, the miracles by which God had redeemed his people. For instance, if you look at Psalm 78 in verse 12. The psalmist there says that he, speaking of God, did miracles in the sight of their fathers in the land of Egypt in the region of Zon. Talking about the Exodus. That word miracles there is the same word that you have in Isaiah 9, 6. Wonder. He is a miracle. He is a sign. He is a wonder. He is someone supernatural. This one is the one who is beyond our understanding. The word is used in Judges chapter thirteen, in verse eighteen. When the angel came to the parents of Samson, you remember that uh he told them about this special child they were going to have, and they said, Well, what's your name? And you remember, take a look later if you want, Judges 13, 18, how the angel answered that question. He said, My name is beyond comprehension. It's beyond understanding. And if you look at the NIV footnote there in Judges thirteen, seventeen, you'll see it's a footnote that says literally wonderful. It's the same word that you have here in Isaiah 9. 6. My name is wonderful. It's a wonder. It's beyond grasping. And this one who's going to come in his nature is beyond our comprehension. He's the wonder of God. He's the one that God is going to bring, who is the ultimate statement of his power, as he exercised it in the Exodus. And how will that be exercised? In terms of his counsel. Now that's very important for us to realize because I think when we read this, we often read that his name is going to be called Wonderful Counselor. That means he's going to be the ultimate therapist. He's the guy that you can go to and you lay out all your troubles and he is the one who is going to give you the best counsel you ever had. It involves that, and I'll mention that in just a little bit But it's mentioning more than that. In fact, that's only a secondary idea here. The primary idea of his council is the counsel of an administrator, of a ruler. For instance, in Micah chapter 4 and verse 9, he uses the term counselor and king interchangeably. And the Bible does this from time to time. The king was the counselor. In other words, he was the one who ruled by his counsel. And what Isaiah is saying here is, here comes one. Who's going to be a wonder in his rule, in his counsel? He's not going to need a cabinet of advisors. In fact, this one who is going to come is going to rule by the spirit of wisdom in ultimate infinite wisdom. He expands that idea in two chapters, chapter 11. Now let me just tell you that Isaiah 11 is our messianic prophecy for next year. So I'm not going to get into that very much. But just to give you a hint, When Isaiah develops this idea, you've got to hold on to all this for next year, because I'm going to refer back to it when we get into Isaiah 11. In Isaiah 11, he says That this one, this describing this same Messiah in Isaiah 11, 2, the Spirit of the Lord will rest on him, the spirit of wisdom and of understanding. The spirit of counsel and power, the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord. He's going to delight in the fear of the Lord. He's not going to judge by what he sees with his eyes or decide by what he hears with his ears. But with righteousness he will judge the needy. With justice he will give decisions for the poor of the earth. That's the primary idea of his being a wonder of a counselor. He's going to have a perfect administration. Now what does that mean for us? And I want to change something here in your outline. I want to hit the public part first, because I'm kind of right into it and I want to just continue that thought, and then we'll hit the private part secondarily. What does that mean for us? That means that this one who's going to come as Messiah is going to have an administration, a government that he will lead, that we will never criticize again. Can you imagine? Living under a government where there is no cause for any criticism? Yeah, I just looked just last night. I went through a couple of news magazines. What are the current issues today? And you know, you look and you see that here's one, when you think of the issue of welfare, how's he going to handle welfare? Well, there's going to be a perfect solution to welfare, no poverty. He will eliminate it. There will not be the need for welfare in this government, in this kingdom. Where you take the issue of health care I mean, not only will there be a perfect administration of health care, there won't even be a need for health care because there won't be any illness or sickness. That will be eliminated by the counsel of this ruler. Or you take the issue of crime. What will his crime bill be like? Won't need a crime bill. He's eradicated crime. He's changed the hearts of his citizens. So that no one is taking advantage of or robbing or doing violence to anyone else within this kingdom. And what about the whole matter of school prayer? How's he going to handle that? Not gonna be a problem there. All the nations will come and worship and call upon him continually with joy and no sense of disagreement or impinging any kind of beliefs on anyone else. And what about term limits? Well, no problem there. No one in this kingdom is ever going to want for this king to abdicate or to leave his office. For from millennium to millennium, you and I will just simply more deeply appreciate the wonder of his counsel, the expertise of his rule. A government where there's no scandal, no inefficiency, no burdensome regulations, nothing, but a government that simply rules for all the good of its citizens Where you and I live at peace and in prosperity under the secure rule of a shepherd who cares for us intimately. And there we get into the second part, the person. You see, it's not simply that he's a wonder of a counsel in some global sense, but in an individual personal sense, he knows your heart and your need better than you know yourself. This counselor is one who knows every gene that causes you to have every propensity that you have. He knows every experience that shaped everything about who you are and what you're like and how you react. And this counselor is one who is able to shape you and form you. Into precisely the person that he wants to be. And this person is so perfect that the image that he's shaping you into is that of himself. For there's nothing better that he could do for you. And so this wonder of a counselor is compassionately working in your life to form in you an image that will produce joy and contentment and peace. For he knows you thoroughly, and he's shaping you and working in you to do that which is pleasing in his sight, and will ultimately be the greatest joy that you could ever experience. He's a wonder of a counselor. Amen. Not only that, but secondly, Isaiah says that this one is going to be the mighty God. Now, here again, I've translated for your outline that he is a mighty God, but literally a hero who is God. Now, what does that mean to Isaiah? Does it really say that Messiah is God? A number of commentators, of course, struggle with that. uh Jewish commentators and others when they speak of Messiah because this is about the most direct possible statement you could have to say. The Messiah is God. Is it really saying that? U Or is there some way that perhaps it's not really saying something as strong as we think it's saying? Many people say it really isn't. Because they'll say that that word God could be used to refer to mighty, powerful people. But that's the word Elahim. This is the word El, and El is only ever used of God. In fact, if you look, take a look later in the references that are listed there in Deuteronomy 10 and Nehemiah 9, you have this same phrase, the mighty God. uh that is used there specifically addressing the God of Israel. And so this one who is referred to there Uh the same phrase has already been used to refer to God as the one who is the creator, one true living God. And as if that's not clear enough, just turn over In Isaiah chapter 10, clearly Isaiah's got what he just said in chapter 9 still in mind, and when he goes to chapter 10, he says there in verse 20 In 21, in that day the remnant of Israel, the survivors of the house of Jacob, will no longer rely on him who struck them down, but will truly rely on the Lord, the Holy One of Israel. Very clear he's talking about there. A remnant will return. A remnant of Jacob will return to who? The mighty God. It's the same exact phrase that's used in chapter 9, verse 6. Any question about who he's referring to? Any question about who this deliverer is going to be, this child that's going to be born, the son that's going to be given, he will be called. That doesn't mean that that's a name that he'll have. It simply means that's a title that's appropriate to him. It's a name that describes him perfectly accurately in his nature. He is the mighty God. Now, this idea of mighty God, the word that's mighty there, is a word that literally means a hero, a mighty one, a strong one, a one who can rescue us. And that's the idea that we have here. This one is the God who is a hero to us. He's the one who can rescue Our hero is none other than God Himself, is what Isaiah is saying. This one who's going to rule in counsel. And you notice these ideas are very closely connected. That he's a wonder of a council, who is the mighty God? For instance, back in Isaiah chapter 11. You notice in verse 2, the Spirit of the Lord will rest on him, the Spirit of wisdom and understanding, the Spirit of counsel and of power. That's the blanks that you have there. You will have a spirit of counsel and of power. In other words, what Isaiah is saying, and what this is now we move to what this means to us. What this means to us Is that this one who is the wonder of a counselor not only knows how to shepherd us and meet all of our needs and desires, as a counselor, But he is able to do that because our hero is God Himself. That's what Isaiah is saying. He is God Himself who was born as a child. He's the Son who was given to shatter the yoke. He's the one who has come to rescue us from our shackles of Satan's kingdom, to produce in us a new heart and to bring us into his kingdom. He's the one who wants to do far beyond the fulfilling of your desires and needs. You see, as counselors, as human counselors, what do we often want to do? We want to make each other content and happy. But this wonder of a counselor who's a mighty God has far more in mind than that. To kind of paraphrase and update C. S. Lewis, we want to refurbish the split foyer. And what he wants to do is remake us into palaces. You see, we simply want for our needs and our desires to be met. Just help me to get beyond my insecurities. Help me to be able to cope with this situation in peace. But what this counselor, Jesus, is doing is he comes into your life and he says, I have a far greater agenda for you than that. I'm not simply going to give to you a piece and to do something that's going to enable you to cope. I want to transform your nature. I know perfectly how to use the people who are in your life. And there is no one in your life by accident. The wonder of this counselor, the mighty God, has not left that to chance. He has formed every force. The family you were raised in, the people that you work with, the person that you're married to, the people that you live with as your housemates or roommates or whatever it is. He has formed that in order to shape and move within you the fruits of the Spirit, so that He will be producing in you a Christ-likeness. And that's very important for us to realize that his counsel and his transformation go far deeper than you and I desire for it to go. But once we begin to see the fruit of that, we look back and would say with them, I'd never have it any other way. I would have never chosen it. But I've seen how you've been doing something in my life that was far greater than I would have ever chosen or realized. I didn't have the wisdom to even want to be like that Just this week, I was uh seeing uh situation in my life and it was discouraging me a fair amount. Uh Had some bad news about a friend and there were things in my own life and struggles and you know I just I begin to feel not only weak but crummy and There's this this cloud that hangs over and you don't know how to get away from it. And I was praying. This would go on for a couple of days. And I was really getting discouraged. And I was in my office praying and I turned to this book that I use for worship, and I just read one little section, just a little less than a page, and some things leaped off of that page. It just spoke to my heart. It just began to get some thoughts going. And it reminded me of something else I read and I snatched that and read it and boy just Boom, you know, right in, and you just begin to feel, you know, I mean these were words I read before and they were interesting. Now it's like God is speaking to you and He's saying, here it is, here is my word for you in this situation And as I began to think about that and I began to move on that, it set to move in me a train of thoughts that transformed my whole perspective on the situation that God had placed me in. And I began to feel a new sense of freedom and a new sense of what God was doing. I began to see that his agenda for me was far beyond anything that I was even praying for at that point. What God wants to do in your life and in my life is to remove us from some kind of unhealthy dependence on people's approval, so that He makes us a people who have a zeal to do right and to please Him. That he is removing from you the kind of dependence upon the world for your contentment to find the joy that Isaiah describes And the one who shattered the oak in your life and has brought you out of that bondage into a freedom. A freedom of fellowship with Him and of hope in heaven and what He's going to do It is producing in your life a kindness, a softness, a gentling. It comes from the gospel. And only the one who is the wonder of a counselor The mighty God is able to do this in your life and mine. It's so personal. If I were to even describe to you what God spoke to me about this week, you'd say that's so simple and that's so basic. And it might be But it's in my heart now. And that's what Jesus can do in your heart. What is it that you're going to other people for? That Jesus is wanting to draw you to Him and say, Come, come to me. And let me work in your life. Do the counsel and the transformation. Let's pray Oh Lord Jesus, our hearts are struck with how often we look to people and to other things. When all the time you're using the pain and the hurts, the insecurities, the healthy dependence that we have on things or people in this world to draw us to yourself. To create a people who are strong while soft, and who are mature while yet childlike. Yes, Lord, you're wanting to produce in each of us even the very image of the Lord Jesus to change our hearts We thank you for that kind of deliverance and hope. And that you will succeed. That you want to make some progress this very week. In that ultimate goal that you have for us. So, Lord, we want to humble ourselves before you now. Receive us, that we might turn from ourselves unto Jesus And let you forgive us and transform us.