Told that the day that Abe Lincoln was born in Kentucky, that a neighbor hailed a man from the village and he said, Well what's new in the village, Ezra And he said, well, Squire McLean's gone into Washington to see President Madison sworn in. And old Spellman says that that feller Bonaparte captured most of Spain What's new out here? To which the man answered, nothing. Nothing ever happens out here. Well, old Tom Lincoln's son was born, but nothing ever happens out here. A child was born. And nobody knew that the birth of Abraham Lincoln really meant anything. Did you ever stop to think That when Jesus was born in Bethlehem, that outside of the angels' acknowledgement to the shepherds, that there was absolutely no recognition anywhere in the world that anything special was going on. And yet at that moment an event was occurring that was so significant that it would split dating of all history between BC and AD. But nobody recognized that there was anything special about the child that was born. And Isaiah spoke of that back in chapter 9, we've been looking at through this season. When he said to us, A child is born, and a son is given. And Isaiah prefaces that, you recall, by saying that there is going to be great joy In fact, there will be joy as at harvest time. Joy that would be like when you had seven years of dearth. And all your harvest has been spoiled, and then there's a harvest that comes through and you can keep it and enjoy it. And like the time when you would gain a plunder of all the goods that you've been robbed of, and ten times more. And Isaiah says that that time, that joy, is related to three reasons. Let's pick it up. Let's look again at Isaiah chapter 9. And look at those reasons. Let's begin at verse 1, and I'll note the reasons as we come to them. Let's hear God's word from Isaiah chapter 9, his precious prophecy of the birth of Messiah. Nevertheless, there will be no more gloom for those who were in distress. In the past, he humbled the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali. But in the future he will honor Galilee of the Gentiles by the way of the sea along the Jordan. The people walking in darkness have seen a great might On those living in the land of the shadow of death, a light has dawned. You have enlarged the nation and increased their joy. They rejoice before you as people rejoice at the harvest. As men rejoice when dividing the plunder, first reason. For verse 4. As in the day of Midian's defeat, you have shattered the yoke that burdens them, the bar across their shoulders. The rod of their oppressor. The first work of Messiah will be the work of deliverance. You've delivered people from their bondage. 2 4, verse 5. In the Hebrew it begins with the word 4. Every warrior's boot used in battle and every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be fuel for the fire. This one is going to establish an everlasting peace. There will never again be war. The need for war implements. And the third four, in verse six, the first two have to do with Messiah's work. But verse 6 focuses on his person, the climax of the reasons for our joy. For to us a child is born. To us a son is given. And the government will be on his shoulders. And he will be called wonderful counselor. A wonder of a counselor. Mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there will be no end He will reign on David's throne and over his kingdom, establishing and upholding it with justice and righteousness from that time on and forever. The zeal of the Lord Almighty, the Lord of hosts, will accomplish this. We see there in verse 6 that this person Is the chief reason for our joy. And that person is described to us in terms of his three roles. He's a child. He is a son, a particular son, who's given to Earth. And he is a ruler. The government's going to be on his shoulders. And then Isaiah gives to us four names or titles Consistent with what we've been talking about through these past years, that God has described through his name, through his titles, these aren't the names that will be on his birth certificates. These are the names and the titles that describe him. They're appropriate to his character. And remember that each of these four names involves a divine part and a human part One part of the name in each pair refers to his human nature. One part of it refers to his divine nature, and they're paired up. And as he goes through these, he is describing to us what Jesus is like. And what Isaiah is saying to you and to me through this is that your joy and my joy rests on knowing what Jesus is like. The more you know what Jesus is like, and the more his character enters into your heart and you believe that's what he's like. the less you will be troubled by circumstances and controlled by the ups and downs of your life and your week. So let's look again at what he's like. Because we saw last week we looked at the first two names. That he is a wonder of a counselor. And we saw last week that that does not mean that he's a terrific therapist, primarily. Primarily the word counselor has to do with the idea of ruling. The counselor was the king. The counselor, the counselor idea had to do with the administration and how it was run. And so this one is a wonder of a counselor. Remember that word wonder is the word that's used of miracles. It's used of the plagues in Egypt. It's used of the parting of the Red Sea. He's a wonder. He is something beyond comprehension in his power. And particularly with respect to his wisdom. And that wisdom with respect to his rule. He won't need to have a cabinet. His rule will be in perfect wisdom. No one will ever criticize his government. He will have the perfect perfect health program and crime program. uh the rest of these things by his administration because he is going to change hearts. And that changing of hearts uh has to do with the fact that In his public administration, he also is a wonder of a counselor, privately and personally. He is the person who knows you better than you know yourself. And he is the one who has an agenda far larger for you in transformation than you ever have for yourself. I was reminded of that again this week. I was praying one time this week. About something that uh was a pain in my life and I was praying for God to change me. And it it was one of those times that you know, I don't know, you ever pray and as you're praying along it's it's like God responds by, you really mean that? You know, or you know, some thought comes, you know, and I don't claim it's uh, you know, an inspired word, but Uh I I was praying and and and it was as if the Lord was responding to me, how much do you really want to change? And in one of those moments where I had the grace of honesty before the Lord that I'm surprised I'm sharing with you I said not a whole lot actually. I mean what I'd really like is to change a little bit And the thought because of what I was meditating was, do you really want to become radically soft and kind and thoughtful? And I said, well, I'm not sure I'd recognize me. Um you ever come to a point where you think about what you could become and you think, if I was that, would I any longer be me? Um you know what it sounds good, but uh I'm not you know let's face it, we tend to be more comfortable with our pain being what we are than to think of radical change, even if somebody promised that that would decrease the pain. Because we're uncomfortable letting go to become something that we don't know what's going to happen. But the wonder of the counselor says, trust me. Trust me, I want to do a deeper work in your life than you yourself want. And that day I had to admit, yes Lord, you really do. I don't want to change that much. I want to change a little bit and have people like me and respect me. My family, my friends, the church. But I'm not sure I want to change radically. I want to hold on to the control of who I am. But the wonder of the counselor is also the mighty God. And so he says in that that I'm not only the one who knows you and has Far more at stake in you, in the interest of transforming you to become like Jesus Himself. Not only is Jesus saying, I want you to become like me. In ways that will amaze you, but will make you grow as a person, and where you will say, I wouldn't have traded anything, even all the pain that you took me through against my choice in order to produce that. But he is the mighty God who says, I am able to change your heart in the midst of that process. He's the mighty God. The word remember means he's the hero who is God. He is that mighty one who is divinity itself. He is the one whom Isaiah describes in chapter 10 in verse 21. The remnant of Israel will return to the mighty God. Very clearly that phrase, when it's used there, as well as in Deuteronomy and Nehemiah refers to God in his fullness. And so when Isaiah says that Messiah, this child who is born, is going to be a mighty God, the mighty Creator God, he is saying something beyond our comprehension. But something which is to you and to me such a tremendous thought. Meditate on that, brothers and sisters. I hope you did this week. To think of the implications of what Jesus is as the one who knows you perfectly and is also able to change your heart and your life. He's in control of it. He can be trusted. As the mighty God, who is the wonder of the counselor. Now that speaks of first of all his wisdom And secondly, of his power. Isaiah chapter 11. He has the spirit of counsel and of power. Isaiah 11, verse 3. But He doesn't end there. Isaiah goes on to a third name. He says that this one is also the everlasting Father. He is the everlasting father. Literally, that is in the Hebrew, the Father from eternity. He's the Father from eternity. Now, again, according to the pattern we're using, as we look first of all, what did it mean to Isaiah when he said it, so that we're faithful and honest with the text, and then what does it mean for us looking back From the perspective beyond the birth of Christ, to see what it means in its fullness. What did it mean to Isaiah? Well, when he said that he is the Father from eternity, here again you have a clear reference to Messiah's deity. There is no other place in Scripture that I know that is clearer absolutely beyond any controversy to any Jehovah's Witness or Mormon or anyone else. To see that the full deity of Jesus Christ is described here. That word eternity describing Messiah here is the same word that's used in chapter 57. In verse 15, where Isaiah said, this is what the high and lofty one says, he who lives forever, whose name is holy. And in Isaiah 57, 15, that phrase there, who lives forever, literally in the Hebrew, is who inhabits eternity. And it's the same word that is used here in chapter 9, verse 6. This is the Father who inhabits eternity. He is the Father who has dwelled forever. And so there is the eternal, the eternalness, the eternality of Jesus that's being described here But then there's that idea of fatherhood. And fatherhood connotes to Isaiah. He uses that term, a god as father, a number of times. And in part it has to do to Isaiah with the idea of authority. For instance, in chapter 64, in verse 8, Isaiah says, Yet, O Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay and you are the potter. We are all the work of your hand. And what he's saying there is that you and I are just like clay. In the hand of the father, the potter, the potter's house, not because anybody by the name of Potter ever lived there. We call it the Potter's house after Jeremiah, but also the idea of Isaiah Then it's where that one with sovereign authority takes our lives and changes them and molds them. And so a father shapes his children. And Isaiah has in mind here that he with sovereign authority is shaping your life and my life. And maybe you find yourself saying from time to time, Lord, why are you doing this in my life? That doesn't make sense. Why are you doing all these things? I don't understand them. They seem to be negative to me, counterproductive to my good. What are you doing? It's like the clay saying to the potter, why you have me spinning around on this wheel and keep punching at me and doing all this different stuff that I don't understand? It's like a child that said, why can't I touch the stove? Why can't I go play in the street? Why? Why? And Isaiah says, you are our father. You're the mighty God, the wonder of the Counselor, who as a father from eternity is shaping us and molding us in your authority and your power. But Isaiah also involves the idea of tenderness and compassion in that word. For if you look back in chapter 63 In verse 15 and 16. In verse 16 of Isaiah 63, Isaiah says again, but you are our father Though Abraham doesn't know us, or Israel acknowledges, you are Lord are our Father, our Redeemer from of old is your name. In verse 15, just before that, his fatherhood is connected with his tenderness and compassion. Because he had said, look down from heaven and seed from your lofty throne, holy and glorious Where are your zeal and your might? Your tenderness and your compassion are withheld from us. And so it's the tenderness and the compassion of God as Father that Isaiah has in view there. As a father, we expect a father to be tender and compassionate. Steve read from Psalm 103 in the verse right after what he read In Psalm 103, the psalmist says, as a father has compassion on his children. So the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. For he knows how we're formed, and he remembers that we are dust. I think sometimes we have the idea of God as a merciless father. He's the kind of father that if you had a flat tire with him, you know, he'd yell, get out of the car, get out the jack. Take the jack and you jack up the car and I'll get things ready back here to his four-year-old son. You know, son's crying for mercy, but dad I can't do it, I don't have the strength. That's okay, you gotta learn sometime. Get out there and start working at it. But what father would be like that? He says he knows our frame. He knows our weakness. He's tender. You know, often we don't believe that God is like that. Believe he's more like the Father that we dreaded. A father that we knew, that we didn't trust, that we feared. But Isaiah says he's a father from eternity. He's the father full of tenderness and compassion. Now, before I go on to apply that just a little more specifically to us, let me address a question that puzzled me for a long time and perhaps is in some of your minds, and that's the simple question. How is it that if Jesus is the Son, he could be called the Father? You ever wonder about that when you read this? Here he spoke talking of Jesus and he says Jesus will be called the everlasting Father. He said, The Father's called the Father. Jesus is called the Son. Why do you call Jesus the Father? He's not the Father. Why is it that Isaiah does that? I pondered that for some time, and the more I pondered it, the more I'm convinced that there's a tremendous insight, actually, that we see in what Isaiah is doing here. What he's saying, if you sum it all up, I believe, as you've seen the bulletin outlined, is simply that the roles of the Trinity are not mutually exclusive. And to understand what Isaiah is saying here is to grow in your understanding of the person of God. We, I think, sometimes have this idea that The Trinity means person one equals father, person two equals son, person three equals spirit. Then we wonder why we can't relate to the Holy Spirit. I know what a father is, I know what a son is, but what's a spirit? You know, it doesn't give them much personality. But we lump the persons of the Trinity into those roles. And so when you think of Father, you think of person one. You think of Son, you think of person two. You think of Spirit, you think of person three That's not the way we ought to think. For instance, the Spirit is referred to as the counselor in John 14, 15, and 16. But what is Jesus referred to here in Isaiah 9:6 in his very first name? He's the wonder of a counselor. So not only is the Spirit a counselor, the Son's a counselor, and the Father's a counselor. The roles have a great deal of overlap. It's not as if the father somehow generated the son in some biological sense. Those roles are descriptive to help us understand something about the character and the relationship between the persons of the Trinity. But if we lock them in hard and fast, then we miss the glory of the unity of the Trinity. And so here you have Jesus described as a Father. And that's because the notion of fatherhood, the tenderness, the compassion, the authority, the care of a shepherd, for instance, the Bible refers to God as a shepherd, Psalm 23, God as a shepherd. Isaiah 40 refers to God as a whole, as a shepherd. You turn to Revelation 7 and verse 17. The Lamb is the shepherd. And so if you look through Scripture, you'll see a lot of this mixing of these images in order to help us to see that God in His unity is far beyond our simple ideas of trying to lock in certain roles. As if the other ones don't have to do with that. And you want some job done, you go to one particular person of the Trinity because he gets that job done and someone else does this other job. rather than to refer to God in his fullness, which is not saying it's inappropriate to pray to a particular person of the Trinity, to speak to that person. But let's not mix in our eye in our mind that when we see that Jesus is described in his character as a father, that we say, no, no, no, no, that doesn't fit my image of him. Jesus is to you as a father. And praise God for that. Because the fact that you and I can have a positive, a physical image, that is to see, that Jesus was incarnate Helps those of us who have not related to a human father to see that I can relate to Jesus as a father. That he is one who cares for me, as a father cares for his child, as a shepherd for his sheep And so if you look at this, the titles I think here are trying to emphasize to us two things. First of all, you've seen the bullet in that line, the Trinity, by the way, the well you see up there, what's the first name? Wonder of a counselor. Because the Messiah has the qualities of a perfect father. Just for those of you who checked me at the end to say I didn't get that blank. There you go. Now, what's it emphasized? Two things. The Trinity's unity of function That is that these roles overlap a great deal in what God is like. And secondly, the Messiah's unquestionable deity There's no clearer demonstration of the fact that Jesus is God than by taking his attributes and giving him the attributes of the Father and of the Spirit. as the mighty God. And so I gave you a little visual aid to try and demonstrate that. You see there that he is the mighty God. And then you have the three persons particularly of the Trinity and the emphasis. He is like the Spirit, a counselor. He is like the Father in his fatherliness. He is the Prince of Peace. Yahweh shalom, the Lord of peace. And so this helps us to see how exalted a view that Isaiah is giving here. But even in the exaltation, what does that mean for us? His approachableness. What Isaiah is saying that this one who is mighty God is one that you can crawl up onto his knee and tell him your troubles You can come to him and find in him all that you were disappointed in, in your own human father. He's a perfect father. Who is to you perfect authority with your best interest in mind, in tenderness and compassion, to lead you, to instruct you, to direct you? He will never change. He's the Father from eternity. And he will never forget you. He's a Father who loves you. He is the everlasting Father. Praise God for that description of Jesus. And then finally, the last thing that we see here is that he is the Prince of Peace. The Prince of Peace is, of course, the climax to this whole thing because the meaning to Isaiah was in the context of the threat of Assyria. And you remember the whole occasion of this is the invasion from Tiglath Pelezer back in 734 and 732 BC And the invasion that uh devastated much of Galilee and the northern part of Israel. And then the threat that was to come a few years later, down through Galilee again, all the way up to Jerusalem by Sennacherib. And Isaiah is saying that as we live in the tension, the terror of these dangerous times, we recognize that when Messiah comes, when that child is born, the Son is given, and the government is given upon his shoulders. He will be the Prince of Peace. And the increase of his government and of his peace will never end. He's the Prince of Peace Now what kind of peace did Isaiah have in mind? I believe he had four kinds of peace in mind by the nature of his own use of that term in his own writings. First of all, of course, he had civil peace in mind. The Messiah will be the prince of civil peace. There will be no more war. Verse 5: The warrior's boot used in battle, every garment rolled in blood will be destined for burning, will be fueled for the fire. No more war, no more Bosnias, no more Middle East conflicts, no more threats from North Korea This one is going to come to establish worldwide peace, something that's difficult for you and for me to even comprehend. That all the nations around the throne will live in perfect peace. And not only will that be a civil peace, it will be a cosmic peace. Isaiah describes that in chapter 11, where he goes on to speak of this Messiah who's going to rule in his wisdom. And he says in Isaiah chapter 11, verse 6, that in that kingdom the wolf will live with the lamb. The leopard's going to lie down with the goat. And the goat and the lamb aren't going to be afraid. They're not going to run for their lives. The calf and the lion and the yearling will lie down together. And a little child is going to say, come on, lion, let's go play. The cow's going to feed with a bear. And their young will lie down together. And the lion's going to eat straw, going to change his appetite like an ox. The infant's going to play near the hole of the cobra. The young child put his hand into the viper's nest. And the parents are going to scream and heart, get away from there, look out! Because they're never going to harm or destroy on all my holy mountain. For the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Do you realize that violence is the number one cause of injury of women from age 15 to 44 in the United States now? Violence. There's about a million Americans living in prisons in the United States. Prisons are overcrowded, there'd be far more than that, except for the overcrowding That's an increase of 150% since 1980, and most of that's for violent crimes. The nonviolent ones they get out The survey was done recently of pastors, found out that pastors, 40% of pastors in this country say they have major conflicts with at least one person every month. I read that and I thought, holy cow. I am so glad that I could not say I was part of that 40%. So let me tell you I'm glad to be here. You're a kind congregation. I think God knows I couldn't take that. Forty percent. We're talking about people profess to be Christians. Major conflicts every month. We live in a time where there is not peace. But Jesus has come as the Prince of Peace, and He says, When I come again, it's not going to be any more of that. There's going to be peace. Not only will there be cosmic peace, but he's given to us even now heart peace. Heart peace. You remember that precious verse in Isaiah chapter 26, verse 30? You will keep in perfect peace him whose mind is steadfast, because he trusts in you. That's not a peace that is reserved for when Jesus comes again to establish cosmic and civil peace. It's a peace that you and I can experience right now. You will keep in perfect peace the one who trusts in you because his mind has stayed upon you. Isaiah says that that's the peace that this prince has come to give. To you and to me this morning to experience. That peace comes because he's given judicial peace. The judicial peace is what he describes in chapter 53. The peace that has brought us who are enemies with God under his judgment. To be those who have been reconciled because of what Messiah has done. For you read in Isaiah chapter 53 and verse 5 and 6 He was pierced. This same child who was born and the son who was given. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him. By his wounds we are healed. For we all like sheep have gone astray, and each of us has turned to his own way. The Lord has laid on him The iniquity of us all. Judicial peace whereby God transfers your sins and my sins upon Jesus and he becomes the Lamb. The substitute, perfect in his eligibility, because he's kept the law without any flaw, without omitting any detail in all of his thoughts and words and actions And so he stands before God, and God is judge, condemns the Son. And the Son endures his cursing to death. So that by His punishment, peace is brought to us. What does this mean for us? Colossians chapter 1. It says that this one, because of Jesus, Colossians Paul says, once you were alienated from God, and were enemies in your minds because of your evil behavior But now he has reconciled you by Christ's physical body through death to present you holy in his sight, without blemish and free from accusation. I was just talking to somebody yesterday, totally robbed of peace, and tears, weeping about their life and all the things that have gone wrong. But it seemed impossible for this person to make the connection of the guilt and all the things that they had done wrong with an objective realization that I am guilty before God. We live in a world where people say I lack peace and I feel rotten and I feel guilty and I don't know why I do. Why is it that I feel guilty? Why is I feel problematic? Must be somebody else's fault And there's a refusal to acknowledge and come before God and say, I have sinned. It's my fault. And only in the provision of Jesus. Can that enmity with God that I have established be taken away? Can He bring peace? Through his physical death in my place. Peace that comes through realizing that God has forgiven me and can forgive you if you stand apart from him this morning. You can receive from that from him a peace which he could never establish. You know what Colossians 1 is saying very insightful thing. So I was thinking about that this week. Peace can never be attained. It is received. Many of us are trying to attain peace. And Isaiah saying the Prince of Peace wants to give you peace, and you can only receive it with empty hands from him. And so Colossians goes on in chapter 3 to exhort us to utilize this piece, for he says Just after the verses I had read in chapter 1 about you who are enemies, he has established peace. He is reconciled with God by his own sacrifice, making you holy without blame or accusation. So in chapter 3 and verse 15 he then says, let the peace of Christ rule in your hearts. Since as members of one body, you were called to peace. That involves you and me coming before Jesus and saying, Lord Jesus, I don't have peace. I lack peace and stress. And I invite you right now to come and for your peace to rule my heart. To rule it in place of the stress and of all the things that drive me and keep me running without rest. I invite you, who are the wonder of a counselor, mighty God, the Father from eternity, my Prince of Peace. To come and to rule in my heart that peace to replace the guilt. It keeps me always striving for perfection in order to prove that I'm not a bad person. That guilt that gnaws at me and condemns me and robs all peace. Lord, come, rule in my heart the peace of Christ. That he established by his cross. Lord, come and rule in my heart this morning your peace and place of the worries of my life. All those things that might happen or maybe won't happen. Come, rule in my heart your peace. And rule in my heart the peace that replaces the conflicts, the conflicts of my life with other people. The conflicts that come because I say that I have sins that are excusable, but that other person has sinned against me in a way that's inexcusable. It's only when you and I realize that it's our sins that are inexcusable, that God has come in his mercy to forgive us and to give us his peace that we recognize That my sins were inexcusable and I was forgiven. How can I hold anything against this other person? So Paul says, let that peace rule in your hearts, for you are called to live at peace. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come to you. Particularly this morning, Lord Jesus, we address you as that wonder of a counselor. The mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace that we so very much need. Enable us to see, Lord, that all that you provide meets all the deepest needs of our hearts, much more than anything that we could get this Christmas. Much more than any experience or person that we would crave. Work in our hearts your peace.