Kathy and I have a friend who went to Easter service last week, first time in I mean the last year, first time in a long time. And she came back and told us it was a really neat service. She said that the preacher told about Easter, of course, and contrasted the guards at the tomb. And the women who came to the tomb. He said that the guards represented hopelessness, and that the women represented hope In the face of the Easter message of hope, sort of like spring after winter, you know. Kind of like Easter eggs out of which hatch baby chicks into new life and bunnies and furry things and all you know. I hate those kind of messages. I I hate those kind of messages because what they do is that they separate the idea of Easter From the historical fact of whether or not there was a physical resurrection. And so for many of us We find that there's a blurring as we come to Easter time between this idea of Easter and hope, new life Joy, spring. And whether or not Jesus actually walked out of the tomb The Bible tells us that Christianity stands or falls on the fact of the resurrection. That's what Paul said when he wrote to Corinthians in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. So let me read from God's word. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Verses 14 to 19. So that we can see, returning to that, that Easter is either infinitely more Than just a nice message about hope. For it is infinitely less. Either Easter is the supreme fact of human history For it is the world's greatest hoax. Look what Paul says. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, beginning with verse 14. And if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. More than that, we are found to be false witnesses about God, for we have testified about God that he raised Christ from the dead. But he did not raise him if in fact the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, then Christ has not been raised either. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, you are still in your sins. Then those also who have fallen asleep in Christ are lost. If only for this life we have hope in Christ, we are to be pitied more than all men. Again verse fourteen, and if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless. And so is your faith. And when he says there if Christ has not been raised, Paul is speaking about a physical resurrection. He's speaking about something that is not a religious fairy story. He's saying that if you and I had been there at that tomb and we had a video camera, you have to ask yourself this question this morning. If you had been at that tomb And you had a video camera that Easter morning at the moment that Jesus walked out of that tomb, would you have been able to capture his leaving that tomb on tape? That's the real issue about resurrection. Not the idea of it. But was it something that happened In real history. Now, maybe you say, well, I don't really know. I don't know. It's a good question. Could I have seen that on tape or not? Or is it something that that happened in another realm that you wouldn't have really been able to capture on videotape? And after all, who can really know and what difference does it make? The fact is that God conquered death, and God has given us hope in Easter. It's really the message that counts, and you can't go back and prove it or disprove it anyway. How are you ever going to do it? Let me suggest to you, that's the thinking of our generation. For former Christians, it was imperative to know for a fact that Jesus walked out of that tomb physically. Now, it's true we cannot go back and we can't reproduce it. We can't prove conclusively that Jesus rose from the dead. But we can look at the evidence. And so, what I would like to do with you this morning is to look at the options. Because even though you and I can't go back and reproduce that event and somehow capture it and be able to nail it down. If that was true, unbelief would be merely stupidity, wouldn't it? The fact is that we do trust the record and what God has said. And that's a work of the Holy Spirit in us. But there are a limited number of options, aren't there? I mean you have to account for the historical data. And through 2,000 years, there's only been a very limited number of ways that that has been attempted. And so what I'd like to do with you this morning is to just think it through for a few minutes. We obviously don't have time to do this exhaustively. Books and books have been written on this. But for us, if you are here this morning and you are trusting in Jesus, my hope is that by looking at this evidence, your faith will be buttressed. And you will go from this room with a new confidence. I can't think of the number of times in my life when things have seemed really grim. Everything in my experience has seemed to contradict what the Bible says the Christian life ought to be. I lacked power, I lacked hope, everything didn't seem like it didn't make sense. You ever have those kinds of times in your life? Things aren't making sense. Where is the reality of God in my life? And the final thing that I come back to is the question: Did Jesus really rise? Because if he did, then he is everything that he claimed to be. And if he is what he claimed to be, Then he's able to take care of me in my problems. He is Savior. He is Lord. I have a hope of eternal life. And everything that the Bible promises to me is true and trustworthy. And so it helps us to look at those options. And if this morning you are here as one who is not sure about your relationship with Jesus Christ, Easter is a nice story, you like the hope of it Your religion is something that's nice to keep in your pocket, and every once in a while you pull it out and you look at it and you say it gives me a good feeling. But in terms of really believing that Jesus has risen and that therefore he is Lord of your life. That's something you're not really sure about. Then look seriously at the evidence this morning and the consequences of that evidence and the implications. to see what it means, whether Jesus rose from the dead or didn't. Now as I say, there are a limited number of options if you have your bulletin outline there You notice that the options that have historically been considered fall into two basic classes. They say, after Easter morning, one thing we know, either the tomb was occupied or it was not occupied. Whether or not Jesus rose or all the rest of the you can boil it down to those two options, right? I mean either was occupied or it wasn't occupied. Either there was Jesus' body still in the tomb or there wasn't a body in that tomb and you've got to account for it some other way. Now, if you look at those two different options, then look within the occupied tomb, and three basic solutions have been offered. For accounting for Christianity based on the fact that Jesus still is in the tomb or was. And then there's three basic options to say that, well, he didn't physically rise, but The tomb was unoccupied, and here's how I explain it. Now, very briefly, as I say, this is just a simple overview. I'm not going to attempt to nail everything down, but just for us to at least look at the options, consider first of all What if the tomb is occupied? Three main explanations. First is the legend theory that says that everyone venerated Jesus so much that after he died, the people looked at him and they said, He was such a great man It just I can't believe that he actually died, that he's that it's over. And so gradually over a period of time be people began to believe that Jesus had conquered death And that he had uh come out of the tomb and that he was raised even though there wasn't any basis, and it was simply a legend that grew up because they venerated him so much. Or a second uh explanation is the wrong tomb theory. That says that the women of Jerusalem weren't or the women who went with the spices weren't very familiar with Jerusalem, they weren't residents there And, you know, Easter morning's kind of dark and hey, you know, got got lost, went to the wrong tomb. And when they went to the wrong tomb, they met a young man, and the young man said, uh he's not here, got the wrong tomb, you know, he's over there. And you know, afterwards they thought he was saying, He's not here, he's risen. And so, hey, miss the tomb went back and told everybody he wasn't there, he's risen, and that story began to circulate and gain popularity, and that's how people began to believe Jesus was raised from the dead. Well the third way of explaining this with the Occupied Tomb theory is the hallucination theory. That's saying that over a period of time they wanted to believe Jesus so much they just couldn't believe that it was all over And so people began to hallucinate and they thought that they saw Jesus. They imagined that they saw him along the road or here or there. And they began to put those stories together and as they did they gained some credibility and people began to you thought you saw him? I thought I did too. You know, kinda like Elvis in our day, you know. You know, people just can't believe that it's over. And so you have these slatings, and you know, and if you had the National Inquirer back then, you know, it would have been Jesus slating here and Jesus is there, he's in Galilee's now. And this is kind of how the thing circulated. Now that's that's what the tombs occupy. Then there's those that say, well Now the tomb was really not occupied. But he still didn't physically rise. And here's how he explained it. First of all, there's the body stolen by the disciples theory. Now that's the earliest one of all. Matthew even tells us about that one in Matthew chapter 28. Matthew tells us that that the guards went back and they reported that uh the body was gone, and so they The Jews paid them to say that the disciples came and stole the body and that gained popularity and so people said, Well, the disciples wanted people to believe in him and because he wouldn't believe in a dead Messiah They stole the body and then they began to preach that Jesus had risen and because they had taken the body nobody could produce the body, and so they had destroyed the evidence, and after a while people began to believe it Or a second theory that has to do with this is called the Move by the Authorities theory. That's saying that uh the Jews, anticipating that the disciples might try something like that, they took the body and they hid it and they kept it in safe keeping. And so that body is somewhere else, but it's not in the tomb and nobody knows today where it is. Or the third variation of that, one that was uh uh revived uh some years ago by the Passover plot book is the swoon theory. And that's saying that Jesus never really died on the cross He simply fainted from weakness, shock, lack of blood. And so when they wrapped him up and put him in the tomb, that cool, damp air revived him. And then he walked out of the tomb, he appeared to the disciples, and the appearances were fleeting enough that they never really recognized that he hadn't died and risen, or that he that he in fact had not died, and he was simply revived Uh they thought to see him walk uh to them that he was really uh revived, that he was uh resurrected, and they never checked it out. Maybe he was calling for help and they just you know, Great Lord, you're risen, that's terrific and it ran off and they started pronouncing this and you know, so that story then began to gain acceptability and you might combine that with a few hallucinations and you know, and the whole thing sort of gathers like that. And that's That's kind of the way people explain it. Now, what I want to suggest to you this morning is when Paul says in verse 14, if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. It's worth looking at these options in order to see how substantial is our confidence that Christ has been raised physically, so that you could have gotten it on tape. And the only way to do this is very quickly, in just the few minutes that we have, to look on the back of the outline to see the evaluation of the alternatives to a physical resurrection. Just consider them for a moment. I think often as Christians we think, well, the Bible says he rose, and Christians had believed that, but how do we really know? Maybe something else happened to account for it. And we don't stop to think, what else could have ever happened that could have accounted for it? What could have happened to explain the data that we have? And so if you look at them, I suggest to you that A and D, number one, two, and three, in each of these cases have similar kinds of refutations. First of all, on A and B, the idea of the uh wrong excuse uh A and A and B the idea of the legend where that the body was stolen The problem with that is that you have wrong motives that utterly contradict all that the disciples stood for. You've got to remember that these men who were the founders of Christianity in this were utterly untainted by scandal. In all the early church, no one ever accused the leaders of anything that was dishonest. These men held the highest standards of morality and honesty and integrity. And yet these theories that they either stole the body or that they just simply invented a legend purport that the disciples purposely deceived people in what they were doing. That these people who held integrity in every other area in the very basis of their faith were lying. Even beyond that, problems with the legend theory are just legendary. I mean, they're manifest. The preaching of the gospel began seven weeks after Jesus died, right in Jerusalem, where Jesus had been buried. How could a legend grow up within seven weeks and get such consensus that all the disciples were convinced and the whole church Began to flourish just seven weeks after the death. That's not nearly enough time for a legend to begin to form and take shape and for people to come to believe it. Or if you take the idea that they had stolen the body, how can you account for the fact that over the next months and years With all the suffering and all the problems in the churches, not one person ever said, enough, enough. This really is a hoax. It really didn't happen. How is it that not one person ever confessed to what they knew to be the truth? They gave their lives for a lie under each of these theories. That just doesn't stand to reason. That people are going to sacrifice everything that they have and be utterly transformed by something that's not even true. Something that they know to not be true in their heart of hearts. The idea that they invented a legend or stole the body goes utterly against any of the evidence that we have. Or take number two under each, either A or B. The idea that the women and disciples went to the wrong tomb or that the body was moved by the authorities, fatal flaws in either of these First of all, if the women went to the wrong tomb, of course, not only the women went, but the disciples went to check it out. You're saying the disciples happened to go to the wrong tomb also? This wasn't in some large public cemetery, you know. It was a private garden with only one tomb. Now, I went back a year after my mother died. To visit her grave. It was in a large public cemetery. I had no problem one year later in winter finding the spot where her grave was. You're telling me that a group of people, 48 hours after someone has been buried in a conspicuous rich man's tomb in a garden, can't find the tomb? It utterly defies belief. What's even more fatal is the idea that the authorities took the body To prevent the disciples from being able to preach the resurrection. And then when they preached the resurrection, they never produced the body. All they had to do was say, nonsense. Let's put an end to this preaching once and for all. Here's the body. We have it. How can you account for the fact that the authorities would have taken the body, and yet all through early Christianity, in the record of the New Testament, the fact of the body is never contested. The Jews never use that as an issue. They never say he didn't rise. It's almost as if they agree, well, you know, we don't see his body. Uh maybe he did rise, but we still don't believe him. And that's the way people can be today. There's people today, the Bible tells us in our hardness of our hearts that we could see Jesus walk and know that He had risen, and we'd still say, I don't believe. And so the idea of the disciples missing the tomb, the authorities hiding the body, are utterly against any of the evidence that we have. Or take the third pair, the idea of either hallucinations or the swoon theory. These, the first one was wrong motives that utterly contradict all the disciples stood for. The second is wrong impression. It would have easily been refuted by the enemies. The third one, hallucinations and swoon theory are wrong conditions that would never account for the evidence Wrong conditions. They just don't fit. They don't fit the known facts. Hallucinations are generally very private and personal experiences. Of people that are generally unstable. And they are in a particular situation where, in a very private and personal way, they believe that they have seen something that doesn't exist. To have two people have the same hallucination is almost unknown. To have a group of people have the same hallucination is utterly unknown. The New Testament records at least fifteen different appearances of the risen Christ to his disciples, one of which was to over 500 people at once. Hallucination would not be how you would account for that. You're talking about mass hypnotism. This is something that is utterly unknown. Particularly to people who never expected it. Hallucinations are projection of a wish, of a longing, of an expectation. It's very clear that the women went to the tomb with spices simply to anoint the body of the one that they knew was dead, and they had never expected to see again. The disciples were in hiding with no expectation that Jesus would come back. Even the critics of a physical resurrection acknowledge that these are probably the facts of the case. The swoon theory, of course, is even further out. The swoon theory would have us to believe that Jesus, after he was beaten, After he had been scourged, many people died from the scourging because the Roman scourging was not limited to thirty-nine stripes The Romans could beat a person as long as they wanted. And it's clear from the biblical account that the soldiers were mocking and despising Jesus. And so they would have beaten him as far as they could have seen that he could have tolerated it and still be able to have him crucified. He then carried his own cross, probably over a hundred pounds on his back, out of Jerusalem to Golgotha. And there they nailed his hands and his feet to that cross, and he hung there. For six or so hours in the hot blazing sun. After that they would have, in order to Assure themselves that he was dead and hadn't simply fainted, the Bible says they drove a spear into his side. And out came both blood and water, an indication. Of the bursting of the pericardium sac, and that death had occurred. After they took him down from the cross, they wound his body tightly in linens, including his face. Completely slathed with clothes, with cloths, and then laid him in that tomb. And we're expected to believe that in that cold, dark dankness. That Jesus revived. He couldn't even breathe. But after having somehow breathed through all these costs, he revived and was able to burst out with such Strength. You ever been all wound up? You know, if your kids ever bury you in the sand in the shore or somebody wrap you all around with claws and find out how easy it is to just break through that? We're asked to believe that this one who had been scourged and crucified now burst through these cloths. And if that wasn't enough At the entrance to the tomb, there is a one-and-a-few-ton stone sealing it up. And Jesus just pushes that stone aside And then walks past the guards several miles to meet the disciples, walks all the way back to Emmaus with some other disciples that night, a few more miles And then in the next week he walks eighty miles to Galilee to meet his disciples there. I suggest to you that if he had revived and was able to do that, that would have been almost a superhuman a fetus to be resurrected. And the disciples saw him in such robust health that they thought he had conquered death. Now you see we've exhausted the options. The only alternative is that Jesus really, physically, supernaturally, rose from the dead. And so Paul says, if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. Unbelief is irrational and desperate to try and explain away what Easter tells us: that Jesus has risen from the dead. That physically Jesus walked out of that tomb, and there is no other explanation that satisfies the facts of history that are known. And so Paul says, in the beginning of that chapter, brothers, I want to remind you of the gospel that I preached. This is the gospel I preach to you, which you received and on which you've taken your stand. By this gospel, you are saved if you hold firmly to the word that I have preached to you. Gospel is good news. Paul says, here is some good news. This is what we have believed as his disciples. Take your stand on this. When everything else in your life seems to be crumbling, when nothing else makes sense, Paul says, take your stand upon this fact, the gospel. And what is it If you hold firmly to this word, I preach to you, otherwise you've believed in vain. No other faith will stand the test of life. But what I received, I passed on to you as of first importance. That Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And that he was buried and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. And then he appeared to Peter, and then to the twelve, and after that he appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers at the same time, most of whom are still living, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James and to all the apostles, and last of all, he appeared to me also. If there is no physical resurrection, there is no hope. That's what he says in verses 14 to 20. But if Jesus has risen, then verse 22 says, As in Adam all die, so in Christ will all be made alive. But each in his own turn, Christ the first fruits, and then when he comes, those who belong to him. So this morning, if you believe that Jesus was crucified and physically died and rose again from the dead. You are embraced in that body of people For whom Jesus died and rose and with him gathers up into life. So that you and I had that hope of eternal life with Jesus Christ. Amen And because he rose, we live. Isn't it good that God in his graciousness Surrounded the events of the resurrection with so many clues, the guards, the seals, the testimonies, the enemies who wanted to do everything to discredit it Simply so that 2,000 years later we could look back at that evidence and we could say nothing has been more attested in a supernatural way than the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And because of that, you and I have a hope that will stand any test of our faith in the deepest doubts. Because of that, Jesus Christ offers to you and to me life because of what he has done. He offers to you this life that is based not in what he's done plus what you've done, and you say, I believe in Jesus, I believe that he died, I believe that he died for my sins. And I believe that if I just try my best and work with him, then I'm going to be able to get to heaven. That's not what the Bible says. The Bible says in verse twenty two, as in Adam all die. The Bible says, spiritually you are corpse without Jesus Christ. You are as dead as he was in that tomb. But the Bible says that because Jesus walked out of that tomb, your hope, your only hope, your necessary and sufficient hope. is in the fact that Jesus walked out of that tomb in order to provide life for everyone who believes in him. Not by cooperating, not by what he did plus what you do, but by what he did plus nothing. That your only hope, but your sufficient hope, of forgiveness of your sin, of being transformed, of having new life Eternal life. And that life beginning right now, today, is the fact that Jesus, who conquered death, is able to transform your life by that same power. So come to him this morning. Come and acknowledge that if Jesus has died, then When Paul says in verse 14, if Christ has not been raised, our preaching is useless, and so is your faith. The alternative to that is verse 58, the last verse of the chapter. So he says, Therefore, my dear brothers, stand firm. Stand firm. Stand firm Let nothing move you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of the Lord because you know. That your labor in the Lord is not in vain. If Jesus rose from the dead, nothing that you do in your life for him. Can ever perish. Let's pray. Lord, many of us are recognizing now that we have a kind of a vague view of the resurrection and of Easter. We believe in some vague, ethereal kind of way that you rose from the dead, and that somehow that makes a difference. Lord, give us minds to think clearly and sharply about the options That we have to explain the historical data that is known. And then, Lord, having looked squarely at those options, To recognize again how irrational is unbelief, how desperate to explain in any possible way that Jesus didn't rise. And Lord, we are frankly amazed when we look at how weak those options are, to recognize how, in fact, strong is the evidence. How solid is the hope on which we stand, that we can stand firm in the gospel So, Lord, we pray for any of us here this morning that are not standing firm on that gospel. We vacillate. Sometimes we think we believe, and other times we're not sure, and we're not sure what we believe, and we're not sure what difference it makes. Lord, we pray, you who Lord Jesus are the living Lord, come and speak to us now. Speak to that person about their doubts. About their vacillating, about seeking to live in two worlds, as a Christian and then as an unbeliever, that they would take a stand upon the gospel. And upon the sure hope of the resurrection. To see that if you have in fact raised from the dead, everything is different. You are in fact a Lord of both the dead and the living. You are able to forgive our sins because you suffered for them. Lord, we pray that you would give us eyes to see and to believe upon Jesus. Lord, we pray for those here who are going through discouraging times. Times of confusion. Times when Satan is buffeting us around and knocking us to and fro to question our faith and to produce the doubt so that we wonder what in the world is true. That you would bring us back to this one basic fact: Jesus rose from the dead. And that from that one foundation in our lives we can build everything else. That you are, therefore, Jesus, who you said you are. That you have died as a substitution for our sins, that you offer to us eternal life, that you are able to meet our needs this week because you are alive. Speak to our hearts, Lord, of that truth and that hope. Build in our hearts the confidence. That we might walk from here with a new assurance that we serve a risen, living Savior. Hear us, Lord, we confused, doubting sinners, that you would build in us new faith In Jesus' name who rose again. Amen