We turn in God's word this morning to Acts chapter eleven as we continue down the path of seeing the early church formed and spreading. The work of God. And we see the church growing despite persecution, in fact, flourishing as a result of it. In fact, it has reached our ears because what man meant for evil, God would use for the good. We read of that here this morning in Acts chapter 11, 19 through 30, as now the word of God is having great effect in people being converted to Christ. Jew and Gentile in what is present-day Turkey. Hear now God's word Now those who were scattered because of the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, speaking the word. To no one except Jews. But there were some of them, men of Cyprus and Cyrene, who on coming to Antioch spoke to the Hellenists also. Preaching the Lord Jesus. And the hand of the Lord was with them. And a great number who believed turned to the Lord. The report of this came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch. When he came and saw the grace of God, he was glad and exhorted them. All to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose, for he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the Lord. So Barnabas went to Tarsus to look for Saul. And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch, and for a whole year they met with the church and taught a great many people. And in Antioch the disciples were first called Christians. Now in these days, prophets came down from Jerusalem to Antioch, and one of them was named Agabas. stood up and foretold by the Spirit that there would be a great famine over all the world. That is, that this took place in the days of Claudius. So the disciples determined, every one according to his ability, to send relief to the brothers living in Judea. And they did so, sending it to the elders by the hand of Barnabas. And Saul. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Now, Lord Jesus, we ask you that you would come by your word with the presence of your Spirit To awaken our imagination of what it is you call us to be as Christians. We would ask you, O Lord, that what you would bless us with is the thing that we most need. Your presence. And may your presence be a wonderful aroma to all that are around us. Not for our glory, but for your splendor. We pray you would do this. And now help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. David Brooks, writer, columnist for the New York Times, is one of my favorite writers. I recently posted an article on my Facebook page as evidence of the fact that he is. very good analysis. It gives a very good analysis of culture, but also what many don't know, and at least I think many of the folks that I've talked to are often surprised to find out that he is on record saying in public how much he loves Christians and how many of his friends are Christians. and how much time he spends in the Christian world. And in fact, he is single-handedly gave the best summary of the gospel in the New York Times that I've ever read. This was a number of years ago. So he is a person who clearly has heard the gospel and understands it. But one of the things he understands is that the Christian, as he recently spoke to a gathering of Christians, Ought to be able to show evidence of the grace. Evidence of the grace of Christ. Those are his words But one of the things he understands is this about human beings. We love reading biographies. And one of the things we love about biographies is what we learn about the person that we're reading about. But he says and summarizes it, and I paraphrase it this way. That what oftentimes inspires us about someone that we're reading is not what made them happy. That's often well and good. But what truly inspires us is reading about the arduous things that they did. And how their hard work, their difficulty that made them who they are. Is the thing that inspires us. It's evidence of character. It's evidence, if you may allow me It's evidence of grace. And if he were standing here and encouraging us as a congregation, It would be how and in what way is the evidence of grace at work in our midst? But how is the evidence of the grace of Christ showing itself to the world around us? This is precisely what drew Barnabas to Antioch. So let's look at this together, and in so doing you'll see that there's grace on display in verses 19 to 24. There's the origin of a name, verses twenty-five and twenty-six, and then the model of charity, verses twenty-seven to thirty. First Grace on display. What's very clear from these opening verses. That the first thing that we must always direct our attention to when looking at how grace is showing itself is what this passage mentions. It's the first sub-point, if you will. It is Presence Trump's plans. Presence, Trump's plans. Notice what they say Now those who were scattered because of the persecution over Stephen, they traveled. And as they went on the go, they preached. They were making disciples And by the way, I just as an aside, freebie. In Matthew chapter 28, what we call the Great Commission, which I'm still yet don't know where that came from. But we all know, at least we think we know, what is the first verb in the Great Commission? That's the way it appears in all of our English translations. But in the Greek it is not a verb. It is not an imperative It is a participle, which means as you go The first verb, the first imperative in that text is make disciples, which means you don't have to go overseas to make disciples. You don't even have to go across town to make disciples. It's as you walk up your cul-de-sac, you can begin praying, Lord, how might you be calling me to make disciples? So as these Christians, who didn't go because they wanted to go, but because they were persecuted, as they went, they were making disciples. But what we see is this, and this is something which perhaps we often take for granted when we read it. But if there's anything that the modern church needs to hear, it's these words. And the hand, this is verse 21, and the hand of the Lord was with them. Present Trump's plans by any church planting manual by every seminary course, by every book given today for churches, by all the blogs, by all the seminar world that is trying to feed Christians and the church. Everybody is ready to give us their nice little plan for what it means to be the church, for what it means to grow. But we can have all of that stuff and not have the presence of God We can have the best laid plans of mice and men. But it will come to naught unless the presence of God is there. Presence Trump's plans. Please understand, it doesn't mean we shouldn't plan. It doesn't mean we shouldn't strategize. It doesn't mean we shouldn't be tactical in our thinking. But if we think that being strategic and having plans means that somehow God has baptized it, Let us be careful. This was not well planned out. It's as they went and they preached Jesus Christ. The hand of the Lord was with them. Do you remember anything? Presence trumps plans And the seminar this weekend reminded those of us who were gathered here as CPCers was this reality. The church is really good at temple craft. We know how to build buildings. We know how to put a worship service together. We know how to put programs and plans and all of these things together. But does having a beautiful building, does having a well-organized, well-run worship service, does having plentiful programs mean that the presence of the Lord is here? Do plans bring the presence? Presence Trump's plans. The grace was evident because the Lord was there first and he was working. The grace was also on display because of what Barnabas learned And it's easily summarized in four verbs. What it tells us of Barnabas in this passage is summarized in four verbs. This is the second subpoint, if you will. You'll see it right there. It begins in verse 22. The report of the report came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent Barnabas to Antioch Well, he he he went as an he went as an apostle, he went as a disciple to go, and in so doing he he came as one who was mature in the faith, and he was going to care, to bring shepherding care to this new founding work that was reaching their ears among Jews and Gentiles in Antioch, which was certainly no place that would be considered to be a friend of Christianity. This was all happening. In the midst of a very exiled place for a Christian. So Barnabas comes in verse 23. Here's the first verb. He came. Second, he saw. Third, he rejoiced. Fourth, he encouraged. First, he came. He simply went because the evidence. of the arduous work of undergoing persecution that God would use to bring the gracious work of the Spirit and Drawing people to himself, despite the persecution, that evidence had reached the ears of the Christians in Jerusalem. So Barnabas came. Second, he saw. What did he see? It says, he saw the grace of God. Now we don't know specifically what was it specifically that he saw What we do understand is because of God's presence was there, where God's presence is, fruit of the Spirit will be produced. Very clearly, we know, because it's inferred in the passage, they were a generous people, a caring people, a loving people. A humble people. It's the fruit of the Spirit. That's what he saw. Beyond a general description, we can't go any further. But he saw the grace of God having its work. That was the evidence. He rejoiced. And this is something that we must be reminded of over and over again. We did this as a group of folks who were at the seminar this week on Friday. They asked all the teams that were here for the seminar to simply give a description of that which we can be grateful for as a church. And we could have gone on all day. There's so much to be grateful for because it is a gift of God's grace in our midst. It is stealing from God his glory if we forget to rejoice. It is feeling from God his glory and splendor if we forget to rejoice. What are you rejoicing about today? Even in our stubborn brokenness. As recipients of grace, there is something to be grateful for. If you are not a Christian, there is something to be grateful for. And while you and I may disagree, you may not see it as the grace of God, I say, if any of us is grateful for anything, that is God's grace. What are we rejoicing about? Barnabas rejoiced because he saw it wasn't his work, it was God's presence. Fourthly. He encouraged them. What did it say? It says he exhorted them to remain faithful to the Lord with steadfast purpose. There's a word here that is also within the Greek, though not translated here in this particular translation, but it is, he encouraged them to remain steadfast in their hearts. with purpose. And that is, what did it look like for them to continue to be steadfast? This is what Inti Wright talks about as the virtuous circle. That for the body of the Lord Jesus Christ, the church is ever to be giving itself to this virtuous circle. The virtuous circle is made up of this. An immersion in the scriptures. Secondly, a retelling of the stories of Jesus Christ. That comes from those scriptures. To live lives as examples to one another. But then fourthly, to be a community. And finally, to continue in the practices of what it means to be a Christian That's what we call the means of grace, scripture, prayer, celebration of the sacraments. These are things which the church is called to. This is a part of the virtuous circle, Wright would say. This is what, though not summarized in that way, when Barnabas said to continue with steadfast purpose in your hearts It means to be holding ourselves to the word of God. And of course, they didn't have the New Testament to pass around to each other yet. But they were telling stories about Jesus Christ and his death on a cross, his resurrection on the third day for our sins and for our salvation. And they were preaching that name. But they were also seeking to live lives of examples to one another. Barnabas himself, an apostle, he was coming and he was encouraged. He rejoiced. Their example was evident to him. Here is a question that I was presented with and our team was presented with at the seminar that I was so convicted by. Is your life worth imitating? Is my life something anyone would want to imitate? Is my family a family anyone would want to imitate Praise be to God, the only way any of our lives are worthy to be examples, it is because the presence And the grace of God is active. To continue in community and continue in these practices. This was the grace on display. But then what happens after he has encouraged them to do this, we come to what is the first example, the first acknowledgement of the name Christian. in the New Testament. It's mentioned three times here, later in the book of Acts, chapter 26, and then in Peter's letter. So there we see three times, and it is not a self-designation. It was a name given from those on the outside. We see it here when it in verses 25 and 26. So Barnabas sent, went to Tarsus, that was about 120 miles away. He goes to get Paul, who was busy preaching there, brings Paul back. He stays for a year. This was the beginning of the missionary journeys. And it says there that they taught a great many people. What was it that they were teaching? They were teaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. They were preaching Christ, telling the stories. Showing the fulfillment of the scriptures in Jesus Christ. And in Antioch, the disciples were first called Christians. Now we know that by the way it's phrased, that it was phrased as something that would only have been a name given from the outside. And in so doing, what's clear is what was it that they were known for? This is important. This was not the Christians going around with bumper stickers, if you will, sewn on the back of their tunics saying, I'm a Christian, you know No little ichthus magnet. It's fine if you have one, but you get my point. This was someone coming up to them calling them, you are a Christian. Why were they called Christians? Why did this name first appear? And what did it mean? Very simply, it meant that because of the evidence of the grace Because of the stories that they told in their preaching. Because they went back to the fulfillment of the promises and the prophecies of the Old Testament, finding their fulfillment in Jesus Christ. Preaching Christ crucified and raised from the dead, that they were known in all that they did as Christ's followers. Because it must be clear that to be called a Christian meant that Christ was so on their minds and so on the tip of their tongues in what they did and how they lived, they were called Christian. Christians. It was a blessing. A blessing. Even though some may admit it as an insult, to be called a Christian was a blessing. Now what is it then? So if you are not a Christian, or even if you are, and you wonder What does this mean to be called a Christian? Very simply, it is this. If your idea of being a Christian Begins anywhere else other than the central person, Son of the living God, person and work of Jesus Christ. then you will have started from the wrong place. Being a Christian doesn't begin from the outside in. It begins at a relationship from the inside out. Being a Christian doesn't mean, first and foremost, being obedient. Being a Christian, first and foremost, doesn't mean Going to church. Being a Christian, first and foremost, doesn't mean all the accoutrement that we try to pack into that. It begins and only begins and finds its ending in Jesus Christ. And him crucified and raised from the dead for our lives. We might have a lot of information about Jesus We might have a lot of information about God, observed from nature, read in stories, intuited from the reality that you are made in His image. But if all we have is information and not a relationship, then we will have missed what it means to be a Christian. Because it's very clear, it's all through the Gospels that if you want to know what God looks like, look at Jesus. If you want to know how God acts, look at Jesus. If you want to know how God loves, look at Jesus. If you want to know how God forgives, look at Jesus. You see where I'm going. It begins and it ends in Jesus Christ. And so if you are a Christian today, You must recognize that in our culture, we need to begin the process of deconstructing what people think Christian defines. It's not about the radio station you listen to. It's not about the books you read. It's not about the language that you use or the vocabulary that you use. Being a Christian is not how you vote or don't vote, or how you feel or don't feel. Being a Christian Only begins and ends in the person and work of Jesus Christ. If we present anything else We will have drawn people away from the good news that is a person and not information. We will have made Christianity into a composite made of a lot of a lot of other things that might be good things, but they are never central. How you vote is important. How you live is important. How you educate is important. But it's never the main thing. Ever. Ever. The name on the outside of your church. It might be important, but it's not the main thing. Jesus, can I beat that one more time? Is the main thing. The origin of the name began and must continue to be because people see Jesus. And if they see Jesus, they've seen God. We have been made in the image of the living God Been given the grace of the gospel so that God and Jesus and the Spirit might be on display. And may that be the reason why we're given the name. And there it might be an insult, so be it. There it might be a blessing, so be it, if all of it goes to his splendor and glory. But finally, we see that because of the name, because of the grace was on display, we see it lived out in their model of charity. In this model of charity, what we see is this. Now in those days, prophets were coming, as was early on in the church. Gift of being a prophet, and one of those was Agabas. And he came and he predicted, because he had been foretold by the Spirit, the text tells us, that there would be a great famine. Praise be to God that from multiple sources outside of the Scriptures there is clear evidence. From non-Christian sources, that there was indeed a famine during the reign of Claudius. They believe it was somewhere around 46 to 48 A. D. And it was in within the Roman Empire. And so what is clear is this. That they heard that there was going to be this famine. And they gave by faith According to what they were able to give, to their ability to send relief to brothers living in Judea So what this group of largely Gentile converts to Christ were doing is they were giving gifts To Christians who were Jewish converts in Jerusalem in and around because they could not provide for themselves. And they gave generously. What is so beautiful about this picture is that their wealth brought them a solidarity, a unity in purpose, so that in so doing they would be able to live in interdependence. So to be a Christian for them, to live out the name, to display the grace of God that was evident, that was at work in them. Their wealth became an opportunity to express solidarity and unity with other Christians who were poor. And it led them to a greater interdependence With those Christians who were a long way away from them. Eight days. Very likely, by some accounts. But they gave. And they gave to Barnabas and to Paul, and they took it. What is so interesting about this for us is this. Wealth is an enormous blessing, but it can also be an enormous challenge Because for us in the West, wealth tends to not build solidarity and unity. And interdependence. It tends to build individualism and self-dependence. Wealth is expressed in the West by gaining greater distance from other people. and greater independence as a result, and self-dependence. That is what success looks like in the wealthy West But for the Christian, we fight against that. And why do we give to our diaconal fund? We give because we trust that the Lord knows who has need and that God has ordained and called these men to serve you and to serve those who have need. Because the Lord desires for our wealth to be a blessing that calls us into greater unity. And interdependence, to fight against the suburban West of independence and self-dependence. Do you see This is what we get to do. And so when we give, we give according to our ability, according to that which you and the Lord have determined, that which you are able to give with thankfulness. To the Lord and let the Lord use those gifts for caring for his people. Now we can use it in various ways. We can give to the diaconal fund. This morning we're going to be doing Operation Christmas show. We're going to be talking about that. There are many ways in which we can give to others. We give by way of doing mission work. We give by way of doing other mercy ministry here in this community. There are lots of different ways to give. You might be wealthy more in time than you are in financial resources. There's an opportunity to give. But it's all a blessing of the Lord. And may He enable us, as He did these early Christians. to go away from self-dependence to interdependence. Because it is, if you will. It is for us a beautiful thing that this passage is here, these early Christians, despite the persecution. The Lord was at work. And it is for us an example worth imitating. But the beauty of it all, it wouldn't have happened And it will not happen in us unless the presence of the living God is at hand. Unless he moves us, unless he broadens our imagination for what he wants to do. But surely, if this is what he was doing in the early church, how much more does he not want us to receive his grace And I will use it till the day I die. And you've heard it already 20 times, I'm sure. We are to be the colander of God's grace. His grace will never be exhausted. It is poured out. And may CPC grow to be a colander of grace. That it flows out in all the holes to be a blessing to others. Because the Lord has done this. Because it is evidence of his grace. Let's pray. Now, Lord, come and make us to be a people for Jesus Christ That the aroma, the evidence of grace, would be on display to one another and to the world at large. Lord, we cannot do this. We can't strategize this. We can't plan this. It will only come as a result of your presence. So Lord, as you have promised, pour out your spirit on your people. Pour out your spirit on this congregation. That the evidence of your grace Will be for your splendor and our good. In Jesus' name. Amen.