And it was one of the things that happens on the times, and that's the data when you actually have a lot of things. It's definitely that. That would be a different. But if you only critical different audience with the thing, but the moment you understand the patient's mood And then if you look at the second one. You can really use it, do it. You have to be so easy. It's nothing well and intrinsically simple that I've stuck with A, or B contained. It's like bidding and customers. It's a good thing that we're trying to say that person. It is seen. It's a close relationship. I began to see my building with all kinds of capacities of results and relationships that I began to build up my list to look at the kind of Because also this war, the time must be inside the world. It would have been Because all the people scared in themselves because they're not scared. But while we're talking about it, it's no longer saying, Why did you not reply when I pay fifteen dollars for that document? But it's saying you're excited. You don't want me to get anything else to see if you sat there for hair. And it's blown, it's yellow, it's three, and that means you can really So the degree is that and sit in there to take a look at The word is blast from a bit of our word blasting. It means to find it in it, to care about your character. That's always the effect, it's young and telling you because it's defensive and whenever potentially our attack. And that's the first person. Then I'm I'm not thinking words, I think, but it's kind of it takes out all kinds of things to get out of the patient in taking. Even with it, the first ones and some federal way, and that's even 50 by 100 is really good. Because he said it is still out He doesn't tell us how we have to feel about it until he says, put these things out. Get rid of them. Because you can find that this is something that we're able to do. It is only one word. And that's why it's practically. I feel very staying well in some kind of isolation. And have people who will come to me, help me, and I thought, how can I stop feeling good if they feel helpful in my life? We listen to a way to simply start feeling good. And I always say the only way to start that is to start loving. That's the only way we can start feeling good. It's to put all things really to put on consciousness, activeness, impressiveness. Only when you start practically vote for two. You can only put off this video when you put on hero comparison into women. That's what he calls us for. We could put on case. What is the case It means to be part of the thing. It needs to do what's good for it. It's only order to use in practice too instead of. But in order that God has raised us up with Christ, we seated us with him in the heavenly world, is the heavenly. But in the current ages, that is the all the ages to come, the millennials to come, he must fall to accountable gifts of its place, positive strength In the standard the consent, it's the same way. So I'll claim to express the feeling with standards and very simple. In working time, in advance, including us in the heavenly Jesus. It's a possible really good thing. Because the only way to do that system is experienced to the system. And that servants came to come and he does mercy. The word you're successful is the same way you concede this story, so you didn't have the companions. He could control something. And that's the idea of personal. Because I can put on the given. He is forgiven. Because he doesn't really keep me to keep the starting thing. Why is there nothing just decisions in the government? Because it means a deal waste of things in the Is it the way that we want to deal with some of those racist people? Because we need to include the most things when we do This is really valuable with our key. Whatever we are thinking And if you need that if you're using the collection and it hasn't used the only with streaming, then further this is But we can convince the question is still our energy can have you from the lead. And still be a bidding. And that's the one to see. Wouldn't say anything we're just calling it and replace it with telling how to tell us to be Then you can see really well. But somehow unto them was that if I didn't really see that I was there too, I would have never forgiven it. We declared a business. Well where things we did because it's not Because when I produce something with something that I seem to have been random, but all of a sudden I began the same. Now that I have dealt with all the people that we see. Yes, I was doing my thing. Now I just think. Now I know I was trying to build up a thing to justify my doing it. And to connect themselves. And so I can tell you in the wrong because I can hear the very This is what it is, very event. This is a very this is nothing that this is significant, then they design it. Give them your own heart process. Because he forgiven and even when you say everything in us says no. Because it's very difficult to me to make the person that they do. Don't turn the state. Don't turn anyway in the first place. That is just an interest. When we're in the east, but the way you can say to a children. I have been growing through here. If you prepare to conserva here in a very conservative place, I have these growing pools. He can see that the hidden lives are getting the great business. He thinks he does the human being enjoyed the great people. And remember in terms of talking about residual business, we're talking about the child of time with this before. And no way we've heard that things exist. What the south happens? It's not happy about the resistance. In this way, and you know, thank you for life. The being can be found when it seems a lot. And you know. And you willn't how you keep your husband. Would you feel in how you guys were going to keep your father and men in God? And you willn't go asking. And these words have authority comes to us. And the way authority comes to us is the way that we think one another in the community. Biopical knowledge is easy to be owned by God. When you can't think about that too long and begin to understand what that means and begin to see each other in the basic mind The man expressed the same word, the same paths, the space and disposal, is also a word that means to the measure of something. According to the measure there is the same word translated here that it means to the measure of something. Not only the part of something. But with a measure of something. Because there's a two-fold meaning in here, I believe. Because you forgive each other just because forgiveness, and you forgive each other That didn't accept us, he'd imagine that God has forgiven you and that. In fact, that was the word used in Romans 832, where he goes, The body of given to you to those sons, how shall he not then even give us Same words, all things. It's the same word that he's in First Corinthians, chapter two, verse says. So forgiveness is something then to be written with our band, band and again given to one another in our relationship. We're to imitate God I feel like another thing. To meditate and be expense. When to any computer and relationship to the meaning. How do I have to communicate means without the meaning that not the same thing? What about the circular? Thanks very simply. Of God in place forgiven you. If you've never come to him to forgive you, you can't really forgive others. God is forgiven you. We haven't even forgiven us. And we must count again. And I order you, open, evil, to give you confidence and have a made out forgiveness. But if you've come to know, then I would ask you to use the rest of that as a word piece. But simply go through those things, write it down Specifically, read three, write it out. Here it is. You may want to write it on the back when you have more room to write it down. And go through those specifically. Use them out of the words to and out of a new relationship with some other member of the coach of your family. Somebody without it is super. If you have some of those attitudes, maybe But latitude that you can detect and determine in verse 31 characterizes the relationship with our person. Magic unit Write it down and especially meditate on that part there that says, what would his reaction to me? What was God's reaction to you in your senses to him No one just meditating on thought on it and think about what God is saying is your attitude in imitate in Him. We found the four years and realize it was very deep. Because I thought we realized it is very intangible being Lord, our heart file that we already do. How can you expect us to have this kind of forgiveness for those who don't agree? And that value that But you're giving us something here which is speaker than us, super, because it comes by things. Women need to by saying that with your forgiveness for us, God in Jesus Christ, to motivate us, to realize that once having considered us, we could love us. Hold it once against anyone who has offended us. But once you realize God is the extent and amazing unforgiveness of you. We can tell that we defend ourselves if we have a right to somehow you're paying to do this to someone who is lying down. What I got is told you to remember us to anyone, to consider, to meditate, to see what this means, and I became to remember us to be Obviously, to think about this, and what we needed to find you in a couple weeks, or we meet together in a small week. So we have the opportunity to tell us and things he says. Including the morality, including things that are the people that have to do this because of his great fear. In Jesus Christ. So we claim yourself and keep us. You can fall to our forgiveness. The enable us to keep it In 403, mark 31, including by 37, 34. Not what my feelings can make my feel good. Not what I feel for this to be completely sad. Not what I feel in fact And bear my off the Lord and you consider and experience and emotion of God's forgiveness to your human son. Like promotions and emotion of God's forgiveness.