Columbia Flyers Man because he had received a covenant violation notice. For a football wire fence is take the very free and felt noise without permission. And so this is greatly unstable. characterized the Columbia Architectural Committee as being dictatorial and impeccable. The committee in response So since you're not here, the ability any request for permission to do what could look for that little edge. That's uh only granite That was just inspectors. We find it would have been Columbia Home owner of the same flyer reported it for divine denied I'll pack each up the edge and I'll send each one of the community members a piece of what they call a thing. If they want to play filler games, then I'll play filler games as well I think a temple wound is sort of uh wound without you know somehow you identify with the uh feel of the things I mean uh put them aside now for wonder what it would be like Did you see the people something there? They'd say, if you want to play filler games, I'll play filler games and And I can help you with your own dream. I think this is very often it says the kind of response you have in situations like this where you feel that somebody's doing Of course, we've all felt like that at one time or another. We couldn't do that. That's the natural response. That's just the thing. Revise not just response. But it's not a biblical response. This morning we continue to consider God's response. in such situations. We talked two weeks ago in the first part of this about the command and the means that are given to one another. We consider the Good morning. Last week today we considered that from TV chapter four, verses thirty-one and thirty-free. This morning we consider that matter from parallel pattern, Colossians chapter three. Return in the Bible to Colossians chapter three. We're going to conclude verse 13 to 10, and I want to put that in context for the beginning of reading of both sides. The last thing static reads beginning of both sides. Put to death therefore whatever belongs to your earthly, such as immorality, impurities, must, evil desires, and greed, which is idolatry. The wrath of God is coming. We need to walk in these ways, the life that you once live, the man who must live yourself of all such faithful to be idle, grave, malice, and flipping angles from the lips. Not lying to each other. We can take off the old soft that is classically. And it put on beneath us, which is being renewed in knowledge, in the image of its creators. Through the eat those weeks, they circumcised, the uncircumcised, barbarian Sithium, slaves of dreams. Christ divided and is in us. Therefore, if God closed people, holy and truly beloved, clothe yourself with compassion. Agents, families, gentlemen, and preachers. There we each other And forgive whatever grievances we may have against one another. For good by the Lord for the weakness. Lord we forgot to put on mask and binds them all together in circus units. Let the peace of Christ rule in your heart. In fact, members have one body You repair the tea and divorce. Very key. And for you, whatever reason you may have against them So here I prefer the news. Notice in the outline are three things about this verse. First of all, the command he didn't give us. Secondly, the circumstances of that command. And thirdly, the comparison of that The command, the circumference and the comparison. It's a people command because we joined each other. First of all, serve with each other, and then secondly, First of all then the command is to forbear. What does that word mean? It's an interesting word that means literally to hang up something. To hold up. Capricorn is means to hold up and is something which is typical. That is a word that means to build something Or it means to split up with sentence, or it means even to endure what you process templates. A number of times in the new title we connect to this persecution. Corinthians, Paul, in First Corinthians chapter four. We verse 12 and 2 because we work hard with our own hands, when we are cursed and blessed. When we are persecuted, we enjoy it. That word translated endure in 1 Corinthians 4 5 is the same word that Paul commands outward. Spare one another, endure one another. Because when we exploded, we are just kindness. And up to this moment we become the sum of the earth, the wealthy of the world That's the kind of truth that a world like yourself. It's to suffer persecution, to endure something. And we're called here to bear with one another. uh maybe sometimes you feel like um it's in view and pick it up with some people and you understand they they're are a member of Christ's body that you have But I think more in my view is this idea of the really precious piece with purpose and the same context Paul here is talking to us about dealing with those things about one another, these subjects are very well. Those intrinsic inevitable from sin are in close contact together. That's the kind of thing that he has in mind. Prevalence in quantum analysis. And not only skill produce my duty or But along with these rates of being able to confront those men, there is also the grace of Tolerance and patience. This power calling on a seems to be slow to tolerance, cultural, and personality differences within the body of Christ. But even more of them. These are spaces in commanding us to put up with the made our understanding and be inclined to grab wrong, those things are feeling to us, and that you can't make any judgment about whether they're right or wrong. Rather you say you're even to have a grace of attitude and clearly a matter of faith because he's combined this word of their longer with each other with a word that was yours seven Not forgive you because you have to do with unwrong. You don't forgive something that's not wrong. Because what Paul's talking about here is when we wrong one another then zero fixes with one another. It's that same word that we've looked at a number of times in this study that they've already It's that word paridjam, which means to deal graciously with someone. It's from that new word which runs through the whole New Testament to the translation grace Remember to grace it to not with someone what they do to them and to give them what they don't do. They deserve your wrath. They deserve your punishment. They deserve you to be alienated from us. The process of commands from God is a forgiveness. The command rather than to be ready to forgive any wrong. Remember what forgiveness means We can look at in this place. For goodness, remember we first to destroy the ruckus, to destroy the accounts of the world. And not hold it against the opponents. If you acknowledge that it got us a wrong, that I will destroy the weapons. not even destroying the weapons remember because he will mean to remember it no more. To remember it no more against the person. That means to not ever bring it up to the Or even to the start. So you put it in the place. It's conducted and it's gone. Now sometimes we do need to bring wrongs up to one another. That's really difficult people. As a matter of fact, not group we're going to deal with out. But for now, I want to deal simply with our attitude in those rooms. That is the odyssey of forgiveness. We must be willing and ready to forgive because as we saw a few weeks ago, we are not forgiven against them. We put that off. That has been taken away from us. It is part of the old self. That has not been put on this place. Now to better understand what is meant by this, we mean to look at the circumstances. So let's hopefully see what the circumstances of this commandment The first effects you see are to bear with each other and to endure each other whatever reason is you might have against one another. The circumstances then are wherever there is a cause to blame. The words that we say the grievances, the offensive complaints, and particularly the blame. First of all, you see there, it is a wrong word. You really could sort out Romans 9. 19. That is the word that uh decided that's not But a better illustration be sixteen B 16 we started to raise how many generations and people who in the hardest of their heart have become quite clinical and were characterized as Thought findings. And it's the same word, it's this word here for grievances, blame. I'll love to find blame, enough to find thoughts. In fact uh in one of the groups wagons here in login seven, this same login view, it's not used much in the new type of wall. But it's used there for uh in a young is forgiving that with incredible attitude, exactly, hypercritical attitude toward one another. It's all that wrong blame which comes from speaking with star, but it's my own rampage myself, putting someone else out. But I think it's fine It's not refined only to the wrongness, but it's only for use when there were the waste moments. In Hebrews chapter 8, and take a look at that for just a moment. In Hebrews chapter 8, you have the same word youth in the verb sail. And in Hebrews 8 verse 7, the author here is making the point about in contrast of the old and the new covenant in the If there had been nothing wrong with the first covenant, then no place would have been sought for another covenant. It would have been all news for a new covenant. But God found taught with the people That's the same word, you see, blossom infirma. God here is finding fault. He's blaming them. He has agreements against Israel. He found fault with the people and he said the time is coming to save the But I will make a new covenant with a health of Israel, whether health of Judah. These people are guilty under the old covenant. Now it it's pretty clear that God is absolutely right and just because He'd be wrong if he didn't. Israel's self death or guilty. And God is right to blame them and to find fault with them. So when we think that uh this word refers to finding blame and reason, it is referring to the sense when you and I are absolutely right. to blame our papers for what they are lost. So absolutely justifies to have a grievance against them. But notice what is excluded in the computer in these circumstances. What is excluding? Absolutely nothing Ever needs to blame for the fact that person of the name is to give. And that's easy. People there is no exclusion to the synonyms. No circumstances that can be excluded from bad chronologies. Even if we and all are perfectly How often you and I are attempted to say you don't know this is I mean this is this And Lord, in in this case, if you mean my husband's wife, my wife, and the number of times that I have forgiven that particular offense, the number of times I've put up with it So I say to myself, well God gives her one in virtue, put him after it in Colossus 313, put at the bottom of the note here along with the marginal rendering, along to it to say. Except for Alan H. He got a case that I didn't consider when I went through. How many times he and I sort of had that feeling God but I need an answer because my truth is different. But God has said to you whatever the dream, whatever the glory. You know, even if we take it, the reminder studies today. Map your two. Remember that? To it? I don't tend to have to forgive them. million dollars. Little one out and somebody owed him just a very small portion of that. One six hundred thousand about ten million dollars. And he's That's too much. And that is telling you to see why there is no question. Because The model decides to give it to us. And there is nothing that has been done against either I which begins to approach the best and its best Of all the time. The notice is not only This is not only something that says I must then blow my mind to my ask something to significantly just because It is possible to go through, but you see, customized command is a promise. A promise that causes you to use them. Notice. This command is absolute The remote season. All God commands comes with an implicit promises. And by promise instantly will be the sequence is to obey the command. So think about it for me. Looking past this for a You are commanded, severe with and severe. Most of those friends with your family Then when you and I found a difficult situation difficulty, we'd never been sure that there would be sufficient races Well maybe that's one of those points it is, it's left in the loophole. But God, by providing no loophole for you, provides no loophole for himself. Because what God is here promising, if you lift up that command and turn it over, you find what's inside of the promise you There is no exclusion to my place sufficient for me to forgive any of those. There is never a case where I cannot enable you to suggest. We think it's precisely when you and I say that's too much. That's going too far by close to you and befor kind and be compassionate as those God talks about. I can't do those things to this person in this place because I'm too hurt. Because I've been too long, too many collections. And I'm very strong, we can't get away with it. You can't believe that way. He just accept forgiven. It's not fair. It's just not right. It's the principle of defense. How many times you see it? It's the principle of the sentence, it's not me personally. If it was me, I could suggest. But if it's not right with people, I could hopefully get away with it And so by that we justify bitterness and wrong attitudes and our own uh getting back at the person, our own finding fault, and our own dealing with them and to deal and cause and I'm not a woman. because of the principles God says here is one principle that I'm speaking about right now and that's the audience. There's this no excuses, no acceptance. At that point we think when you and I are reduced to that point we say I'm at the end of myself I can't visit the patient to that creative number device. Not only a command, it's a promise. Because I have commanded you to do that at that point that you can say, God, I cannot do this And that's right. Now here's the opportunity for you to see with this super answer and really good sense of power It's precisely in those cases where it is impossible for us to forgive masculine. But the college is a place to tell People in those places where you or I people live like people without people saying to give, there's the power of the bastards. Power of the bastards. And so to get out of those purposes. When it's been too many times in the host to be, the circumstances are too similar that I think that's the opportunity What's the time that you would see what the goodness is and the supernatural that's that's a spirit bottom of the sort of So if you see this super master power that I call this thing, it's not a mystical time. The other thing you are going to do with me You're gonna call us two for you. You're gonna call me for God, I spent you on the end of the nice public. It goes when we can call our minds to consider things. That's the comparison. So it's Verse 13 again. Bear with one another, fear each other, and forgive each other. Whatever the grievances we may have against one another. Forgive, repeatedly realizing that God is forgive, I the Lord forgives me. Comparison when it's we found a few things, just as the words are being used. The same word that we talked about two weeks ago, tape, the word that means just as the comparison word. The word that means both a motive for something and the measure of something. So the comparison here is both in terms of the motive for and the measure. others because the Lord forgives me forgives the cause the Lord has forgiven me. That's the motive, that's the main thing that you forgive me And forgive to be its form of the Lord's forgiveness to me. So I think particularly if you and I are Who are deep first supposed to his wallets? They've irritated it, they've wrong it's difficult with And the Bible says that don't continue to consider the patience and talk to yourself about how you really are forgiven and feeling guilty about how you fail to give them even when you are to forgive. So consider yourself what a wacky person you are because you can't forgive them with all its hands, those people, better. and off of yourself and party for a moment. Don't look at things and at least that. Get away from that for a moment with the mind temporarily off of the purpose. Temporarily off of the best. Along with Jesus. Think about Jesus. Think the rest of our. Paul said to you, think about Jesus and how he about the view. Consider human ways of dealing with you for moments. For instance, what's about the easy separation The Hebrew calculator we saw in verse 8 that God had found fault with Israel. He had agreement with Israel. A righteous blame, the same word. God blamed Israel. They had wronged him, they had offended him, they had hurt him, they had disobeyed him. They were alienated from them. What did he do? So he says, in verse 10 then, he told me this new covenant is going to establish, but this is the covenant I will make for the house of Israel. after that time to face Lord. This is in the new ages, the age of Jesus. I will put my laws in their minds and I will write them on our hearts. I will be their God and they will be my people. No longer will a man keep his labor or a man his blood and can know the Lord, but they will all know me from the least of them to the greatest. The Bible saying, I am simply commanding you to these as a thing that I designed to these are, to an infinite degree of things. No. We've forgiven us our sin. I just want our sneaker. God has said, our I will forgive you. And it's on the basis of two grace, not the fact that you present it. Is that right? of the future justice. So God has tells you that he had infinite path to himself and forgiveness. We could do that past the government. We would remember what things remember. No, it would have been easier for God to have destroyed the entire world in the You have fought it all over and created a new world. Deployed it all little. Fought over a whole new universe, a new earth. Fought over with a whole new race of creatures made in your village. Do you think that could have done that? You think we could have God made one way to think people, why couldn't he know it another way? He sort of destroyed our entire made our holy wastes of being destroyed. God would have been free for God creating that you have forgiven this Because the forgives are caused in the life and the ears nothing more specific to God Speaking of it, when you and I say that's too much out here to me. The most confident thing that God has. To do that. So that he was to give you and me and being related to our things. Yes, we need to do and the new things. So to do One another, yet everyone we can have. Reconsider what God is saying You meditate on that, you will exist. I cannot hold a breath and continue to notice my own things against someone else. When I consider the expense, the cost, and the greatestness of God for business to be. So how does that Okay. So first of all, in the application, we notice before we can go any further, we have to deal with our own relations consideration. Has the Lord forgiven you? It means nothing to you to say and forgive as the Lord has forgiven you if the Lord hasn't forgiven you. Unless you have tasted it, you've came with you. racist differences within your own authority, your law, your disobedience, your going your own way in the light of his command is more And the local people have fairly too hungry, fair to that load of the rooms, and the two. So that's what we can make any sense This is a blessed to a forgiven people and a people who have been forgiven individually as well as corporately by ease of sales We call it the two things. Because he that took the payments, because he had made the payments and took all of the uh things upon himself and paste it so that you and I can do the game. Once you realize that, then the second point comes into Point two, put away then political attitude regarding minor irritations. When you can do this irritation, remind your fact that God's sake. What's the faster finders? Well developed the faster. It's beautiful opportunity to start with minor irritations. But you see the gas crisis is nothing more than simply a growth inconvenience for us with a reminder to a good thing for getting a cultivation and we need to develop new sources of energy. But we also see the air sources as something God is intending to use in your and my character. to develop in us a greater faith-like character and a unique ministry. I would say the key people talk together like they've been talking to the idea of life They're flying door water, they're like these bags, people sit out on their hoods or having blocked parties. People put in those carriers. You can forgive this thing too late. When you look at it, the opportunity to talk to people. But do you see this as an opportunity when people talk about the gas folks and try to outdo each other in the complicated generalizations about the process? problems as a way of outdoing them in rating indignation and growth with general intentions about the problem. Or is it an opportunity to show that real life does not revolve You are convinced and inconvenient. That the Lord Jesus is in your life. Therefore, He's given grace to bear and for them Because of this forgiveness, you above those cutting irritations that produce that volatile kind of confrontation you see there Yeah. I would also warrant that after ten months of reading a detail, I think not everybody in this country he would see if you're so next to any The first lovers now had lived together long enough to find that there are particular idiot centres that may love us to allow. Save the guide's rings and apply to But then there's finally that large step And point three regarding the key rootest earlier and goodness. So it progressed again if we go through the exercise that was progressed a few weeks ago and it's written out there again. on the fighting back and developing outline with a little more room to write and be seen the points. This will be few with a larger appointment, those that are more difficult to deal with. Don't do that word to you. In particular, we under that last item on the page screen to what we act with. Consider not only God's forgiveness of you But let a think on how Jesus dealt with people who wrong things in the QRA. Think, for instance, have had these to make the thing more tight seed in the mind. So that God's forgiveness is not something which is simply still editable, because we feel it's less than. Think of how Jesus dealt with healing. I would get to it. Because he would never leave the name. And under 24 hours, has demanded it even moved the name. How did you get this part of that two person to go to fire to me? Jesus called Peter aside in order to produce that new reconciliation for me. Not because Jesus seems to clear on his opinion, but it seems to But because there must be that representation and that respiration of the races of Christ. And the part of people is the ideal race that's been given. Before given us. We'll take another example that I just made a few. In John chapter five, take a look at it maybe. But in John chapter five, you have Jesus coming to our mind in Jerusalem speaking it's very new. There's no report of any exercise it says and that made Man doesn't even know who it is to ask the question. In fact, that's just the point. When Jesus has healed him, he has done it on the Sabbath. And the Pharisees were quite upset about that. Before they asked him, who wanted to heal you on the Sabbath day? I mean you've been laying here for thirty-eight years too. We could have waited another twenty-four hours to do this, didn't you know he broke the Sabbath? The man just moving. And because Jesus sees the means in the man's life, he goes to them and finds them. He sweats them out. He takes the time to go after them. signs him in the temple and he says, this is related to a sin and temple that she will search out the killing so that they watch them that have And if at that point the man finds out who are you? Oh, that's his season. And so because the man lives and excuses, he goes back and then the Pharisees often again, do you like it? That's a pretty long thing to do. He knew that they were out to get easy. And in order to boil up, he came to come. Now, what are you? Don't blame me. I didn't go He's the one who heard me. He was the man being called The similar to my teaching to know that he demanded he has not only healed, but he's taken time to go after and to restore and to help spiritually. That man does is to go and to import it to the deal that they don't have. And what do you mean if you can find? He just believes him. He just said, Well, if you were meeting this man worry about Jesus having bitterness against this man's Think of that as we see, how we experience with you and what he calls for us to do with one another. So if you experience this, it will teach us forgiveness more than anything else. What if you experience as being forgiven by someone else? When he has come in a situation before someone that he really likes, and he deserves and accept their wrath and their punishment. And he finds himself Open eyes and heart. That gives us an insight into what God couldn't do. But I suggest it is even people on abundance family or business of given When you are forgiven, when there is nothing clear, it will call forth forgiveness for that person who's value. When we can do wrong and you're so hurt that you don't know how to respond. You can't even respond to the person. You're none. And perhaps all you want to do is to hurt them back. emergence and you feel yourself with your right in your feeling. And yet the more you feel in your right, the more you're losing your joy than the man because remember you're dead. If you don't forgive, you'd rather needle your eyes with your. And then we look at that by me today and see that's not interesting We're saying that you and I will be alienated, that our relationship to the Father will be broken And when we leave God blow, we try to forgive and return. God says we stop looking. See the forgiveness. And then you're overwhelmed with that suddenly. that it can to be intercepted. And to be able then to understand the parts of the end of the other thing. The people can be talking to some friends about from Donna. They work with people who are fine lives in the middle of it. Some of them know enough readers, but they don't know really as much about the Bible. Because it is content, believe it. Like the way they call this box, a son of the is the demand of circumstances. The man of very, very fear. A poverty circum having very, very little fear. The one thing he had for his livelihood were about a dozen or so little cookies feet. No students. So they would draw up and you'd be able to follow it marginal. We will get a little bit of money besides. One that we have to find weeks is Well, one of the neighbor boys decided he would be sons a great donuts. He's saying the formal boy who was in the Yeah, I'm happy that we couldn't. I remember this lights is flower than you can see. He was lying with God or past that he can beaten and frozen. He was everything you have to imagine. The parents of our door moved his presence and girls. And they tell you when you don't get it from after the new. They don't get to give it a little comfortable and it told it so bad. You know, me with two people, you don't have any. So we stand with three And we can hold from it that I trust God to be able. We keep that love. And I will So that's the last time. Those who know who might be Lord our God is all honestly the today and the evening. Lord, please confess to you that our world summary. Lightning. They can please it. Make it irritated and you can The field extends our field keep us away above our sides. Lord then We are tempted to be irritated. We are tempted to declare the day to have wrong and hurried on. If you deliver us from simply Considering them and all the reasons that we could. Considering ourselves and all the reasons that we couldn't. And if we intend our minds to do it. Do I consider if I do have the ultimate action by the Lord Jesus? How it costs you down in everything that you have. How it was more new to you than to destroy and create in the universe and race the secret to forgiveness. But if you had destroyed these things, that you had wiped it all out as you merely did in the time of man He has never been forgiven. And Lord when you blow it, it has never been explained for you. So when we do some realize that the agreed flow is not demonstrated to The value of the class. Well, if we do pick upon the account, we would be the high country. And your forgiveness of us all that people. But how we say about God who is making us. And how we ask you to be minded of your things we take the people. If you might want to find the human needle is to recognize us, to think of these and even the green And with you, Father, my lord and I for the realization that you greatly be our. How we ask you to work out our parties and not sound. My individual relationship spends. We're going to be working with ourselves within the second week. Why do we thank you in the world specifically? But because we are hidden, the new life that you have to do We play five or fill it a little bit and the third and the safety device in the You will be going to the pen, listen, and all the life, the forgiveness for disappointment. You will be needed to be substituted In some degree areas. They will grow up a lot more distance because If you have a people's problem, well if you have two problems in the argument, then this again Father, we thank you for the end of this new thing, we didn't survive the land. for this man who has not the power in faith to provide to him so that they can receive that are not only anything in you Now we go to our God who is great into your father. We will be good for the father in the me my friends and individuals to then to rest in a comfortable and holy land to report myself in