Well, it's finally here. We're on the eve of the total eclipse of the heart. Yeah, so now that you're you're welcome. You're so welcome. You're now gonna have that as an earworm right now. And those of you who don't know, don't don't Google that. It will not hit you. Um but we're on the eve of the total eclipse and this week the last few weeks have been nothing but warnings upon warnings about the having the correct ISO glasses and be careful not to stare into it. You'll burn up your iPhones, which some of you probably wish you could do. And uh and so it's tomorrow is all going to be about looking up. Maybe for you. It's all about where we get to see it and experience it. It's a story of being witnesses. An eyesight of something that is unusual. We come to a passage about eyesight and blindness. There were many who were with Jesus, some who saw him but didn't understand, and some who Couldn't see and yet wanted to understand. This is a passage about blindness and eyesight. And so just to give you a sense for where I'm going, it's being able to understand What kinds of blindness do we suffer with? Blindness that has nothing to do with the optical nerve. But has everything to do with what goes on in our hearts and our minds. This is the story of Bartimaeus receiving his sight. Jesus is preparing to go to Jerusalem. And as he does This is what he encounters. Mark chapter ten, forty-six to fifty-two. And they came to Jericho, and as he was leaving Jericho with his disciples and a great crowd, Bartimaeus, a blind beggar, the son of Timaeus, was sitting by the roadside. And when he heard it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began crying out, saying, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And many rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy upon me. Jesus stopped and said, Call him. They called the blind man, saying to him, Take heart, get up. He is calling you. Throwing off his cloak, he sprang up and came to Jesus. And Jesus said to him, What do you want me to do for you? The blind man said to him, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. Jesus said to him, Go your way. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him on the way. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Will you pray with me? Father, I thank you. For the first time someone prayed for me. As I now pray for this congregation and for myself, these words, Lord, by your Holy Spirit Open our eyes that we may see wondrous things in your word. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. As we come to the passage this morning, this passage is also leading us to the table. The table, as well as this passage, is inviting us to ask questions Questions like, do you see Jesus for who he is? What kinds of blindness do you suffer from? What do you see about yourself? And by what you see and understand about yourself, then what do you see and also understand about Jesus? in his relationship to you. These are important questions because in one form or other they are raised by the drama and narrative of this passage. You'll see in your outline the moment, the request, the irony. As we walk through together, the moment, the request, the irony. As we see Jesus dealing with Bartimaeus. The moment There are two things that this passage represents in this historical moment. And first, it is the last. It is the last miracle that Jesus performs as recorded in the Gospel of Mark. So this is an important moment because this is what Jesus would decide to do before he is going to Jerusalem to do exactly what he said he would do, which is he would give himself up. be placed on a cross, die, and then be raised on the third day. That the last miracle Before he were to go to Jerusalem would be giving someone their sight. That is an important moment It's meant to be very specifically drawing us to this question. This is about seeing Jesus. This is exactly what he's been trying to demonstrate to his disciples and to all who come at him. Do you see? It's also the first. It's the first time that the phrase Son of David is used in the Gospel of Mark The one that uses it is this man Bartimaeus. Now this would have been an unusual term to use Certainly for Jesus at this moment, certainly in the Gospel of Mark, but the question is, what did Bartimaeus mean by it? Did he understand that Jesus as the son of David would be the messianic fulfillment? of the promise given to David that your kingdom will be everlasting, that there will be one who will sit on your throne forever. That this would be the one who is the fulfillment of those Davidic promises. Or is it an honorific term? Of course, it's hard to know exactly what was in the heart of Bartimaeus But it's unclear by the passage that Bartimaeus specifically knew this as a messianic, glorious title for Jesus It certainly means something because it demonstrates that here Jesus is the Son of David as the one who is the promised messianic gift of God. that he had made to David many years before. And so this moment is, if you will, it's on a precipice They're not far from Jerusalem. The tension is rising. You have different people coming up to Jesus, asking him for different things. Jesus. Calling them to different things. The rich young ruler, not taking the bait, not willing to go, not willing to follow Christ. His disciples learning from that, as we heard last week, and coming up to Jesus and knowing that he's the right one to ask, but they're still concerned about their own place, their own position. About getting. And so at this moment, it seems as though the disciples are blind. They're They're arguing with each other about position and getting and what's going to happen next and whether they can trust what Jesus has said. You have the religious leaders of Israel accusing Jesus of things and trying to confront him and then trap him. You have others seemingly coming to him for very real needs and yet unwilling, once they hear what the answer is to their need, they're saying, nope, not looking for that kind of doctor. So all of this is happening on the precipice of going to Jerusalem, and it doesn't look very good. And so right at this moment, as he's leaving Jericho, such a historical city, He's going on the path. And then someone says Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me This is a also, in some sense, a new moment in the middle of this particular drama For just a minute. The disciples had just been arguing. People rejecting Jesus, not understanding, not knowing if they're wanting to follow. And as he's leaving, someone cries out. So what is the request? The request you'll see comes only after the crying out. What does the cry say? Jesus, son of David, return to me my sight. No. He says, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. That's the first important thing to see in this request. It is a cry for mercy. Bartimaeus would have been a man of suffering, ostracized from community. Without a whole lot of ability to provide for himself. And so he was given to begging And so if we place ourselves in the shoes of Bartimaeus He can't see. He hears a crowd. He clearly had heard something about Jesus. He clearly knew that people were calling on the, or at least heard the name, knowing that this crowd that was leaving Jericho included Jesus. To be a beggar at that moment is itself to be ostracized. So he knows that calling out has its risks And so he calls out. He's been asking other people for money or for some form of assistance. But in this moment, he's not asking for that. What is he asking for? What is he crying out? Have mercy on me The young woman who was standing on this stage last night, staring out at 50 plus women in some of their families To put herself out there in a group of front of a group of strangers and say, this is what happened to me. I was an award-winning athlete. I had it all going for me. I had the scholarships and everything else. But I then broke a bone. Why? Because I had allowed myself to fall into an eating disorder to keep up. With what I was thought I was supposed to look like as an endurance athlete. I grew up in a Christian home I heard the gospel. I responded to it. I remembered the moment I came to Christ, and yet now I'm here. And she cries out. She talked about how she had to cry out for mercy. That is a gutsy thing to do. Bartimaeus Asks for mercy. What does that tell us? It tells us that he recognized that his crying out had to be out of humility, that what he was asking Jesus for, he did not deserve. It was not out of presumption. It was out of humility. He's not going to Jesus first and foremost and saying, fix this problem. Nope, he's saying, just have mercy. And he persists. Listen to what happens. They rebuked him. Many rebuked him. Telling him to be silent. Many of you have seen members of our community looking for food and for assistance. At intersections, shopping malls. Can you imagine rolling down your window and saying, put that sign down You're in the way. Be quiet. I don't care about your children. That's exactly what's happening to Barnabas. And all he's doing is asking for mercy. The people who've been traveling with Jesus, the people who've heard him, the people who've heard what he's taught, are now telling a blind man, be silent. And yet he persists enthusiastically, all the more the text tells us. Son of David, have mercy on me. This is precisely what Jesus came to hear. What does Jesus want from you and me? Does he want our service? He wants our money. He wants our families, he wants our careers. Yes, he wants everything, but only after We come to that place where we see ourselves exactly in the place of Bartimaeus. I deserve nothing. Have mercy. That is the request But then when Jesus has called him and he throws off his cloak, he sprang up. Imagine how awkward that was. Not being able to see and yet finding your way to Jesus with assistance, I'm sure, to some degree. And he says, oh gee, Jesus has asked this before, we've looked at this before, what is it that you want me to do for you? Now think of the echoes of what people have asked for. How may I receive eternal life? Where will I be in your kingdom? How will you provide for me? So Jesus asks a very Jesus question. But he simply asks, not for greatness, but for alleviation of suffering on many levels And he says, will you recover my sight? He wants to be made whole But notice that Jesus heals him, and the healing Then he says, in the healing, he says, Now go your way. But Bartimaeus is not satisfied with that. He says, Go your way, your faith has made you well, demonstrating what the cry of mercy was. The cry of mercy was not first and foremost for healing. The cry of mercy was first and foremost a cry of faith. Lord, have mercy. And so Jesus says, your faith has made you well. Not that we should have faith in our faith, but it was the fact that Bartimaeus was the one in this moment who placed his faith in the right place. It's the object of the faith, not the amount of it. But he had faith in Christ. And so Jesus heals him, says, go your way. But Bartimaeus simply says. He immediately recovers his sight and follows him on the way. Now he sees Jesus And now he's following him. He's left one form of suffering. And now he's getting ready to follow Jesus to his We don't know how much he understood or what he might have been taught by all of that. But he didn't just receive something and just go about his way. No, he received something and recognized. What he really received was Jesus. And so he follows him. This healing that Jesus does at the request of Bartimaeus is a picture of discipleship and faith. The earnestness of what it means to be able to experience the deep power of grace. That discipleship is calling on the one who can only give mercy. And that the deep power of grace doesn't just come in and make us new. It makes us ones who are now disciples and united to Christ. This is the deep power of grace. It doesn't just come in and make us new, it gives us a whole new way of living. It shows us the path. And that is following Him. This is the picture of discipleship that he's wanted his disciples to see. This is the discipleship that he wanted the rich young ruler to see. This is the form of discipleship that he wants us to see. Which leads us to the irony. Perhaps you're already down the street and around the corner, but the irony is that the blind receive sight, but the sighted seem to be blind. Those who do have sight are blinded to the messianic glory of Jesus and his kingdom, even though he's already taught it. He's already been explicit about it. And yet those who were closest to him who could see were still yet not seeing. And that is instructive, is it not? On the one hand, the call to Bartimaeus and his healing is the picture. Of not just a literal man receiving literally new sight, but it is also the picture at a deeper level of what it means to follow Christ Not just in conversion, but to follow him in discipleship. That Christ and His mercy and His grace is enough To redeem us, but it is also the one that we follow. It is a deep picture of that, but there's another picture here It is not just of Bartimaeus, it is also those around him and of the disciples, tells us that there is a form of blindness that can persist in those who can physically see. What might they be? First, we can be blind to ourselves. This blindness can take on different reasons. It can be willful. It can be passive. It can be because of distractions. But this blindness leads us to sin and its patterns in our lives. where we've built up a nice collection of excuses and of patterns of covering over it We can have blindness to what we really need and to how helpless we really are. We can be blind to the forms of unbelief that are still deeply rooted in us, even if you profess faith in Christ. We can be blind to our fears, and we can call it something else And we can sometimes cover up all of that. We can cover up shame, we can cover up guilt, we can cover up fear, and we can cover it up by being really angry. Because it's a lot better to and easier to express anger than to express the hurt or the guilt or the shame we feel underneath. And yes, that can even happen among those who profess faith in Christ because blindness Is not or does not show favoritism. It is an equal opportunity kind of problem. It visits all socioeconomic levels, all races, both genders. It is in every house of worship We can lead unexamined lives for lots of different reasons. But to follow Christ means that we are asking, Lord Jesus, have mercy upon me. Now by your Holy Spirit, help me to see not only you clearly, but to see myself clearly. To see my helplessness, to see my sin and my patterns, to see my needs, what forms of unbelief are still there What fears still lurk that I cover over with anxiety and anger and busyness? Consider this one writer who said this. Like little children We don't want our parents, like little children who don't want their parents to hold their hands while walking through a dangerous city. We will not stay near you, Jesus. In our blindness, even our ability to confess has been distorted. Some of us are emotionally unaffected by the fact that we are helpless sinners without your mercy. Some of us are indifferent to the cost of our rebellion. We speak words of confession out of principle, out of duty, or out of habit, but rarely out of deep awareness of our need and helpless state. Some of us are so undone by our habitual falls into sin that we can barely look up for help Lost in the anxiety of our unbelief, we speak words of confession out of fear, out of desperation, out of hopelessness, but seldom out of confidence. That you love us and have invited us into the blessedness of repentance and forgiveness. I'm going to repeat that. Lost in, and if I may use the phrasing from this text, lost in the blindness of our unbelief We speak words of confession out of fear, out of desperation, out of hopelessness. but seldom out of the confidence that you, Lord Jesus, love us and have invited us into the blessedness of repentance and forgiveness. To say, have mercy upon me, Lord Jesus, is to say. You are more than enough. Your grace invites me out Not my fear of you smacking me on the hand or taking away the things that I love or out of desperation. But out of an honest evaluation of ourselves, but even more, a clearer picture of the grace and mercy of Jesus, Lord. That is where my confidence is. Not in me. Not in my understanding. Not in my circumstances. But you, Lord Jesus Let us then not only refuse and begin by God's Spirit to be willfully blind of ourselves, may it also be replaced with eyesight to see who Jesus really is, his mercy, his grace. His strength and his steadfast love. Parents sending your kids off to college This is a time to see the mercy, grace, strength, and steadfast love of our Lord. Some of you are in my shoes. You're teaching your children how to drive. And as I've done so. With Caroline at the wheel, I've seen years into the future where I will not be in the passenger seat. And it's led me to late-night prayer. Lord, Protect our children. I need to hear his steadfast love in the middle of the night and in the middle of the day. She's a good driver, by the way, but that's not the issue. That's not why I'm praying. But it's my fear You see, forms of blindness are real, that have nothing to do with the optical nerve But this passage is about having sight restored. Yes, Bartimaeus's literal physical sight was restored. But remember It's more than that. It is his faith in the one whose mercy and grace is enough. Do you need your sight restored to see Jesus To see Jesus in the middle of your life right now in all that it is and all that it isn't. Let me finish with these words. This writer, having wrote this, says, Yet Christ has recognized our helpless. Estate, and has shed his own blood for our souls. This blood that speaks righteousness for us gives us confidence to confess our failures daily. We have failed to approach you with honest, sincere, and confident words, yet Christ stands in our place, laying before you his heart in truth and passion, with no sin or mixed motives. As he hung on the cross, tortured for our sins, the sorrows that were rightfully ours were given to him in fullest measure. Your steadfast love, O Lord, surrounds us because your steadfast love was taken away from him. What a precious, atoning, ransoming love! And so Bartimaeus received sight and new life. And he turned and he followed Jesus to Jerusalem May the Lord restore our sight by his Holy Spirit to see Jesus more clearly And for this congregation this morning, to follow him to the table that he has set. To memorialize and to remember and to celebrate the body which was given and the blood which was poured out. That is, in the words of this writer, what a precious, atoning, ransoming love. Yes, Jesus loves you And we'll give you new sight. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that you would help us by your Holy Spirit to be prepared to come to this table to celebrate. The work of Jesus Christ and his atoning sacrifice. Father, we ask you in Jesus' name, by the power of your Spirit, open the eyes of our heart, Lord, that we might see Christ. That we might see ourselves in his light, that we might come to him in our helpless estate. Lord, remove the forms of blindness, That we carry with us. But Lord, as you remove the forms of blindness, will you help us to see that Jesus is more beautiful And more capable, and more gracious, and more loving than we ever imagined. And help us to worship you. For you are worthy to receive our worship. In Jesus' name, amen.