We explored this weekend um at this marriage seminar just how how easy it is for us, how em not just easy, it's automatic. So we just automatically blame somebody else immediately. When we look foolish or we've done something wrong, then how can I quickly put the blame on somebody else so I don't look so foolish and wrong? See and that that was instantaneous So we're going to talk about that today a little bit too, um, as we open up the the scripture here, the Matthew chapter twenty-six, but I want you to Just imagine with me for a minute before we read the passage um a day at the beach. Okay? It's summertime and you're getting ready maybe to go to the beach. We we love to go to the beach, we go to Cape Cod. every summer and um getting ready to go in two weeks for about five days and uh and up there we call it um Going to the Cape. That's what that's what you call it going to the the beach in Massachusetts. Going to the Cape. In New Jersey they call it going to the shore and down here you call it going to the ocean, I guess, huh? That's what I heard learned the first service. So you go into the ocean and you're at the beach with your family and Getting ready to go into the water and you're all heading toward the um beginning of the water line and notice how in the water Something black floating out there. And you think, well, that's not so bad. It's probably a piece of driftwood floated by, floating by, and so you continue to go into the uh water with your family and uh as you get closer to it you notice that this black driftwood actually seems to be not just floating but uh actually swimming It's kinda going this way and then sort of coming back and um and you figure, oh well I guess it's a seagull then. What else would do that? And um and uh and so 'cause all you can see is what's above the surface. And so you get into the water up to your waistline, and now you're a little closer to this what you thought was a seagull, and you realize that's not a seagull at all. What do you think it is? It's a little fin. It's a little fin swimming around all by itself. Just like the seagull. Not. So you know, now that you've realized that what you see is not what you're getting, but there's something more there. It's not safe And you turn around and you high tail it back out pretty quickly because you know that connected to that sin is a shark. And a dangerous shark underwater that could hurt you, maybe destroy you, and so you hightail it I want to suggest to you that very often the way we approach the Christian life and our sin and our problems is as though it's just a little fin We equate our sin with a fin. We think about just get control of my sin, you know. And so I put all this effort into controlling my behavior, changing my behavior by twisting the fin and getting it to go in a different direction. And we think that's repentance. And then we think that's a change in our life. And of course we pray for the Holy Spirit to help us too I want to suggest that that's not what Jesus is about. That Jesus came for great big not sinners But sharks. People like us who have hearts that are like sharks And the reason that we can't control our fin sin is because we have another energy source inside of us, much more powerful than just controlling a fin. And that's a shark called our sinful nature in our heart that we all were born with and we still have, even if we're Christians Now fortunately Christians also have the Holy Spirit living underwater and um somebody told me recently that uh a dolphin has the power to ability to kill A shark. I didn't know that. Does anybody know if that's true or not? Anybody a marine biologist or something here? But anyway, apparently dolphins can have the have have ability to just um um swim right into a shark and kill it or at least knock it out of commission. Which is probably what the Holy Spirit can do. And most likely, of course, that is what the Holy Spirit can do to our shark It's for that reason that I think Jesus therefore calls us to a lifestyle of repentance. And not a lifestyle of just continually trying to manage my sin, but rather a lifestyle of repentance I think that Jesus opened up his ministry with those words for a reason. If you remember back in the very beginning of Mark and Matthew The very first words that Jesus uttered after he came out of the wilderness, out of the desert, were repent and believe. Repent and believe. Repent and receive the gospel by faith. I want to suggest But that wasn't just Jesus telling us how to enter the Christian life, though it is. It's also Jesus telling us that that's how you live the Christian life. And so if you're looking at the two steps today To live the Christian life, it is repent and believe the gospel. And I think all the way through his ministry That's what he was getting at in all of his teaching. If you understand it that way, you'll see it more and more as you study scripture, study the gospels, study the Apostle Paul. You'll see that theme maybe stated in different ways. And I want to look at one of those ways with you today in Matthew chapter 26. On the very last night of Jesus' earthly ministry, on the night in which he was betrayed, after he had taken the cup And had the Lord's Supper with the disciples, and sung a hymn and went out to the Mount of Olives. Jesus makes a prediction To the disciples, that is rather startling. And when I ask you this question, why do you think that Jesus told the disciples ahead of time that they were going to fall away from him and disown him. Why did he bother telling them that? Yeah, Jesus wasn't in the business of shaming people He wasn't in the business of rubbing our nose in the dirt of our sin. And he wasn't in the business either Of calling forth strong resolution. I don't think Jesus told this to the disciples so that they would resolve strongly to not do it. Because in fact that's what they did, isn't it? I think rather this is another way in which we see Jesus calling forth repentance on the part of the disciples. So let's read the passage, Matthew 26, verses 31 to 35. Then Jesus told them, This very night you will all fall away on account of me, for it is written I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I have risen, I will go ahead of you into Galilee. Peter replied, even if all fall away on account of you, I never will. I tell you the truth. Jesus answered, This very night, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times. But Peter declared, even if I have to die with you, I will never disown you. And notice this last phrase, because it speaks to all of us. And all the other disciples said the same. Do you think he would have been any different that night? We would have said exactly the same thing. Let's pray. What it is it is stunning that we would say the same thing as Peter and that Peter said that. And it's amazing, it's remarkable that in fact what Jesus predicted actually came true. In spite of The disciples' resolution to not let that happen. Well, teach us this day as we open your word by your Holy Spirit what it is you have for us, how you want to show us more of yourself. And also more of ourselves, so we can repent of who we are and trust boldly in Christ. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Well the first point in your outline is Jesus calls us to a lifestyle of repentance Because he knows us much better than we know ourselves. He knows we're sharks Verse thirty-one, Jesus says, This very night you will all fall away on account of me You should know the context here. They've just had the Lord's Supper. And at that, during the Lord's Supper, Jesus told the disciples to recall, one of you will betray me. Do you remember the disciples' response? They all wondered among themselves who it could be. They wondered if they could be it. They did not suspect it was Judas. In fact, it's very likely, actually, that Judas was one of the most trusted disciples. Why do I say that? Because he was a treasurer. He carried the money. So they've had to have some trust in him, at least equal to how much trust they had in each other. So he might have been one of the least suspected persons that would betray Jesus. So they were puzzled that night. They didn't know who it was and they all all one by one said, Is it me? See Jesus even even then Jesus is showing them and us. We just don't know ourselves and what we're capable of doing. the way he knows us. And so now we have this declaration where Jesus says, you will all fall away on account of me. And as I said, I believe the reason he told them that ahead of time is to call forth repentance, which is about the opposite of what he got from them And you know, you would think, wouldn't you, after all this time being spent with Jesus, they wouldn't feel this way Don't we oftentimes think, and it's and it's partly true, that as I'm spending time with the Lord, my day is just gonna go better, then I won't fail him as much And that may there may be some truth to that. And we should have our devotions with the Lord. And it's very likely as we remember Scripture and the Spirit moves us during the day that we're not going to fail as much But because we have hearts that are like sharks, we're going to fail anyway. And that's the danger is to think that because I spend enough time with the Lord, I won't fail him. You couldn't have spent any more time with the Lord than the disciples did, could you? They'd spent the longest devotional time ever, three and a half years, seven days a week That's a lot of d that's a lot of time to the Lord. That's a long devotions. I feel pretty good if I get up to an hour. Well that that was an hour multiplied by thousandfold It doesn't depend on how much time you spent with him. Rather, the call is to repentance because of the way we're made, what's inside of us. So I imagine that what Jesus was asking from the disciples was something like this, you mean Lord, we spent all this time with you? And you know us so well that you could still predict that? After all the teaching we've had, after all the time, the many hours we've spent, the wonderful fellowship we've had Peter must be thinking, boy, you gave me the keys to the kingdom to help build your church, and you're telling me that I'm going to fail you tonight That's incredible. Woe is me, like Isaiah said. But that's not what Peter's response is, was it? But I believe that's what the Lord was calling forth. See we just believe too much. They're we're incapable of doing some things. We believe too much in our act of righteousness. And Jesus calls us instead to hunger for him and his righteousness alone, which is different than our active righteousness. That's who he was calling forth from these men that night. Now they didn't hear him the first time, did they? And so he gets a little more specific in verse 34 After Peter protests quite vociferously, in verse thirty-four Jesus says I tell you the truth. And that's a way to introduce something very important coming up. You know, in the old King James it said, verily, verily. Usually when Jesus repeats himself like that a couple of times, there's an important statement coming up And his point here is to get very specific and say to these men, this night before the rooster crows, You'll disown me three times, not just one. Now that's specific. You would think now, wouldn't you? At this point the disciples would begin to catch on. Maybe Jesus knows something we don't know about us. Maybe we don't know ourselves as well as we think. But I here's here's the response. Here's what the response goes like. Peter, both times, even if everybody falls away, I never will. Basically, Peter is telling the Lord Lord, the Lord of my life, you don't know what you're talking about. Alright? You think you know me But you don't very well. You've just shown how wrong you are, Lord. So she's not talking to him like he's the Lord, is he? He's basically saying, Jesus, you are so wrong. You just don't know how good I am. You don't know what I'm capable of. With your help, of course We will not do that. And I believe that's why Jesus gets specific with him then to say, let me tell you, let me be more specific Repentance is always a call to be more specific. And when when when we when we repent, we're not supposed to just repent of our general sin. But be very specific. Hosea fourteen two says, take words with you when you repent. That means be articulate. Don't mumble something like, gee, I'm really sorry if I hurt you, that kind of thing. Yeah. Very specific. I'm always willing to mumble something like that. I don't really want to when my wife confronts me with something and says something like, you know, why are you so grumpy tonight? I want to deny it. What do you mean? I'm not grumpy. It's an automatic response of my heart is to say that. Isn't that yours? Instead of saying, really? Well tell me about that. What how how you feel you know? I don't want to probe really. I don't want to know more about my deeper sin. I just want to deny it, see? And uh protest that I'm not like like the disciples did So I get a picture of my own marriage-relating style when I see how these guys responded to Jesus that night. They're basically saying, you don't know what you're talking about, Jesus. We'll prove it to you. Just watch. Just watch us in the next few hours and you'll see how wrong you are, Lord. I think that Jesus, all through his ministry, was calling this forth from us For example, when he says, if any man would come after me and be my disciple, he must deny himself and take up the cross. Have you ever thought about that as a call to repentance? I think that's what it is. I think the gospel says That's a call to repentance. Typically, we think that denying ourself means I better change my my sin. Right? I'm not going to do that sin, sin anymore. And Jesus says, no, I want you to deny. That is, put to death the shark. And you can't do that in your own strength. But we almost always go toward interpreting verses like that from what I can do And Jesus is saying, No, I want you to see you can't do it, only I can do that through you. Deny yourself. In other words, repent. Take up the cross. That means believe. You see, there's different ways in which Jesus calls us to repentance and faith as a lifestyle. The two steps of the Christian life, basically. Repent and believe. You can't do those in your own strength very well, can you? Because they're both a call to death. Who wants to die? Yeah. So we want to do everything we can to keep life by managing our fin. And she just no. Your problem is you've got a big shark. Retent. Deny yourself. Deny all your self justifying ways. Stop denying it when people say you're grumpy. For example, listen. I think also he wanted to show the disciples not just their lack of repentance, but their lack of faith as well. They um had great faith in themselves apparently and um he wanted to show them that that's not where our faith should be put, not in our self-confidence, but rather in what he can give to us And it isn't it it it's just a few minutes later when they fail him in a different way, isn't it? They once they've once Jesus has said these words, then they the next verse says Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane. And you probably know At that place, Jesus wanted to go apart and pray. And he asked three disciples to come with him and pray with him, Peter, James, and John. And as he went and prayed and came back to see how they were doing, how their praying was going, you may recall that they had all fallen asleep. And Jesus said, What is this? Can't you just stay awake for a couple minutes and pray for me? Don't you understand this is my hour of greatest need? I'm about to face the horrors of the sins of the universe. I'm about to have taken upon me all the fury of hell, all the sins of the generations. I'm gonna bear all that. I'm looking in the face of hell. I'm tormented. I'm overwhelmed. I want this cup to be passed for me if it's possible. And you can't pray for me? Would you please pray for me? And he asks him, and that happens two more times. They haven't even gotten to denying him yet. They've already failed him You would have thought there would have been at least on guard for that, wouldn't you? I'd better watch it here. Jesus said we're gonna fail him. Let's prove a wrong, you know, and they would have at least stayed awake. They can't even get that far into the evening. Minutes later. With all the resolution. And that's the second point in the outline. Our inclination is to a lifestyle of resolution Not repentance, because we do not know ourselves as well as we would like to think we do. See the contrast. We're called the repentance because Jesus knows us much better than we know ourselves. But we don't know ourselves that well. So we believe our resolution can get us through Our Christian life. We have a different opinion of ourselves than Jesus does, and we just can't imagine that we're as bad as He says we are. And so they protest Even if all fall away, I won't. And again, even if everybody disowns you, in verse 35, I will never disown me. Paraphrase, Jesus, you're so wrong about me. You don't know me very well at all So you have to give Peter some credit, don't we? I mean, after all, he was a very righteous man And he intended to be a good follower of Jesus just like we do. And we intend to be loving people and kind, gentle parents and forgiving people, don't we? That's our intention. You just don't do it very well. And Peter Peter's response indicates that he was a faithful man. Indicates that he loved the Lord. It indicates that that he wanted to be righteous. But I also see in him an instantaneous defensiveness. And that defensiveness portrays in us Where we are getting our righteousness from. When I'm defensive, it means I'm trying to protect something about myself. I'm trying to protect. In this case, Peter is trying to protect his act of righteousness. Our defensiveness comes because we are so committed to our act of righteousness. Jesus is always calling us to repent of any righteousness that we get from our act of righteousness and trust boldly in him for his passive righteousness so we won't be so defensive. And that's the call here, I believe. But Peter was so confident. And didn't he have a right to be confident? After all, Jesus had given him the keys to the kingdom. Based on Peter's wonderful confession back in Matthew 16, Jesus said, I'm going to build the church, the kingdom, on your confession, Peter. Here are the keys to the kingdom. Peter had come. Peter was one of the three disciples Jesus always asked to go aside and pray with him, go on the Mount of Transfiguration. There are many times when Peter was one of the select three. And he was and he was really called the head of the church eventually. He spent a lot of time with Jesus. He was very confident. I was sharing some of this recently with a friend and he said to me, You know, I've been confident all my life that I was incapable of something And I recently had a woman look at me at the office and my heart got so excited about that, I couldn't believe it, because I'm happily married. He said, I realized, as I thought more about that, that I have never realized before What impacted me that night. I could commit adultery. I never thought I could. But I've been so confident in the Bible studies I teach. I'm a leader in my church, and et cetera, et cetera And I said, that's a great gift from God. You're an arrogant man. That's your problem. You're so arrogant. Your confidence is all in your act of righteousness. Thank the Lord He's shown you this before you actually commit adultery. Now you know what your heart's like. It's that shark. It's the shark in your heart that love that tinge of excitement when she looked at you that way. Now you can be on guard about it. 'Cause you know what you're capable of. You could You could destroy someone with that kind of a heart. With all this resolution Why do you think Peter then denied Christ later on and all the disciples Flip the page if you have your scripture and look down at verse 69. Now let's see What Peter did. Verse 69. Peter was sitting out in the courtyard and a servant girl came to him and said, You also were with Jesus of Galilee. But he denied it before them all. I don't know what you're talking about. Now, I believe scripture intentionally points out to us that this was a servant girl This wasn't the mayor of the town. In those days the servant girl would be the least of all people. And just a little servant girl could cause Peter to lose it. What's that about? And later on, another girl, another girl. See in that culture, girls were just girls, you know. Another girl says the same thing to him and he gets a little stronger in his response back. And finally, some more people come and they say to him Surely you're one of them. Your accent gives you away. We know. And he began to call down curses on himself, and he swore to them, I don't know the man. Do you know how the New Living Translation translates that verse? It says, I swear by God I don't know the man. Incredible. Peter. I swear by God, I don't know the man. And what happened? They rooster crows And now Jesus now Peter repented. Peter repented hours ago and cast himself upon Christ as I need you. If you see this in me, wow, do I need you? But now he repents after failing. What's that about? The shark in our heart is so driven to protect our reputation, we'll do anything to guard it. It's a reputation issue. It drives me all the time. I want to look good to everybody. And so do you. And we spend the day finding ways to cover all the little things that don't make us look good, don't we? And we get our righteousness from them instead of Christ. And many times a day I do these little things that I dismiss because they seem like they're so little. They're not the big things. But there's so many little ones that they begin to add up to a lifestyle of depending upon my ability to cover myself and protect my reputation and look like I got it all together And I can't believe how many times I do that, how many times, even if I don't give into it, I want to. And they can be the tiny I'm gonna give you two tiny little examples to show you how ridiculous this is But the point is, if you see it in these tiny little examples, you'll see it all over your life. All the ways you protect yourself at at uh at work. Notice when you go to the grocery store, you come back out, and you put all the groceries in your trunk. What's the next thing you have to do? You're going to put the shopping cart back where it belongs, right? I don't know if you always do that. But sometimes when I do it and don't feel like it, I I feel pretty good about myself. Well, I did something I didn't feel like doing, you know. And I'm a little more righteous than I thought, see. I did it when I didn't feel like it. Now maybe you're over that. Maybe you just automatically put it back like you're supposed to and um and you don't feel so good about yourself. You just that's what I'm supposed to do. Here's the kicker The next guy doesn't put his back. He leaves it right behind your car. And what are the first words in your mind about that person? A jerk. Or something other something like that, right? You can you condemn him because he's not the righteous person that you are. He can't put his stupid cart back. You put yours back. What's his problem? And immediately we've condemned. So quickly I've been congratulating myself. I've been getting my reputation, my identity from the fact that I'm a righteous person. I put shopping carts back. See? Isn't it so silly? There's a thousand things like that every day. You know? If I'm playing a computer game and the computer and Ruthane walks in, I push the button quick, right? Why do I do that? I want her to think I'm working. That's why they have what do they call 'em the boss the boss key, right? Um games now. Push it quick before the boss comes in. The game's off the screen and boom you get your your spreadsheet or something up there or your email, right? Or or the other day I was I had to go to breakfast with a couple guys and um I don't know why I did this but I made a wrong turn and I was late Yeah what I found myself wanting to do all the way as I drove there, making an excuse for myself. I didn't want to walk in late and have these guys think, Oh, what's your problem? How come you're late? We're here on time. You ever had that struggle? So I want to think of some way I can excuse myself. I just fought this because I want see, my reputation is I'm not late. I have my life together. I can get here in time, righteousness, see And I'm thinking these little ways, what am I gonna say? And then I'm thinking, I wonder if I can actually get there and say nothing. That'll be a test Can I walk in and say nothing and just suffer the consequences? Let them think what they want. And then I thought, if I do that, I'll get righteousness from that too. I'm doomed. I'll think I'm a righteous person because they didn't say something. See how tricky that is? And always I mean the best we can do is repent of having hearts like that, that they're looking everywhere we can for some righteousness from somebody. Whether it's those two guys and their opinion of me and my reputation or the people in the parking lot or or just congratulating myself that I'm pretty righteous. I got it together. I do good things with people See, if I spend my day that way, preaching that false gospel to myself, that my act of righteousness makes me an active person, uh a righteous person, I don't need Christ all day long. I don't need his passive righteousness to keep changing my heart by the Holy Spirit. Because I'm doing fine. And then when I get home at night, Enrique says Well, what's your problem? You know? You're so cranky. I can't hear her because she's wrong. See? 'Cause I'm a righteous guy. How could she say that about Stu, you know? I I'm I'm a good guy. I didn't cut that guy off in traffic today. I'm a good guy, see. Never mind the fact that I wanted to, I wanted to kill him. So I can't hear her when she says, Oh by the way, you're being unrighteous. That's where the disciples were. They couldn't hear anything, see, because they knew they were righteous. They knew they wouldn't fail. And they did. Everybody here fails, don't we? And we don't need to despair over that. We just need to get with it and know that that's what we're going to do And Jesus knows that about us. And the promise of the gospel, point three in your outline, is this. It's twofold. Number one We will ever fail him and he will never fail us Cheer up. You're worse than you think. Cheer up. The gospel is much more powerful than you can imagine at the same time. And you see what that is in the passage here? Going back to verse 32. Right after Jesus said, you will all fall away from me You notice this gospel theme. Jesus always has this gospel theme. You'll fail, but I'm there for you. You'll fail, I won't fail you. You're worse than you think, I'm better than you think. That theme is always through scripture. It's here again. You just have to study it a little bit to find it. You will all fall away from me Verse 32, here's the gospel. After I have risen, I'll go ahead of you into Galilee. See the irony of that? Do you know what that's about? You can scatter all you want, you guys, tonight. You can fall away from me and disown me all you want and you're going to. You're going to. But because of the cross, I'll see you again in Galilee. I'm not going to abandon you just because you abandoned me. The advance of the kingdom and the growth in your Christian life is not because of your commitment to Christ. It's because of his commitment to you, because you will fail, but he'll never fail. He will always meet us in Galilee. Because He's gone ahead of us to the cross. Amen. Let's let's pray Lord, these are powerful promises you give to us. We acknowledge we have hearts like sharks, and we try to be thin managers, just like Peter and the disciples did that night, and we do all the time. But Lord, we thank you that in spite of that, you just continue to delight in us, rejoice over us with singing, you quiet us with your love. You don't change your viewpoint any longer, though we continue to fail you many times a day, and we'll do so probably in the car this afternoon driving home, let alone what'll happen the rest of the day in the family. We we already know that, Lord. And we pray that as we know that more and more, this will cast us upon your grace, your mercy. upon the resurrection power of Christ through the indwelling Holy Spirit, who alone has the power to apply all the benefits of the gospel to us. Help us to delight in your righteousness and not our own. In Christ's name. Amen.