This morning we are going to be looking at Hebrews chapter 2. So turn with me in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 2. We'll be looking at verses 14 through 18 this morning. As we reflect upon themes of dark and light and joy and hope and expectation and longing and all these themes that are so incredibly relative to the Christmas story, but it's relative to uh rather relevant to our life Of how we are hoping for God's salvation. And so this Advent season and Christmas season, we're looking at the incarnation of Jesus as a mini-series. Particularly his humanity, his flesh and his bone. Our text this morning references flesh and blood. We introduced our time in Advent this year looking at John chapter 1, looking at the glorious word that was in the beginning, that is with God and is God. Last week, our guest preacher Dan explored the themes of darkness and light, gloom and joy, looking from the hope that comes from Isaiah chapter 9. And this week we look at Jesus being a faithful priest from Hebrews chapter 2. And it's the mystery of our faith. That the heart of our God is love being born, love being sent. In the person of Jesus. And the birth of Jesus shows us how he identifies with us. In each and every way, and how as a faithful priest he's he's representing us to our God. For he's qualified to be that. He's merciful and faithful. So hear now God's word from Hebrews chapter 2, verses 14 through 18. Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things. That through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is the devil, and deliver all those who, through fear of death, were subjected to lifelong slavery. For surely it is not angels that he helps, but he helps the offspring of Abraham. Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God, to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Father, bless our time as we hear your word read and help us to be illumined by your Spirit, to understand. But to meditate and glorify you as we remember the blessings of your incarnation, salvation has come. In the person and in the life and the death of our Savior Jesus. Help us as we think about these things to realize our need as humans and to realize the beauty. And the mystery that you took on flesh. And identify with us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. One of the words to describe Jesus in several places in the book of Hebrews is founder. In the paragraph above from our text this morning in verse 10, Jesus is described as the founder of our salvation. And in chapter 12, verse 2, the founder and perfecter of our faith. Now the word founder uh is quite easily understood in English. We think about it as a founder of an organization, the founders of our country, for example. The word can mean a leader, the originator. It easily takes on the sense of a person who goes first, who is the chief, the head, the one who leads the way. And in the ancient world, such a pioneering role also took on the significance of what we might even call hero and champion. We recognize how we desire a champion to fight for us. We want someone to represent our views in the political arena. We want someone to fight for us on the field of battle. Now I'm I'm not an expert in comic books, but I do find it interesting how Many comic books interact with themes of the gods and humanity. Marvel has Thor, and he fights along human avengers. DC Comics has Superman who hides his true identity to live among humans so he can use his superpowers to help them. Batman hides his true identity to use his super tech and human grit to fight for those who can't fight for themselves. Which champion do you want? Which champion do we need? The Christmas story, though full of mundane details. Genealogies, narratives, donkeys, shepherds. It really captures the hopes, the dreams of a people That's in the backdrop of the hopes and the dreams of God's salvation, a vision of God's deliverance. So there is a very important question for each of us as we recall the Christmas story. Who is this Jesus? What sort of founder, what sort of champion is he to be? And the incarnation answers that question. This text gives this shape to the nature of Jesus and the purpose of his life. And so as we look at the passage and the surrounding context highlights Two key things about Jesus' incarnation. It holds together the tension of his divinity and his humanity. And so without minimizing his divinity, Hebrews 2 is highlighting his humanity. And the second key thing is by describing Jesus' purpose, we learn about his function as the one that goes before us, as I mentioned in verse 10, how he is the founder of our salvation. And in verse 17 of our passage, he's described as our high priest. So as we look at the incarnation this morning, It is couched in the rejoicing of the great truth of our faith that Jesus is able to save. And he does so because he is a faithful priest. And we're going to look at two main things, and I apologize I didn't get an outline, but there's two main buckets to how we're going to frame out this text today. It's looking at the incarnation, but that Jesus, number one, shares our common nature, and number two, Jesus supplies our ultimate needs. So let's look first at how the incarnation informs what we understand about who Jesus is, that Jesus shares our common nature. Now, this is the tangible reality of the Christmas story. Despite what you may hear on TikTok, the incarnation makes Jesus unique from the ancient pagan gods and other religions. A mystery of the Christian faith is recognizing that tension that Jesus is claiming to be both fully God and fully man. And in his birth, the people around him don't know that fully. And the gospels give the account of the unfolding revelation of that great truth. As God the Son is sent by the love of God the Father, and as human Jesus lives with the fullness of love for God. And he accomplishes the purposes of God to redeem his people. So look with me first at verse 14. Jesus partook of the same human nature, sharing together. With us, flesh and blood. The author of Hebrews provides reasons why this matters. Jesus' purpose A function is intertwined with his identity of nature. We'll explore more about what Jesus is doing in a few moments. But as we focus on his nature, think about your flesh and blood. Your nature, to be human. You and I have rationality to think and imagine. We possess faculties to decide and to act. You and I have emotions where we feel and we experience the full range of this life from sorrow and joy. From conflict and peace and grief and celebration. You and I have bodies. That sustain our existence. Our bodies process the nutrients from our food. It serves our very mobility of how we get around and how we do our work. Our bodies can be sculpted through training, and yet our bodies experience decay by age, by affliction, and by theft of tragedy. And so in the totality of what it means to be a human being, you and I share a common glory as creatures made in the image of God. But for this momentary life, we experience a common condition corrupted by sin. So next, look at look at verse 16. By sharing in our human nature, He is identifying with us, the human race. The letter to the Hebrews is a theologically rich and pastorally sensitive sermon to a particular group of Christians, most likely in Rome. So it's it's what we like to do, right? Here is a single sermon and I'm talking about one paragraph. It's as if I preach a sermon and next week we just look at one paragraph, right? That that doesn't always work in the same way as a whole sermon works. So I invite you to just sit down, even today or this week, and just Read or listen to the whole book of Hebrews and take it all in as a sermon from God's Word, because it is God's Word. He is identifying with us. He's identifying with the Christians there in Rome and what they were dealing with. The author has been making the case that Jesus is superior to angels. This is where the book of Hebrews is starting out. All the way back at the beginning, chapter 1, verse 4, he introduced this comparison. with angels. And in that, he's setting up how Jesus is superior to angels. Jesus is the very revelation of God. Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Jesus upholds the universe by the word of his power. Jesus accomplishes salvation and sits at the right hand of the Almighty. And as a sermon, it is full of quotes and illusions and references. To the Old Testament scriptures. It's all over the place. To understand his arguments, to understand his flow is to be steeped in God's scriptures. from of old. So for example, just in chapter 2, verse 6, he's referencing Psalm 8. Asking the question, what is man that you, you, O God, what is man that you are mindful of him? The psalmist is meditating on the status of humans in God's created order. We are not God and we are not angels, but rather we are lower than celestial beings. And yet, we are crowned with glory and honor as creatures that angels don't even have. And so Jesus takes our creaturliness and he shares with us in common our condition. Next, look at the first part of verse 17. The purpose in Jesus' incarnation was for him to be made like his brothers in every respect. Remember, we think, we feel, our bodies function. He's taking on all that it means to be human in every respect. He is not savior to the angels. He is the savior for the children of Abraham. He enters into the story of the people of God's creation and covenant in order to fulfill his purposes. Did you hear that? Jesus had to become. He had to be made like one of us in every respect. The word had loses a bit of its weight in our translation. In a sense, this idea of him having to be Is him taking on in his incarnation the obligation. He's taking upon himself what it means to essentially live The totality of our condition. In order for him to be savior, he must live in this state. He enters in and shares our nature from the manger to the tomb. He took on a human mind. He experienced human emotions. He possessed human rationality and will. He experienced The limitations of temporal life in a body of flesh and blood. He was a baby, completely vulnerable and dependent. He was an eight-year-old learning and growing and still depended upon his family. He was a young child who fell and probably scuffed his knee and cried. We know he cried over his friend who died. Surely he cried when he himself bled because his skin broke and blood seeped out. Makes all the meaning when he pours out his blood on the cross. He was a young man, coming into the better understanding of his way in the world and his purpose, and still dependent upon his heavenly father. He was misunderstood. He was conspired against. He was unjustly put to death. He lived. He suffered. And so in his own incarnation, he is showing us something of his character, and he is showing something of the path of glory through the steps of humility. Indeed, Jesus shares in our common nature. He identifies with us, and we are saved by identifying with him. We identify with Jesus when we believe the word reveals the truth of God's grace found in him. We identify with Jesus when we believe the word reveals the truth of God's grace found in him. We identify with Jesus when we believe the word reveals the truth that he is the Messiah, our Savior, who is fully God and fully man. Our identification with him only happens because he first identifies with us and enters into our nature, our condition. Not only does the incarnation teach that Jesus shares in that common nature we have, but it shows his human nature is for a specific purpose. The passage that we're looking at this morning mentions at least four ways Jesus acts to supply our needs. Destruction, deliverance, priestly service and help So let's look at this first one and how Jesus supplies our ultimate needs. Look again at verse 14. Jesus destroys the devil. The Bible speaks of the devil as Satan, a slanderer, the accuser, the adversary, the evil one. Ephesians 2, we see Paul calling him the prince of this world. And when we think about evil And the the the the the totality of that in who the devil is, we intuitively think that there must uh need there needs to be a stronger army. To defeat a weaker adversary. We intuitively think that someone must be wiser to outwit the foolish, or that a richer person pays off someone's debt. And so it's important to meditate upon how the text is telling us that Jesus destroys the devil. It's counterintuitive. Jesus destroys the devil by walking through death. Jesus goes before us. He humbles himself to the point of death on a Roman cross to experience the fate of us all in this corruptible life, from manger to tomb. Through death, he is then and only then raised to glory, so that through resurrection he is no longer held by the power of death. Though we can rejoice in the final destruction of Satan's bite, we must remain aware of the temptations of how he still temporarily barks. Just my reading this week, I read a uh uh a story that illustrates how the devil, even in the destruction here in the text. And though we live in this tension that we still experience the challenges and the threats, ultimately he is powerless. But he remains threatening. And so in this story, the author tells us of a time when he served as a postman with the Postal Service. He usually went about his daily routine, walking his route, delivering the mail, but one day he opened a gate to go deliver a package, and a very large dog. um lunged at him. There's a there's a reason why I guess that stereotype exists, right? It's a postman's worst nightmare. A very large large dog lunged at him. And so he he just imagine he he stepped back. He was afraid. He was bracing to be attacked. But he soon realized that the dog actually couldn't hurt him. Because he was held back by a chain that was securely fastened to the ground. The dog was able to bark and disrupt him, but the postman could safely deliver his mail on his route because the dog, although a threat Couldn't actually hurt unless the postman got close. And so it is, as we think, about what Jesus is doing when he destroys. Now, as an aside, I I don't presume to know everything about the devil and the demonic. It's not our main purpose today, but this passage is good news. for us to hear how Jesus supplies every need by destroying the one who has the power over death. He is the strongman. He is the wise one. He is the generous one that pours out and undergoes death to overcome death. The second thing Jesus does to bring about and supply every need, look at verse 15. This is the other side of the coin of his destruction. If he's destroying the devil, he is delivering all who are in bondage due to the fear of death. Those who have gone before us have died. Until Christ returns, we will die. It's a fact of life. My grandmother had a uh cross stitch on her wall. The only things certain in life are death and taxes. And you'll get taxed in death too. We all die. It's the great equalizer. The strong die. The wealthy die. The healthy End up dying. It's just a matter of when and how. And so much of our anxiety in this life can be traced out to deep fears for the unknowns about death. So maybe you're sitting there, maybe you like ancient philosophy, maybe you're a modern humanist, maybe you're a scientific materialist, all these fun things to say and read about. But simply, you just don't believe that there is anything after death. Well, if that is so, then we really are left with cold comfort about the end. And ultimately we are carrying a heavy burden, a heavy weight of figuring out how to make sense of that. Some might say there is no meaning, and so that's just what it is. And therefore we need to make meaning for ourselves. But if we simply cease to exist after death and then as the thinking goes, that we need not worry about eternal punishment of some grand architect, some master that's controlling things, or some man behind the curtain. So we rationalize these things. We rationalize the ending to encourage our best lives now. We seek to live in the present, and yet the specter of death haunts us all. Even in the ancient Greek philosophy, one writer wrote this, where can I go to escape death? Show me the country. Show me the people whom I may go, upon whom death does not come. Show me a magic charm against it. If I have none, what do you wish me to do? I cannot avoid death. Even in the belief of the ceasing, the complete utter nothingness. Beyond. It haunts us as we live. Perhaps that's not you. Perhaps maybe because of spirituality or religion of some kind, you believe there is something after death. But even then, fear of death can still terrorize us. And so we distract ourselves. We ignore our mortality. We don't think about it. Or we do our best to delay its approach. Which usually that's, you know, I would commend that for sure, but but it it is an aspect of our life that we wrestle with. But as we meditate upon Jesus' incarnation and the truth of this passage, we are given the faithful hope and a peaceful assurance that we get to shake our fist at death. We get to join with the prophet Hosea. We get to join with the Apostle Paul, and we get to shout, Death, where is your sting? Death, where is your victory? Because ultimately the victory is won through the death of Christ. Because he is not held by death. He has the very keys of Hades, as it says in Revelation. So here we have this beautiful reality of Jesus entering into death as a As a founder of our faith, he's going before us. He's our champion. He's our representative. He's going before us. He has the victory over death. And all the while it had to happen because he needed to be fully human. Unlike angels, he could suffer death so that as far as the curse is found, he would destroy death and deliver those who are enslaved to it. This is the good news of the Christmas story. This is the good news of the gospel. The third thing that this passage looks at as we see Jesus supplying our ultimate needs. is that Jesus serves as a priest. Due to his nature, being human, not angelic, he serves as a priest to God on our behalf. This idea is certainly in other religions, but it is foundational to what it meant in the life of God's people, of what it meant to be in a mediated relationship with God. That God's glory was brighter, more perilous than any one person could interact with. Unmediated. And so a priest, we have Moses that goes before us, and then his brother Aaron. We see in the in the Old Testament, we see all the descriptions of the priesthood. If you go on to read the book of Hebrews, you see more and more of that discussion. So ascribing to Jesus this role as priest, we see that he is qualified in two key ways. The author of Hebrews talks about how he is merciful. And faithful. He's merciful in his compassion. He understands our condition because he shares in it. And he is faithful to serve us. In the very face of God on our behalf. And what the author of Hebrews says here in this one sentence He he really unpacks uh throughout the letter. Uh he takes each of those qualifications and s and spends more time on it. For example, he flips it in the order and he goes faithful first. He discusses Christ's faithfulness as priest in Hebrews chapter 3 through chapter 4, verse 14. And then he unpacks what it means for his compassion, his mercy in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 15. Through chapter 5, verse 10. He continues to unroll the character of Jesus as priest. He continues to unroll the office of what he does as he functions as priest. So we see more of that in Hebrews 7. We learn more of what it means for him to become our priest. But specifically here, the author of Hebrews draws our attention to two key things of how he serves as priests. He makes propitiation for sins. Verse 17. And then we see how the implications of that is he is able to help. He intercedes on our behalf. He is in the very presence of God, and being qualified to do so, he does. And so when we think about propitiation, it is the mindfulness of what that means. Now, maybe some of your translations say expiation, some of your translations might say propitiation. Now, I believe What Jesus is doing on the cross does both. But here it's important to draw out that indeed it is more of what is used as propitiation. If you remember months ago, we talked about this. And Matt even talked about he challenged you to use it in a sentence, right? You probably will never use it in a sentence outside of the saving work of Jesus. Now, you might. But people probably won't know what you mean. But as we think about it, it's in the terms of the priestly office of what the priests do with sacrifices. They are going into the Holy of Holies. They're representing the people and making atonement with the sacrifice of the animal. There is the shedding of blood for the forgiveness of sins. And it is a, it's the expiation is the technical word for that represents what it means to be wiped clean. That our sins are forgiven. But the propitiation is that mediation of what it means for the wrath of God to be satisfied. That our sins bring just punishment in the eyes of the justice of God. And so therefore we need a mediator. We need one that is greater than angels, and the argument of the writer of Hebrews goes on to say, we need one that is greater than Moses. That can be our mediator. We need a faithful priest that can go in and make sacrifice for the propitiation of the sins of the people. And in so doing, it brings us to the fourth thing at verse 18, that Jesus is able to help. Jesus in his life. Sometimes we speak of his life in two different chapters or two different states, if you will. The state of humiliation. of what it means for him to come and be born of a woman under the law, what it means to share in our human nature to experience this life is to go about with those limitations of what it means to be human. And then to go on to suffer all the trials that this life brings, to go on to suffer all that it means to be a priest on our behalf to go and to experience betrayal, the suffering of the physical pain of what he endured. And all to bring about and accomplish salvation. It is because he himself has suffered that we are to be able to trust and to lean and to know that He is able to help those as we are being tempted in our life, in our condition, in our feebleness, in our frailty, in our limitations. And so as we look at the incarnation, the implications of this are certainly rejoicing that our Savior has come We can rejoice and joy to the world in all these beautiful trumpet sounds of the arrival and the coming of our King as we should. But the incarnation brings great comfort in the reality that our God took on flesh to identify with us. But more than just identifying, he took on flesh so that he could satisfy and actually affect salvation that no animal could ultimately do and no other person could do because we are corrupted in our sin. And so he comes and he shares all that we experience. He takes on all that is corrupted so that he can redeem all that has been affected by the fall. This is the good news of the incarnation. And if you think about the whole of our heart being stitched together with the threads of the gospel, you see it being woven together with all of God saving acts of deliverance through Jesus' birth, because we can't have a Savior who dies for us who is not born of flesh and bone. And we cannot experience someone born of flesh and bone unless he is fully God that can satisfy what is needed for our salvation. The incarnation is the very hope of why we celebrate Christmas, to take great joy and delight in the deliverance of our God and the hope of salvation for his people that has been waiting for for hundreds of years. And then he comes. And then he lives. And he suffers. And then he dies. And then is that the end? Like every other generation. But no, brothers and sisters, the good news of the gospel is that indeed death is defeated because death does not hold him. So for you, this Christmas season to even meditate upon how Jesus serves you as priest, why does this matter to you? How might you by faith hold fast to Christ, that these intercessions, this propitiation of your sin, that you are looking to him For your salvation. How is he ministering to you in your needs? Because we have a great Savior who takes on our nature and knows what we need. So for you, please consider the beauty of the incarnation. Consider your frailty and your mortality and to rejoice in the Savior that we have in Christ. But to also take stock of what holds you back from trusting in him. Do you want Superman who is so powerful that actually we can't relate to? Do you want Batman that is so rich and powerful and tech-savvy and he's got this human grit that that we can do it ourselves? He represents this because I need to save myself. No, brothers and sisters, the beauty of the gospel is that it's neither Superman nor Batman. In the incarnation, we have a champion that we need because he shares with us our human nature and he supplies all that we need for our salvation. Jesus is the stronger one. He is the wiser one. And he is all of the treasure of God who brings about our salvation. And so as we think about Christmas, he fulfills the role of the faithful priest that atones for your sins, and he is the faithful priest that intercedes for you for all your needs. He is the strong deliverer. He is your present help. Let us pray. Father in heaven, we rejoice in this great mystery of our faith That you are born. You enter into the human story to satisfy what has been broken, what has been destroyed by our sin. What is corruptible by the evil one, all of these things in the cosmic scope of your creation, we needed a cosmic redeemer, and we find that in your son Jesus. Grow us in this faith, and that may we take stock of the message of this sermon in the book of Hebrews that we would hold fast to your word, believing it in our heart that you have come to save us. And may we reach out with great hope that it is finished. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.