Please turn in your Bibles to First Peter. First Peter chapter one We're reading verses 3 through 9, but focusing particularly on verses 6 6 through 9. Before I read the text this morning, when I say thank you. Thank you for supporting us and your prayers. Thank you for supporting us financially. Your encouragement, your letters, your phone calls, your email. Yeah, email, that's right. God has been so good to us and you've been part of that as you partnered with us as as Steve said, you sent us out two and a half, three years ago And and God, we've seen God do a lot of things in our lives, a lot of a lot of challenging things before us, but a lot of joyful times as well. But thank you for being a part of that ministry in Madrid, Spain. Some of you know the last or the last year and a half while we were in Spain, we had a disagreement amongst the team, the other missionaries uh there. It was a theological philosophy of ministry disagreement. And Kim and I and another missionary family, we we took a position what we thought was God-honoring. uh theologically right, uh in accordance with the doctrine of the church, or on ordination vows. And what we found as we took that position as we went through the process with mission of the world. Is that we were ostracized. That because of our stand for truth, at least as we saw it We found people distancing themselves from us. We were alienated. We were maligned. Our characters were assassinated. It got all the way to Japan and back And so what in brief what we've experienced in the last year and a half has been a trial, a hardship, an affliction that God has been pleased in his sovereignty to send our way. As we talk about affliction and hardships, I know many of you have gone through some afflictions and hardships that I will not even begin to understand. But so this morning as we come to this text, realize that I'm coming from 1 Peter, as I I look at it through that framework of what has gone on in Madrid, Spain in the last year and a half. I found 1 Peter to be very consoling, giving me much hope and much encouragement as as we've gone, as Kim and I and the other missionary couples went through those difficult times. Believe me, there were plenty of times we were ready to pack up and come back home. But for the grace of God, we remained. So let's read together 1 Peter, beginning chapter 1, beginning in verse 3. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you. Who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. These have come, so that your faith of greater worth than gold, which perishes, even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. Though you have not seen him, you love him. And even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with inexpressible and glorious joy. For you are receiving the goal of your faith is salvation. of your souls. We find the Apostle Peter addressing In these initial verses, Christians, God's elect, these pilgrims, these sojourners, whose citizenship is not on earth, but whose citizenship is in heaven. But one thing very certain about these people of God is they're going through conflict. They're suffering. They're going through affliction. And Peter, in these opening words, what he addresses and directs to them is a message of consolation. We see in verse 6. It says, In this you greatly rejoice. Then this, I believe he's referring, if you look back on verses 3 through 5, is referring to the salvation that God has accomplished In them already. That salvation that they were born again, that salvation and past, but how God is shielding them in the present, the salvation present, but also that inheritance and that salvation that God is leading them to, that glory that's yet to come. And so in the midst of their suffering, in the midst of their affliction, he reminds them of the salvation that they can rescue, that they can recall, so they might not lose heart, but they might be encouraged, because God is shielding them, God is preserving them. And God is leading them on to some glorious inheritance that will never perish or spoil or faith. And so we see throughout Peter this twin theme of suffering and glory. And They go together. They went together in the life of Jesus. And do we not also follow that example? A suffering and the glory that awaits us. So it seems that in verses 3 through 5, what Peter is telling us is what God has prepared for us, what He's done in us, that salvation, that eternal life. But in verses 6 through 9, the focus shifts a bit, although the context continues to be salvation. But there he's addressing how God prepares us for that salvation. What is he doing in us so that we might live in the reality of our present salvation, but also look forward and long for the glory of that future salvation? What does he do in us? How does he prepare us for that? For that great feast with the Lamb that we will have with him when he returns, where people will be there from every tongue, tribe, land, and nation, even from Spain and Colombia. How does he prepare us for that? And that's the question I would have us consider this morning. Because it's very simple. How does God prepare us for that glory when he subjects us to trials? We are afflicted in various ways, so that we might know glory, taste of glory even here, but we might long for glory. And that inheritance that awaits us. First of all, let's consider two characteristics of these afflictions that we endure, that we experience. First of all, the brevity. You see in verse 6, you have your scriptures. Read there, in this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while, for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. Peter says to us, well these afflictions are multicolored, they're varied, they proceed from various sources, but one thing for sure, they're brief. It lasts only a season, just a little while. And we see Peter saying the same thing in chapter 5, that just for a little while these sufferings come. And you say to me, Tito, you and Peter, you've lost grip with reality. Afflictions a little while, brief. You don't know what I've gone through, you could say to me. You don't know what I've had to suffer. You don't know the illness that I've been plagued with and it just doesn't go away. You don't know the disease that's in my body or in somebody else's body that just won't quit. You don't know what it's like to live with a spouse that's abusive, that hurts me, with children that are rebellious, and none of this, none of this is grief Our painful experiences as we go through them, as we calculate the minutes, the hours, the days, the weeks, the months, the years, and we tally it all up. We never come to the conclusion, or rarely do we come to the conclusion, that it's brief. It's never brief enough. I believe, as we consider the context, keep that in mind. That as we see our trials in the context of salvation, the context of eternal life and the glory that awaits us. then we can begin to understand how our trials are only for a little while. Because it's a comparison to eternal life It's a comparison to being in the undisturbed, glorious, and beautiful presence of God. It's a comparison to being in our heavenly home where we have our rightful citizenship. It's in comparison to being in the presence of God where there's no more tears, no more crying, no more anguish, no more hurt, no more pain. No more affliction, no more suffering. It's in comparison to that home and glory that awaits us that we can say with Peter Yeah. It's just for a little while. A little while in comparison to eternity There have been times when we were in Madrid, especially in the first few months, I thought, well Lord, you know here's an affliction that's coming our way. Maybe in a couple months we'll resolve this. A couple months passed, a couple more months, a couple more months. I was perplexed Lord, this is not ending the way I would like it to end. It's not ending now. And it went on and on and on raises the question who decides the length of our trials and I'd love to raise my hand and say, I do. Lord, let me tell you how long this trial needs to be, because I know what I need better than you do. Oh, I'd love to say that. But see, he's the one who fashioned me. He's the one who knows my heart and my deepest needs. And he knows what I can withstand and what I can endure. And that's why Paul says in First Corinthians ten, a passage that we know, and God is faithful, he will not let you be tempted or try be what beyond what you can bear. But when you are tempted, he will also provide a way out so you can stand up under it. And quite frankly, this is difficult for me at times. Perhaps it's difficult for you. Because my inclination As I saw myself reacting to the situation in Madrid, and as I react to other situations of pain and suffering, my inclination is to get out of it immediately. If it's not to get up to try to fix it, to resolve the problem if I can't evade the problem But that's my tendency and God's tendency and God's priority is to demonstrate his glory in a broken vessel that I am. My tendency, my priority is my comfort, making sure life is under control and God's priority is forming Christ in me, the hope of glory. And so our agenda and God's agenda sometimes crash. And we don't understand And it bothers me that I can't say, Lord, it's enough. I know the lesson you wanted to teach me, Lord, and I think I've learned it. Now you can stop. See, I got point one, two, and three. The objectives were outlined completely, Lord, I understand. Now you can give me the job, now you can heal me, now you can do lots of other things. We can't say that. God's preparing us for glory. And he subjects us to trials that are brief. But he also subjects us to trials that are necessary, the other characteristics of trial. And verse 6, again It says, in this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. Now the New International Version of your Bibles is most of that most of you probably read that version. It says, you may have had. Now literally You see that translated in the New American Standard Bible, other versions. And literally it reads, if necessary. If necessary. So the New American Standard reads, in this you greatly rejoice. even though now for a little while, if necessary, if need be, you have been distressed by various trials If necessary, God subjects us to trials. God is not capricious in his dealing with his people. He's not a sadistic God who delights in bringing pain to you and to me. The afflictions we experience according to his judgments, according to his wisdom and purpose, and in proportion to our needs. Why? I often ask, why is this necessary? Why was it necessary to undergo the that trial in Madrid? Why is it necessary that you undergo the trial that you're undergone or have undergone or will undergo? We can't see how a particular affliction or hardship can be necessary. What need is it addressing, Lord? We like to ask that question and oftentimes we don't get a response to that, not immediately. But then I remember Biblical truth. There's things about myself that I don't understand. Things about myself that I don't see. The psalmist in Psalm 19, verse 12 says, Who can discern his errors? Forgive my hidden faults. Things about myself that are hidden, things about you that are hidden from your very own eyes and from your own awareness And so I realize that I do not have the capacity to rightly determine what is really necessary, the deep necessary needs of my life. Our son Joshua, three and a half years old, as a missionary kid. He's just a righteous little boy. Never does anything wrong. But if he ever does, Can you imagine him coming up to me one day and saying, Daddy, I have a really wicked attitude. I have a perverse thought and will you discipline me? Will you chastise me? No, he's not done that yet. I I'm not I don't suspect that he will Because in the same way I don't think that he's waiting for me. Yeah, he's not waiting I don't need for him to tell me what he needs. My Heavenly Father is not waiting for me to tell him, Lord, you need to do this, and this is all you can do. No. Our Father in heaven knows perfectly what we need. He's the physician that evaluates, diagnoses our spiritual maladies. He sees the deepest parts of our hearts, that which we conceal from everybody else. And so he sends these afflictions, he sends these trials that are like arrows and that tear through the curtain of our superficial lives. And that penetrate deep into our hearts so that they pierce that sin in our lives They get to the very core of our being, that which we were afraid to touch and to see, and that which we don't allow other people to see. But God sees clearly, and these afflictions come and they make us so vulnerable and we're humbled. So that we repent. We repent of our faithlessness. We repent of our rebelliousness. But I think for me, repent of my independent spirit. Repent of relying on myself, so that I might trust Christ more and more. to more deeply trust in the Lord Jesus. And it makes me uncomfortable to realize that I cannot always determine that. Because if I cannot always determine that, I yes, it's comfortable on one hand because I have a sovereign God that I serve and who knows that and there's great comfort in that. But yet it's very disturbing Because I can't do it. I don't have control of that area in my life Would you agree with the Lord that the trials, the hardships that you've undergone, presently undergone or will undergo, that they're necessary? Because to agree with the Lord that these afflictions, these momentary and light afflictions are necessary is to agree that He knows you better than you know yourself. is to agree that you will submit to his wisdom, to his kindness, to his care, as the potter learns the right to shape your life according to his design. To agree that it's necessary is to walk humbly with Him, to forsake this false control of our lives, and to submit ourselves and rely more deeply on Him. The afflictions that we experience, they're brief and they're necessary. But we also see in verse 7, they come with a very specific purpose. Verse 7, these have come so that your faith of greater worth than gold, which perishes even though refined by fire. May be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. So we see the purpose of the trial there is to demonstrate genuine faith To refine real faith. The issue here is not contrasting false faith with true faith. Rather, genuine, true gold with genuine, true faith. Remember, he's talking to God's elect, the Christians. So on the one hand you have this gold, this precious, the most precious commodity of the world at that time. And Peter tells us that this gold Although it's precious, so that it becomes even more valuable, more precious. Goes through a refining process, goes through fire, and in that fire, the impurities are removed. So on the other end, you have more pure, more valuable gold. And on the other hand you have faith, which is even more valuable than gold. More precious than gold because it's a very gift of God. But faith too. My gold is tried, it goes through that fiery furnace. And if you have your a gold ring of the gold zero, you don't see the impurities in it You know, unless you have the proper instruments, but most most people could do is you melt it down. You have the proper instruments, and once gold is in liquid form, you can see the impurities, the little black specks. then you can remove those specs with the proper instruments and you have pure gold. And so we see with our faith, God brings us to these afflictions. So that we're melted down, so to speak, so the impurities, that that the sinfulness of our life is exposed, and so there's a pure faith. Is revealed at the end. But unlike gold, gold becomes more pure, more valuable, but gold perishes with all that. But not so with faith. Faith increases. Who throws? And that's where it's different. It's firmly established As we go through afflictions. And remember that the afflictions that we experience are not punishments for sin for our sin. Please keep that in mind because our sin has already been punished in the cross of Calvary. Jesus Christ, if you belong to him, Jesus took our sins upon himself and his body. He suffereth from it. For the wrath of God does not for is not you're not experiencing the wrath of God as you go through affliction That's already been dealt with. But we see these afflictions come because of a loving father who disciplines, who chastises his children, because he wants to see our faith, our reliance upon him, become more pure. And note that it's our faith that's tried, it's not our love, it's not our patience, it's not our kindness, it's our faith. Because faith is that which holds us to God, it's the basis of our relationship to our God. It's by faith that we take hold of Christ, the means by which we take that perfect obedience of Christ. That he takes upon himself, and he took upon himself our sinfulness, that great exchange. It's by faith that we're accepted by God and justified. And apart from this trust in the person and work of Christ, there is no salvation. So it seems to me That as our faith is tried as we go through this process, that we come to a point where we trust ourselves less, that we rely on ourselves less and less. And we embrace Christ more and more. And I am convinced that this is not something that we would naturally do if God was not working that in us. That we might see the Lord Jesus more and more, that he might fill our vision, that Calvary would loom large in our minds, and that Jesus Christ would be the only object of our love and our faith. Because it's not enough to be moral, it's not enough to be upright. What the Lord is looking for for you and for me is that we depend on him. From beginning to end, that we rely upon him. And isn't that what Paul said in his letter to the Corinthians, second letter to the Corinthians? He said that he had gone through these afflictions. He was almost to the point of despairing him and despairing him to death. But he said that he had gone through this so that he might rely on God, who raises the dead, to rely on him, to depend on him. To trust Him. So our proven faith results in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. And when we're in Madrid, about a month before we came back, I there was a meeting that I was required to attend. I did everything in my power to get out of that meeting and it had to do with this the situation, our conflict, because I knew as I went into that meeting I just felt in all my heart that I was being set up and there was no way that I was gonna be able to protect myself. I felt very vulnerable, very very subject to pain and more pain than I was going through. But yet there was no way that I could avoid it. And I went, but before I went, let me tell you, I spent that week before praying like I've never prayed before, fasting like I've never fasted before I had to rely on God because I knew there was nobody else there that was going to help me, that was going to encourage me, that was going to support me. God had to be my refuge and my strength. Nobody else And is that where we are? As we walk day by day, where we trust nobody and nothing else We begin by trusting God in the very beginning of our Christian walk, and then as we go along, we mature, we slopp off into trusting ourselves. And God brings us back through these afflictions that we might trust Him more deeply. In verse 8, we see the evidence of faith that has been proved genuine, of evidence that of faith that has been refined There, Paul or Peter says, though you have not seen him, you love him, and even though you do not see him now, you believe in him and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy. So we come through that in some mysterious sense, it's an inexpressible and glorious to us. I don't have time to to get into that this morning. I do want to focus On the first part of that verse says, though you have not seen him, you love him. Though we have not seen the Lord, we love him. We go through afflictions, our faith is tried, and yet an evidence of proven and real faith is that we love the Lord more whom we've not seen. And remember this is Peter who had seen the Lord. Who had seen the Lord Jesus in the flesh and these Christians that he's writing to have not seen the Lord. And remember it was Peter who on the night before Jesus was crucified, whose faith was tried. And Jesus said, Satan's going to sift you like wheat, but Jesus said, I prayed for you that your faith may not fail. His faith was tried. And he denied the Lord. Then after Jesus' resurrection, we find Jesus his encounter with Peter. He says, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Yes, Lord, you know I love you. Simon, son of John, do you love me? You know, Lord, I love you. And what we find throughout scriptures, we even see it in Paul's letters to the Thessalonians, that faith and love go hand in hand. And as Paul says in Galatians, that faith expresses itself through love. Faith without love to Christ is a dead faith. And a Christian without love to Christ is a dead Christian, a spiritually dead Christian, dead in the trespasses and sins. Do you love Christ? You who go through these afflictions and hardships, you come out on the other end saying, yes, Lord, I love you Yes, Lord, I want to be with you. I want to be in your presence. I want to commune with you. I want to submit to your will. I am convinced that if we love Christ only because he makes life comfortable for us, because he makes life affliction-free, we have no real love for Christ. For if you love the Lord Jesus Christ little, hardships will come and you will shrink back and you will faint. If you love the Lord Jesus Christ much, Hardships will come and you will say, Lord, give me the grace. Take me through it because you love me and I trust you It's love to Christ that will distinguish you who are a Christian from those who are not Christians. Because it's of the very essence of a Christian to love Christ whom he has not seen. If you are here and you realize that you do not love Christ, realize that it's not because Jesus isn't beautiful, because he's not lovely, because he lacks loveliness. It's because you're spiritually blind. Because to see the beauty of Christ and to love him requires not the eye of sense, but the eye of faith. And what we realize, we who are in Christ Jesus, as our faith is tried, so we begin to see the Lord Jesus Christ more clearly. Because the impurities are removed. And as we see him more clearly, we love him more dearly because we see him as he is. And we come to that point of our lives where we long for him as evidence of faith that's been tried and and proven we love him. We know that also has to express itself as we love other people. You can pray for me, you can pray for us in Madrid, that though we've gone through this conflict, that there would not be a bitterness amongst us, but rather there would be a real deep love. For one another. And as you go through hardships and afflictions, even those with those you disagree, do you love those people? And finally, do I long for Christ? Do I long for the Lord? What we experience as we go through the afflictions, as God prepares us for glory, we get tidbits and morsels of glory that come out of heaven. And it encourages us, it comforts us because we know what awaits us. And when we become, when we get to the to heaven, when the Lord Jesus returns and when we receive our full inheritance, We will no longer walk by faith, but we'll walk by sight. We'll see him as he is. We'll see him face to face Has happened in Madrid. My longing. My longing to be and seeing my father has deepened so much. No, I was uh I guess about a year ago, I was at the airport in Madrid picking up So buddy, and uh as I was waiting for them, there was another person that went went through these uh this barrier, this customs barrier. They came to the doors as a young man he had a a backpack and as he came to the doors he was obviously looking for somebody And he spotted the person and I was I was observing in the background and I saw him as he ran around around the barrier. He threw his backpack and he grabbed this this older gentleman, perhaps his father, and he gave him a massive bear hug. And what struck me about that was not only the hug, but the way the young man took this other man's face, grabbed his face, and just stared into his eyes. And it seemed like he stared in his eyes for an eternity. It was probably about a minute. And I thought to myself, Lord, that's what I want to do. I want to see you. I want to long for you. Because, yeah, these are momentary light afflictions. There are nothing. There are nothing. In comparison to that which you prepare me for, that which awaits me and your children. Oh, that God would give us that longing and that willingness to submit to His wisdom. To how he tries us, so that he might prepare us for that glory that awaits us. Let's pray. Father, as your children, we don't always understand what you do in us. You see things in us that we don't see. You subject us to trials and afflictions that times are hard for us to understand. We pray that you would give us that grace, the eye of faith, to see you. To see what you're doing, to trust you, to rely upon you, to long for you Lord, because our citizenship is not here on earth. And you send these trials that our grip here on earth and earthly things might be loosened. So that we might long for the Lord of glory, for the Lord who's prepared glory for us and is taking us even now from glory to glory. Help us to see it, Lord, from your perspective. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.