I'm sitting there listening to the music. We're giving our offerings to the Lord. It struck me as I looked about and saw you become hungry. You come wanting to hear a word from the Lord, don't you? And I don't have that word to give it myself. We need to look to him. Let's pause and ask the Lord to heed us this morning Lord, we come needing to hear you speak to us. To hear a word from our God. A word to encourage, a word to refocus us, a word to challenge and redirect. We need for you, Lord, to teach us, to open our hearts. To make us mobile and usable before you. So we ask you to do that. Because it will honor you. And because, Lord, you will not be honored, these people go away holy. That will not glorify you. And so we ask in Jesus' name, who we have most concerned to glorify, that you will speak to us now. This week, Dan Iverson came to town. Dan is a robust Marine Captain. Dan is a fellow who loves Jesus Christ. He's a dreamer of kingdom dreams. He's a man who is especially gifted in evangelism. He's the kind of fellow who when he puts his arm around you and asks you if you've considered your relationship with the Lord, you don't ignore that. He's a fellow who dreams about reaching people for Jesus Christ around the world, particularly in frontier missions. He's also particularly interested in church planning and has a special concern for a church in east of D. C. that could be a base of operation toward reaching the district of the gospel. Brand is in his last year at Reformed Theological Seminary in Jackson, Mississippi. And he would like to train with us as an intern, the same way that Dick Ellis did, testing his gifts. To see if God is in fact calling him into pastoral ministry. But there's a problem. The problem is a man has a wife and four kids. And it would cost us probably about $20,000 to be able to train them, to use that time That comes right at a time when we're talking as a congregation about a need for a facility, for land, for building, either to buy, to rent, take something that's existing. We need a lot of money. And this would be a large increase in our budget over the next couple of years. Do we have faith to believe that the Lord could do that? Could supply for the needs to bring down here to provide the facility? What about in your own life this morning? Is there something that you're facing, that you've been praying about, that you think about it, and if you think about it, you wonder if it could ever happen? You've been praying for that matter for weeks or months or years. You haven't seen anything happen. And you wonder where God is at the scene, for that matter. You wonder if he's heard of you, if he cares about you. You wonder about your faby. And you seem like in your life you seem to live on a natural plane rather than a supernatural plane. You're much more aware of the natural problems and circumstances about you, not merely as aware of the supernatural that's going on. I believe that if you take a look at the whole body of Christ, that we within the Reformed community, those who are heirs of the Reformation, in the most direct mind Those of the Reformed Churches, the APC Orthodox Presbyterian Church in particular, have had a real grasp on the knowledge of the doctrines of grace. But I think they're much, much weaker when it comes to faith. I think that we as a people have to recognize that in the whole body of Christ, we have not been as merely those people who live with an awareness of the supernatural And a grasping of the promises of God by faith is many of our other brothers and sisters who may not grasp the doctrines as clearly. How do you develop faith? I think the way that you develop it is to see it in action, to understand it, and to be able to lay hold of what that means to trust God and take him at his word And then to seek it as you step out on faith in a particular matter. Jesus said if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you could be able to sound that mountain, be removed, and be cast into the sea. He and I look at our problems, and that seems totally unreal to us, doesn't it? I don't even know what he's talking about, let alone being able to grasp and apprehend that in the problems of my life, I need to see faith in action. And so what it wants for us to do is look at a portrait with faith in the scripture, the inspired record of history. In the next three weeks. Over the next three weeks, I want us to look at a beautiful portrait of faith which is given to us in 1 Samuel chapter 17. The story of David and Goliath. As we look at that story of David and Goliath, I want you to notice three things about faith. Look at the first today. And then in the next two weeks, we'll look at each one of these. First of all, today we're going to look at faith's perception. Then next week we will look at Fates Power. And the following week we will look at Fates Thrive. As we look at the story of David and Goliath, we need to see that it is not the story of Jack the Giant Killer, worth in some large spiritual measure. There is much more going on in this story, and we need to understand the spiritual truth that God has for us here. Now we're going to take a look at this story, these three books, looking at the whole chapter each week, but we'll read only the first deleted in three parts. So this morning we'll just read the first sixteen verses, and then we'll continue on in the next couple of weeks. Also I might add that we are going through this section of David's life in our Bible Institute class at ten AM over in the barn. So if any of you are not in the other class, in Ken's class, would like to Join us to find out more about the background of this story, the history of it, some of the details, the application to discuss. Join us at 10 o'clock over there in the barn. Talk to me about where that is for you directions after you. Right now, let's give our attention to God's word as we read the record, his inspired, authentic, accurate record of what actually happened around 1000 BC as a means of strengthening our faith. And understanding God's ways. 1 Samuel chapter 17, beginning with verse 1. Now the Philistines gathered their forces for war and assembled at Succath in Judah. They pitched camp at Ephistamu between Succa and Azekah. Saul and the Israelites assembled and camped in the Battle of Elah and drew up their battle line to meet the Philistines. The Philistines occupied one hill, the Israelites another, with a valley in between them. A camp named Goliath, who was from Gath, came out from the Philistine camp. It was over nine feet tall. He had a bronze helmet on his head and wore a coat of scale armor of bronze, weighing five thousand shekels, about a hundred and twenty-five pounds. On his legs he wore bronze breeds, and a bronze javelin was slow on his back. The spear shaft was like a weaver's rod, and its iron plate weighed 600 shekels, about 15 pounds. The shield bearer went ahead of him. Lion stood and shouted to the ranks of Israel, Outline up the battle. Am I not a Philistine and you are not the servant of Saul? Choose a man and have him come down to me. If he's able to fight and kill me, we will become your subjects. But if I overcome him and kill him, you will become our subjects and serve us Then the Philistines said, This day I defy the ranks of Israel. Give me a man and let us fight each other. By hearing the Philistines' words, Saul and all the Israelites were dismayed and terrified. Now David was the son of an Ephraimite named Jesse, who was from Bethlehem and Judah. Jesse had eight sons, and in Saul's time he was old and well advanced in years. Jesse's three oldest sons had followed Saul to the war. The firstborn was Gemiah. The second Abimedad. The third Shana. David was the youngest. The three oldest followed Saul. But David went back and forth from Saul to tend his father's sheep at Bethlehem. And for forty days the Philistine came forward every morning and evening and took his stand. Now picture the scene for a moment, what's going on. Here you have two mountains separated by a deep valley, and there's a stream running down that valley. It's the Valley of Elam in the foothills, the rocky, relatively barren foothills of Judah, about three and a half hours southeast of Jerusalem, and about 1015 miles southwest, or excuse me, southwest of Jerusalem, about 1015 miles southwest of Bethlehem, David's home. The bottom of that valley, this little stream is a refreshing flowing stream that rises and falls according to the season. But not today. Not very refreshing. Because if you look at that stream and look up on those mountains, you see on the northern slope all of the armies of Israel gathered on that mountainside. And you look up the valley to the other slope and you see all the armies of the Philistines gathered on that mountainside. And the two armies are glaring at each other across this valley. The Philistines were a people from the Aegean Isles, a maritime people who settled on the coast of Palestine around 1200 BC. And for 200 years now, they've been wanting to take over all of Palestine. And off and on, then for 200 years, the Israelites have been fighting this Philistine people. A fair that constantly is harassing them and giving them difficult. And I want for us to look at this scene now and see three perceptions of what occurred there. First of all, I want for us to see what Israel saw, as they saw that scene. Then I want us to contrast with that what David saw as he looked at the scene. And then finally I want for us to look at what we see as we look at the scene. First of all, what did Israel see? We see in those first three verses they see the forces of the Philistines gathered for war across this valley Not when the Philistines knew of Saul's weakness and depression. Remember, this is at the time when God has rejected Saul as king, and Saul has been going in and out of states of depression. And they see that the king is weak, and they want to take advantage of his weakness now and attack. It reminds me of like Sin in Our Lives There's just a couple of chapters before the Philistines have been decimated through the valiant efforts of Jonathan, who had trusted God. And they thought, Oh, it takes care of the Philistines, we won't have to worry about them for generations to come. But here they come back again. And there's no sin in your life of my life that we can say, Well no, I've dealt with that one once and for all. Don't have to worry about that one anymore. God really dealt with that one. with me about that. And as soon as you begin to think that, it comes creeping along left behind you. There you see that sin coming right back at you again to haunt you. And I can imagine how the Israelites must have felt as they looked below that mountainside and see all their old foes, the Philistines, again. You can imagine how they must have said to one another, Just when we thought maybe we'd have some peace. Oh, we've just been fighting the Amalekites. Let me fight this way and that way. Seems like one problem after another. Just when we thought maybe we'd get a little rest. Now there's another nuisance, another hassle, something else to play with, something else to bother us. You ever feel like that? They think you got through one problem, here comes another of them. Something else to bother you. But they don't ask the question: what is God doing in this? What does God want to do in those Philistines? Why has God sent them here? What does God want to teach us through this? How does God want to glorify himself in this? What is God doing in this? How is he going to be glorified in this situation? All they see is the Philistines. They don't see anything beyond that. They don't see anything of God's purposes. They only see the Philistines. Then they see Goliath. Now, Goliath must have been a sight to behold. I want you to use your imaginations for a minute and imagine what it must have been like to look at Goliath down in that valley. First of all, notice that Goliath was a giant. A giant of a man. Notice his size. The Bible tells us in verse 4 that he was over nine feet tall. Have you ever seen somebody over nine feet tall? See somebody seven feet tall, and they look like a giant. This guy was over nine feet tall. Some say nine and a half, some say perhaps even ten feet tall. Now that's particularly important for Saul. Why? Because you remember Saul was the tallest of the Israelites. And Saul probably thought that he was chosen as king because he was head and shoulders over everybody else in Israel. And so Saul, who is a man who trusts in his own strength and trusts in what he can do, looks at the light. And what does he see? He sees somebody that's taller than him. And therefore, in that comparison, Saul is terrified. Listen, if you seek to find your security In anything you can do, in your appearance, in your looks, in your brains, in your capability, in any way, you will be in bondage to comparisons. Saul could only feel strong when he could look down fluidly on people. But when he looked at the light, He was thoroughly intimidated. He was scared to death because all Saul could see is signs. He could only see things in human terms. And so when he sees big Goliath, he says, now there's a guy who's more powerful than I am and I don't have a chance. He doesn't see it in terms of what God is doing. So I was intimidated by his signs and threatened. And every time you and I look to our own abilities, we will be threatened by comparisons with other people. Notice also Goliath's armor. If his size wasn't intimidating enough, look at what the guy's wearing. First of all, he's got a bronze helmet. You can imagine what a huge, shaggy head that must have been. To look at that head, the size of that head, that big bronze helmet on that head. And the fellow's covered with this coat of armor. Bronze armor. all the way from head down to his legs. Can you imagine that order weighed as much as many of you? The order itself, just the coat, not counting the helmet, the sword, the spear, the leg guards, none of that. Just the coat weighed over 125 pounds. Imagine wearing a coat that heavy, a barber, and that you know, and this guy can run with it That's the kind of size and strength that he had. And then they see his leg guards and his shield, a shield that took a man to carry it for born, verse 7 tells us. Then you look at his weapons. You notice what he's carrying. Probably two weapons are really being described here: a spear and a sword. You see the sword in verse 51. But we're talking but the verses 4 to 11, what the author is describing here is a sphere, a few sphere. A spear that he says was like a weaver's beam. In fact, he says the point of that thing weighed 15 pounds. 15 pounds of metal to run through. That's the kind of sphere that you're looking at as he begins to shake it up and down and he rattles his threats to you. And try and think of this challenge. Life comes out and he says, let's fight one on one. Why should we have a battle? Why should we have all these fellows go out and lose their lives? Just me against one of you. How about it? Goliath, we're told, was from Gath. And Gath was one of the three cities left in which they were the giants, the descendants of Anak. Who were left in the land. And so Goliath was a special priest. There was nobody left Goliath around, at least who were in the land of Israel So Goliath comes out, he throws down this country, and verse 10 tells us he devised Israel. That means he scorns them. You can imagine the roar with which he gave us up the mountainside. Let me tell you, once I was in a zoo, when I stand in a zoo, I happened to be beside the gorilla cage And the gorilla was just sitting there very peacefully. And I don't know whether something did him or whether he got in the bad mood all of a sudden. But all of a sudden that gorilla leaped to his people. He let out a roar. And I'll tell you, I've read all about how gorillas are peaceful, really gospel, friendly sorts of animals. But when that gorilla began to beat his chest in front of me and roar out There's no way in the world that you could tell me that I was safe standing in between that glass and him and me. That was sheer ball power. And it was terrifying. Can you imagine what it must have been like to stand there along that mountain and see this bowl, nearly ten feet tall, roaring out his defiance to Israel? Come on, let man down here. The Bible tells us that they were terrified. Verse 11 says they were dismayed, but they were terrified, but they ran. Verse 24 tells us when Goliath began to move a little too close up the stream, all Israel began to run up the mountainside. And that incidentally is a literal fulfillment of prophecy. God had said in Deuteronomy chapter 32, in verse 30, something that would have seemed impossible to be fulfilled. God said that if you don't believe me as my people, in Deuteronomy Deuteronomy 32, 30, God said one man will chase a thousand By two for ten thousand of flight, how could that happen unless their rock had sold them and God had given them up? And here is a literal fulfillment. One man putting a thousand soldiers to fight up the mountainside. Because of that war of his challenge. Verse 25 tells us that Israel tried to motivate each other. Notice what they say. The Israelites began to say, but don't you see how this man keeps coming out and he's coming out to defy Israel? And the king will give great wealth to the man who kills him, and also give him his daughter and man who can exempt his father's family from taxes in Israel. What do they say? They're trying to motivate them through shame, first of all. They say, Yeah, let this guy tell us what to do. And says, Yeah, sure I am. And he goes on up the hill. And they'll say, Oh, you're coming back, don't you have any fight? No, no, no, you don't fight up here. And that's what they keep saying to each other. Don't you have any pride in Israel? Secondly, they try to motivate each other through material goods. Look at the honor and the wealth that you'll get. But again, do you see it? All Israel sees is the shame of their own honor. All they see is the material reward that's in it. They totally miss the point that it's a spiritual battle. They don't understand anything about God's fame. They don't understand anything about the spiritual reward that comes from faith. And all they see is the physical. And this is totally the point of verse 47 that the battle is the Lord's. Totally lost on him. Let me ask you right now: what God threatened you this morning? What diet is intimidating you? What fears? What anxieties in your life this morning toward your faith in the living God What fears in your life now say, is God real? Then let us see Him do something in this manner. What challenges are before you? What is it that scares you as you see God's call to you in discipleship? The challenge of evangelism and sharing Jesus Christ with those that you know? Challenge of some personal problem that seems that God is impossible to work in it. Challenge of some habit of money, root of it, challenging your job What joy this morning is terrifying you? Now look at what David saw. In contrast what Israel saw with what David saw. Here's David, a shepherd boy, never than a soldier, has no armor on. He comes down simply to visit his brothers from home and to bring them some videos. He's bringing them around early care package for mom and dad. Comes down there to help them boost them around a little bit. He hears the talk for the 40th time, the Bible tells us. 40 days Goliath's been coming out and raging the same way. On the 40th day, David happens to hear the same thing that Israel's heard all 40 days. But his response is entirely different. Their response is fear. His response is anger. Why is it? Notice verse 26. David asked the men standing near him, what will be done for the man who kills this Philistine and removes this disgrace from Israel? Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? And there's two things about that. First of all, David sees the man spiritual. He calls him uncircumcised. That means he's noticing his spiritual condition. He's noticing that Goliath just the way Jonathan had noticed in chapter 14, verse 6. When Jonathan had said, God can say by many about you, let's go against these uncircumcised fellows, the Philistines. David also sees what his spiritual condition is He doesn't simply see a giant. He sees someone who is a covenant breaker against God, who doesn't have the mark of God's covenant upon him, who defies God and who's broken his covenant, and is the enemy of God. So David says, Who is this uncircumcised guy? Who does he think he is before God? Notice suddenly that David sees the challenge spiritually. He talks about and defying not simply Israel, but God. Notice verse 26. Also verse 36 and 45. The same thing is mentioned. Who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? It's God's honor that's at stake. That's what upsets David. DC is the real issue. It's not an issue of some giant against somebody else from Israel. This is an issue of the false gods against the true God. It's a spiritual battle that's being waged here. This is a spiritual challenge that's being flown down from the unbelief. David's. But it's also that David sees uh well just one other point before I go on to this matter of his experience. David sees that this is a spiritual battle. And I think that's something that we miss very often today. How many Christians have you talked to in the last week? As we have been deeply grieved by and wept over perhaps the events in Grenada and Beirut, how many Christians have you seen who have pointed out that in that battle and struggle Beirut has traditionally been the door to the Mid-Easter missions. Beirut is a strategic foothold for the Church of Jesus Christ. Be making the gospel known in the Mideast. Whatever issues of justice and mercy are at stake there that we've just prayed about corporately in the last few minutes. The point is, do we see in Neighbor a spiritual conflict going on or do we only see world politics? Do you want to see what's going on politically between the Western powers and the Eastern powers and this faction and that faction? But do we see beyond those events what is happening to the Church of Jesus Christ in these situations? What's happening to the church in Grenada? What's happening to the church in Beirut? We have to see as David is spiritualized a spiritual conflict behind simply political powers and movements and challenges. Notice that David also saw his experiences spiritually. This is the incident of the lion and the bear. Now we'll probably take this up next week. We don't have time to get into that this morning. But notice one thing here that I'll call your attention to now. David, when he is told, he can't do this, he's just a little kid. He says, But God delivered me from a lion and a bear while I was a shepherd. And that same God is able to deliver me now. So David is able to extrapolate spiritual his experiences and learn spiritual lessons from him. The good is faith. Do you, when you see prayers answered, find yourself having the sneaking sort of feeling that it was basically good luck, but you put it in spiritual terms? But do you learn from those experiences that God who is able to deliver you and answer that prayer at that time is the same God who will help you down in a crisis or in some problem or some insurmountable circumstance? David learned from his experiences, his spiritual lessons. Finally, we see that David saw Goliath in the battle itself spiritually. Look at verse 42. We have here a dialogue between Goliath and David. As the battle draws near, we see Goliath comes on the field and he sees who they have actually chosen to fight him. It's as little one of a shepherd boy who's coming out across the stream. You can imagine how it felt. In fact, the Bible tells us in verse 2 that when he looked at David and saw that he was only a boy, very unhand, he despised him. And he said to David, Am I a dog that you come to me with sticks? Remember, Dave just had a sling and some stones with a gun and battle armament, right? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. Here he said, and I'll give you a flesh for the birds of the air and the beast for the fields. Now perhaps Goliath had read the best-selling book Belgium through intimidation, but he certainly tried it at this point. He figured that if he cursed them and he tried to belittle them, that surely David would be so terrible. That he would just be uneasy picking. Have you ever had that? Somebody seeks to diminish your faith and to terrify you through intimidation. They diminish your faith and they store your trust in Jesus Christ. And you feel your knees break, and you wonder, how can I really believe this stuff? And this is what the lion is trying to make David do. He once Brenda loses confidence. Then notice how David responds. David responds in verse 45, not by defending himself, but he responds to the Philistines: You come against me with a sword and spear and javelin. But I come against you in the name of the Lord Almighty, and God of the armies of Israel whom you have divide. This day the Lord will hand you over to me, and I'll strape you down and cut off your head. Today I will hand you over. And I will give your the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and the whole world will know that there is a God in Israel. All those that have gathered here who are looking at this now will know that it's not by sword or by spear that the Lord says. For the battle is the Lord's, and he will give you into our hands. You see what perception David has there. It's a perception that sees the real issues. And that's what I believe the brothers and sisters in Christ was to see. And then you see how they come together and David strikes down the giant. We'll go into the details of that a little more later. Know the story. Understand the lessons. Faith sees the spiritual issue. What do we see? We see beyond thee. And we see in this, if you see on the back of your bulletin. The inside information on all of our circumstances that our conflicts in fact are not physical conflicts, They're spiritual. Ephesians 6 comments on this, all of the struggles that we're in, by saying, Ephesians 6. 12, that our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But it's against rulers, against authorities, against powers of this world, against spiritual forces of evil of the heavenly realms. That's why Ephesians calls on us to put on God's armor, a spiritual armor, of which the shield is fade. And we exercise the power of prayer. David, here this closely, is ultimately here a picture of Jesus Christ. Do you notice? But Goliath came out and he said, We are representatives. I will represent the Philistines. Get yourself one who will represent God's people, Jehovah's people. Let's fight and see who's the stronger. So you see in this that principle of the people who are winning in one or boss, servants of the one who wins by representation. If Israel had lost, they would have been slaves to the Philistines. And that's exactly the picture you have in the New Testament. A picture of the false gods against the true God, of which there is the representative Of all of Satan's hostings, Satan himself coming against our representative, Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ comes onto the field of battle and he looks weak. And here he is just a Galilean carpenter. He has no armor. There's nothing that Isaiah says that we're recommending to us as a hero. Jesus comes in his weekness and he takes on Satan all of his hosts. Jesus rings through the spiritual forces of God Almighty. And on his death on the cross, in his weakness, and in his overcoming the tomb, Jesus Christ, our representative made us his servants, freed us from Satan's bond. Praise God, he's won the battle because he saw precisely what the conflict was and he won on our behalf. Finally then, I favor you then. And I encourage you to see your life in its spiritual reality today. That you will see your sin in its spiritual reality. Don't be deceived by it. I once heard a story a few months ago about a man in Alabama. This man in Alabama found a snake, a deadly poisonous snake. And he tamed that slink. He didn't remove the poison. He tamed it as a poisonous, beneficial snake. He tamed that slink to the point where that slink would come at his call. It would wrap itself around his arm. He could pet it. He would take it into town. People would run terrified. And then those would come close and would say, Look at this thing. But watch how tame it is if you would pet it and let this thing uncoil itself and run around and you'd be able to pick it up. Totally chained Then one day he provoked that state and died before they could get him to the hospital He thought the snake was tame, that he really didn't have anything to worry with. But he still didn't see between the nature of that snake. So many of us fool around with sin. We fool around with our commitment to Jesus Christ, and we're playing with a deadly snake. Don't be deceived. The issue of Jesus Christ's claims upon your life are not issues to relegate into some psychological realm. That is a spiritual reality. Jesus Christ calls upon you this morning to bow your knee of your life to Him and to give yourself to Him based on His work of redemption for you, to purchase you, to be His. See also your discouragement in the spiritual reality of it. What I think most encouraging to me this week was I went over to be with the Wekkers with Dan and Donna. As we talked about this, one of their first concerns and questions was, we're wondering how God's going to be glorified in this. And as we talked about praying together, they said, let's pray. That God will be glorified in this somehow, if we don't know how, and what he wants to do. And in that you see an example Of believers who see the spiritual reality behind the conflict that they can so readily see without spiritual eyes, faith sees behind the circumstances. In the discouragements, in the difficulties, to say, what is God doing in this situation? Finally, we need to see our challenges Their spiritual reality. The challenge of sharing the gospel of Christ with your neighbors, the persons you work with, even your boss, somebody at work, and you say, I don't think I could ever talk about the Lord without personal. And the Lord's saying to you, do you see the spiritual conflict that's going on here? This isn't simply a psychological conflict of, are you able to stand up to this guy? This isn't something that's simply something that you feel a little threatened and insecure about talking to your neighbor about Christ. That is a spiritual battle. Satan wants at all costs to keep you from sharing Jesus Christ with those who are going to hell without him. Is the giant of fear keeping your mouth shut about Jesus Christ? A seize the spiritual reality. And it acts accordingly. What does that mean to do today? Let's pray with that. Follow our God. Open our eyes that we may see. Open our eyes that we may behold the spiritual realities all about us. But our war is not against flesh and blood, but it's against powers and authorities and principalities of rulers of the heavenly places, but it seems to discourage us and taunt our faith and ridicule our God. Lord, there are people who so easily see the issues of this life. Lord, open our eyes, we might be a people who live in the light of the supernatural. A people who see beyond simply the pressures and the conflicts and even the political struggles of this world To what the spiritual issues really are. And that we might trust you, because my David received that the battle is the Lord's. And that you're calling us into problems and difficulties so that the world might see that there is a God in Israel. Because you show forth your power in problems. When we're helpless and weak, that's when you step into the scene for us to see that only you can work. Whether it's in the whack the baby, in money, for our church, for a facility, for Dan Iverson to come For personal problems and struggles and habits that seem to have an unbreakable hold on us, whatever it is before, help us to see real issues. And to act trusting him. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.