Well why did I mean so Well a little on their tape and too, but well, welcome to the fall. So before and things we get back to normal, right? A few weeks ago, David Diddy a little note And uh this one says uh there's only two things to worry about. Number one is that things are literally to normal. But the cue is that they already have. And as we move from the summer into the fall, that's kind of appealing, isn't it? And the ironic thing to anticipation is that we look at the funnel as a time of more leisure, perhaps more mental, we thought I'd be able to spend more time in dark words I'll be able to cultivate my relationship with the Lord, I'll blow this stuff. And then you come to the end of the summer and you say, Well huh, I'm so glad I'm getting back on your schedule. Because even though I'm twice as busy as else at least that schedule and so maybe I've got more of a chance to use it alone and be able to have some sort of some kind of a regular devotional life Well, this is a good time this week as we begin the fall for us to think about our time in God's Word. It's especially important for us as a If you were here in the last hour and you heard something of our vision for this next year, you see how important this year is for laying the foundation of a new expansion and outreach to the whole county for us as a church. And so we're going to need as individuals to deepen our own walk with Jesus Christ in our time and his work to be prepared for us. Our walk with him is the beginning of our effectiveness in our being used by him. Here at um recent Gallop was taken and they found out that sixty percent of a MIR is claimed to be able to curse at least once a month. But of those 50% is claimed to go to church twice a month, only twelve percent claim to read the Bible. That means there's a gap between what a lot of people Christians are saying they believe about the Bible because most Christians who do it church believe the Bible for the God. And what they're actually practicing. In fact, uh this same kind of survey showed that eighty-five percent of professional Christians in this country have never led through the entire violence Only fifteen percent of social Christians in the United States have ever read through the entire. And yet we say we believe that it's the Word of God, and therefore that it's to be safe in our lives. But somehow we're not working that into our schedule and into our lifestyle. I convinced personally that first of the as well as to the cultures, the Bible is becoming more and more colloquial to our lives. Clearly that's true in the culturalism. Who some of us can hardly remember It was just a generation or so ago that an educated person in this country was assumed to have a working knowledge of the Bible. You need to understand the A lot of things about the Bible to understand literature, American literature, English literature, music, political discourse. Those things aren't true anymore, are they? In fact, the Bible is so forgiving in our schools now that I recently get a girl who'd get a paper with a sign of a paper on power, and she'd get a paper on the power of God He was forbidden to read that paper in the school rooms because it went about. And they took it for course and lost. fellow who is a TV teacher who is doing a course on medieval music. And he brought in an album justice on medieval music. It's gonna have artwork on it Probably gonna have something with a religious picture with a picture of Jesus. And before he could teach that course, he was required to cover the album. Brown paper diagonal on the colour so that the picture of Jesus would not be seen by the students. That's how Paul was done. And that affects us It affects us because many of us have gone to schools if we've been in state schools or even in certain religious or so-called Christian schools we've had the Bible across. We've had our faith and confidence that it's undermined. I read uh not too long ago about a girl who said she was in a literacy course. And a profession began to get off on a uh you know we'll do like a tangent that supposed then got all the trees a tangent. We begin to talk about the story in the book of judges in the Bible. Where this Alaghtha made a bow to God and wound up a throat bow, sacrificing as a human sacrifice to his own daughter. And this is vain for bloodthirsty God of the old testament is inquired of it. Another girl talked about how speaking of the new Christians when it comes to Christ we fight these prophecies that were fulfilled by Christ in the New Testament And then the professor authority that his dog management categorically said that Isaiah 53 has nothing to do with Jesus Christ. Another professor talked about about how the God of the Bible is a capricious God like a temperamental child. You never know what he's going to go into marble or hate. He can turn to the wind And this is the kind of thing that people hear about the Bible. We as Christians, we that people, but I believe it's very important and it has an effect on it. And I believe it's hard and emerging a And how much priority we give to us being no You think about it this morning, what is the degree of your confidence in 50? Do you really believe that it's the brightest life in your soul to hunger for it and to spend time in it and you can see it go for a couple of days, but I haven't spent time in the Word of God because you believe that it's helpful to your life Do you find it your life is being transformed by scriptures because you don't even pass from it? If I were to ask you to go around and say, what is one way to get Something in scripture that transformed your life to pass summer. Could you think of some way? Or would you be at a loss because I really won't think in the scripture that much of something? And I really can't think of anyway to transform myself It's that how many things I read about to make me feel guilty than I'm not a family. That's not very happy. We look at the New Testament, there's a group of people there that were utterly transformed. I'd like to take a look at and if we begin with Paul Thessalonians. So I'd like to, if you haven't done it already, return to First Thessalonians. The Thessalonians are described by Paul as people who are radically transformed from paganism to growing maturity in Jesus Christ. Firstly, do you notice that he says In chapter 1, in verses 2 and 3, Paul says, We always thank God for all of you, mentioning you in our prayer. We continually remember before God and our Father. Your work produced by faith, your labor prompted by love, and your endurance inspired by hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. So they're characterizing people of faith of faith. growing love and a of a steadfast hope. So then goes on in chapter one verse seven to say that he became a model to all the believers in Macedonian etc. Another exemplary is Christians. Verse 9 he says that you turn to God from idols to serve the living and to see God. In chapter 6. In verse 9 he says, though, brotherly love, they don't even need to write you. For you yourselves have been taught by God to love each other. Well how are they taught by God to love each other? How are they taught to live after the manner of Jesus? Well it tells us in chapter two, verse thirteen. That's what I want to focus on. To hear from God now his word, chapter 2, 1 Thessalonians, verse 13. The clue to the transformation of the Thessalonians. is in their oddity for its purpose. Paul says, we also thank God continually because when you receive the word of God Which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of man, but as it actually is the word of God Which is at work in you to be mean. I'd like to suggest we begin this new year and generalize that morning. Three things about the way the Thessalonians responded to Scripture to the Word of God we had in our minds. First of all It seems that they accepted Scripture as the very word of God. It was the first phrase for the failed relation by system. They accepted it That's the very word of God. Now you notice there's a negative as well as a positive here in verse thirteen. Look at what verse thirteen says here. And also there's our continually present when he received the word which of God which he heard from it you accepted it not as the word of men. Now of course it is the word of men. It was written by men. So infused with a divine authority and God speaking through those men in the scriptures that Paul says that's not merely We kind of put in a merliness. He receives it as not merely the word of man, but as it actually is the word of God. These two that I was telling you about, there were 28 of them. 14 uh 17 of them were gathered around, I think about a 40 of these years. And of those seven How many of you have either had the Bible in your course who seated as myth or explicitly attacked in its authority? That is It's seen simply as the word of men, not the word of God. Fourteen out of the seventeen says that in their courses, the Bible leaves and treated his mentored as an opportunity The other three said we're in technical forces and the matter never comes up And so our whole culture, when you did a course like that in life, who do you do, things you want to receive? Everything says that the Bible is simply the word of man. And so you and I have the conviction that says I believe that this is the word of God. The coming on that conviction becomes floppy. Because of bombardment in the fact that it's simply the word of me The very first thing about the First Alonians was that they did not rejoice the picture of the word of me. Go past the scriptures and false purpose for this report. words in the formation of the New Testament culture, you receive that as an action in the Word of God Think the last time you asked me thought like the great all-medi, but this word is so faithful that I'll only read it on my knees. You said the quite all meeting never read the Bible standing in the nation The conscious money of the fact that didn't stop. What's the last time you have looked at that you have that There is a God. And that God, who is, has not been silent. But the God who has made everything from galaxy He called me in this word who lives. He told me in this word why I don't have fellowship. He told me in this word what he's done. He's true about fellowship. And we're giving in his own son, Jesus. He told me how I can know him through Jesus and he told me how I can walk you. He told me how he has freed me from my sin. And how has given his spirit to work to this thing. We thought to consider what that means. That God has addressed us in words to use the end of God That can be translated, that can be put into pages, and that we can read stories and dialogues and poetry, and that we can read all these things, and we can know the mind of Of God, because he has chosen to stammer to us as well and say his own word Well you want to think about that. We should look in wonder and marriage at this point to do this. It was very hard because the very foundation of it was that you didn't receive the point when you follow As suggestions, as something to continue to leave. You saw this, you received this, but it actually is. The very word of God is blessing. But until we as the people of God have that conviction restored to us that this is the very word of God to a blessing, we will never make it sensible in our lives. Because we really do have that conception. You know, that we not only did the acceptance consciousness as the very word of God. But the second thing Paul says to me is that they heard it and they received it. They heard it and they received it. But we also make that continuous because when you receive the word of God, which you heard from us, separate words were There's two things that you see there that they did. First of all, it means that they paid attention to it. And listen to it. and they paid attention to what it says. And they said that they received it. In fact, the Thomas Howdy received it in chapter 1 verse 6. Look at that. He said he came in the box and of the Lord In spite of severe suffering, you welcomed the message with the joy given by the Holy Spirit. You received it with joy. You welcomed this word because it came The thing makes you nervous about that verse is how they seem to offer. What was it? the conflict because it's frightened to be expressed. Welcome to honest. times in your life that the Bible has meant to mention. Have you been doing times of pain, the times of suffering, the times of confusion, the times of Those are the times when we give it a prison like this. One of the things that really makes you quite nervous and I try to see it from God's perspective is the Church of America, 12% of Christians who don't influence America closely. 15% of even being thrown with cost and self-sufficiency. Because of that process and that self-sufficiency, we can take the least that we could But if God would have something and persecution to the church, it would give us a new holiday. and we will receive to the new. And I hope that we're not going to push the Heavenly Father to the point where he needs to bring that kind of suffering So that we once again pray with his glory to see. And that we die in what we want to come. The first thing is we did Not only were they verdicted and retrieved, and thirdly concluded, they applied it. They applied it. Again, look at what verse Verse 13 says. He says that we thank God because when you receive the word of God, which you heard from us, you accepted it. Not as you not not as the word of man or merely the word of man, but as the passion is the word of God, which is at work in thee. who believe. You see that phrase there which is at work in you who believe is crucial. Because there are two things involved in that. It tells us that If they believed it, it tells us that they applied it or they obeyed it. In order for us to see the Word of God transform it, we need to believe it We need to believe that this is the way to know the God who actually is, who has spoken. We need to believe that it tells us why we haven't believed the fellowship And why we have guilty consciences and why we've messed up our lives, and what it is that he has done in the person of Jesus to provide for us new life, forgiveness. Freedom from that sin and the ability to make a story. Well you may think that I have trouble believing all these things and I have many courses I've taken and things that I've read and You know, I talked to people who have the same kind of uh doubt about scriptures. Not too long ago, person sitting in my office saying, you know, I have these kind of And I can't really put my finger on it. It's not just if you answer this question, then I could leave it on that question. It's just a big kind of undermining of my conscience. Let me say is your answers to these questions. Lots of things and if you have particular questions too, I'll give you something to do and look at, we can look at it together. A lot of these questions do have answers that you can understand. have answers for everything, but there are certain things that are just simply misrepresentative, especially like the professors that I quoted before. They simply aren't giving the whole thing. But answer having that kind of a situation in your online, let me challenge you that for the rest of September and October that you act on the Bible as if it were true. They're going to just take it and they're going to look at it with faith values and they're going to act as if this is the How is possible they just feel heavy? I can do it to see what God does mean. And if you feel that You're going to be using two things that will be different from the way you would have done them otherwise. But that's the second point. You will obey it and you can You will say it, you will find yourself happy. Look what he says in chapter uh you know, as he says verse thirteen here. Verse 14 he goes on. If he says it says, Work in you who believe says to you, brothers, because You are imitators of the churches. That was just on Captain 1 verse 6. He says, You are imitators not only of needs Of us, but of the Lord. And so what they did, they read the scripture and they said, This tells me what God wants, and I imitate God, I obey God. I do it by verse 9, turning to God from the idols in my life. I look at those idols, those things that capture the central focus of my life. Those things that my mind are constantly distracted Those things that I live for, those things that I be miserable without. All those things in this world, and I look at those things, and I see their place in the light of eternity, and I see Jesus Christ and I look at how they come between me and him and I turn from him and I come to Jesus and He frees me from me. I'm turning from my idols to Him by Jesus There's a chapter 3, verse 6. Timothy just now come to us from the east thought good things about the save from your lost. You're growing and you're safe and you're loved and you're obeying this word. Beginning to see God's working in. And it says in chapter 4 and verse 1, finally, brother, he instructed you How to live in order to please God is in fact we're now living. What how to please, how to imitate, how to please Jesus You don't follow it, you don't learn it mystically. Christians who have the five And he just speaks to me directly as I walk through life and he tells me how to respond and guides me and direct me and all these kinds of things. Are violating what Christian says falter my instructions you have in me. The spirit speaks to his word. You and I bypass the word will be consumption and speaking to love We don't do that last time. All of our inclinations are stuck against the way that Jesus Christ is going to be And then it says in words nine. Now Baptist lovely mouth, which is the summation of it. We don't need to write you. How do you need to write you anything more than that? Because you yourselves have been taught by God. Taught in the scriptures. As you obey the scriptures, you learn enough. Maybe at this point you see all that and say, well that's nice but I thought it's so welcome. Get into the world and I will be there for that. This is very now I believe that there's two things that you first So keep things that I say for the problems of conspiracy. The first one, I believe, is the problem of conservative We believe that um we don't understand the Bible and we would use the read large laws to this we understand the big scriptures. I think many Christians look at the Bible is kind of a you know a literary Rubik's cubes or maybe even worse of Rubik's clocks. Remember that Rubik's cubes uh is uh in very And designed by that Hungarian architect Heinrich Rubik. After he designed the Rubik's team, he went on and he designed a thing called the Rubik's Quark. They probably never heard of the Rubik's Kro. So that was nine faces of clock with interface together and you could all design so that they could all point to me simultaneously. Never got off the ground. Rubik himself couldn't solve it. There are 43 quintillion possibilities for how you can design those clocks. And Rubik's still working on it I don't think you have any hero. He's probably kinda old and go winter and haggard now. So working on this thing. And I still haven't heard of the saw because I've been a lot of looking at the Bible like I said There's this code that you have to break. You probably have to go to seminary and get a couple degrees to do this, you know. And for that elite group of people that understand what all this stuff is about and all these old things about liberal theology and the New Testament theologists, you know, well, okay, they're up in that process here. They can talk about, but for me, this can be a few verses that I can tackle on my wall, a couple cards to put up in my dashboard And I believe that it's generally true, but that's how all functions. I always tell you that's not God's work for it. He wants me to understand this is the second problem. Am I going to say, yeah, okay. We pay you to study. What about me? I gotta work for a living. How are you gonna get the time? Not enough time. How are you going to get the time? Well, I want to tell you. I'm I'm not telling you this because you're really good. Don't he think about this point? You think it's just ruined your fall? I want to tell you, there's hope, there's good news. You see, what would you say if I told you that you You could begin to get the grand field of scripture and master large portions of it without adding more than a couple minutes to the narrow extension. Because I was a liar, right? Well that's what we're going to propose. Right? How do you do that? Well the clue is what you see right there in verse 13. Because we also thank God for humanity because when we keep the word of God, which you heard from us. So how do they keep the word of God? They heard it in Paul's presence. What can we do today? How do we hear the word of God? Well, not only messages like this. But taste. That one line is it's on the bullet net line. That's not a dividing line. It's a solution. First, first solution. Word of God which you heard right on their tapes. That's what that's about. Whole new technology, you see. And who here doesn't have a tape layer somewhere walk dance tape player in the car something at home tapes until listening to the Bible on tapes you can begin to internalize my function release. Survey showed us the average American who use 45 minutes a day. And if you listen to the Bible on page, 36 minutes a day, you hear the entire New Testament in one month. 36 minutes a day, the entire New Testament. Well that's exactly what we're going to suggest yet. The person talk about it, we'll pray about it. I believe that that wants to be able to deeper in the word if he wants it to be assessed in ministry and all the possibilities of world, he's got to be deeper in the word so that we're saying and I believe that we can begin to get confidence and we can begin to have joy So what we're going to do is we're suggesting that you join us as a session for the month of October listening to the entire Okay? That's what we should say. How do I do that? I mean first of all, how many of you have a set of case at home? Right, a few of you. Well the rest of you don't have the intestinal thing. How are you gonna get the intestinal tea? Well, thank you all. Take out the little blue card. Alright, make sure you've got the little thing in the air. Why don't you look at what this is This little blue card talks about a program that's been produced by Hirvana Ministry called Faith Humps by Hearing. And in that ministry They are providing things, and they will provide the entirety testing for $18, where you can get a dramatized version of all the sound effects and the music. twenty eight dollars. We've also discovered through our sprout another organization that'll offer these tapes for twelve dollars. How are you testing Now you can either order the $12 check if you wanted to be down, which would dominate through taste and there's a good quality taste, but then also not very The Hirana tapes are guaranteed for life. By these tapes for the 18 hours, they'll tape, if you tape player, hues it up twenty years from now, 75 million tapes group. Now what we're suggesting is we're not in the groups for selling tapes, all right? There's a worship service. I'm not here to you know be a representative to sell tapes. What we want you to do is simply commit yourself to doing this, however you do it. And to put on the card that you want to do, community a set of tapes, tell us Now here's what we're going to do. We're not going to collect any money yet. We are going to take up an offering net funding by faith and let you put in that offering what you can put in for the tape. Now if you say I want to do this, but I don't even have $12 for a whole set of tapes and you have to all right Then you put in what you can put in and uh you put in twelve dollars, fine put in twelve dollars, you're gonna order eighteen dollars that last is like I asked you put in eighteen dollars because you're done But if you can afford more, put in more in the offering as part of your dealings to the Lord, and we'll use that to help people who couldn't afford the whole price on it. And if we have money left over from that, we'll buy extra cents, put them in the library for other people to borrow. Borrow them in a small group, borrow them however You work out how to get it. You want to put it down here, we'll order them for you. We'll take up the collection next Sunday. He'll have the tapes before October the first. We're going to listen to them for the whole month of October, and then with the November Lord's Supper, we're going to set aside part of that time for us to just share together how God used His word in our lives, lives by listening to us through the mark of October. I'm excited to see what I bring back in. I think we can bring the rules and a deeper in our relationship as a congregation. And I am praying for 100% participation. I am not looking for a quarter or third he said. I am praying that God would bring every one of his family to be able to listen to the entire discussion during the month of our And begin to see what God does is giving us a new desire for His word, a new understanding of it, a new first for it, and to be transformed by it. Alright? Have any questions about it? Ask me about that afterwards. I'll answer all the questions. Right now, the whole point is simply to be able to respond and explain for God to give you a new hope that you can begin to be exposed to scripture in a way that will not disrupt In some way that you've got to design something that you won't follow through on, whether it's in tours or exercises or jogging for the walk there or whatever it is You've got it in your stream, 30 six minutes ago. Do what God does during the month of our life. Let's say. Lord, we want to come before you now and we want to ask that you will give us truth. And have a confidence that we can really think of And you will know. We say that we believe that this book that we hold is your word. And yet marked with so many other and shame how television and any other things needs to come to hide by us. And Lord, you know, my appearance has been Christians who are in the word growth, Christians who are not in the word social. Whatever else we may do, whatever program we're in, whatever other things, the Lord you have comfort from people and everything else. But if we're not in your words, we're not going to bless. And so we pray, Lord, that you would speak to us right now. You'll give us a new hope that we can begin to get into your world. We thank you for his out of ministers and others who make sense together We pray, Lord, that you would win the confidence and be able to do this. That you would work hours each day. That you would provide for those who need the budget there to be able to give that we would provide that um we would have sufficient money at the end of the next week to offer. To be able to get all the taste that we needed and even to have some survival So we look to easy. Just a separate face, right? At the beginning of this law, we want to step out on things. We want to see a power. We want to see a movement on. The reality would be a little piece of What is your favorite As we come to this offering that you're going to be putting this card in, that if you want the uh the cheap text, put NIV 12 on that line. Did you want the one from the Hosanna ministries for NIV eighteen? Did you want the grandfather sex for NIV twenty-eight? Did you want one of the other text version Spanish and other versions and write that down. Put down the numbers so we know which steps we've been talking about and we're about to collect