I want to start by telling you that uh I am a really unique entity here in preaching at Columbia Presbyterian Church. See, I'm the first one to come and preach who's ever brought his own PR man. You were out front this morning. Matthew was making sure that you all knew that I was going to preach. You did good, sir. We are all here today to worship God because of our faith in Jesus Christ. A faith that is near and dear to our hearts. Once a month we get together to especially celebrate the sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Christ because of our faith in Him. Almost 2,000 years ago, twelve men got together with Jesus in a room in Jerusalem to celebrate what would be the first Lord's Supper. Those men had given up everything in their lives to follow Jesus Christ. Those men would later help to form the early Church of Jesus Christ. Those men would later, literally, many of them, give their lives for Jesus Christ. They had faith in Jesus Christ. But on that night, Jesus taught them a lesson in faith that they would probably never forget. And that's where our text today comes from. Before we examine the text, I think it would be appropriate for me to give just a brief description of how the accounts of the four Gospels work together to give us a complete picture of the events that happened that evening. Now it's one of the classic examples of the complementary nature of the gospel, how God really uses them to put it all together for us. Most of you are familiar with the accounts that are in Matthew and Mark and Luke. You're familiar with the words that the Lord said as he administered the elements, as he broke the bread, and as he gave the cup. Now we look in John, we don't find those words. In fact, it's hard to find the account of that evening. The reason we know of What John wrote of that evening is because he did talk about a meal and he talked about associated events, and those events were events that also that Matthew, Mark, and Luke talked about. Most notably the prediction of Judas' betrayal. So, when we look at time, we might ask, why did he leave out these precious important words of our sacrament, the Lord's Supper? I believe it was because God wanted John to focus on a different aspect of what went on that evening. The teaching that Jesus Christ gave his apostles. Now, if you look in John, there are two things that John describes that are not mentioned in any of the other Gospels. The first is his act of washing the feet of the apostles, an act of teaching. An illustration. He showed them what it meant to be servants. The second was his farewell speech, or his final discourse, if you will, to his apostles. It took place toward the end of the dinner. And that is where our text comes from, from the beginning of that discourse. That discourse, it took John three chapters. The end of chapter 13, chapters 14, 15, and 16. To describe what the words of Jesus were in his farewell speech. Now, Judas has left He is gone to start the act of betrayal. Jesus is left with his eleven other apostles, and now he is ready to give him his farewell speech. Let us hear from God's Word, John chapter 13, verse 31, through John chapter 14, verse 14. When he was gone, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him. If God is glorified in him, God will glorify the Son in himself, and will glorify him at once. My children, I will be with you only a little longer. You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now, where I am going, you cannot come A new command I give you, love one another as I have loved you, so you must love one another. All men will know that you are my disciples, if you love one another. Simon Peter asked him, Lord, where are you going? Jesus replied, Where I am going, you cannot follow now, but you will follow later. Peter asked, Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. And Jesus answered, Will you lay down your life for me? I tell you the truth. Before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times. Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God. Trust also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, I would have told you. I am going there to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come back and take you to be with me, that you also may be where I am. You know the way to the place where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we don't know where you are going, so how can we know the way? Jesus answered, I am the way, the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. If you really knew me, you would know my father as well. From now on, you do know him and have seen him. Philip said, Lord, show us the Father, and that will be enough for us. Jesus answered, Don't you know me, Philip? Even after I have been among you such a long time? Anyone who has seen me has seen the Father. How can you say, Show us the Father? Don't you believe that I am in the Father, and that the Father is in me? The words I say to you are not just my own. Rather, it is the Father living in me who is doing this work Believe me when I say that I am in the Father and the Father is in me, or at least believe on the evidence of the miracles themselves. I tell you the truth Anyone who has faith in me will do what I have been doing. He will do even greater things than these, because I am going to the Father, and I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may bring glory to the Father. You may ask me for anything in my name, and I will do it. Let's think about the situation for those men in that evening, just after they've heard this. Jesus has told them that he's going to be leaving them and that they won't be able to come after him. To them leaving means he's going to a different physical place. They probably haven't yet figured out that he really meant that he was going to his death and that he was going to heaven. These men had depended on Jesus Christ for everything in their lives, every day of their lives, for the past two to three years. Nothing they got came from anybody from Jesus Christ. He provided them with their food, their clothing, their shelter. He performed miracles to do it. He showed them in such a vivid way how much they depend on him. You'd think these men would be so grateful But were they? Think about the way they came in to the Lord's table. When they came into the room that night, they were bickering. They're fighting. They're fighting over who is the greatest. Where am I going to sit at the table? Who gets the right spot? Can you imagine? Just imagine moms preparing a nice Sunday dinner and for the family and getting everything all ready and everything and want to sit down and Call the kids to the table and they're fighting. Isn't that great? Really sets the tone. Jesus must have been so sad And these men were now thinking about the things they could do. They had forgotten what Jesus had provided for them. They were taking for granted what they had. But what was it really? The situation really was that they had nothing. And Jesus was going to leave them, who had taken care of them. He was not going to be there. Now can you imagine? Without a job, these men are have to go back, they're gonna have to go back and find jobs. Can you imagine these days going back? You go to an employer and you want to get find a job, he asks you, well, what have you been doing for the last two years? Uh following Jesus Christ. Uh yeah, the that guy they hung on the cross with those other two robbers the other day? Yeah. Okay. It's not gonna be easy for them to find a job. What about the family? They left their families. Jesus himself had a tough time when he went back to Nazareth with his family. How much harder was it going to be for these guys? Well, maybe they had some money left. Maybe they'd have some money and they could at least buy some food and and get themselves shelter and so forth Well, scripture doesn't tell us this, but there's a good reason to believe they probably didn't have that either. You see, there's one of them, they took care of all the money Who took care of all the money? Judas. He had the money. Guess what? He just left. He's gone. And in fact, scripture does tell us what did they think he left for They think he left to go buy something for the feast. So if he walked out with the money, it wouldn't have bothered them at all. They wouldn't have thought twice about it. Chances are they might not have even had any of the money Now you say to yourself, well, at least they had each other. Right. They came into the room bickering and fighting over who was going to be the greatest. The next thing they do, Jesus tells them he's going to be betrayed. What is their response? Not me. No, I'm not going to be the one. Stand up for number one. Look out for yourself. There were some real tensions developing among these men. They really didn't have each other to depend on. They had absolutely nothing and they were in deep crisis. They couldn't go any further down, but did they know it? Did they really realize it? Let's look at Peter's response to what Jesus told him. In verse 33, Jesus says, My children, I will be with you only a little longer. You will look for me, and just as I told the Jews, so I tell you now where I am going, you cannot come. Now that's got to be a little alarming. He says, I'm going to leave, and you're not going to be able to come to where I'm going. Then he gives his new command in verses 34 and 35. Now this new command of love is his main theme of his whole discourse, one of his main themes. But look what happened. Peter in verse 36 jumps right in and says, Lord, where are you going? Went right over the top of his head. He didn't hear what was in verse 34 and 35. He didn't hear a bit of it. He was so attuned to what Jesus had said about leaving That at least we know that Jesus has his attention. This time he's got his attention. Now Peter says, he's very subtle. He says, Lord, where are you going? Now, do you really think that Peter cared where Lord where the Lord was going? No, he didn't really care where Jesus was going. He just wanted to know where he was going so he could find a way to get there. He was going to make up his own way to find and follow Jesus. Now, so he wasn't really too worried. He figured he could find out a way to do that. But what did Jesus say? You look at the second half of verse 36. Jesus knew his heart. He knows our hearts. He says, where I'm going, you cannot follow now, but you will later on. He knew that Peter wanted to follow him, so he said, Peter, you're not going to be able to follow me. He added the word now, because he knew that Peter wanted to do it right now, not later. And then he said, But you will follow me later. So Peter now realizes that there is going to be a period of time when he is going to be separated from Jesus Christ. And he doesn't like that. He's starting to sweat. Things are getting tough, and he's getting nervous. Then we look in verse 37. Peter asked, Lord, why can't I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you. So now his response, his response is one from the flesh of desperation He wants to give up everything he can. He says, Lord, I'll do anything. Please let me follow you. And then in verse 38, Jesus says and tells him the truth. He hits them right smack in the face with the truth. Jesus answered, Will you really lay down your life for me? I tell you the truth, before the rooster crows, you will disown me three times. Now that especially hurt him, hurt Peter, because not only did Jesus say he was going to disown him, But he said he was going to do it before the rooster crows. Now that's significant in the sense that it does also fulfill prophecy, but it also is a time. You see the rooster used to crow in Jerusalem between twelve midnight and three AM. Now this discourse was going on probably around eight to ten in the evening. So you're talking about maybe four or five hours, roughly, in four or five hours from when Peter makes this emphatic statement that he's going to turn around and he's going to disown. Jesus Christ. So the truth hurt, and now he was really starting to realize his helplessness. Now you know, we can look at that passage, we can look at the apostles and their attitude, we can look at Peter, and we can throw a lot of stones I mean, we've read everything that Jesus has done for this man and for the apostles in their lifetime. And how much more obvious does it have to be that Jesus has taken care of you, Peter? I mean, he's done everything. He's even enabled you to go out and heal other people. What more do you want from him? How come you can't be appreciative? You know, it's obvious, right? What about us? Are we that much different than Peter? Really? Do we know where our food comes from? Where the clothes on our back? Our jobs, our home When you sit down at the table to pray before your meal, is it something that's kind of a perfunctory thing? You just say, thank you, Lord, for the food? Or do we really realize that that food doesn't have to be there? That it comes from Jesus Christ Not from the grocery store. Not from the fact that God has given us skills to go out and have jobs, to make money, to go out there and buy this food. He has given it to us. Now this past Friday, as you all know, we had some snow. Terrible snowstorm. About ten o'clock in the morning the roads were pretty bad. Well I had to be out on the road at ten o'clock in the morning driving. And of course, I'm from upstate New York. Now snow up there is snow. I mean this isn't snow. I mean, if you want to know about somebody who can drive in snow, I can drive in snow, right? So when I went out, did I think that God needed to be gracious to me and that I needed to pray about my safety on the roads? No. About the only thing I was going to pray about was, God, please protect me from those other maniacs out there. I know what I'm doing, but they don't. They're going to hurt me But we got on the road, driving down the road, and all of a sudden the car started to spin. Did a complete 360 in the middle of the road with another car came the other direction It's pretty humbling. To know that as much as you think that you have these great skills and that God has led you to do these things, God is in control and He is the one who provides for us everything we have. We don't realize our own helplessness any more than Peter did. We resist it just like he did. You see, helplessness. Our being helpless, and if you haven't figured it out by now, the item number one up there, we are a helpless people. We truly are. We resist it. It's not a thought that uh society embraces these days. You see all sorts of books and things in the market to tell you we can do anything we want to if we put our minds to it. It permeates our whole society. We are no different than Peter was and those apostles. We don't like to admit that either. But the fact is that we are helpless. And apart from Christ, we can do nothing. Original words, aren't they? John 15, 5. It's exactly what Jesus tells the apostles. Apart from me, you can do nothing. We have people today in our body who are suffering in a deep crisis. Alan's already mentioned it. In the last ten years, he hasn't known us to be more in crisis as a body, in suffering. But we also have those of you who are here today who life's going pretty good. Things are okay. No big deal. But the bottom line is that we all are helpless, just as helpless as the person sitting next to you. No matter what the circumstances are, we are helpless. Now that's pretty scary. You think if we really are truly helpless, do I live my life in fear? Do I walk around thinking, what's the next thing that can happen to me? The next tragedy? No, we don't have to. Because God is in control. He is a compassionate God. In this text that we're looking at, think about it. Think about that evening. The apostles, we've already said, they were in deep crisis. But what about Jesus? Jesus was just about to be betrayed. What did he have to look forward to? He had to look forward to a death that was physically as painful as anything anybody could ever endure. And he was going to have to endure that. He was looking forward to a time before he was raised up, after he was crucified, for a time when he would be separated from God the Father totally. On our behalf. This was a sad, sad moment for him. He himself was in deep crisis But what do we see of the apostles in here? It's great, the apostles. Do you see any sympathy from the apostles? He's told them he's going to be betrayed, and the only thing they can think of is making sure they're not the one who's going to do it. If we read through all four chapters or all four gospel accounts of that evening, we don't see one iota of sympathy from any of those apostles for Jesus on that night. In fact they were real compassionate. They fell asleep when he was praying. It had to be hard for him. But how did he respond to Peter when Peter was a telling him that he was going to do all this great stuff? Being rebellious. He started out in verse 33 again. My children. My children. That word children in the Greek often and in many translations it is little children as in infants. It's a term used for endearment. I've always wished I could read Greek. There's so much it adds to the Bible. My my secretary at work says that I should be able to read Greek. I read it enough. But anyway, think of it. Think of how he's responding. He says in verse 14, Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God. Trust also in me. He was showing compassion to these men who were utterly insensitive to what was going to happen to him. How much more compassion can our Lord have? So we don't have to live a life of fear, but we can live a life of thankfulness. Appreciating all those things that we have come to take for granted. Those so-called little things It's easy to be appreciative when God gives us a great blessing and uh heals us of an illness, something that we've just had a hard time with. It's easy sometimes to do that But how many times do we take the time to thank him for the day-to-day things that he provides for us? We are a helpless people, yet we have a God who cares for us and is in complete control. Now, let's get back here to Peter. Peter responded, as we saw before, out of the flesh. You see, Peter realized by that time that he had a problem, and he was going to figure out how to do it, how to solve this all by himself, completely out of the flesh And when he found out that it wasn't going to work, that he was going to fail, he was absolutely devastated. He was probably the most frustrated man. He knew that he was in trouble. He knew that he himself, he could do nothing to get himself out of trouble. What was he going to do? You see, under point two there, the flesh will fail. Every time we try to get ourselves out, we see our helplessness and we try to get ourselves out. We will fail. We're just flailing around. Apart from Christ, we'll go nowhere. And Peter was going nowhere. You see his frustration in the next time In John that we hear of from Peter, you know what the next time is? He's performing a perfectly logical, rational act, right? He's in front of all the guards who are capturing Jesus. He pulls out his sword and he lops off the ear of the servant. That makes a lot of sense, doesn't it? You know? Thank you, Matthew. He was frustrated. He was utterly frustrated. That was an act of frustration. So what did he do? Faced with his helplessness again, he looked for a quick fix to the problem. Anything to get him out of his situation. What did he need then? Well, what did he do? He denied Christ. When faced with the choice of either saying, Yes, I know and love Jesus Christ, and probably ending up being killed for it. Or just denying him and saving his own skin. He denied him and saved his own life. Think of how he must have felt when he remembered the words that Jesus said, He who tries to save his own life We'll give it up. We'll lose it. He must, his heart must have been trouble. In today's society I think people in general, Christians and non-Christians alike, are beginning to realize their helplessness They are seeing the crisis that they're in. They are trying to bail themselves up. They can't go anywhere. And they are starting to see their helplessness. But what do they turn to? They turn to those quick fixes, those things that can take away the pain, the temporary relief, if you will. What are the fixes? Drugs, alcohol, sex, money, rise in materialism? Religion? Yes, even religion. All those things the people will go to. So they can no longer see their problem. They can kind of escape into a world where they don't have to deal with their issues. Those things that they can depend on to give them their high, their gratification, so that they can feel a little bit better in light of the fact that they have that they are helpless. I know this summer, a couple months after Mark died, it's very interesting how subtle Satan is. I was thinking to myself that I I really, really didn't like this idea of extended grieving. You know, I really wanted to get through it, and I wanted to feel better Well one of the ways I could feel better is I started to think about all the things that I could uh that I could uh buy and that I could want that that I had wanted before but I'd never really gone out and got. You know, and I thought, well You know, logically, even objectively, Mark's not here. We probably have a little more income. Uh and probably afford to to do it Better yet I looked at it and I said, God, you've put me through a really terrible trial. Yo it to me. So I was thinking about buying things. And then fortunately, God got a hold of me and he said, Look, he said, that's not going to solve anything. All you want to do is buy your way out of grief. You need to come to me. That's what these people are doing these days. Well, as Alan mentioned, there were several instances in our lives over the past few years where we have experienced crisis. And uh when I think about my work environment in particular, I've been there over ten years, and all of these people have experienced those crises with us. And typically, when I'd be going through one of those, people would come up to me and say, Ken, I just don't know how you're getting through it. I just don't know how. What is it that gets you through these? You seem to be holding up so well. And of course, very humbly, I'd say, if it weren't for my faith in Jesus Christ, I don't know how I'd get through it And the response I'd usually get is something like, Well gee, that's nice. I just about wanted to jump up over the table, grab the guy by the neck, bang him against the wall a few times, say, Do you realize what you're saying? Do you realize what faith is? Don't you understand? Well, I had another opportunity, not a couple months ago. After Mark had died, it's getting toward Christmas time, and someone at work uh very thoughtfully, I might add, realized that it would be a tough time for us at Christmas time. And they said, How are you doing? She said, You seem to be doing so well. And again I came back. If it wasn't for my faith in Jesus Christ, I don't know where I'd be. And the person looked at me and said, I'm so glad that you could use your faith in Jesus Christ to get you through this. I was just stunned. I felt really cheap. I felt like I had just taken an aspirin or something. They'd taken a needle and loaded up with some drugs, put it in the vein, uh, you know, get that high and uh that that got me through it. That's exactly how it sounded. Not they didn't really mean it that way, but that's that's how it sounded to me. And I thought, can't you see? Then God got a hold of me again. He's been doing that a lot lately, I understand. Got a hold of me again and he said It appears that way, doesn't it? Why do you think he asked the question that way? Why do you think he said it? I said, Well I I guess it appears that way. Well, I sat down and thought about it. You see, these four or five times that we had experienced crisis in our life When I was at work, that was the time when they saw my face. That's the time that it came through. And so to them, looking from the outside, That's what it was. My faith was a very uh good, strong uh spiritual crutch, if you will, because that's when they saw it. The rest of my life I was neither as verbal or it wasn't as evident in just my acts today. So it was how it appeared. So I really couldn't be mad at him for making that statement Now, that insight, I ri boy God, I thank you for that insight, and I was ready to walk away. And he said, wait a minute, we're not done yet. He said, we're not done yet What are you going to do about it? You think it appears that way? Why do you think it appears that way? I thought about it. And it really was true. It wasn't just an appearance to them, it was true. That's what I was doing. This great faith that I had was something that kind of sat on the back shelf over here, always there for me to kind of get at. But it really didn't come through on a day-to-day. It came through in crisis. Boy, in crisis I reached back and I grabbed that and I held onto that so tight. And I did. And I want to say right now that that's what we have to do in times of crisis. We do have to grab and cling on to our faith in Jesus Christ. I know a lot of you have little children. I remember when Mark used to get upset Frightened. He would cling to me so hard, and he had a grip. Do you remember his grip? I'd have finger marks in my arms that I think were gonna go right through the flesh But he did that because he was scared and I was the only one that could take care of him. And that's what Christ wants us to do when we're in crisis, is to be that tight with him But you know, he wants us to be that way all the time. Not just when we're in the middle of a crisis. Each and every day, he wants us to know that we have to cling to him for our life. Because he is the one who provides us with everything we have. We are helpless and we need him so badly. Now the third part under your bulletin there. Or excuse me, the second part rather. Don't flip the page yet. Number two. We look for, and there's two blanks there. Quick fixes. I think we too, uh to a degree are like society. We don't like to look for long-term solutions. We don't want to wait, we're impatient, and we look for those quick fixes. And there are times when we can treat our faith in Christ just like that fix that the rest of society takes. And we have to be careful. Now you can flip it over. The third point. We need to be addicted to Jesus Christ. Now that term has a terrible, terrible connotation. But let's think about it a minute. The reason that term has such a horrible connotation is because of what we are addicted to. When we think about addiction, we think about addiction to things like drugs and alcohol, things that are foreign to our bodies, that are not helpful, that are harmful. And of course addiction in that context would really Be bad. However, think about what it would be like to be addicted to Jesus Christ. Now the definition you have there is from Webster's dictionary. I thought, how perfect. Definition of addicted. To devote or surrender oneself habitually. Now let's look at how someone who is addicted, to example, let's say, drugs, what happens with them? Number one, they cannot function without the drug. They can't do anything. When I was in college, there was a guy in our hall who uh An addict. Speed was his thing. He'd get up in the morning and he couldn't do anything before he grabbed that. He would look for that like I look for my glasses in the morning. Believe me, I look for my glasses in the morning. I kill people if I don't find them. I need 'em. But he would look for that and he would have it with him everywhere he was all day long. He could not function literally without it. He had to have it. The second thing, he was willing to make any sacrifices, and I mean any, to get at that drug. In fact, he would sacrifice family, relationships. He would sacrifice any moral principles that he had. He would sacrifice anything to get that drug that he needed so dearly. And finally, that drug controlled him. It controlled his life. Everything he did was tied to that drug. Now think about it. Think about being addicted to Jesus Christ. And think about those same three points. What would it be like If we really realized that we could not function without Jesus Christ, that we totally depended upon him, that every minute of every day, he was on our hearts and he was in our minds and we were thinking about him. To know that he was our sole provider, what would it be like? What would it be like to be willing to make any sacrifice to follow him? Any sacrifice. In a willing way. Right now we resist it. We fight it. When God asks us to sacrifice for Him We take all the joy out of it when we resist it. But what would it be like to joyfully, willingly sacrifice? And thirdly, Let him control our lives. That we would surrender control of our lives to Jesus Christ. And we would realize that and we would know that and we wouldn't fight it. That that would just be the case. Wouldn't that be wonderful? The last comparison is someone addicted to drugs or to alcohol They can't hide it in their lives. They can try, but it's evident. They permeate every aspect of their life. What would it be like? If we were addicted to Jesus Christ. And he permeated every area of our life so that people would see Jesus Christ in everything we do. We couldn't hide him. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Now we've got a couple questions before you look at under application. I'll let you look at them separately. There's some bad news in all this. You can't do it by yourself. John 15, 5 says, apart from me, you can do nothing. And that is so true. We are helpless without Jesus Christ. The good news is you're not alone. John 14, verses 15 through 18. Let me read them. If you love me, you will obey what I command, and I will ask the Father, and I will give you another counselor to be with you forever, the Spirit of Truth. The world cannot accept him, because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him, for he lives with you and will be in you. He lives with us. And he is in us. The Spirit is there. The last verse of our text. It says John 14 verse 1. I think summarizes it all very well. Jesus says, the apostle, still out of true compassion. Do not let your hearts be troubled. Trust in God. Trust also in me. You see, our faith in Christ has to equate to a total trust in God. God the Father, who controls the universe in all the circumstances that are in our lives. God the Son. who is sacrificed on our behalf and now sits interceding right now on our behalf for us. And God the Spirit, who lives in our lives to carry out the redemptive work of Jesus Christ. Our faith is a total faith in a total God, who in our helplessness is compassionate. He loves us dearly. I'm just going to finish with the words from a song that uh favorite song of Matthews. He sings it uh around the house all the time. Very simple words, very dramatic. The Father gave the Son. The Son gave the Spirit. The Spirit gives us life. He gives us a life that we live to enjoy, not to dread. A life that is so totally dependent on him. Our God. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father. We are helpless. We can do nothing without you. You have made us. You sustain us. There is nothing we can do. But Lord, you do not orphan us and leave us to our own. But you have given us the Son and the Spirit, the Spirit to live in our lives. To take us through, to show us your love. Lord, as we realize our helplessness Let us turn to you. Turn to you as that little child turns to his parents, clutching you, grabbing hold of you in every moment of every day. To know your love. Lord, we thank you in the name of your Son, Jesus Christ. Amen.