Have you ever looked at your clothes really closely? Have you ever looked at, for instance, a shirt or a blouse and notice how it's put together? Material is woven. You ever notice that? You ever stop to think of all those little threads that are woven together to make up that fabric? They're so fine that on a lot of shirts and blouses you can hardly even see them. You look at the shirt or the blouse you're wearing right now, if it's a sweater, it's kind of obvious. But if it's a shirt, you may be hardly able to tell the individual threads. And yet plumes have been made the same basic way for thousands of years. The only real difference is that thousands of years ago, back in the Old Testament times, uh the clothes the threads were coarser and they were done on hand looms rather than being so fine as they are today and done on mechanical looms In fact, this is where we get the term warp and whoop. Have you ever heard of something being in the warp and the whoop of the beam? Well that term comes from how clothes are made. The way clothes would be made back a couple thousand years ago is they would take this big loom and they would suspend these threads. uh cotton or woolen threads and all these vertical threads would be s stretched from the top to the bottom. And those were the work threads. The wet threads were the threads of the vertebrae. And then the wheat threads were sown. uh inside or woven, as they were, uh woven horizontally back and forth in and out of all of those warp threads And the thing that carried the root threads in and out of the work threads was a thing called a shuttle. Now, if somebody was practiced at this after they had uh made it a trade and got really good at it, they would move that shuttle back and forth in and out of the warp threads, carrying the woof. So fast that you would hardly even see their hands move, just back and forth and back and forth and back and forth in that room. Now what in the world does all of this have to do with scripture, with my sermon, and with life? Well, just this. Job, at the point when he was suffering, looked at his life and he observed that his life moved faster than a speeding shuttle. carrying the whoop threads back and forth inside the warp threads. Let's notice that from Job chapter 7, as we look at God's Word. And see what Gold is telling us, what wisdom Gob is trying to give to us here, as we see his cry. So look in your scripture, in your Bible, Job chapter 7. Let's remember as we read this that this is God's holy word to us. This is his wisdom to us at the beginning of this year. Job chapter 7, the first ten verses. Job is answering his friend Eliphaz, who has been telling him what he thinks his problem is. And Job is responding to Eliphaz's argument, and he says, picking up the thread, not to use the fun here, of his thought, uh in chapter seven he says Does not man have hard service on earth? Are not his days like those of a hired man? Like a slave longing for the evening shadows, or a hired man waiting eagerly for his wages? So I have been allotted months of futility, and nights of misery have been assigned to me. When I lie down, I think how long before I get up. Night drags on and I toss until born. My body is clothed with worms and scabs. My skin is broken and festering. My days are stricter than a weaver's shovel, and they come to an end without hope. Remember, O God, that my life is but a breath. My eyes will never see happiness again. The eye that now sees me will see me no longer You will look for me, or I will be no more. As a cloud vanishes and is gone, so he who goes down to the grave does not return. He will never come to his house of life, his place, no more, no more. Let's pause for a word of prayer as we consider this passage. Lord, as we come to the beginning of this infamous year 1984, we want to gain your wisdom and perspective on our life. And so we pray that you will teach us, that you will open our eyes, that we might see how swift our lives are, and that we might see our relationship to you. In the light of that swiftness. Lord, help us to open our hearts And to respond accordingly. Teach us, Holy Spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. There's three things that I would like for you to see from this text at the beginning of this famous year or infamous year, 1984. First is that life moves so fast, verse 6. Secondly, that life is so frail, verse 7. Thirdly, the life ends so finally in verses 8 to 10. First of all, then life moves so fast. There's much in Job about the swiftness of life. For instance, in verse six, what we've just discussed, my days are swifter than a weaver shut up. That image is drawn out in Isaiah chapter 38 also. In Isaiah chapter 38 and verse 12, Isaiah says that my life is my a uh a loom. And it's like a weaver who, when he finally has taken that shuttle back and forth, Just faster than your eye can see. Finally, that shuttle runs out of thread. And when the shuttle runs out of thread, it stops. And the whole thing is just rolled up and cut off. And Isaiah says, that's the way my life is. That's the same thing that Job is referring to here. I look at that moon and my life just seems to go like a whirl, back and forth and back and forth and back and forth and back and then stops and it's over He also uses other images, for instance, in chapter 9, verses 25 and 26. He says, My days are swifter than a runner. I feel like I'm jogging through life. And you kids may feel like you're crawling, you know, and time crawls by and then it picks up to a wall. As Mr. Boss said, uh, as you get older you'll find that it begins to jog and then runs. People say that the older they get, the shorter the years are. And that certainly seems true. He says they fly away without a glimpse of joy Running, flying. Verse 26, skimming. They skim past like boats of papyrus, like eagles swooping down on their prey. Skimming by, silently, moving, like an eagle swooping down on praying. You see these images of speed. It runs again and again through the book of Job. Why is that? I think that's a very important reason. When our life is going well, and things seem to be somewhat normal, then the pace of life is so swift that we don't notice doing. All we're thinking about is how can I get done all that I need to get done before next week? How can I get done this list of chores, all these things at work that I'm given to do? How am I going to do it all? All the questions have to do with how's and what's. But then a crisis hits. Our lives are brought to an abrupt halt. All of a sudden, we're in a bed. All of a sudden, we find that we're in grief. Our lives are decimated. Someone in our family dies. Things are going to a crashing halt, and all of a sudden the questions change. No longer am I asking how am I going to get this done before next week? So now the question is. Why do I live anyway? What's life all about? Why have I been running so fast that I haven't even noticed what I've been doing? Why have I been getting all these things done? And now this big fold is in my life, and all of a sudden it's all gone. Well now all of a sudden I've seen and work how very dispensable I am because I'm not there. All of a sudden I've seen that the world can get along very well without me. And I begin to ask deeper questions about why am I here? What is life all about? And so when the pace is swift and we boast about the fact that we live in a fast lane, we don't notice how swift it really is. It's only when we're brought to stop. Then we ask the question, why is life like that? And so I would like to encourage us at the beginning of this year To force ourselves before God has the forces to stop, and to ask ourselves the question, why? Does life seem so swift to me? What am I doing that's so worthwhile? What is life all about anyway? My day seems swifter than a speeding shot, going back and forth on a moon. Job, you can imagine him sitting there pestering in his sores. And he sees that person over on the moon. And he sees the hands going back and forth like a blur. And Job says, as I look back at my life, and I see what I've been all wrapped up in. That's the way my life has seen. And now I wonder, where has it been going? You think of Dane Wednesday? He reminded us just this past week in our memorial service by his very brief life, less than seven months. didn't even make it to birth and deem die. Well you think of a child who dies at the age of ten Or an old man dying at the age of 90. And there's 80 years difference between them. But what's that in the light of eternity? What's a mere 80 years difference? What does it matter that we live ten or ninety in the light of all of eternity before us, before us and after us? And here we are in nineteen eighty-four. And it seems like I was just preaching from 1 Chronicles twenty-nine at the beginning of nineteen eighty-three. I liked this passage so quickly, isn't it? So very quickly. I think of a mother who stood over her son's crib. And as she stood over that little fellow and looked down at him, she wrote these words. Is this gift, this loan of tiny rose-faced son, with silken hint of hair and sobs that soothed the way in shoulder nestled sleep? So soon sixteen and six feet tall. Then did this childwide chatter change to rhetoric expounding man voice deep, and hands a daisy span top. grow my class, and timid toddling feet begin to march to innerbeat determined dreams Then did fearless questioning replace the trust that earlier lit his eyes? While babe to child to man unfolds, Does love, mother young, turn love, mother wise? I step aside and ponder his mysterious birth and mine, and time. So little time to nurture left. So much for him to teach me. So much more to learn and lean on love to learn. Life is swifter than speeding. Things that seem like they would never come have come and gone. And Jose reminds us: not only is life so swift, does it move so fast? But he tells us here that it's also so grand. Look at verse 7. Remember, O God, that my life is but a breath. My life is but a breath. My eyes will never see happiness again Now the Hebrew doesn't have the letter A. And so this literally reads, Remember, O God, that my life is but breath. And to the idea of brevity, we have also the idea of frailty. While life is just thin air. You just take away that bear from me for five minutes, and I'm dead. Hold me under water for five minutes. And all of my dreams and hopes and all that I am and have been and hope to be have come instantly to an end. Isn't that amazing? You ever been underwater? And underwater too long? Maybe you were held under, you were playing a game, and all of a sudden it bumped in some water And you desperately needed that air, and you thought you'd ever get to the top, and all of a sudden you realize how absolutely vulnerable you and I are. That God gave us life by breathing into original Adam, the breath of life. And that very breath is life. And you take away that breath, thin air. And we're dead. That's how vulnerable we are. Not only is that idea of breath show our frailness and our vulnerability, but also it emphasizes again the swiftness of our life. It seems as if my life is just one breath. And I inhale and I exhale, and it's all over. Some years ago, Samuel Beckett wrote a play called Breath. The whole play lasts about 30 seconds. You look on the stage and there are no characters. All there is is a pile of junk. And you hear only one sound. You then hear the inhaling of a baby as it breathes. And then as the breath exhales, it becomes increasingly the breath of an old person. Until finally it ends as a death battle. And Beckett says that's all life is, is breath in the midst of junk. And for an unbeliever, that's all life could be. Simply breath, thin air, and nothing more. And Gerald says that not only is my life so fast, not only is it so frail, but it ends so finally, so finally. Look what he says in verses eight to ten. He gives us here four pictures, four images to capture just how final our lives are. He says in verse 8, the eye that now sees me will see me no longer. First of all, then he says, They're never going to see me again. Have you ever looked at a person in a coffin? And you look at that person and you have the eerie sense that there they are. Looks just like them. But they're not there. They're gone. And they'll never be back. Someday you may get to look at my body in a coffin. And if you look at it and you'll say, There's Al. I knew Al. But Al's not there. You'll never see me again when I die. And let any of us die. We're gone. You will never see that person again. Their body may be there. Job says First and gone. They'll never be back to this life. The second picture he gives us is of an evaporated cloud He says, life ends so finally that it's like an evaporated cloud, verse 9. As a cloud vanishes and is gone. Here he's telling us that it's like a cloud that you see up in the sky, and there you see it, and the cloud looks like it has such substance that you can sit on that you could sort of uh bounce around on it like some giant trampoline or mattress in the sky. And yet it can evaporate. And when it evaporates, that cloud is absolutely gone. Did you ever see a cloud evaporate and then come back again? If it comes back again, as in the cycle of nature, of course, and condensation and all the rest of that It will come back, but it won't be the same cloud. That cloud will be gone and it will never appear again. And Job says, that's the Revelation. Here it is, and then it evaporates, and it's gone. Just like a cloud that disappears into thin air. The third picture he gives us is in the second part of verse 9. He says that a person who dies never returns from the grave. So he who goes down to the grave does not return. No one does. And you're no different. You and I, I think, somehow have this idea that other people have died. But life has obviously gone on without that. But if I died, life could not continue. Surely history would come to a halt. There could not be a world without me. And yet it's very humbling, isn't it, to realize that when you and I go down to the grave, That there may be a few people who will mourn us and remember us, but life will go on with very little notice of our passing. And we will go down to the grave and we will not return. But that's okay. The world will not say, we just can't go on until this guy comes back. We'll go down. And the world will continue. And Job says. That's the picture of life. It's so frightened. You wait in the breed and you don't come back. And then finally, the last picture, the fourth picture he gives. In verse 10, is that you'll never see your house or your family again. Notice how he says it. He will never come to his house again. His face will know him no more. I happen to have been born in the house that my mother still lives in. And I can go back to my room. where I was born. And I can still sleep there if I go home to Philadelphia to visit. When I die That moon will never see me again. I will never go back to 6305 Kmart Drive over in Jeffers Hill. All the things that we've decorated together, the garden that I've planted and tilled, and all that I've done in the yard will never see me again when I die. And all those things will change hands, and in such a short time, all traces of my efforts to make that my home. You disappear. And someone else may take it over, and it will become theirs. And all memory of what I have done will fade away. I will never see my family again. They will never see me come back home. They'll never see me pull into the driveway again. Job says that's how final. Your family, your friends. No one will ever see you again. And you will never see the things that you have loved and enjoyed on this life again. Now what hope is there in that kind of a message? As we begin the new year, I began by saying happy new year, and then you say then you took the next 30 minutes to tell me how unhappy it is. And you give me no reason to rejoice, because all I see is the brevity, the frailness, the finality of my life so soon coming to an end. But you see, that's not the end of the story. Because Job also said the words in verse chapter 19, verse 25 to 27. To balance the perspective. Chapter 19, verse 25, Job says, I know that my Redeemer lives, and that in the end he will stand upon the earth. And after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God. I myself will see him With my own eyes, I am not another, tell my heart yearns within me. You see, the message of the gospel is that all those four finalities are not absolute. For there is one who went down to the grave and he did return. There is one who went away and his friends did see him again. There is one, the eternal word, Jesus, who while he was the eternal word became flesh. And took on a body that could die. And in that body, Jesus kept the law that you and I could never keep. And having kept that, Jesus in a mortal body decided to die, to end his life so briefly, after just 33 years in the firm of his manhood, Jesus laid down his life. So that in doing that he would bear the curse that you and I deserved, the curse of death that hung above us. Jesus, in taking that curse of death, paid fully the penalty that you and I owned. And doing that, he was vindicated, and so he was raised again. And God received him to himself, and the enemy, death, was defeated. Jesus Christ came down to the grave and rose up again because he paid for your sin and for my sin. And so Jesus Christ has changed the enemy death from a period to a common, and it has become a transition for us. For those of us who are his people, for those of us who know Jesus Christ as Lord and as Savior, who know that while our lives on this earth are so brief That in our flesh we will see God because Jesus Christ has become the passage for us And he's the one who has opened up the way for this life to not be the end. Praise God for what he has done. There's a time that you and I will be going home. And so when we read, My life is swifter than a weaver's shovel, we can say, yes, that's true. And how brief it is. But when it's over, I'm going home. It may be in 1984, it may be in 85 or after that. Or Jesus could come in 1984 or sometime after that. But when this life has ended, I'm going home. And when I go home, there will never then be an end to my time. How much time did it take you to do the things that you really would like to do? We're so pressed by time, Aren't we? And you think, how much can I even accomplish in 1984? And boy, you know, a few hours of the year have already gone past, and the part of gotten the thing done You think, how much can I get you? How much time would it take you? How much time would it take you to really visit with your friends and your loved ones and spend all the time that you would like to to fellowship? Maybe in this last week you've had some hurried visits. You rushed to another state and you stopped there and you sat down with your folks and you tried to cram everything in and then you got up and you rushed back and now you're going to go back to work. How much time would it take for you to spend the time of your mom and your dad and all your brothers and sisters your friends and not say we've got to jam it all in? But we have the period for silence as well as for speech to enjoy each other. How much time would it take you to really explore the world the way you'd like to? To be able to follow every channel of interest, to explore the world in all its vastness, The stretches of geography and the vastness of space and all the places you'd like to go. How much time would it take you to explore? To explore not only in its extensiveness, but in its intensiveness, to explore every little thing that captures your attention To look through a microscope, to look at the whole world bit by bit, and devote as much attention to each little part as you would like to do, and to not rush off from the flower that you'd love to give your attention. Because you've got other places to go and obligations to keep. How much time would it take you to really explore the universe the way you'd like to? How much time? Did it take for you to really behold the Lord the way you'd like to behold him? You say, you know, I really would like to have better times of worship in my daily time in the Word, but I just don't have the time. It takes time to worship. It takes time to gaze upon and behold his beauty. And it seems like I'm just getting into it, and then I've got to get up and I've got to go because I've got something else to do. How much time did it take? be to really ease upon the Lord, to explore every facet of his multi-dimensional character, and to get to know him To explore his beauty, his character, why his wholeness. Do you ever play the game? If you could spend one week with anybody in the world, who would you spend it with You know, and some people say, Oh I'd like to have a week with Barbara Walter, she'd really be an interesting person. I'd like to have a week with Henry Kissinger or Walter Congress or something like this. Somebody that you say that would be a really fascinating person to spend a week with. How would you like to spend a week with Jesus Christ? Who knows all history, who knows all wisdom, all science, who knows everything about everything. And just talk to him and have him answer you. Not just to talk to him and know that he hears you, but to have him answer. How much would you have to say and ask and discuss with him? How much time? Would you like that? And as you begin to think about this, you realize eternity would probably be just about enough time. And yet the Bible tells us that's just how much we get. So after our lives have come to an end here Moving faster than a speeding shot. When we're with the Lord, there will be no limit. No more rush. No more hurried pace, but able simply to do all the parts wrong to do with all the time you need to do it. What a blessed hope. If you have Jesus Christ. But outside of Jesus Christ, that endless expanse of eternity would be spent apart from him in hell, with no creation to explore, but only a boy. With no friends or loved ones to fellowship with, but only isolation, with no God with whom to commune. But only the empty, hollow echo of your own voice crying out in space. And it's your choice this morning As Jesus Christ offers himself to you, and he says, your life is so short, it is so frail, and when it ends, it will be so final. Come to me. Come to me for life. Come to me to have your sins forgiven and have that penalty paid so that you'll have eternal life with me. And as Christians, in this first day of the new year, with this perspective of the swiftness of the frailty and the finality of our lives, What are three ways that you could spend 1984 to greater profit for Jesus Christ than you spent 1983? I'd like to challenge you to go home and think about that. And to write on the back of your bulletin outline there, you see three things. And it simply says, where will I begin on each? When will I start? But you would write down, Lord, here are three ways that I could invest my life this year that's moving so swiftly. I will only have one 1984 to live And only one life to invest for Jesus Christ. How could I invest that more purposefully? More profitably for you? Think of three specific things that you'd like to ask the Lord to help you to do. Put down where you'll start and when you'll start. That the Lord will show his power in all that. For truly our days are swifter than a speeding shova. And how will we spend them? It's only up to each one of us to answer. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we think with such mixed emotions. of this time that is before us of our lives Lord, we think with certain fear and dread how very strictly our Mahajan movie How very frail we are, and how very final the ends of our lives will be. No second chance to live over. And so we pray in the Lord that you would help us write down as we think about this, in the quiet of our hearts To be able to think of how, in a couple of ways, we could live 1984 More wisely, with these thoughts in mind, for you can be a little bit more than a lot of the same thing. Lord, speak to us as we're thinking now. Things that you have been trying to show us We've been investing our lives in things that won't last. As we look back over this past year, And think, where did my life go? What did I do that really mattered, that will count in the lives of others for eternity? Lord, how we thank you that you forgive. We don't have to carry the burden of any guilt of 1983 through 1984 with us. That you can wipe that as clean as the calendars are taken from the wall by your forgiveness of all our sin. The Lord, while we put away all of those things, we teach us to learn the lessons from them. Teach us that as we review 1983, Lord, that you would help us to see what it is you've been trying to teach us, what matter of character you've been wanting to form is. What it is that you're trying to speak to us about in our lives and to purposefully determine To set our hearts in cooperation with your Spirit to do that work in us, that we might be more usable to you. In this new year before us. Lord, we set ourselves and our hearts up for you now. In Jesus' name, who has conquered that. And prepared an eternal home for us. Amen.