If you have your Bibles with you this morning, I'd like to invite you to turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 5. This morning I'll be reading for us verses thirty-three through thirty-nine. Almighty God, we thank you for your word. Lord, we pray that you bless it to us this morning. Lord, the prophet Isaiah tells us that your word does not return to you void, but it accomplishes the purpose for which you sent it, even that we get led forth with peace and great joy. And Lord, we pray that you would do that work in and among us as your word is read. And Father, in the preaching that follows, Father, we pray again. And as much as it is a faithful echo of what you have said in your word, bless it to us. We ask these things in Christ's precious name. Amen. Luke chapter 5, beginning with verse 33, the Word of God. And they said to him, The disciples of John fast often and offer prayers, and so do the disciples of the Pharisees, but yours eat and drink. And Jesus said to them, Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? The days will come when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days. He also told them a parable. No one tears a piece from a new garment and puts it on an old garment. If he does, he will tear the new, and the piece from the new will not match the old. And no one puts new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the new wine will burst the skins, and it will be spilled, and the skins will be destroyed. But new wine must be put into fresh wineskins, and no one, after drinking old wine, desires new, for he says, the old is good. This ends the reading of God's Word. Well, this sermon was difficult to write. I don't mind sharing that with you And not just because I had all kind of uh home improvement projects on my mind. You see, this this text deals with a subject that we don't discuss a whole lot. in Christian circles today, especially in the West. The subject of fasting. Just out of curiosity, how many of you have heard a sermon on fasting in the last ten years? Who who am I kidding? I I can't see a single hand. But m may maybe there are no hands up. I don't know. I I don't think I've ever heard a sermon on FASTAHIN and you know I've listened to my own preaching for thirty years I it's not a subject that comes up much. We're going to see some perhaps of why that is the case But as we go through this text, we have to start with something that I dread to tell you might seem a little bit more like a Sunday school class or a lecture. So we want to start out with a question. We're going to ask three questions of this text this morning, and in brief those questions are, what is fasting and why was it done? Then we're going to ask, why don't Jesus' disciples fast in the Gospels? Then we're going to ask the question, why will Jesus' disciples fast? With the question. When and why will we fast? And I hope that by looking at those three questions, they'll prepare us for an application that will be relevant to our daily living. for God in this world. So we're going to start with what is fasting and why was it done? Fasting is something that is not at all unique to biblical religion. Fasting is something that was done in Egypt at the time the Israelites were uh in captivity there. Fasting is something that was shared not only by the mystery religions at the time of Christ, but the Greeks and Romans had fasting, the ancient Babylonians had fasting, so did the Assyrians. Fasting seems to be ubiquitous to religion in some ways. It kind of goes with sacrifice. Fasting is the Commitments or the act of abstaining, usually from food, sometimes from food and drink, sometimes during daylight hours, sometimes for the entire 24 hours of the day, for specific purposes. Now, those purposes in the Old Testament Included expressing grief and repentance. In 2 Samuel chapter 12, we read about David, who has killed Uriah After committing adultery with Uriah's wife, he has married Uriah's widow, Bathsheba, and they've had a son. And the son falls ill and is dying. And David with grief and repentance fasts. until the baby dies. Then he gets up, washes his face, and he eats something. Because He did not receive the object of his prayer and fasting, and he realized that that little boy would not be restored to him, but he would one day go to that little boy in the life to come. So sometimes in the Old Testament, when people were grieved and repenting of sin, and seeking the Lord's specific will and specific circumstances, they would fast. We see some of that as well in the fact that whenever there was an earnest and uh Urgent need for God to act mightily, we find people in the Old Testament fasting. Think of the book of Esther In the book of Esther and chapter 4, verses 3 and 16 both show us fasting. We read that when it is first Published that there will be a day when all the Jews in Babylon can be killed, that the Jewish exiles in Babylon fast. And when Mordecai persuades Esther to present herself to the king. And seek mercy for the people. And Esther realizes that to approach the king unbidden was to risk being executed. She fasts, her maids fast, and she asks her uncle and all of the Jewish community to fast and to pray. So fasting expresses grief and repentance. It accompanies prayer. It's also associated with preparation for ministry. We see that in Exodus chapter 34, verse 28. Where Moses for forty days and forty nights does not eat or drink on Mount Sinai, as he is communing with God, preparing for ministry, and being given the law. Those are reasons people fasted individually or as a neighborhood community of faith or a nation. We should also notice that fasting was commanded at certain times in the Old Testament. Leviticus chapter 16, we read that on the Day of Atonement Everyone was to fast and to hold a solemn fast. After the Babylonian captivity, when the Jews are restored to the land, They had four national fast days. In the order of the events that were commemorated, the first was in the tenth month. The tenth month represented the beginning of the siege of Jerusalem by Nebuchadnezzar. Armies. On that day, they remembered the beginning of the end and they fasted. And then on the fourth month, When we read in the last chapter of 2 Kings that the city wall of Jerusalem was breached again, the people of God fasted on that day in remembrance. of the wall being destroyed. On the fifth month, that's when they fasted because the temple was destroyed. And on the seventh month they fasted because that was when Gedaliah, the governor of Judea, was killed, and everything fell apart for those who remained the remnant. In Judea. So there were five national required fast days. Now, in the time of the Pharisees, they would have had these five national fast days. Together with the more common repentance, grief, prayer request, fasting imperative. But they believed, the Pharisees, that it was a good and godly thing to fast on behalf of oneself and particularly on behalf of the country. such that we will discover in the Gospels that the Pharisees and their disciples would brag about fasting twice a week. And it was very typical in that day for the, we might think, the particularly observant Jews in Jesus' day to fast every Monday and fast every Thursday. And they would be fasting so that God would come and deliver, and the Messiah would arrive, and the new age that they expected Would be inaugurated. And so they're bewildered at the fact that when these Pharisees who are so particular in their fasting and so carefully observant of the jot and tittle of what religious people did and the reasons why they did it, they were confused at the fact that Not only, if you remember from last week, not only does Jesus and his disciples eat and drink with terrible people, but they don't fast with good people. What in the world are Jesus and his disciples thinking? Why are they fasting this way? Now, in first century Judaism, they understood, as I mentioned, and as you'd see if you look, for example, in Luke 18, that the righteous people in the world fasted twice a week They also understood the righteous people in the days of Christ, the Pharisees and their disciples, that there were times when you could not fast. They understood that there were times when fasting was wildly inappropriate. A couple weeks ago I talked a little bit about the Talmud, which is a compilation of two documents that really describe for us what the Jews in Jesus' day and the day of the disciples thought and practiced and how they interpreted the Old Testament and the prophets. And one of the things we discover there is that one scholar accounted 85 days out of the calendar year when the Jews and the Pharisees would have considered it forbidden to fast. Now I could not recreate that scholar's number of eighty-five days. I tried. But I did discover this. The rabbis determined that it was unlawful to fast either on the Sabbath day or on the preparation of the Sabbath day So that's two days a week right away. You may not fast. They also, for the same principle of you at the uh End of the week in Thanksgiving and anticipation the next week you don't fast. On the day before a new moon and on the day of a new moon, you were not permitted to fast. You weren't permitted to fast on those days as you anticipated God's goodness in the month to come. You were also not permitted to fast on any one of the three major feast or festival days, lights or tabernacles, or Passover. It was unlawful to fast on such a day. Now, as I was looking at one Bible scholar's number put eighty-five and thinking, well, how do you get that? Because all of these things overlap. Sometimes the new moon falls on a Sabbath or preparation of the Sabbath. How will you count that? Forget the number 85, but hold it as an estimate. Roughly one day and three and a half You couldn't fast. So the Jews understood that there were some reasons why fasting was inappropriate and was not to be done. They also understood that when the Messiah came, at least in some instances, fasting Would be removed from the practice of God's people. Where do we see that? In Zechariah chapter 8 The word of the Lord of hosts comes to Zechariah saying, verse 19, Thus says the Lord of hosts, the fast of the fourth month. It's the destruction of the wall of Jerusalem, the fast of the fifth month, the destruction of the temple, and the fast of the seventh, the death of Galileah, and the fast of the tenth, the beginning of the siege. They shall be to the house of Judah seasons of joy and gladness and cheerful feasts. Therefore, love truth and peace. The whole context of Zechariah is when the Messiah comes. The fast would be transformed into a feast. Now, when Jesus responds to that question, Jesus says, you cannot require the guests to fast in the presence of the bridegroom. He could not do it. And when we look at what Jesus teaches his disciples, he teaches them to pray. He teaches them to love. He teaches them to serve. He does not give them instructions on fasting other than to say, when you fast, nobody should know about it. You should not do it as this public performance ritual, as it's done in Israel in the day of Jesus, where you disfigure your face. and you wear certain clothes, and you conduct yourself by posture and costume in a certain way. And it's been noted by other Bible scholars and Teachers and preachers alike, that nowhere does Jesus or the New Testament command a fast. It's commended And we're given two examples of fasting in the book of Acts. We'll get to that in the third question. But it is not shockingly, it is not even mentioned in the book of Hebrews. And outside of the Gospels and Acts, it's not mentioned at all. Well, what is it? What is it about Jesus' disciples and Jesus' presence that makes fasting inappropriate Because Jesus' disciples, according to the Gospels, didn't fast a single time. We have no reason to believe that despite the fact that in that day and that age religious people, God's righteous people, fasted twice a week. We have no reason to believe the disciples of Jesus fasted even once, ever. Jesus gives us a reason for that, two reasons really, in these parables. And the first reason is that it is unreasonable to fast in his presence. He says, Can you make wedding guests fast while the bridegroom is with them? There were few things that were considered more joyous occasions than the marriage in ancient Israel. And when the bridegroom appears, coming out of the booth that he has made, representative of life, that he is going to invite his bride to share with him. When he, and the word by the way, in the intertestamental era of Jesus' Jewish community, was when he Translated into Greek, raptures, when he leaves the house he has prepared, and in the weddings of those days the groom would prepare a representative booth, if any of you have ever been to a a traditional Jewish wedding. Sometimes there's still a booth up front. Historically that would have been made by the groom. And he goes out and he meets the bride and he brings the bride back to his house. That he made for her, much like Jesus will ultimately do for us in his second coming. And there were no moments In the life of the typical Jewish person that would have been as full of joy as seeing that bridegroom come and meet his bride and bring her back. And who in a circumstance like that could reasonably expect the guests to fast? There is no grief. There is no repentance. There is no urgent prayer that is crowding out the moment of the wedding. In short, when the bridegroom, the Messiah, comes, that is What our repentance is aimed at seeing. That is what our grief is lacking. That is what our hearts desire most. Imagine for a moment that I walk to Home Depot to get the next batch of building supplies for my house. Because I don't have a car. And then you give me a car, and I keep walking. Or imagine if I am hungry and praying for food, and you give me a four-course meal. Catered by Arby's. And I still pray for food. It just it doesn't it's not reasonable to do such a thing. And Jesus is trying to make a point that when I am present, You have the object of your repentance, which is a restored relationship. I am here with you. You have the answer to all of your prayers in chrysalis form. God is with you, even as you say he is, to quote Amos. There is nothing the presence of Jesus does not change and sanctify and beautify. Why would you fast on such an occasion as his presence with you? And he gives these parables. It's really two parables. They call it a double parable. Two parables making so points so closely related as to be one parable. And he he says not only is it unreasonable, and that's demonstrated in this fact, let's suppose that uh I have a pair of blue jeans and now I'm old enough that when I was in grade school, my mom used to actually repair my clothes when they got broken. And economics being what they are today, I don't think clothes get repaired so often I think they get thrown away and replaced. But uh my my mother would save old jeans that had been ripped too severely or patched too many times And if one of us wore out our tough skins, that was the name brand Sears carried back in the 70s, and she would cut from an old pair of jeans A patch to put on a newer but damaged pair of jeans. Why wouldn't she take new blue jeans and cut a patch out of the new blue jeans to repair the old blue jeans? Because that's unreasonable to do so. That makes no sense. You destroy the one garment, and it's not even going to match with the other. Or as Mark's version of this parable puts it, and Jesus clearly told this parable on many occasions. They will shrink differently and tear away, and then you'll just have two broken garments instead of at least one that isn't And in the issue of the wine, everybody knew that wine in the fermentation process expands, and so you put it in a new supple uh skin. A wineskin was us made usually made from a small animal sown the sins skins sewn together. And since it was new, as the wine expanded The skin could stretch. But if you took an old wine skin and filled it with new wine, it would burst. And you would not only lose the skin, which would have still been perfectly serviceable for things like water or milk, not only do you lose the skin, but you lose all the wine as well. It's unreasonable to do such a thing. And it's destructive. Jesus makes the point, carefully recorded by both Mark and Luke in their telling of this ministry event. that if we were to fast in the presence of Jesus, it is in a sense destructive of the kingdom life he has called us to. To try to put the new wine into the old wineskin, to cut from a new garment a patch to repair an old garment. ruins garments, wastes wine, destroys containers. It's unreasonable and destructive. But why? Why is it unreasonable and destructive if we were a people committed to a regular religiously motivated, liturgically calendar-driven season of fasting I believe the answer is in this text. It is that the bridegroom has come. He has come. And sometimes in our dissatisfaction with the fallen world all around us, and there are so many reasons to be dissatisfied with the fallen world all around us. We sometimes forget the significance of the fact that Jesus Christ came. The bridegroom arrived. And we've received the wedding gifts. We have his spirit. We have his mission. You know, there's a fascinating figure from church history in the 20th century. His name was Oscar Coleman. And he was a Lutheran scholar, pastor, a noted New Testament scholar and theologian. And as the days of the Nazi rise in Germany were were building and fomenting. He had the wisdom to leave and get to Switzerland. And he was in Strasbourg. Pardon me, in Switzerland, and from the office window he had in his seminary He could see the end, not of the Maginot line, but of the the line of dragon's teeth tank obstacles that the Nazis had built But it is Oscar Coleman in his reflections during World War II on D-Day who says that Christmas is like D-Day. You ever thought about that? Once the Allies successfully landed on the beaches of Normandy, there was a sense in which the war was over. Russia could not sustain two fronts, pardon me, Germany could not sustain two fronts. It was just a matter of time. And we sometimes forget that lesson. We sometimes forget that because Jesus came, when he hung on the cross and cried out, it is finished, it was done. It was done. The bridegroom has come. Everything is completed There is absolutely zero likelihood that the will and the plan of God does not move forward precisely as Christ has intended it to, not that there ever was a question. But we often forget from our punctilliar local spot in the chronology of human history that because he came, everything is different for us. All of God's promises have been made yes in Christ Jesus, according to Paul's letter to the Corinthians. That means that there is a sense in which all of my prayers are already answered in the giving of Christ, and that is not that I have nothing that ever causes me anxiety, and I still cast those upon the Lord. And as we'll see with the third question, there are still occasions when we fast as God's people. But the motive is never that Christ come, that repentance be granted. That is never the motive. Because the repentance has been given, the reconciliation has been accomplished, the Messiah has come. The guilt is removed. And so our fasting, when we do it, is so fundamentally different. than what the Pharisees were doing, that Jesus would not have his disciples fast at all, lest it be confused with what they were doing. Why would they fast? Jesus says, you will fast because I'll be taken away. This is a reference to the time he is taken away. And crucified. We don't find the apostles fasting on Pentecost. We don't find the apostles fasting really anytime except for on two occasions, in Acts chapter 13 and Acts chapter 14. They fast when they set aside missionaries for mission. The only New Testament examples of fasting involve the consecration of people who are going to go out on mission and a seeking of the Lord's will to bless those people. The fasting in imitation of the fasting of Moses, the fasting of Jesus in the wilderness. There is a fasting before hands are laid. On men sent out to carry the gospel. And people fast today when they have urgent Desperate prayer requests, as they did in the days of Esther. But I would say that the fundamental difference between fasting that we do today and the fasting that was then done is our fasting is in order that we might focus. In 2 Corinthians chapter 7, we have a description of a husband and wife fasting from physical intimacy for a season by mutual consent. And the idea there is unanimously considered to be so that they can be particularly focused and dedicated without the distraction of the appetites on seeking the Lord's will in a particular area of their life. Not seeking his presence, not seeking their salvation, not seeking their forgiveness. That is given freely and fully It might surprise you to know that the very first motion I ever made as a presbyter, shortly, I think it was at the presbytery meeting after I was ordained back in 1999. I was in New England and the Presbytery was having a dreadful, dreadful, dreadful problem with two churches. And my first motion was that we call for a day of prayer and fasting. And there are times in my life when I have prayed and fasted. But it is never for Jesus to show up because he did. It is never for me to be forgiven because I am. It was never because I am grieving the effects of sin, because Jesus has taken care of that, but it is so that I can be focused and directed. On calling out to him for his work to increase. And that is commended to us, but not commanded I was debating in my notes saying, do you smell what I'm cooking? But with the whole fasting theme Maybe I should have left that one in the office. But when we as God's people, uh Want to be particularly consecrated and focused on ministry, it is appropriate to fast. It is not appropriate to fast publicly. As a way to draw attention to oneself, as a way to demonstrate religiosity. It is not appropriate to fast because you don't think Jesus sees you, as if you were the prophets of Baal, wanting to scream louder because maybe God fell asleep. It is not appropriate to fast as a way of punishing yourself in your grief for your sin or sins that have been perpetrated against you. It is your task to be the new wine for the new wineskin. That's your task. Your task is to joyfully receive the new garment and cast the old torn one away. You see, this parable ends with two statements that have to be taken together in order for either to be understood. In verse 38, we have this contrast, but new wine must be put into fresh wineskins. This new messianic age must inhabit a new container. We cannot simply say, I'm going to be and do exactly what I was before Christ, only I'm going to add Christ to what I'm doing. We also can't say, I am going to be and do exactly who I was before Christ, only I'm going to cut a couple of pieces of garments off of this whole Christ thing, Kingdom of God thing. And I'm going to kind of patch up my old life, because all it needs is a little bit of rehabilitation. Jesus is making the point, and there's six or seven times in this one text, Jesus uses the word new. As opposed to old. And he's in every case, except the last one, which I'll get to in a moment, saying the new is superior and is to be preferred to the old. And yet we want the old. We want to hold on to things. And we we simply want to kind of Patch up some things that are sins we really need to let go of. We just want to rehabilitate our identities rather than be born again. And even as a Christian man, there are stupid commitments and things that I do as a person that I have trouble walking away from my investment. in certain activities or pursuits or imaginations and recognize, okay, Lord, I'm letting that go, and now I'm going this way because this is how you're calling. And it's a difficult thing to do. And just to be crystal clear, in no case is this uh A reason why husband and wife should separate or family should break up. I've heard this used that way, and it is an offense to heaven. But we need fresh wineskins. We need to be constantly renewed. Ephesians chapter 4 and 5. that we might put on Christ. But what about this last verse? No one after drinking old wine desires new, for he says the old is good. I want you to hear that as an indictment. Jesus is saying something quite tragic. It was axiomatic both in ancient Israelite, Jewish, and in Greco-Roman culture that old wine is good. I am not a wine connoisseur at all. I can't distinguish between a $60 bottle and uh the kind that comes out of a box that you get at the grocery store in California. I'm okay with that. But I understand old wine is better. And when Jesus says no one after drinking old wine desires new. He's saying that for many of us, we are so comfortable in the way things were. We are so comfortable in our mere religiosity. We're so comfortable in the self-righteous attributes of I'm going to fast to earn my forgiveness. I'm going to fast publicly so everybody sees that, you know, I'm a really great guy. We like that so much that we have no desire for the new And so we will never taste and see that the Lord is good because we're so comfortable with what we think is best. And how many paths to hell have that notion pasted on the billboards? That you're comfortable. You know this life. You know what it's like to not have a master and a savior and a Lord and a King. You know what it's right. To simply think, well, I'm better than my neighbor. And you have all of these reasons to think that God's going to surely grade on a curve and I don't really need him. And you're comfortable with that. And so you will never know that there is a far superior beverage offered for free. His name is Jesus Christ. And you will never be made new unless you force yourself to look long and hard and by the grace of God are able to and recognize That what I enjoy and delight in and value so much does not really satisfy. You need to be prepared to let go of it and leave it behind and close with Christ, who offers himself to you. Jesus says, as it's recorded in the Gospel of John, it is necessary, it's essential. That we eat his flesh and drink his blood. And when he said that, a lot of people decided they wanted to stop following him. We read that many left him because of that hard, difficult saying. But what Jesus is saying is you have to so identify with me that I displace all of your appetites that do not honor the living God. You have to see in me your source and sustenance of life. You have to see in me the provision for all of your needs. So I would urge you, dear friend, don't fast because your life is spiritually off the rails. Feast. on Christ. He has come to offer you food and drink. He has come to lay a table before you and invited you as his guests. He has prepared a place for you and is walking down the aisle to take you by the hand and bring you home. And it is a day to rejoice. It's a day to rejoice. That's one reason why we celebrate the Lord's Supper. We celebrate it. Because it's a feast. We don't fast because the leader of God's people, Gedalia, was killed on the tenth month. We feast because the true leader of God's people gave his life on the cross for us. Almighty God, we ask that you bless us. Lord, we pray that you would, Lord, help us to live lives that are suitably marked with joy. Even when we consider trials and their various kinds, may they be pure joy to us. What a shocking scripture What a shocking truth for a melancholy soul like mine to be reminded in Scripture that the fruit of the Spirit is joy. And yes, blessed are they that mourn, but Lord, the overarching note of the life of the child of God is that because it is finished and because Jesus came, it is well with my soul. And so, Lord, as we come to this table, we pray that it would be a feast to us. And Lord, that we would be full of an expectant, joyful, Lord, excited, passionate interest in communion with you, the privilege of your people, because you, the bridegroom, came and by your spirit you have stayed. Never to leave us or forsake us, even to the end of an age. Almighty God, hear these prayers in Christ's name. Amen.