Make sure I pushed the right button this morning. I did. I wasn't going to share this, but with what Tom just had to do, I couldn't resist I had a dream last night that we had a service in which there were some visiting pastors and we were all standing, and Tom Allen was leading us in worship And Tom said he wanted to try something new. So he had us all sing together, three blind mice. And as a result, all the visitors got up and they left. And about a third of the congregation just walked out. And I woke up and I realized I was more concerned about that because of my image of what had happened than I was that the Lord might have not been very pleased with what we were doing. Sorry, Tom. In case you ever think about doing that where Tom is But um you know that was just a reminder to me about my priorities too Well, we're in this series now on the names of God, and we've been looking at what I consider to be the most privileged name by which God has revealed Himself to us. The name father, or more specifically, more precisely, the name Abba, Daddy, the name that Tom has been using, that familiar childish name by which only the child, the son or the daughter, can address their father It's the name that always gets through to me in my office by phone, no matter what meeting is going on. And it's the name by which we always get through to our great God in heaven When we address him as our daddy, who's in heaven, on the basis of the merits of Jesus, he cannot but hear that name and hear us. Do you remember that I suggested last Sunday that you practice this week using that name, our Daddy Who's in heaven? In the beginning of your prayer, and I don't know, I know some of you have done that, I don't know how many of you have done it, and I'm not going to take a survey now. But I hope that you have been reminded by the Spirit to use that sometimes during this week. That you might be reminded again of the access that you have to your Father who is in heaven Remember the words of Jesus in John 11. Daddy, I thank you that you have always heard me and that you hear me now. And that's a tremendous privilege that you and I have to be able to address the God who is the Creator, the transcendent Holy One. It's my daddy who is in heaven. That that that understanding, that privilege that we have should control us as I've been trying to say in these last couple of weeks, should control our whole lives, control our conduct, control our praying, control our faith in opposition to our fears. That tremendous privilege runs through the New Testament. It's not just in the teaching of Jesus. I've focused on Jesus' teaching because that's the foundation But it runs in the rest of the New Testament. Next week, in the final message on this series, I'll be looking at Paul. Paul uses that name over 40 times in his writings. John uses it also, and it's central to the book of 1 John. Take a look at 1 John chapter 3. And see there how John focuses on the tremendous privilege that you and I have in calling this holy God daddy. Look how he puts it. In 1 John chapter 3, reading the first three verses. Here's God's word to us. How great is the love that the Father has lavished on us! That we should be called children of God. And that's what we are. The reason the world doesn't know us is that it did not know him. Dear friends, now we are children of God. And what we will be has not been made known. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. Everyone who has this hope in him purifies himself just as he is pure. John's saying, what a privilege you and I have to be called a child of God. That designation sums up so many particular privileges. You see on the top of your bulletin outline there that the reformers in framing the Westminster Confession of Faith devoted one entire chapter to this subject of adoption. And there it is reprinted the entire chapter there, which speaks of our privileges of being God's children. All those that are justified, God vouchsafeth, old word for promises. Promises in and for his only Son Jesus Christ to make partakers of the grace of adoption, by which we are taken into the number and enjoy the liberties and the privileges of the children of God. Have his name put upon them. Receive the spirit of adoption. Have access to the throne of grace with boldness. are enabled to cry, Abba, Father, are pitied, protected, provided for. I think I'm the only one that uses alliteration, huh? chastened by him as by a father, and yet never cast off, but sealed to the day of redemption, and inherit the promises As heirs of everlasting salvation. I put that there that you might uh want to look at that through this week and perhaps look up scriptures that speak about that. There's an awful lot there to chew on. It sums up. The biblical teaching about adoption. What I'd like to do this morning is to take a look at seven basic privileges, and we don't have time to really look at any of them in depth, but just to kind of survey them. That I might overwhelm you with what John is saying there, how great is the love that the Father has lavished on us. That we should be called children of God. And for us to think about how great that love is, the privileges involved in our being called the children of God, and to see that associated with that is also a responsibility But that the responsibility is not the bad news. Well, you know, here's all this I'm giving you, but I expect from you. But rather that the privilege itself is good news. And to see how that all works together. So let's take a look now, as we see through the book of John, first John, as well as in other places, just a brief running survey of our privileges as God's children. First of all, The first privilege is the privilege of pardon. The privilege of pardon. I remind you that our sonship is not a sonship by right of birth. You are not born a child of God. That privilege is only bestowed by adoption. Through the finished work of Jesus Christ. Look what John says back in chapter 1. Verse 5, he says, This is the message that we've heard from him, and declare to you that God is light. And in him there's no darkness at all. Now, if we claim to have fellowship with him, and yet we walk in the darkness, as we all naturally do, then we're lying and we don't live by the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, then we have fellowship with one another. And the blood of Jesus his son purifies us from all sin. So if we claim to be without sin, then we're deceiving ourselves. We're not in touch with ourselves. We really don't know our hearts. The truth isn't in us. But, you see, if, verse 9, we confess our sins. We agree with the Bible's assessment of our natures, that we're rebels from God, living our own lives, wanting to do our own thing apart from God. Then we confess that He's faithful and just And will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. You see this illustrated in Luke chapter 15 in Jesus' story of what we call the parable of the prodigal son that might more aptly be called actually the parable of the compassionate father. He never stopped to think in that story. of how the son took off with the inheritance and decided that he could have a more full and happy life by discovering his own way of having fun and his own freedom with no restraints. And how when his life unraveled and was frayed and he came apart so that he finally realized that he really wasn't very happy. In fact It'd be better to be a slave with his father than it would be to be his own free person out in the world. And when he decided to go back, there's the response of the father. The father doesn't wait for him to come up to the door. The father doesn't say, well now that you've decided to come back, I want some proof that you're going to be a better son. The father doesn't wait for him to come back and to prove himself. The father doesn't even test his sincerity. But rather you have the picture that the father's been waiting and scanning the horizon day by day, week by week. For that small dot that might be his son coming to return. And when there's that evidence that he recognizes the gait of his son and his stature as only a father can, he runs out And he grasps his son and he hugs him. And there's no statement about how sincere he is and how many more times he's going to do this and how dare he think that he can just come back and be reinstated as a son. But the Father comes to him with utter abandon because the Father has set his love upon him. And that's the picture of the pardon that you and I receive in Jesus Christ. And that pardon that we receive again and again, as you and I continue to go our own way and then wonder, but if I go back, will God receive me again? Or will he say, This is one time too many? I'm sick and tired of your excuses. We have portrayed in us the extent of the eagerness of our Father to forgive. When His Spirit has worked in us a genuine repentance that seeks his face. And returns to him. You know, I love that story in the Old Testament of Mephibosheth. Mephibosheth was a fellow I remember back in 2 Samuel chapter 9. His name was bad enough, but the where place he lived was even worse. He lived in a place called Nowhere. Kind of Nowhere, Texas, you know. Back there on the east side of sorry anybody's from Texas here Back on the east side of the Jordan River. And he was an enemy of David. He was son, Saul's son. And you remember how David, when he was instated on the throne, decided that he would set his love on all the descendants of Saul, and discovered Mephibosheth, and called him in and said, I pardon you for all the crimes of your family. In fact, Mephibosheth, I want you to come and I want you to eat at my table every day for the rest of your life. To sit at the king's table, enjoy the finest that I have, that I'll share it with you. And do you remember how Mephibosheth responded? He said, Who am I? A dead dog like me, that you should pay any attention to me You ever feel like that before your Heavenly Father? Oh God. Well what am I? I'm like a dead dog, you know, a rotten carcass before your holiness and your wonder. That you would take notice of me, that you would love me, that you'd set your affection on me, that you'd invite me to sit at your table day by day and feast with you forever. That's the extent of the pardon of our God. But not only is there that pardon, the second thing is the assurance that we have. The privilege of assurance. You see, God not only intends that you be pardoned, he intends that you feel that pardon, that you know the security of his love. And so we see after John says in verse 1 that this is the love the Father's lavished on us, he goes on in verse 10 to say, here's how we know who the children of God are and the children of the devil. And he says again and again so many times in this book, here's how we know, here's how we know in chapter 5 and verse 13, I write these things to you who believe on the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. His intention is that you have assurance of that pardon, of that being his own child with all the privileges involved in that. And that assurance comes in two ways. It comes by the objectives, examining of your life, as John gives 26 different marks in these five chapters For you to look at your own life and say, I know because this, this, this, and this is true in my life. These things that have changed because of the Holy Spirit, I have assurance that I'm a son. that I'm his child. And then there's that subjective assurance that Paul speaks of, the spirit witnessing with our spirit, enabling us to cry out, Abba, Daddy, we'll take a look at that a little more next week. But to be able to know both objectively and subjectively with assurance, I am his child. And so this is why I've mentioned to you, to practice that this week. I understand that for many of us here To talk about God as our Father is not necessarily to conjure up the positive image. It's not necessarily for us to have a notion of one who receives us. For some of us, we think of our earthly fathers, and we think of someone who is entirely unpredictable. Sometime he might receive us, another time he might give us the back of his hand. He might give us a tender word, he might give us a harsh word. We think of our fathers, and for some of us, we think with fear. For some of us, there's a tightening in our stomachs. For some of us, there's anger or shame. And we realize that with those notions of Father, to have an assurance that we can come to our Heavenly Father is difficult for us to relate to. But I would urge you if you're in that kind of a situation, that you get in touch with your wishes, with your longings, of what your earthly father could have ever been like. And realize that the very best you could have ever wished and longed for in contrast to what you had, as you look at Jesus and the way he treated his disciples See the tenderness. See the patience. See the predictable receptivity that he had toward them. Is in fact what your heavenly father is. And so much more than you can imagine now. Think in terms of your ideal Father and the assurance of his reception of you That you might be able to get in touch with what your privilege is as a son or a daughter of God. Not only do we have that assurance, but we have the assurance, the third case, the third picture, the third privilege. of our accessibility. We're guaranteed accessibility to him. At any point. John says, how great is the love the Father lavished on us. That we would be called children of God. And that's what we are. Then he says in verse 2, dear friends, now we are children of God. What we will be has not yet been made known, but we know that when he appears we shall be like him, for we'll see him as he is. We will be with him. He's calling us to eat at his table forever and ever. We'll have access to him. Direct access. Face-to-face access The Bible teaches that we have the first fruits of that, the down payment of that right now. The Holy Spirit has given to you accessibility to the Father. John says in chapter 1, verse 3. We proclaim to you what we have seen and heard so that you may also have fellowship with us, and our fellowship is with the Father. And with his son, Jesus Christ. That's in the present tense. We have fellowship with him, John says. We have accessibility. Remember, Jesus taught us to pray, our daddy who's in heaven. He didn't teach us to pray, dear sir, can I make an appointment? Can you put me on your schedule for sometime next month? And so we have such accessibility that we tend to take it for granted, don't we? But we don't delve into the richness of that accessibility. To know that in fact the Father has said to us, He is always available for us to come to Him. That's the privilege of a child ready, ever access My children know they can always get through to me. If I'm reachable physically, then nothing would keep me from being interrupted. Whatever they have, and sometimes it's not the most earth-shaking kind of information that I may need, but it's the relationship that determines the accessibility, not the importance of the request. And it's the same way with you and your Heavenly Father. The fourth thing that's our privilege is that of His provision for us. His provision for us. That's D. In case you're not counting, you know, what's a D equal? That's our provision. And in this case, you see that the promises that John gives to us. Chapter 3 and verse 21 and 22 he says, Dear friends, if our hearts don't condemn us, then we have confidence before God, and we receive from him anything that we ask, because we obey his commands and do what pleases him. In chapter five and verse fourteen and fifteen he has said, This is the confidence we have in approaching God. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us, and if we know that he hears us, then whatever we ask. We know that we have what we've asked of him. Now you notice it's not anything that we ask, but it's the things that are pleasing to him in chapter 13. 3. The things that are according to his will in chapter 5. Those things that are best for us is really what John's saying. So much that you and I have wanted. Perhaps we've been given some of it, and it's turned out to be bitter in the end, hasn't it? We say, why did I ever want it? Why did I ever get it? I wish I hadn't. I'm worse off now than before when I was simply longing for. And so the Father trains us in those things that we want. He wants to mature us in our desires in that relationship with him. Excellent book on prayer, The God Who Hears, by W. Bingham Hunter, has as a central premise this statement. Prayer is not the means to get whatever we want, but the means God uses to give us what He wants for us. Let me read that again. Prayer is not the means to get whatever we want, but the means God uses to give us what He wants for us. You see, it's in a relationship. He wants us to learn to depend on him as our Father. He wants us to pray, Daddy, give me my daily bread. I depend on you for that. And he provides it. And then we say, thank you, Daddy. I didn't just get it because I was shrewd enough and capable enough to get it. I'm not independent of you. I've received it from you. And so that causes us to love him more and to depend on him more. And the more difficult the request, because we've stepped out on faith in some area, the more we love him when we see his provision. But not only does he give us his provision, but now on the backside, E, there's also the privilege of his protection. His protection. What parent doesn't seek to protect their child and do the best to keep them safe? And how would you and I ever think that our Heavenly Father Would not do all he could to keep you and me safe, to protect us. Our mistake, however, is thinking that physical danger is our greatest worry. The Heavenly Father knows that that's not the case. That in fact all of us will become sick or die in one way or another eventually. That's just part of the curse. But that his primary concern is to protect us spiritually. Now sometimes he will protect us physically For his purposes. But that's not something we can claim. We can drive a hundred miles an hour, and the Heavenly Father is going to protect us. The Heavenly Father disciplines us sometime to mature us a little bit But he will protect us spiritually. That's his promise for us. Look what he says. John says in chapter 4. In verse 4, he says, You dear children are from God. You notice again the emphasis, you are children from God. And you've overcome them because the one who's in you is greater than the one who's in the world. Then in chapter 5 in verse 18, we know that anyone born of God, again the emphasis on being their ch his child, anyone born of God as his child does not continue to sin. The one who's born of God keeps him safe. The evil one cannot harm him. Some of us have read Frank Peretti's writings, Piercing the Darkness, this present darkness, and seen vivid illustrations of God's protection of his children. But this is simply what the Bible has said from the beginning, Jesus talking in John 10 about how you and I are like children that were in our Father's hand. And he protects us. We're as precious to him as the pupil of his eye. Nothing can harm us because of his protection. You heard earlier. Homer quote from Romans chapter 8 and some of the other verses there, but particularly that notion that nothing in heaven and earth can separate us from the love of God. Nothing is able to harm us ultimately because the Father is protecting you. It's his concern to establish you so that you will come to his throne safe. Nothing. The demons of hell themselves are not able to destroy you. You will not fall or stumble. Because your Father is protecting you. And then there's F, the privilege of an inheritance. Of an inheritance. Do you remember that our purpose as a church, our second purpose, is that we might know our hope. And what is that hope in Ephesians 1. 18? And that hope is the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, or for the saints, both in and for And so that's our purpose, that we might know that inheritance. John says here, how great is the love the Father's lavished on us, that we should be called children of God. That's what we are. Then he goes on, dear friends, now we're children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But we know that when he appears, then we're going to be like him, for we'll see him as he is. It hasn't been made known to you, for your eye hasn't seen, and your imagination has not yet been able to conceive of the inheritance. That God has for you. Romans 4 and 8 tell us that that inheritance consists of an entirely transformed world. that you and I are going to inherit as the rulers of that world. An earthly parent wants to leave the very best inheritance. for their child. Give the very best that I have that I've been able to accumulate that my child might be able to have it better than me and might be able to have things that they'll enjoy. What is it then if your Heavenly Father is the one who's made all the worlds and the galaxies and the universe? What does it mean for him to give to you and to me an inheritance? What kind of privilege is it for you and for me to read that we like Abraham are going to have a transformed world that we will own and rule? And that we won't even be greedy with it. We'll share it and love it and enjoy it with those who also share it with us. As children of our Heavenly Father. What kind of a privilege is that? A man who God used to transform the place where he ministered almost more than any other man I've ever heard of was a man by the name of Richard Baxter. He ministered in a place called Kidaminster in England, and his life was so powerful on the people that he ministered to in that town that a hundred years later People were still tracing the people that had been won to Christ through those that he had won to Christ and discipled. Now that's leaving an impact on a city. He had transformed that town To become a godly city of those who love Jesus Christ. You know one of the things that most motivated Richard Baxter he wrote, He said, Every day I spend a half hour thinking of my inheritance in heaven. I think about my heavenly Father and what He has laid up for me and what it's going to be like to be with Him. And that half hour, he says, that really gets me going. That's kind of a loose translation here. That moves me, see. That's what burns in my heart, so that I have things to share about Jesus Christ. Think about your inheritance, brother and sister, a little bit more, and perhaps you and I might find more joy and more of the sense of our privilege as his sons and our daughters. Finally, the last privilege that he gives to us is the privilege. Of discipline. The privilege of discipline. Here we go. What a downer. What do you mean the privilege of discipline? No, really I mean it. The Bible says that God's discipline of you as his children is a privilege. You don't believe that? Look at Hebrews chapter 12. By the way, John says that this is the love he's lavished on us, and the response, verse 3, whoever has this hope in him purifies himself. And God says, I'm going to help you in that purification process. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 7. It says, endure hardship, then is discipline. God's treating you as sons, for what son is not disciplined by his father? Now here's another writer in the New Testament emphasizing our sonship. And look what he says there in verse 9. Moreover, we've all had human fathers who disciplined us and we respected them for it. You know, we looked and backed and said, Yeah, it was good for me. You kids will someday. How much more then? Should we submit to the father of our spirits and live? Our fathers disciplined us for a little while, as they thought best, but God disciplines us for our good, ultimately, you see, that we may share in his holiness. No discipline seems press pleasant at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those that have been trained by. It's the privilege that I have of not letting my life run wild. God says, I'm not going to allow you to do those things that will produce harm in you, but rather I am going to discipline you that you might know the joy and the peace of my only begotten Son, Jesus. And so you and I are given that privilege. And that privilege then is related to the responsibility that we have. What is that responsibility? You see it written out there in your bulletin outline. The responsibility is simply to bear his name and to reflect his likeness. John stresses this again and again. But again, notice how he does it in terms of the family likeness. And 1 John chapter 3 and verses 1 to 3 talks about how we had this tremendous privilege of being children of God. And then he talks about how if you have that hope, you purify yourself. Why? Because you're going to see him and you're going to be like him. You're going to bear his likeness. And so you're moving toward that even right now. Then he says in verse 9, No one who's born of God will continue to sin because God's seed remains in him. See the family likeness. God's genes, as it were, spiritual genes are in him. He cannot go on sinning because he's been born of God. You contrast that with what I read in chapter 1, verses 5 to 7. You say that you're in fellowship with God, but you're walking in darkness. John says it's impossible. God's light, there's no darkness in him. And so if you are walking in darkness, don't call yourself his child. Because the child bears the family likeness, grows in doing that. Now, 1 John 3. 10 breaks that down into two simple parts so that you can understand what that means. What's it mean to bear his likeness? And the two parts are simply a obedience to his commands. Verse 10. This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right. He's not a child of God. What's doing right? Doing right is obeying his commands. How do you know that? Well, chapter 2, for instance, and verse 3, we know that we've come to know him if we obey his commands. The man that says I know him but he doesn't do what he commands, he's a liar. The truth isn't in him. You like the way John always puts that to him? He's a liar and besides that truth isn't in him. Well, he says, if anyone obeys his word, God's love is truly made complete in him. That's how we know that we're in him. Whoever claims to live in him walks as Jesus did. That's what's right, which means Obeying his commands. That's how we know what's right. For chapter 5, verse 3 and 4 tells us those commands are not a burden to us The other way he puts it is that not only do we simply obey his commands, but remember obeying them in that artful goodness of a child, not the slavish obedience to external laws of a slave. But also there is that second B, love for his family. John says, here's how we know who the children of God are. Not only do they do what's right, obey his commands, nor then If you're not a child, nor is any one who does not love his brother. The love for his people is a key mark to your sonship. You love your brothers and your sisters in Christ John repeats this again and again. Chapter 2, verse 9 to 11. He says there can't be any bitterness toward your brothers and sisters. In chapter 3, verses 16 and 18, he says it has to be expressed. Intangible sacrifice for your brothers and your sisters. Ways that you give yourself for them, put yourself out for them, share yourself with them when they have needs. In chapter 4, verses 19 to 21, he says there can't be any hatred. You can't be critical. You can't say I love God, but you know, this brother who's in Christ. Boy, I think he's the pits God says, no. If you love the Father, then you love his children. And those things go together. Now this isn't natural to us, you see. This whole point. You and I are not like that. We don't incline to obey his commands. We don't incline to love other people who are sinners. And that's why John says that you only do it because you're born of God. You see, you only do it because, a, my motive. My motive is new. In chapter 3, verse 3 he says, whoever has this hope in him purifies himself. You're motivated by the fact that you're his child. And so he makes you want to. You want to obey him. You want to love other Christians. You want to be part of his body. Because you're in his family. New motivation. The other side to that is that there's a new power. B, my power is new. He makes me able to. And you see that in verse 9. No one who's born of God will continue to sin because God's seed remains in him. He can't go on sinning because he's been born of God. And you say, well, that rules me out. You know, I mean if it's if it's if you're a child of God and you can't go on sinning, and I'm not a child of God. Must have missed it somewhere, because I sure go on sinning. What in the world could John mean? That the one who's born of God, no one born of God will continue to sin. Well, I think it's best probably understood by an illustration I could say to you, here's a glass of water and here's a cork. Now, read verse 9 concerning a cork. No cork will sink to the bottom of a glass of water. Why? Well, because its quirkiness remains in it. It can't sink to the bottom of a glass of water because it's a cork. The nature of a cork is to float. Now does that mean did you get ever see a cork at the bottom of a glass of water? Well, something might be pushing it down, something might be dragging it down. Our old natures push and drag. But the nature of the court is to float. It's to try to seek to rise. And so what John is saying is that if you're born of Jesus Christ and a child of God this morning, you're not comfortable with your sin. You're not comfortable with disobeying him. You're not comfortable with bitterness that you have and alienation for members of the body because the nature of God is in you. That gives you a new motive and it gives you a new power because like a court you will seek to go up into the image of Jesus. What do those privileges mean for you? What does that mean for you as you can examine your relationship to Jesus Christ this morning? How do you express your love to Him for those privileges? By obeying him this week, by loving his people. What difference is that going to make for you? Let's pray for a moment. Lord, as your people, we consider how we have so lightly looked at those privileges They had not seemed like something that we're really in touch with. Holy Spirit, we pray. Open our eyes to see the privileges that we have as your children. And then to see the tremendous privilege that we have of bearing your likeness. And the fact that our hearts, which don't incline to that, are being changed by your spirit. Giving us new motives and giving us new power that we might become more like Jesus. Lord, help us to experience that this week. And if there's anyone here who doesn't know, That ability to call you daddy, because they've never experienced the pardon of the compassionate father, we pray that you would show them their sin and their need of you. That you would show them Jesus in his death and resurrection on their behalf. Hear us, Lord, as we come to you now. Work in us, change us for Jesus' sake. Amen