Lance Sai John was a husky football player who flew an F-4 Phantom during the Vietnam War. In November 1967, his plane went down over North Vietnam. Sai John ejected, but when he landed, he was very badly wounded Amazingly, he kept himself alive through sheer will and eating bugs and leeches and crawled in his broken body for three miles. Forty-six days, sometimes existing for several days on nothing but water alone. After forty-six days of struggling to crawl to freedom, he was captured by the North Vietnamese. He was repeatedly tortured and interrogated, and yet he never gave up trying to escape. And in seeking to encourage his comrades to attempt escapes with him. Finally, the North Vietnamese reduced him to a mangled skeleton. Who could do nothing more than blink his eyes? One week after that, he died. His last words at his time, his moment of death, were Oh my god, it's over. It's over. Dad, help me. Dad, I need you. We never outgrow our need for our dad, Stuart. Here's a man who is the epitome of self-reliance, determination, grit. And yet, he, a Medal of Honor winner, at the moment of death, is crying out for his dad. We all need a dad. A dad to protect us. A dad to provide security for us. A dad. From whom we can gain identity, a dad to provide for us, and a dad to love us. And so you and I are going through The names of God, to understand something of what our God is like. And so far we've been looking at these names and we've seen that our God is not like the American civil religion God, who is a nameless God, known simply as God or the Good Lord or whatever. But this God is a God, unlike the American civil religion God, who has No character, is never to be feared, but neither can he comfort, nor has he reality. But our God is real. And our God has a name. And his name is Yahweh. And that name, Yahweh, his covenant name, by which he revealed himself to Israel when they were in bondage, unable to help themselves in Israel. Egypt is his basic name. We saw that in Exodus chapter three, out of the burning bush, God revealed himself in the basics of Yahweh, saying that my name Yahweh is the same. means that I am the eternal sovereign I am. You can count on me in any circumstance. He went on in chapter 6 of Exodus to describe how, as you see in that little house up there, the three pillars, that he is the sovereign redeemer. That's the left side. The sovereign redeemer, promising to his people, I will free you from bondage. He went on then to describe in the next verse Exodus. 6 verse 7 that he was to provide for them a sovereign relationship. I will be your God, and you my people. And then in verse 8 he went on to describe that he would sovereignly provide them an inheritance. Sovereign inheritance. I will give you the land. Now this name Yahweh in the Old Testament is always understood. You always know that you've come upon that name, Yahweh, when you read capital L small capital O R D Lord. Lord with the small capitals as opposed to Lord with capital L small O R D, which is the name Adonai. Totally different. But did you ever notice that when you come to the New Testament, there is no small capital O R D Everybody knows that? Come to the New Testament and the Lord always has small O-R-D. You don't see capital L small caps, O-R-D. Well, that's uh largely because the New Testament was written in Greek and the Old Testament was in Hebrew, so you don't have that name. But that raises a question to us, if God's name Yahweh isn't repeated in the New Testament, what is the New Testament name for? God. What is the New Testament name counterpart for Yahweh? Is it possibly the small L-O-R-D? That's um the same name, same uh word, but it's not the same name. Because that name, Lord Curios Is the counterpart to the other Lord with a small O R D in the Old Testament, the name Adonai. So it's not Lord. Is it possibly the name Jesus Well, in part Jesus means Savior, and that's related to the idea of Redeemer, but it doesn't carry the other ideas that you have. in Yahweh. So Jesus isn't really the counterpart to the Old Testament name Yahweh. Is it possibly Christ, Messiah? Well that certainly has some of the elements in it. But that is the Greek equivalent of the Old Testament word for anointed. And so while that has some of the elements, it certainly isn't the counterpart to the name Yahweh. Is there any New Testament counterpart? Or perhaps there isn't any? Well I would suggest to you that there is. That the New Testament counterpart to the Old Testament name Yahweh Is a name that is used so frequently in the New Testament that it's used at least a hundred times in the Gospel of John alone. It's the name Father. The name that Lance Sijon cried out in the moment of his death, Dad, I need you. This name Father, I believe, is the New Testament counterpart. And that that's so basic in our understanding of God that I plan to take six messages to unfold something of this meaning and the difference that And what that means for you and for me. But since I'm taking off this week, uh we will not get to the uh other five messages. We'll continue those after the break, and I don't mean the vacation break. The other five messages will be after the Christmas break. We'll take those up in January and February, so stay tuned. We have some other exciting things planned for the fall. So tune in again for the continuing series on the names of God that may go for Now until the Lord comes. Who knows? We do plan to finish them some point. But this morning I would like to give you some of the basics of this, this idea of God's name as Father. In fact, I would like to help you to see that I believe that right back there in the book of Exodus, God hinted at the fact that the New Testament, the fullness of his name, Yahweh, would be in fact the name Father. And then I would like to take you to the New Testament to show you how those same four elements that we have seen in Exodus 3 and 6 Concerning the meaning of Yahweh are the same four elements that Paul opens up in Romans chapter 8 to describe God as Father, the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ, and your Father and my Father. Father, by those same four elements. So let's look first of all at Exodus chapter four and see the hint that God give us, gave us back then in order to anticipate this. And then I want to show you how those same four elements. In Exodus chapter 4, which is between the incident of the burning bush and God's revelation in chapter 6 of them 7 Well, we read after God had shown his name Yahweh to Moses, the eternal I am, picking up God's word at Exodus chapter 4, beginning at verse 18. Let's hear God's word. Word. Then Moses went back to Jethro his father-in-law and said to him, Let me go back to my own people in Egypt to see if any of them are still alive. Jethro said, Go, and I wish you well. And now the Lord, there it is, Yahweh, had said to Moses in Midian, Go back to Egypt, for all the men who wanted to kill you are dead. And so Moses took his wife and his sons, and he put them on a donkey, and started back to Egypt. And he took the staff of God in his hand. Then Yahweh said to Moses, When you return to Egypt, see that you perform before Pharaoh all the wonders I have given you the power to do. But I will harden his heart so that he will not let the people go. Then say to Pharaoh, This is what Yahweh the Lord says. Israel is my firstborn son. And I told you, let my son go. But you refused, excuse me, let my son go, so he may worship me. But you refused to let him go, so I will kill your firstborn son. Now again and again in the Old Testament, God says to Israel, I am your father. You have that a number of times in Deuteronomy. It appears in the prophets, particularly Isaiah, Jeremiah, Hosea. But of course, that idea is not fully expanded until you come to Jesus in the New Testament, where Jesus unfolds this meaning Of God as Heavenly Father, and in fact becomes to Jesus the main designation of God. That is the main name that Jesus uses for. God, his Father. Paul then develops that in his understanding of how our relationship between God and us is established through our adoption, he says, as some Of God through the Lord Jesus Christ. And in Romans chapter 8, this is one of the classic passages where Paul speaks of God as our Father and we as his sons. And I would suggest that you see these same four elements of Exodus chapter 3 and 6 in Romans chapter 8. So let's take a look at them and see the same four elements. First of all, that the Father redeems me. That's number one there. The Father redeems me. In Exodus chapter 4, verse 22 and 23, Yahweh said, Israel is my firstborn son, and I told you, let my son go, that he may worship me. But you refuse to let him go, so I will kill your firstborn son. So Exodus goes on to describe how the blood of the Egyptian's firstborn son was the payment by which Israel was let go. That was the final sacrifice, their payment, so that God's people would be released. But now the question comes, but what did God pay? If God's redeeming them, he says, I'm gonna redeem you, I'm gonna kill your sons, he's extracting the payment from them. Did God not pay something? Well, Exodus, of course, is very clear about that. God redeemed his people through the blood of the Lamb. It was the lamb, the Passover lamb, that had caused the firstborn of Israel to not be slain, so that when they went out, it was only the Egyptians' firstborns that were judged, but God Himself provided the lamb and the the payment, so that his people would be redeemed by that lamb. And that lamb, of course, the Bible tells us was a symbol It was a picture of the perfect land that would be offered in your place and mine so that God could redeem us from bondage. Look at it this way personally. It's as if God comes to Satan and he says, Satan, Alan is my precious son. Let him go so that he can worship me. Let him go out of your bondage. And Satan says, no way. He's my property. Your own law has condemned him to my dominion because he refused to obey you. And God responds to Satan, so if you will not let him go, I will force you to let him go. I will force you to let him go by the sacrifice of the firstborn. But in this case, it's not Satan's firstborn that's sacrificed. But God says that he will offer his own firstborn. My behalf. In fact, his onlyborn. The only son he ever had, the son from eternity. And that is the meaning of the cross of Jesus Christ. That God gave his son, his firstborn, his onlyborn, to force Satan to let me and to let you, whoever of you here have placed your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Christ to be released from Satan's dominion, that you may go to worship God as free men and women. Amen. And you've been free And so Romans chapter 8 describes that. For instance, in Galatians, it's more succinctly put, in Galatians chapter 4, what Steve read. Galatians chapter 4, God says in verse 4, When the time had fully come, God sent his son, born of a woman, born under law, to redeem those under the law. That we might receive the full rights of sons. And so you see, we were purchased. And Romans 8 puts it in verse 15 you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again in your slavery to fear. But you received the spirit of sonship. And how did you receive that? Well, verses 1 to 4 of Romans 8 describe how you and I were unable. to ever keep the law and escape God's condemnation. But there is no condemnation. Why? Because he goes on to say that Jesus Christ kept the law On your behalf, on my behalf, so that verse 4 says, the law was fulfilled in us by faith in Christ. God looks at you and me just as if we had kept the Ten Commandments and the whole law perfectly. Do you realize that? Does that move you to understand that when God looks at you, he looks at you through Jesus Christ as one who has perfectly kept the law? He doesn't look at you as the wretch and failure that you are. He doesn't look at me that way. He says, I see you as one who has kept the law perfectly. You are my child, my son. Because Jesus has kept that law and his record has been transferred to your account. That's redemption. God, through the payment of the blood of Christ, transferred his record to your account. And so he has made you his own child. You are his son because of that. Has that ever come home to you? Are you resting this morning in the finished work of Jesus Christ? Or do you still feel alienated from God, distanced from Him, as if God has nothing more to do with you than to show you your failures? This tendency we have today to speak of God's love as some saccharine warm fuzzy so emasculates the Richness of the biblical sacrificial love of our God. So that when we speak of His love, we're speaking of love that was purchased at infinite cost. But is infinitely real. And you can rest in that love. Because that love was purchased for you at the price of the blood of his own son. You stand before Him complete. Unless you've never put your faith and trust in Jesus. And if you haven't, I beg you and I This morning, the last time that I'll speak to you for just a few weeks here now, that you would in fact place your trust and your faith Jesus Christ. He's redeemed you not only to release you from bondage, but he's redeemed you for a relationship with himself. That's the second point we see here. He's redeemed you to a relationship of sonship. In Exodus chapter four, again notice verse 22. Yahweh the Lord says, Israel is my firstborn son. Romans chapter 8, verse 15 and 16, Paul says, You didn't receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. But you receive the spirit of sonship. And by him we cry, Abba, Father. Abba means daddy. The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. The Spirit testifies that Exodus 4. 22 is true. We are his sons in Jesus Christ. That filial relationship, remember the gender is not what's at stake there. It's not a matter of sons and daughters, just as children in general. But it's that full rights of the Son who gains all the inheritance of the Father and is in that relationship, in that culture. And so you and I are in that position before him. And I'll notice two things about that relationship. As described in Romans chapter 8. Just two things in passing this morning. Number one, that relationship is characterized not by fear, but by confidence. That's the first blank, the A. Not fear, but confidence. Look at that again at verse 15. For you did not receive a spirit that made you a slave again to fear. But you receive the spirit of sonship. And by him we cry, Daddy. There's that confident cry. There's no fear of being abandoned, condemned, or rejected. As Exodus 6. 7 said, You are my people, and I'm your God. I've taken you to myself. The relationship is one that God has established, and nothing can break them. So you never have to come to him in craven fear. But you always know that he is accessible, that you can come to him and crave Cry out, Daddy. Daddy, I've sinned. Daddy, I'm in need. Daddy, I need you to help me. Daddy, I need you for security, for identity, for provision. And no Know that he is available to you. Not fear, the confidence. Does that characterize your relationship with God, Yahweh, the Father, the Son? morning. If it doesn't, meditate on scripture. Look at this. Believe it. Don't read it and then say, ah, but that's for other people. It doesn't apply to me. It does apply to you if you believe it. And you're the one who decides whether you will believe that or whether you will put it aside and excuse it or rationalize why it doesn't pertain to you. Pray the Spirit of God gives you faith. The second thing that characterizes this, and by the way, one other thing to build your faith in that is uh to take a look at Hosea chapter eleven. You know, Hosea chapter eleven is where God had said in verse one, When Israel was a child I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. That's referring to that Exodus 4 passage that God had said that you are my son that I'm bringing out of Egypt. And the Bible makes it quite clear that that son was ultimately fulfilled in Jesus. Jesus was the Son that God called out of Egypt. You see that in Matthew chapter 2 where Matthew quotes that verse. And he says that applies to Jesus coming back out of Egypt. He's the one who was the son that God had called But in him you and I are those sons. We're the ones who he has called. And you read that passage in Hosea 11, and God goes on to describe the sin that would You would think would cause God, the holy God, to have nothing to do with Israel. But then God goes on to describe how he feels toward them. One of the few passages in Scripture which simply describe God's emotions. And in chapter eleven of Hazaia, verse eight, God says, How can I give you up? How can I hand you over, you who are my people? How can I treat you like these heathen nations? Then I'm condemning and destroying. And then he says, My heart is changed within me. The Hebrew means my heart within me Hearts turned over within me, that churns within me. My compassion is all aroused for you. God says, I can't give you up. You're my children. I have a relationship with you that is an eternal relationship. Nothing can sever that relationship. And when you feel like you've gone too far or one too many times, go back to Hosea, go back to Romans, and see that your relationship is not characterized by fear. But by the confidence of the relationship that God has established with you as His Son in Jesus. Secondly, we see that that relationship is not just cognitive. But it's also mystical. Not just cognitive, but mystical I looked for a word to describe that. And mystical maybe has some bad connotations to some of this, but I believe that mystical is the best word. For look at what Romans 8. 16 says. It says the Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. That refers to an internal, deeply subjective witness of the Spirit to our spirits. And I believe that mystical is a good word for that because it's something that goes beyond what you can describe and intellectually set down. It's something that touches your heart so deeply that there is a union you feel with God as your Father that nothing else can account for but by the fact that the Spirit of God has placed within your spirit. That deep mystical union that you have with him. Now, how do you understand that? I I can't just describe it. All I can do is try in a very weak way to illustrate what I think is being attempted by that. Uh I described to you some uh while ago in talking about this An experience that Dean and I had when we were coming down from a mountain, and that point where our hearts touched in a unique way. Well, another example of that is a few months ago Julie had her tonsils out. And uh that was a pretty bloody and uh nasty kind of experience and she was sitting in the hospital and we all climbed up on her bed and played some games all families there and all. And I just felt drawn. I was hadn't been able to be with her uh that day. And I stayed on with her and we had a very precious time that evening And she wasn't able to talk, of course. She was writing and I was talking. And as we talked and talked and went on, it was just a kind of a unique experience because there we were, she was hurting like blazes and the thing was really, really kind of Uncomfortable is just a very mild way to put it. But then as it got on late into the evening, I sensed that there was more here going on than just that we were communicating information And as we began to talk about our love to one another, I don't wanna get too emotional and go into that very much, but let me just say to you that there was a sense that I had and that Julia had, I think, Of a deep relationship that at that point couldn't be put into words. Now, did that make her any more my daughter? When I left the hospital so late that night that the nurse offered me to the house, me a bit. You're gonna just stay overnight. No, no, no. I am going home. But you know, moments like that that you have, you don't want to cut them off, do you? And when I left, I didn't feel like, well, you know, now Julie's really my daughter. And I'm sure she didn't feel like, well, you know, now my dad's really my dad. She was no more my daughter, and I was no more her father because of that time. But the spirit in us And I'm not talking about the Holy Spirit. I'm talking about that spirit part of us had been deeply touched about the reality of that relationship. He was something that transcended the cognitive. And that's what God says about your relationship with Him. He wants for you and for me to know in our hearts and spirits so deeply, at times when we sense, God, you are my father. You cherish me and I walk with you and my heart is drawn to you. Did you say it's beyond anything I could put into words? But it's simply his spirit witnessing And that's what Romans is talking about. He's talking about that that intimacy of relationship that God desires Desires to have with you. You say, I don't have it, how do I get it? Well, you don't just walk around and say, Well, God, you know, give me that what he's talking about. You spend time in his word and you spend time communing with him and seeking his face and you walk with him, then at times, maybe totally unexpectedly, at a moment in your life, God touches you. with that glimpse of heaven in the relationship that he's established with you. I can't predict it, but I know that God says in Romans 8:16 He desires for us to have a have that. But he's given to us a relationship, not simply that's a relationship that ends there, but there goes on, he says, the third point, it's a relationship with an inheritance. It's a relationship. He's a father who has redeemed me to a relationship of sonship with an inheritance. Exodus 4, 22 had said, Let my son go, that he can worship me. And he's referring there to the land that God had prepared for his people to worship. And so Romans 8 spic speaks of God, Yahweh as the Father, and Romans 8, 16, where after it says that The Spirit testifies with our spirits that we are God's children, goes on in verse 17 to say, Now if we're children, then we're heirs. And if we're heirs of God, then we're co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings, in order that we may also share in his glory. And so you see there it is very explicitly, God's given to us an inheritance, and what is that inheritance? Well it's not just a land, not just Canaan, it's not simply a land flowing with milk and honey. But verse 21 tells us it's a whole new creation that God's talking about. A whole new transformed heaven and earth, more wonderful than Canaan or Shangri-La or anything that man has ever conceived of, God says I hasn't seen or ear heard of, even your imagination's never conceived. Of the land that I have for you, says in Corinthians. And so, when you and I think of that inheritance, Perhaps we come back and we say, if that's so great and so wonderful, why am I still suffering? Why is it that life's so hard? Why are things so different from that here and now? Let me just say there's two reasons for that that we see right there. Number one, because right now we're still sharing in his suffering You see that in verse 17? He doesn't just say when he makes you a son, boy, it's just glory from then on. He says, if we're children, then we're heirs, heirs of God, co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings. In order that we may also share in his glory. And as Jesus suffered before his glory, so you and I, as his disciples, following after him. In order to gain the mind of Christ, you must also submit to the experience of suffering. suffering with Christ. Then the inheritance becomes all the more precious because it weans you from this world. The second reason is that we only have the down payment of our inheritance. Verse 23 makes that very clear. Not only so, but we ourselves who have the first fruits, that means the down payment of the spirit. Groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies And so Paul's saying, the Father who's called you into this relationship has this established for you. But right now you're just getting a taste of it. You haven't entered into the fullness of it. The fullness of an inheritance can only be gained at death. Death establishes the transfer of an inheritance. And it's by death that we enter into the inheritance that God has for us as his children. That inheritance is sure because the fourth point says that this is by His sovereign power. By his sovereign power. You notice in Exodus chapter 4, verses 22 and 23, God says, Israel is my first. Firstborn son, let him go. If you don't, I will kill your firstborn son. There is a sovereign declaration. You will not keep my son. So Romans chapter 8, verses 28 to 30, after Paul has described all this, speaks about the sovereign establishing purposes of God. God, the Father who will accomplish His will, the eternal I am, and He says, We know that in all things God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose. For those God foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the likeness of his son, that he may be the firstborn among many brothers. And those he predestined, as those who are his children, you see, the firstborn among the brothers in the family. He's predestined, he's also called them, and those he called, he's justified, and those he's justified, he's also glorified. So his purposes in your life and in my life are sure. He states that in the past tense, it's I'm sure. He's already done it. He has justified, glorified, sanctified. You are as good as in heaven in terms of how sure that event is to take place. So when you and I look at the circumstances of life, that becomes sorely tested, doesn't it? I received that phone call yesterday about the day That had gone down that embankment on the way to French Creek. I knew that I would not be able to get the parents And so I pulled out some note cards that I had to write a note. The first one I pulled out said on the front of it, We know that in all things God works. For the good of those who love him and have been called according to his purpose. And I put that card back and I thought they don't need to see a Bible verse like that right now. They need to understand simply that my heart goes out to them. And yet as I took another note and wrote on it, I had to repeat Remind myself it is still true, isn't it? The fact is that God still has a sure and good purpose for them Last night I talked to Don, the dad of Kelly Hancock, who was killed in that accident. And I talked to him about the death of his daughter, and he told me how he had gone to see her body. And he called me to talk about that. And he said, I don't know if I didn't have Jesus now how I'd be able to go through Why did he call me? Because twenty-two years ago I had talked to his wife, who was not a believer. And twenty-two years ago on a college campus, living for herself, I challenged her to give her life to Jesus Christ, to the Father. And she considered that challenge, she considered her life, and she said, I want to give my life to Jesus. God can be trusted. He's a good God. And that day that she gave her life to Jesus Christ, she could never know that 22 years later, God would take her a second daughter So suddenly from her? Can she still say that he's a good God? Can she still say, as Paul goes on at the end of this chapter, to say, nothing? Can separate us from his love? Don said yes. We can still say that. We can still affirm. That he's our God. You might say it hasn't fully hit him yet. And I'm sure it hasn't. But the fact is That you and I can live in whatever, the very worst that we can imagine, that can happen in our lives. And know still That our God is our Father, and He will not let us go. Let's pray. Lord our God, whatever it is that tries and tempts and takes us now to say, are you really to be counted on? We turn to you and we cry out, Lord, you are our Father. We can trust you. Lord, you know how many times yesterday the things that I was doing, I cried out, Lord God, why? Why would you take those two kids on our way to a Bible conference. Why so suddenly, Kelly, who was looking so forward to that conference. Why? And then Lord, I thought, I don't know. I don't know why. But then again, I don't know how to make galaxies either. Then again, I don't know how to create solar systems. Then again, I've never understood the mystery of the Cross. Help us, Lord, in each of our confusions and perplexities now to bring them to you as a Father. and to trust you with every part of our lives.