Very meaningful time. However, I feel like when I go home for lunch I need to go sing the rest of um God All Nature sings like Gloria We often come When we come to worship, don't we, smiling and able to sing as we've done with joy? And yet knowing that that also hides a lot of hurts that we feel. The kinds of things that Leslie so beautifully conveyed in the song that she sang for us. Hurts that we've learned to live with. And as I look into your eyes, I know that each of you comes to worship with stories of sadness that you could tell, stories of disappointments for your life. I think when we consider the disappointments that have caused us such pain Probably the keenest disappointments are those in terms of our relationships, aren't they? Relationships that are not, were not, and we expect will never be. What we would have hoped they could have been. And perhaps in all the relationships that we have, one of the keenest disappointments for many of us is our relationship with our Father. Now I know that as a dad, none of us as dads are perfect. And I feel, as I know many of you as dads feel, so very keenly the failures in my own fatherhood. Failures that have disappointed or will disappoint my own children. Some of us are able to cope with those failures better than others. Some of us have endured much more significant failures than others. How many of you have ever heard the name or are familiar with the name Joe Lewis? A number of you. Come on, is that all of you? Rusty never heard of Joe Lewis, huh? The older mindset, you know, we've heard of Joe Lewis. I was interested to see how many of those of you say in your 20s or 30s have heard of Joe Lewis. How many say in their 20s or 30s have heard of Joe Lewis? Yes, a good number of you. That's rather interesting because Joe Lewis was a fellow who was famous in the 1930s and the 1940s. And yet his name still is almost a household word, a name that we're familiar with. Joe Lewis, of course, was heavyweight boxing champion for many, many years. No one was able to withstand his brutal punches until in 1951 Rocky Marciano knocked him out. Perhaps Joe Lewis's most famous fight, and the one that made him more of a household word than anything else, was his fight in 1937 with a fellow by the name of Max Schmelling. Schmelling was Hitler's representative of Germany's master race. And up against Joe Lewis, this was a contest of ideology. Mac Schmelling was knocked out in the first round by a poor black kid from rural Alabama. And Joe Lewis instantly became a hero to black and white Americans. Joe Lewis was no hero to his own kids. Joe Lewis had a son and a daughter, whom he hardly ever saw. He divorced his wife when his son, little Joe, was just two years old. And so eventually his mother married again and little Joe became Joe Barrow. And he grew up hardly ever seeing his dad And while Joe Lewis basked in the limelight of fame and fortune as heavyweight boxing champion and hero to kids around the United States, his own son wished that he simply had an ordinary dad like the other kids that he knew. Hardly ever saw him until late in his life, Joe Lewis, broken by drugs and alcohol and confined to a mental hospital had to be taken care of by his own son. Who at that time was Joe Barrow, a successful banker. Finally, Joe Lewis died in 1981. And Joe Barrow decided that he wanted to discover the dad that he never knew And so I traveled around the country doing interviews with people who had known Joe Lewis. And eventually wound up writing a book, A Portrait of a Flawed Hero. Listen, when Jesus Christ saved you, he not only forgave your sins He not only gave to you the promise of an undeserved heaven, but what is much more than I think we typically understand as Christians. Jesus Christ has given us a whole new relationship with God, who has been transformed from judge to look at our sins and to condemn them. To our Heavenly Father, a relationship so perfect that we will never be disappointed In our Heavenly Father. And whatever lacks that you have had and disappointments with your earthly Father I promise you that as you get to know your Heavenly Father through Jesus Christ, you will never be disappointed with him. We've seen in this series that God whose name is in the Old Testament preeminently Yahweh, the name that appears in our Bibles as Lord Capital L small capital O R D. preeminently defined that name in Exodus chapter 6. You remember that back in Exodus chapter 6 We saw that God defined Yahweh after establishing the basis for it in Exodus 3 as the sovereign one. In Exodus chapter 6, God says. In verses six to eight, that he is the God who will as father, now he doesn't call himself father there. But you notice what he does in Exodus chapter 6. He says in Exodus 6. 6, I'm going to deliver you from bondage as slaves to the Egyptians. And then in verse 7 he says, I'm going to call you into a new relationship with myself. I will be your God, and you will be my people. And then in verse 8 he says, And I'm going to give to you an inheritance. You see, it's a father who gives an inheritance. He says, I'm going to give you an inheritance, a land flowing with milk and honey. Now we've looked in these last five weeks. We began first week last summer, the last four. We've looked at how Jesus has opened up this name. In the New Testament, to give us an understanding of how our salvation revolves around centrally a whole new relationship with God That this God, this holy, majestic God, reveals Himself to us as our Father. And says that he who thundered from Mount Sinai now invites us to crawl up into his lap and call him daddy. Jesus taught this centrally in the Sermon on the Mount, and through the book of John you see it again and again and again. We looked at how John opened this up last week, and how John raptured on the fact that we are privileged to be called children of God. Paul also has this essential to his teaching about God and his nature. At least 40 times in Paul's writings he refers to God as Father. And in one of those passages in Romans chapter 8, in three verses, Paul tells what God is as Father, and he is He parallels in those three verses exactly what God said about himself in Exodus chapter 6. So that you can see that better. What I'm going to do is I'm going to read a verse from Exodus 6. And then read the verse from Romans 8 so that you can see them back to back. And then I want you to understand in this last message this morning, when God is Father, his name is Father to us, something of what that means. In Exodus chapter 6, verse 6, God said, Therefore say to the Israelites, I am Yahweh. And I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. Romans chapter 8, verse 15, Paul says, For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. But you receive the spirit of sonship, and by him we cry, Abba, Father, or Daddy. Exodus six, seven. And I will take you as my own people, and I will be your God. And then you will know that I am Yahweh your God, your Elohim, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptian. The Spirit Himself, Romans 8, testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. Exodus 6. 8, the inheritance. And I will bring you into the land that I swore you with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And I will give it to you as a possession or an inheritance. I am Yahweh. Romans 8, 17. So now, if we are children, then we are heirs. Heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings, in order that we may also share in his glory. Now do you see what God wants for us to understand in this is something about this new relationship That you and I have with him as our father. So, what I wanted you to do is look at the bulletin outline. And I want to see, I want you to see these three points. In some of the ways, we need to understand the implications of them somewhat by contrast. First of all, then, as Father, he delivers us from what? From bondage. Alright? I'm not going to wait on that. From a little risky. Bondage. Alright? From bondage. Verse 15. You did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. You're not in bondage to fear, you see. But you've received the spirit of sonship. You're no longer an orphan or a slave. And so consider as we've done before, almost three years ago, we went through ten contrasts. Some of you may recall, between what it means to be a son, an adopted son, and what it means to be an orphan or a slave. And I want to just touch on five of those to kind of his review but also just to help you to see again what this verse means that we're delivered from bondage. We're delivered first of all from the bondage of condemnation. That's the first on the left side there under A. We're delivered from the bondage of condemnation. You know that you deserve God's wrath. For the life that you've lived, your careless, self-indulgent, me first kind of living that has ruled God out, that has said, God, I want you when I need you When I'm in trouble, I want to call on you, but I want to determine my values. I want to make my decisions. I know best how to live my life. And I appreciate it if you stay out of it And when we realize that it is God who has made us, we realize that we have great cause to fear condemnation because we deserve it. And God is just to give us what we deserve. But you see, in Jesus Christ we read in Romans chapter eight, verse one, therefore there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, because through Christ Jesus The law of the Spirit of life set me free from the law of sin and death. And this is clearly what Paul's referring to here in verse 15. You are free from the fear of condemnation of the law. Instead of that, you have been given the acceptance of an adopted son. That's the right side blank. You have the acceptance of a son. You know that God delights in you as a parent delights in their child. We parents know that no matter how the kid acts, no matter what he's broken, no matter what rules he's transgressed, no matter what it is. That when all the wrath has finally come out, we still love the kid to pieces, don't we? We still want to cuddle him and hold him. We want to take her hand and we want to go for a walk with her. We want the restoration because we delight in our children. And we delight in our children sometimes, it seems, for no other reason. Particularly when they're babies that can't talk with us, they can't have a conversation. All we do is change their diapers and feed them. We'll be baptizing Richard Aversa a little later on. How much can Richard give of conversation to Rich and Michelle? But they love that little kid because he's their kid. And so God loves us because we are his children. He has set his love on us and he accepts us. Oh, brother and sister in Christ, if you and I could only know how much God delights in us. If we could only feel the love that our God has for us as we His children. To know that we are delightful to him because he has set his love on us. And then we would not fear, secondly, the fear of failure. The bondage of our fear to failure, the fear that you and I are going to not be acceptable if we don't meet some perfect standard. And so we continue to strive for perfection. And we're released from that in Jesus Christ to the security of God's approval. That's the blank on the right. God's approval. Approval as your dad. He's one who says, I approve of you. You are perfect as you are. Why? Because we have acted perfectly? No, because we have been given the righteousness of Jesus Christ. And so God says, you have my approval. You don't need to earn it. There's nothing you can do to get it. Just simply being my child in Jesus is what gains you and me that approval. And so again in C there, we're delivered from the bondage of our fear of people. Our fear of people. And their opinions, the constant concern of my image, what people think of me, what you think of me, what you think of my speaking or preaching or pastoring What the people think of you in your job performance, what they think of you as a person, as a friend, as a father, as a husband, on on and on and on it goes in your very The fear of people and their rejection. Paul says you didn't receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear. Fear of condemnation, a failure of people, but you've received a spirit of sonship, and in that there is safety. That's the blank on the right. There is safety in your adoption as a son. You're safe in God's approval because it's based on the performance of Jesus. And his performance as the perfect son cannot get you anything. But approval from your God. There's safety as you look to Him. There's safety as you understand that His record accounts for you. And so His righteousness is your righteousness. And when you think of that and you understand that God's approval is really more important to you than what any other person thinks, there's safety in that, isn't there? There's freedom in that. Freedom from the bondage of people's approval. And that's delivering you also then, D, from your bondage to the fear of helplessness. He's delivered you from the fear of helplessness. You didn't receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear of helplessness. The need to control your life. The need to always be in control. Lest if you get out of control, you're going to be very nervous about what might happen. Some of us go around just constantly trying to control our environments. Get everything under our control so that we can feel secure about things. But God has said you're not under the bondage of that because you can't do it. Try controlling your day sometime. Try ruling out the unexpected. Try making sure that everything goes just the way you planned it. You have a pretty miserable day, won't you? You're delivered from the bondage of trying to do that. Because on the right side you have given the spirit of sonship, which means that you are protected. You're protected as his children. You're not protected from the flat tires and the accidents. You're not protected from your clothes ripping and from things happening that are unexpected and are frustrating. But you're protected in the ultimate sense as his children from anything that could harm you. God's not interested in making you comfortable as much as you Much as he's interested in making you conformable to the image of Jesus. And that sometimes will involve a great deal of uncomfortableness. But you are protected by him. And so you're delivered from the bondage of needing to control your life. Finally, you're delivered from the bondage of the fear to abandonment. That's easy the fear of abandonment. Feeling that you're alone and that if anybody is going to make it work, you've got to make it work. No one else is going to take care of you. You've got to protect yourself. Rather, if you're his childhood You've been delivered, Paul says, from the bondage, being a slave again to the fear of abandonment, but you rather have received the spirit of sonship, and that means that God is always present with you. You have his presence on the right side. You don't need to protect yourself, but rather you can go in prayer to your heavenly daddy. Say, Daddy, I am totally out of control in this situation. I feel abandoned. I feel like I'm helpless. I feel like if you don't come through, then I am lost. And you know that as Jesus said in John 11 that we talked about before, Father, I thank you that you always hear me, and that you hear me always Hear me right now. And so you can go to your father as a child, knowing his promise that he's delivered you from the bondage of all these fears. Because he loves you. And he's protected you, and he's present with you, and he'll never leave you. Now, you see, the issue that I want you to understand about all these fears and the freedom that we have in Christ. The issue is not that you're not doing the right stuff in order for Christianity to work, in order to make you free from this bondage. That's not the issue. Some of us hear this kind of thing and we say, well, why doesn't it work for me? Why, if I've been a Christian for so many years, do I still feel in the bondage? Of these fears of abandonment and condemnation and helplessness and all the rest of it. It's not a matter that you're not doing the right stuff to make it work. The matter is whether or not you simply believe the gospel. The issue is faith, not effort. You see there? You enter the rest of the sun only by faith. Not by effort. It's a matter right now, this morning, of saying I can choose to believe the gospel and what Jesus has offered me. or I will hold him at arm's length. I'll continue to work it on my own. Perhaps out of pride, I do not want to humble myself. To make myself that vulnerable, that helpless before him, to acknowledge that I need him. Whatever your reason, the issue is not whether or not you can do it. The issue is whether or not you will look to Jesus this morning. Look by faith to him to deliver you from the bondage of those fears in your life. Do you believe that he is able to do that? That's the question. Amen? You believe that? You see, in your own heart there's got to be that sense of am I saying amen or am I mumbling that because he sort of prompted me? Because in our hearts that's the issue. Do I look to Jesus? By faith. Because my actions of freedom flow from my faith in Jesus. Jesus, not trying to do the right stuff, so that it will work somehow. Why don't you see that it's Jesus who delivers you from that bondage, then you see that he has delivered you out of bondage, point to, into a relationship. I'll cover these last two rather quickly. But into a relationship. That's the second thing. A relationship with himself. Verse 16 Look at the end of verse 615. By him we cry Abba, which remember is that Aramaic word for daddy, that intimate familial term of a young child. to their father, the one that is a privileged term that only the young child in the family can use. By him we cry, Daddy. The Spirit Himself testifies with our spirit that we are God's children. You see, the heart of the gospel is justification God's legal declaration based on the actions of Jesus Christ by which his record is put to your account. It's a declaration about you. You see a number of verses listed there in Romans that state that. That's the very heart of the gospel. Christianity that is stripped from justification God's legal declaration about you concerning your standing before the law and before his justice. Whether it is in yourself and your own actions or whether it is in the actions and the record of Jesus Christ, that's the very heart of the gospel However, that is objective. It is legal. But what is the height of the gospel is the adoption that flows from it. Because adoption, based on justification, is an intensely subjective relationship. Justification is a legal objective declaration. Adoption is a subjective, filial relationship In which you and I are called into the intimate relationship by which, verse 16, the Spirit can testify to us that we can cry to him, Daddy. And notice how we cry that. What it is that you cry. You cry that intimate term, daddy, but notice also how you cry. You cry it urgently. See this on the back side of your bulletin outline. Cry it urgently Verse 15. Notice that word, by him we cry. Abba, daddy. And I pointed out once before that that Greek term there is a word which means to shriek, to croak, to cry out. It's a word which expresses extreme emotion. You could translate it scream. And that teaches you and me that it's often in those times when you are utterly at the end of your rope, that you're not simply sitting in a pew saying, It's nice to know that you're my friend. Father. Rather, you are utterly helpless and you are prostrate flat out on your face. And you're saying, God, if you are not going to rescue me here, I don't know what I'm going to do. I am at the end of my roof and I am helpless. And it's at that point, verse 16, that the Spirit testifies in you. And in that helplessness, in that extremity, you cry out, oh God, my daddy, be my father, or I'm lost. And you see, it's the spirit in you that enables you to do that. That's the third thing there. Who enables you to do that? It's the spirit. The spirit in you. It's not natural. That's a supernatural thing when you are able to draw close to God. And to cry out to him in that need, Daddy. It's then that Father comes to me I have learned more about God as my father in times of great pain and distress than I've ever learned reading devotional books about. I've learned more about it in the woods crying out to God or flat on my face than I've ever learned sitting in a chair pondering the concept. And so will you in your walk with Jesus. And in those times when you find that you're being pressed to the wall, remember, perhaps it's at this moment God wants me to learn. More of what it means that he is my daddy. He's using the cords of these pains to draw me to himself that I'll lean on all the harder. Learn what it means that he's daddy. He does that for you, delivers you from bondage into that relationship. Finally, in order to give you an inheritance. With an inheritance, verse 17 Verse 17 says, Now if we are children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and co-heirs with Christ, if indeed we share in his sufferings. in order that we may also share in his glory. You and I right now only have a down payment of our sins sonship. We only have a down payment of the understanding of what it means to be God's children. For here there's still conflict and suffering. Often, let's admit it, we don't feel very much like sons of God. And as I've said, sons of God is a term which is not sexist. It's a term which means that you and I have that privileged position of sons as heirs Which is a legal standing in that culture. The Bible also says that we're the bride of Christ, and we men have to enter into what it means to be a bride. And so you women have to enter into what it means to be a son. There's no favoritism there. Just as much as we have to understand a bride, you have to understand a son. But the fact is, as a son, you have a down payment because you are the firstborn to be given, the firstborn of the adopted to be given an inheritance And that inheritance will be the fullness of what God has to offer to his children. The fullness of heaven, the hope of the fullness of glory to come where there will not be conflict, but peace, there will be no suffering, but only joy. Last week we saw that John said, It has not yet been made known what we shall be. Imagine that? It's not yet been made known what you are going to be when Jesus comes back and you enter into the fullness of what it means to be God's own child. It hasn't yet been made known. You can't begin to understand right now what that means. But by faith. As you draw close to Jesus, as you look to God as your Father, he reveals to you a bit more and a bit more and a bit more of the glory. Said that hundreds of years ago there were two monks who used to speak constantly about what heaven would be like, and they would speculate back and forth and they would go through the scriptures and they would Glean every shred of evidence of what heaven would be like, and they would think about it, and they'd discuss it, and they'd compare notes until they finally decided that this was of such intense concern to them. That whoever died first promised that he would come back for a few moments in order to tell them if what they had talked about was really true. And so when one of the monks died, true to his word, he was given to come back for just five minutes in order to visit his brother And his brother's first question was, was it just as we had said? Was it anything like we had said? And with a glow of radiance it was said, That was unforgettable, the departed brother said, totally different. Totally different Do you imagine stepping through the portal of the inheritance that your Father has for you in heaven? Have you begun to think and look for and begin to expect, long for, that time when you will be like Get Jesus. And you'll be adopted into the family in that place where there's no conflict but only peace and no suffering but only the joy of all suffering and tears removed. What does this all mean to you? What does this series mean to you as you look back and you think of what it means to call God your daddy? What's going to mean for you this week? Conclusion, let's just come before God now. I've talked enough. Now it's time for us to talk to God. And to bring before him our bondage, to bring before him the hope for the relationship and the longing for the inheritance. Let's pray. Lord, at the end of this series, perhaps you've been showing us some things that have brought us to a whole new awareness. Of the wonder of calling the eternal holy God my Daddy, my Heavenly Father. A Father who will never disappoint me in our relationship. A Father who loves me and cherishes me more than I can understand. Lord, show us yourself. Make these truths to be opened up in our thinking. I can't do it, Lord, you know. How feeble are my efforts, how weak words are to convey the feelings of what it means to be your child. Speak to our hearts now.