And everyone flees as far away as they can get to safety. And Len gave his life to Jesus Christ that day, and then he led his wife to the Lord. And he said to him, I've given your master's grandson everything that belongs to Saul and his family. And afraid that David is an enemy, threatens his own reign, and so wants to kill him. And servants are to form the land for him and bring in the crops so that your master's grandson may be provided for. We're Jonathan and David, best friends. They head all the way out to a place that's so forsaken its name is Lodebar. The king said to him, Are you Zeba, your servant? Did Mephibosheth eight at the king's table? Now the adoption is implied the first two times, but the third time, verse eleven, it's explicit. Verse 12, Mephibosheth had a young son named Micah, and all the members of Zebah's household were servants of Mephibosheth. I was trying to use it for my own advantage, but that's not true. Because he is saying, God has been so gracious to me, I'm not going to bring about judgment against any of my enemies. I lived in disgrace, hopeless and helpless. The Lord was waving that all aside and said, Alan, I don't care what you can do for me. who doesn't punish his children but chastens them to see the distinction of those in both cases that we might understand something of the radical nature of grace of the person he replaced, because those people will be sworn to either revenge or to try to recapture the throne. There's no time to set their bones his bones. And he wonders, is there anyone still left of his family? If there is somebody from the rival household, the rival dynasty, that he really wants to show kindness to. Zeba answered the king, well, actually there's still a son of Jonathan, but he's crippled in both feet. Man, I'm glad I'm not Mephibosheth. Now we don't know how much, but you know, as a king, he must have had the pick of the pastures and the forests He's given the king's inheritance and adoption by this king to eat at his table as part of his family They had raised their children who were all on drugs and marriages had broken and it was one tale of woe, physical illness and dysfunction and brokenness was always full of questions and he he signed this note dead dog this was a man who was overcome by grace Like one of the king's sons. Couldn't do anything to earn this, couldn't do anything to return the favor. And as part of your stay, you are invited to the evening banquet that the king has. And here is lovely Tamar, beautiful princess, a lovely girl. It's such a popular study by a Scottish preacher a couple hundred years ago that it's still in print. In verse 29, the king says to him, Why say more? Threatening to divide the baby that the two women brought, to say, hey, divide the fields to see his response. The first two were from 1979. Today's message is from 1982. trying to show the distinction between God as judge toward those who are without Christ, not following him, and God as Father We use the word grace so glibly, don't we? Um, but how few really understand what a radical concept grace actually is So today I want to tell you a story. I believe uh, at least for me, it's unsurpassed in stirring my heart to uh understand something about how radical God's grace is toward me. May the Lord touch your heart through this also. Only takes up thirteen verses plus a few verses of setting that Tim read and a few verses and chapters ahead that kind of wrap it up But John understands how things work back in that culture. Saul and Jonathan go out to do battle against the Philistines, the sworn enemies of Israel. He's even gone to a witch in order to find out the outcome, and the news is grim. And he says, terrible. As well as his son Jonathan. Whether she falls on him or what happens down the steps, we don't know. To Messibosheth. You you really don't have to worry about him, David. has taken the fibisheth. David said, Mathibisha, your servant, he replied. Now David says to him, Don't be afraid. For the sake of your grandfather of your father Saul. The gardens, the richest land in all of Israel. From an alcoholic Mormon. And outpoured one of the most heart-wrenching stories that I've heard. I still remember Len weeping and saying, I need him. It was in those early days of his walk with Christ that I preached the sermon. You hear of the inheritance that God has offered to you and the adoption that He has given to you for the sake of Jesus. And do you ever find yourself just flat out before him saying, Lord, Lord, why would you take notice of a dead dog like me? And Kathy and I love to spend time with him and his wife. First the invitation, I'll restore to you all the land, belong to your father, and you'll always eat at my table. The declaration. Now he's in a rising, beautiful city that is becoming one of the beauty spots of the Near East because he always ate at the king's table. Also one of the beautiful people. And eventually engineers his good looks and his popularity to take over the throne from David and pulls a coup. And then here comes Solomon. And David says to him, but Ziba, where's Mephibosheth? engineering politically to move into your place. David is so brokenhearted at the death of his son Absalom in that battle that he almost can't rejoice in the victory. He said, My lord the king, since I your servant am lame, I said I will have my donkey saddled and I will ride on it so that I can go with the king. And he has slandered your servant to my Lord the King. And in the study he does of Mephibosheth, he seeks to make the case that Mephibosheth was such an ingrade scoundrel that he had never You're safe. Lord, I'm a dead dog. Come freely. Of Jesus. Of the things that you wish you could do, of your own insecurities. I don't love you for the reputation that you give me because you're a success. Uh, idea of saying that a friendship is like a Jonathan and a David speaks of a very unusually faithful, um, close friendship. Everyone's wondering, how's it going to go? Zeban said, actually, he's at the house of Maker, son of Amal, and in Lodabar, you know, way over there out in the barrens, east of Jordan, out in the desert But David won't do it. I can imagine as David's men head out to Lodabar and whatever friends Mephibosheth has out there, they see David's men come and they take Mephibosheth and they say, Whoa. Don't be afraid. Of something that could happen in your life, or you're afraid of consequences of things you've done that are going to come back to haunt you. And then secondly, he says, and you will always eat at my table. I mean, who would you rather spend time with than somebody who's been gentle and humbled to see what they deserved and what they have received from Jesus Christ? And it's got them right in our heart. And then the fourth statement, the statement of grace, invitation, declaration, adoption, and grace. And he was crippled in both feet. And there's her half-brother Amnon, and he comes in, lusty, ruddy fella, rugged, comes in and maybe a bit of a swagger, and he sits down confidently appreciated what grace David had given to him and had turned against him and Zeba exposed him. to prove ourselves. Two weeks ago, the first message was some heavy theology on justification with some hopefully practical applications of that. David, swear to me by covenant. That you will not take revenge on me, that you will not try to kill me, to eliminate me as a possible rival for the throne, or any of my family. And everyone panics and they all flee from the palace. It's that command. You see, your friends can say, Don't be afraid, but what can they do? David has the authority to say, don't be afraid. And he says, What is your servant that you should notice a dead dog like me? Why would you notice a dead dog like me? Are you the pastor at Columbia Presbyterian who found your name out of the yellow pages? All of our sorrows and particularly that he would take away our sin by his sacrifice on the cross. Absalom is the kind of guy that whenever he goes around Jerusalem, all the girls swoon and they shriek and they want to get his autograph because Absalom David flees for his life and runs the way Mathibisheth had many years ago, east out of Jerusalem, fleeing for his life. David doesn't carry out the discipline he should. And who meets him on the road? That scoundrel. That uh the promise will be fulfilled. And shortly after that, who does he come upon but Mephibosheth? Let me pick it up at verse twenty four. It seems to me quite apparent if you read the next couple of verses who's telling the truth. But you gave your servant a place among those who eat at your table. And so David hears this, and he makes this statement. Of all the vast wealth that he had had. Who cares about my treasures? Who can't believe somehow have never gained the idea that I could be loved just for myself and For a God who could set his heart on me because of his grace and his kindness. Right now you still have that reminder of your own brokenness. And I was sitting on a bench and I was praying, Lord, what do you want to say to me? Because I love you. Is there anyone still left of the house of Saul to whom I can show kindness for Jonathan's sake? In 2 Samuel chapter 9, you have in the first verse the question of a man who understands grace. David is thinking back on that friendship that he had with Jonathan. Just didn't know where to go. muscular, handsome, Absalom, is well known to everyone. And you hear out in the hall, shuffle clump, shuffle clump, shuffle clump. He sets aside his crutches and he makes his way to the table. Oh well that's some fellow that the king has adopted because of the covenant that he made with his best friend Jonathan. Oh, thank you very much, Lord. I've already promised Zeba all the fields, but I believe you in the Fibisheth, so I'm going to divide it. Let him take everything now that my Lord the King has arrived home safely There is a man who has tasted so deeply of grace that he says, who cares about the inheritance? To our children, each of us to one another, because we've understood your love a little bit better And he was crippled in both feet. I've set my heart on you. I don't love you for getting ease on your report card. Because I love you. As we read those words that they wept together, David wept even more. Are we in danger? His nurse picks up Mephibiael, and as she's running to flee from the coming Philistines, she slips and she drops Mephibiael on the stones. He has multiplied the size of Israel ten times from approximately 6,000 square miles to 60,000 square miles in the few years that he has reigned. Now, fast forward a number of years. Now Ziba knows something of David's character, but he also knows political realities of that day, and he can't imagine that somebody's asking. I remember Jonathan. He was a man that that this message spoke to straight to his heart. I think it's because the author wants to remind us it was by grace that he ate at that table. Mismanaged his household, his children, Anmon, Breeps, his half-sister Tamar. And by God's grace and providence, David's men win that battle decisively. Ziba meets him and he says, uh, welcome back, my lord. And when he came from Jerusalem to meet the king, the king asked him, Why didn't you go with me, Mephibosheth? He's saying, David, I've been in mourning since you left. Alexander White has a two-volume series of studies on characters of the Bible David, that's all I care about. For the sake of Jesus, I've set my heart on you, and nothing, nothing can keep you from my presence. And he invited you home for the sake of his covenant with Jesus. But simply because he has set his heart on you. But simply because I've set my heart upon you to eat at my table. The story actually begins before David is king, back in that time when he's fleeing from Saul. And on that occasion that Tim read from, uh Jonathan realizes that God is going to take the kingdom from his father and he's going to give it to David. And you'll no longer be crippled in any way. Well Lord uh I can serve you this way and I can do that and Lord I I I don't always succeed, but you know I want to try and I can do this and I can do that and And so verse 2 tells us there was a servant of Saul's household named Zeba. So he's brought back to Jerusalem. Now notice the Phibosheth's response in verse 8. We began to meet for Bible study. All my grandfather's descendants, this is Mephibosheth, all my grandfather, Saul's descendants, deserved nothing but death from my Lord the King. Now, David's response, you've got to know the context of this. In Jesus name. Now, how are you and I like Methodishet? Thirdly, you notice your limp is a constant reminder that he loves you not for what you can do for him. David takes off. It's interesting, you come to verse 2, and uh one of Saul's servants with a fellow by the name of Zeba. Lord, may we be a people. First of all, you and I were fallen, helpless, hopeless, living nowhere until the Father invited you home. Makes all the difference. For part of the summer, some sermons that are from years past that have been particularly requested that I repeat, although most of you have never heard these messages. I preached a sermon I mentioned back in 1982. Are you ever overcome by the grace of God? Imagine that you are a foreign dignitary that is coming to do business with David, King of Israel. No, we don't either. But he rallies and he heads back into Jerusalem, once again restored to the throne. Can change a community and change a world. A battle that rivaled the scale of Antietam, for there were 20,000 casualties in one day in that battle. Probably the best paraphrase of what we would call it would be, God forsaken, barren. And a generation of fathers, and a congregation of people that can love like that, because we love out of the love of Christ. He is enjoying peace and security. I want it publicly known, I have adopted him. I didn't deserve anything. And it was as if the Lord spoke to me to say, Alan, can you believe that I love you not for anything you do for me? And our nation is crying for dads who can say to their children, Son, daughter As Mephibhael grows up, he's crippled. A carcass of a roadkill, garbage laying out along the side of the road. David was a sinner like you and me, and pardoned the pun, but he screwed up royally. And Jesus comes and he says to you, don't be afraid. You ever imagine the Lord saying your name? And he does it with two things. Lord our God, I sense that you're speaking to a number of hearts, people who are producers, like I am. Lynn got into the habit of signing his notes to me dead dog. And we compete and we critique and we compare. Now these are the blanks by the way. And the declaration, you're justified, acquitted, adopted into my family. I remember my covenant with Jonathan. But Ziba. He thinks that the overthrow of your kingdom is his opportunity to have the throne restored to him. Nothing you did. He was included with the family. You're the one that I love. And we know what happens when somebody is taken away by the new regime. Don't be afraid. The Phibosheth, Saul's grandson, also went down to meet the king. Lord, I just can't. Let him have it all. Can you believe that? I think we've seen the last of him. Just, you know, go go back to reigning and ruling and, you know, just forget this guy. Jonathan is Saul's son, and he is the best friend of David, even today. He replied. And so David, uh the king, had him brought from Lodabar, from the house of Maker, the son of Emile. Remember Ziba? Boshef is Hebrew for shame. All is lost. There's no time to do anything. We began to look at the gospel and I r still remember that day that I went through Isaiah fifty-three with him and talked about the exchange of Jesus bearing our sins and our illnesses and Jonathan goes back to the palace. Both are dead. Yes. He said he had tried a number of religions. Isn't our king wonderful? How many of you are here in 1982? And then after him comes Absalom. Sometime soon Solomon will be the richest, wisest man in all the earth. I've been brokenhearted since you left. All the difference in how we live. Even if you're a cripple, in whatever way, I love you. So they continue east. Particularly, Lord, this day may we be dads who live out of grace and communicate that grace to our families. And they are anxious for any indication of news. In fact, this entourage with little Mephibel keep heading east and they head over the Jordan and they keep heading as far away as they can get to safety. The first is invitation. That's kind of nasty a way to end it, isn't it? Amen That may seem like a non-sequentur, but this was one drunk alcoholic Mormon. I order you and Zeba to divide the fields. David is now on the throne. You know, this week I was outside and I was praying about this message. I want to tell you a story about grace. And then he goes on to tell him, for I will surely show you kindness. You don't have to be afraid, Mephibosheth. How many of you were here in 1979? The king asked, Is there no one still left of the house of Saul to whom I can show God's kindness? Saul's servant. Even though I know you're my best friend, I still need the assurance of a fealty of oath by covenant. It's actually a minor incident that occurs during the reign of King David in the Old Testament. If a man comes to the throne, uh the first thing that he does is seek to eliminate everybody who is part of the household. He's thinking of that day that they made that covenant, and he swore that he would show kindness to Jonathan and his family, but Jonathan's long been dead. You know the most oft-repeated command of the Lord Jesus through the four gospels in the time he was on earth? So Absalom has him assassinated. That's not why I love you. It's the gracious question of a grateful man who understands God's goodness. They started coming to church here and they joined the church and publicly professed their faith and And you and I have that hope that when Jesus comes back, he will restore everything. We name our churches Grace Church. All we know is that his bones are broken. Verse 6 When Nephibusheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, he bowed down to pay him honor. You're back. Nothing I did. They just keep running. He has everything that Mufebasheth had gained. My Lord the King is like an angel of God, so you do whatever pleases you. He's come back, and there's been a number of people that David has forgiven And you raised me up and brought me into your presence, and you desired me to be at your table. Put your name in there. Now Jonathan at that point had a five-year-old son by the name of Methidale. A man whose very name is Shame, a cripple, despised, forgotten. This is the fifth time it's stated. No one has ever loved me like you loved me. A man who has understood grace. And so you see in the final a few comments on that. Israel's been slaughtered. And Jesus has the authority to say to you, don't be afraid. He lived every day at the king's table by grace. And that brings us to 2 Samuel chapter 9. He is going to eat at my table Verse 30 is one of my favorite verses. Can you believe that? It's a command of grace. The Phibosheth bowed down even lower than he possibly was. The Philistines with bloody swords are headed for the palace, and they have victory and conquest in their eyes. His bones are never set. First of all, he says, I'm going to restore to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul. And Nathibish, grandson of your master, will always eat at my table. Now you can judge whether it's a definitive statement or whether it's a test. Both he and his wife were alcoholics. Four times that astounding word. Lodabar in the Hebrew means nowhere. David brokenhearted says, Ziba, all that you, all that Mathibisheth had, is now yours. But right now you still limp. 2 Samuel 9:13. And you say to the nobleman sitting next to you, who's that? Now I want you to see up here, I want you to see this as well as here. The second one is the declaration in verse 9. And Zeba says, Mephibosheth. I mean, excuse me, for the sake of your father Jonathan He had lately tried the Mormon church, was about to give up on that and thought he would try Presbyterians and He ate as one of David's sons in his household. Some month or so after that, he wrote me a note, long note, he wrote, he used to write me a lot of notes. My heart. This week, I urge you as you think about, meditate on this passage, imagine him saying your name. And the Philistines come on. The king who ousted Saul and took over his throne I said, yeah. Because, you know, it's such a delight to spend time with people who are overcome by grace, isn't it? And you and your sons. And David greets Zeba and affirms They never see each other again. When David says to Mephibosheth, Don't be afraid, it's David that Mephibosheth is afraid of. David says, I'm going to restore it to you. Well he's got to stick in that little spot about, and he was crippled in both feet. And she comes and takes her place. Look at verse 28. I don't love you for being a star on the soccer field. And they called him to appear before David. A couple more. You remember the story about how God engineered rescue for David, and there came a great battle, one definitive battle between David's mighty men and those of Absalom. I can eat at your table again. It was back uh some few weeks or months before that that I had gotten a phone call one night. Ziba betrayed me, and he's told you that And we prayed. Absalom's a guy with movie star good looks. Ziba meets him with several donkeys and with food and with drink, and he says, Here, my lord, here's provision for you on your way. I'm not going to take revenge. Why would Jesus have anything to do with a dead dog like me? Then Zeba said to the king, Your servant will do whatever my lord the king commands the servants to do. Do you love Jesus the way Mr. You know, I've got to preach these to myself before I preach them to you. It's a command to to you and to me, our fears and our anxieties. You want to wrap your arms around us and say, come. And you sit with some noblemen and you watch those beautiful people coming in. And every day you're reminded of the things that you failed at. I'm going to honor that covenant. Now who's telling the truth? And he said, could we get together? You gave me a place at your table. The story of covenant grace. It wasn't because he was going to be ever a mighty warrior. The king, Saul, how's he? We'd always smile together. All right? Our hearts are touched when you realize that's the last time Jonathan and David will ever be together. Do you ever feel at some time that And simply for the sake of the covenant with Jesus And you remember that situation that Tim read from And you're afraid of one thing or another I simply want you at my table. Yeah, say, eh, three or four, five? We call our daughters Grace David has enjoyed God's favor and the conquest of all of his enemies He's a man of shame, a cripple, who lives in nowhere land. And David says, excuse me, but I I don't think we're ready to eat yet. Or it could be a little bit like Solomon. He gave you the invitation. Then verse 9 And Mephibosheth lived in Jerusalem, no longer in Lodabar But they didn't live happily ever after So what right do I have to make any more appeals to the king? Today is Father's Day. So Saul and Jonathan and all of his army head out to battle against the Philistines, and things are pretty tense back at the palace. And a runner comes back and they say, how's it gone? How's Mesh Bibish going to respond to losing half And so we keep striving and stretching and straining. Because you see, I'm wired like many of you to think that my claim is my productivity. Saul, who is jealous Bones in his feet or ankles or legs, both legs broken. So here's Mephibosheth expecting certain death. He comes upon Mephibosheth, and we're told this story in 2 Samuel chapter 19. And some years later. That's it. So notice how keyy his answer is. Saul knows that he is not going to win this battle. As then he heads back into Jerusalem, who meets him on the road? I have it over in my office. I want you to know I've set my heart on you. It's going to be yours. He had not taken care of his feet, or trimmed his mustache, or washed his clothes from the day that the king left until the day he returned safely. Don't worry about him. And in comes Mafidisha, the cripple. I was nowhere. Of the love of Christ for you. And people cruelly change his name from Mephibel So we did. Absalom is alienated from his father. Now that could be saying Bishef did love David? I've set my heart upon you, Alan And we come up short. And then Look at them. Then the king summons Zebus, Saul's servant. You know, talk about nowhere land means no pasture, nothing. He wants to honor that promise The Phibisheth ate every day at the Lord's table If anybody's going to know, Zeba will know. He's no threat to you. That's one of the most foolish things I've ever read in any sermon series I've s I've seen. I don't understand Is it Zeba? A dead dog And so he's back in the capital Verse 7 Come Lord, what do you want to say to me? He comes in that foretaste of regality. Look at that. Come, eat at my table, all for the sake of my Knowing this, Jonathan asks David, When God gives to you the kingdom, And Lord, I'm a failure. Look at David's first words to him. If you trust me, you belong to me, I'm here. I was a man of shame. He might have kind of crept up on his knees, but he's flat out again. That's it. It's one of my favorite stories in all of the Bible. He's dead on the battlefield. You just forget about him. He called me up and he said Come and eat at my table. Mephibosheth said to the king, And David gladly swears so. David asked So Mephibosheth ate at the at David's table. It wasn't because he was going to have anything he's going to be able to offer David. Let's pray. But Ziba, my servant, betrayed me. Last week I gave you a chart. Or is it Mephibosheth? Ho Zeba had fifteen sons and twenty servants. Maybe you're here this morning and you're afraid. To always eat at my table. And not only is he given life, Where is he? But Ziva. We're not all here. The king asked.