Well, we're continuing our series of what I have heard referred to as the Golden Oldie Sermons. This week uh I want to call attention to the fact that uh it was in From May of nineteen eighty-nine to November of nineteen ninety-two that I did a major series, had a number of interruptions, but it went from May 89 to November 92 on the names of God. I covered over 20 names of God that reveal him and his character. And um Remind you again, as I reminded us during that series, that Hebrew names are not like American names. Our granddaughter's uh recent new granddaughter's uh name is Emma Clark. They didn't name her Emma because it had some profound significance. It just sounded nice, Emma. But that wasn't the way it was in Hebrew. You remember last week we looked at Mathibish And we saw that that name meant a man of shame. Names meant something. It described the person, something about the character of the person. And God's names reveal his character. So we went through that series so that we might know more about God and his character. As we went through that, we saw that uh God had many names. Uh When we read God, Geod uh in the Hebrew it's Elohim, which is much more meaningful. It means the strong and faithful creator um names like El Shaddai that mean the god of life in impossible situations. But by far the most significant of all the names is a name which you read in your Bibles as the Lord, capital L Small Caps, O-R-D. And that name of God, which no matter what translation or version, seems universally to be accepted as being put that way, capital L small caps, O R D. That one name appears nearly 7,000 times in your Old Testament. By one count, 6,823 times. That name, which we say, the Lord, in the Hebrew is simply YHWH, those four letters. Now ancient Hebrew did not have vowels written, and the Hebrews saw that name as so sacred that they never pronounced it. So we don't know today how that name was pronounced. Traditionally, that name was pronounced Jehovah. But we know that's not right because Hebrew doesn't have J's. Uh Jesus wasn't Jesus in as he was known, he w his name was Yeshua. So we had made it in English Jesus And so YHWH certainly wasn't Jehovah. It could have been Jehovah. We don't know, but modern scholarship has develop a consensus, a broad consensus, that the most likely way to pronounce that name is Yahweh. Now Yahweh may be accurate, but there's one problem with Yahweh, and that is that for those of us who read a scholarship about the Bible uh find that that name Yahweh developed out of liberal critical scholarship and in fact it is so associated with liberal scrit critical scholarship. When I was at the University of Pennsylvania, one of my professors was J. B. Pritchard, one of the foremost authorities on ancient Near Eastern texts and he would commonly refer to that little Israelite deity Yahweh and it always made my blood pressure rise. I was a brand new Christian And um so it's been hard for me and for many others to develop any kind of affinity or liking or uh affection for Yahweh So when I went through that series, I tried to get us used to Yahweh because it's the most likely way that that name is was pronounced. On the other hand, God doesn't seem all that interested in how it was pronounced because he didn't preserve it for us, and we have names like Jesus from Yeshua. So if you would prefer to stick with Jehovah, that's fine with me. If you'd like to make it Jehovah, that's fine with me too. If you'd like Yahweh, that's great. You want to just keep calling him the Lord, that's fine I'll probably mix them all up in this message this morning so you get the drift of all of it. What's far more significant, of course, than the way we pronounce it is what it means. And the origin of that word, its actual denotative meaning, can be traced best to Exodus chapter 3. You remember at that ki at that point uh God spoke to Moses out of a burning bush to call him to go to Egypt? And after there was this interchange and Moses was getting used to the idea that he may be having to do this, he says something like, Well Lord, you know, it's been four hundred years they've been there and a lot of them forget you and they don't know you, and if they say to me Who is it that has sent you? What is his name? Now you notice that Hebrew mindset. What's his name? Because the name will tell us something about his character. And uh Moses says, What do I tell them? And the Lord says, his answer is simply, I am that I am. It's related to those four words, those four letters, Y-H-W-H. It's rooted in the Hebrew verb to be. It simply means I I am what I am, or I will be what I will be. In other words, I am the self-determining one. Nobody brings me into being, nobody causes me, changes me. I simply am the self-determining sovereign sovereign. covenant initiating God. That is my essential nature. Tell them I am. Not past, present, future. The eternal God. I am has sent you. Then when you get to Exodus chapter six, and God is getting down to business on what He's going to do for Israel and redeeming them out of Egypt. He then comes back to that knee. And as you saw as Tom read that, in Exodus chapter 6, let's go back up on that now. You see in verse two, God says to them that I am Jehovah, Yahweh, the Lord. I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, to Jacob as God Almighty, that's El Shaddai, God of life in impossible situations, but by my name, Jehovah Yahweh, I did not make myself known to them. What does he mean? He means I didn't reveal the significance of that name to them. Now, Moses, I am about to reveal to you the significance of this name. And this name is so rich that this name is defined by an event, the Exodus event. Now, before we go on with that, let me ask you a question. If I were to ask you to sum up the gospel in one sentence What would you say? No, don't say it. Just think it. What would you say if I said sum up the gospel in one sentence? What would be a sentence that you would think the would get to the very heart of what the gospel is? Now suppose I said you can use three points. They don't even have to be alliterative. You just use three points of it. What were the three basic points of the gospel? Or if I said you you just have one word And you could take that one word, what would it be? That's what God does in Exodus 6, verses 6 to 8. He gives us one word, a name. And that name has three points, and those points sum up the gospel. So this name, Jehovah or Yahweh, I would like to demonstrate to you is the summation of the gospel so that whenever you read your Bible, and this is why it's important to me to give you this message again, those of you that didn't get it the first time So that whenever you read your Bible and you read in the Old Testament, the Lord, capital L, small capso-r-d, there'll be this little trigger that goes off with you that'll say these three points. And those three points will be to you a precious reminder of what the essence of the gospel is. What is that essence of the gospel? Now When I did this back in uh 1991, uh it took seven sermons to do it. So this is not a repeat of one sermon, this is a distillation of seven sermons So if you were the kind of person that says, Well, I really want to know what you were talking about, you know, you can get all seven sermons. over at the office and bug them. They'll love me for saying this. February and July of nineteen ninety one is what you'd be looking for. But the three basic ideas What I call the three Rs of the Gospel, you know, the three R's of education, reading, writing, arithmetic, are the basics of education. This name, the Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah. Are the three R's of the Gospel. Sums up the Gospel. What are the three R's? Redeemed into a relationship with a reward. Those are the three R's. And each of those is one verse. Verse 6. I will redeem you. First blank. I will redeem you from bondage. That's the first R. The second R, verse 7, into a relationship with myself, with me. The third R, and with a reward forever. Verse 8. Now let's look at each of these a little bit closer, as I say, much more briefly than I did the first time I went through it, but try to give you some idea. First point then, I will redeem you from bondage. Verse 6. You notice that verses 6 through 8 are framed by this Statement, I am the Lord. Verse 6 begins, therefore, say to the Israelites, I am the Lord. Verse 8, I will give it to you as a possession, I am the Lord. So that's another clue. that what he is saying now is what is going to describe and define what that means. In the Hebrew there's no M, it's just simply I, Jehovah, I, the Lord. And then he describes it. Now, verse 6. Therefore say the Israelites, I the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. Now there are three elements to this idea of redemption in the Old Testament. The first idea is that you are helpless, you're in bondage. Redemption implies that somebody is being held captive or in bondage, and that's the first idea. You remember that Jesus said in John chapter 8 and verse 34, Everyone who sins is the slave of sin. In Romans chapter 6, we read about how we were slaves to sin, but when we died with Jesus, we died to the law and its power, and when we rose with him, we rose in freedom of new life. uh with release from the bondage of sin. And so what the Bible does is it takes this this uh picture of Israel in bondage to the Egyptians and uses that as a visual image to describe the bondage to sin. Israel was in bondage to Pharaoh's Tutmos III and Amenhotep And that meant that every day that you would get up, you would look to another hot, sunny Egyptian day where you would be doing nothing but making bricks. You'd be mixing the mortar and you'd be mixing it with straw to be part of that vast construction project for Israel for Egypt's glory. And you had no hope of vacation. You never said, well, just two more months, and I'll be able to get off to the shore. Uh you never said just uh another couple of months and we'll have a family reunion to relax together and have a barbecue. You never had any hope of a day off You didn't have health insurance. You got sick too bad. You had no respite, no relief, no retirement, no social security. You simply worked until you died That's all you had. Helpless, hopeless bondage. No hope that anyone would ever deliver you, that would ever speak for you and for your rights. For things to go a little bit easier. You were absolutely at the mercy of severe taskmasters who saw you simply as a means to the ends of their projects. You were in bondage. The Bible describes our sin as being in terms of addictions, that our sin is addiction to our idols. That we are in bondage to those things that are the ways that we cope without God as the center of our lives. And so the Bible speaks of that as slavery We're enslaved. That's the first idea of redemption. The second is, of course, that there is deliverance, but that deliverance must come to a price. It must come through redemption. Redemption is the payment of a price. So God says to them in verse 6, I'm going to redeem you with my outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. And those mighty acts of judgment refer to the ten plagues. You remember the plagues of the flies, the lice, the frogs, and I thought it would have been really kinda good to preach that when the cicadas were all here, you know Uh but if I had done that, I would have done that not by way of comparison, but by way of contrast. Now I make light of those cicadas. Uh we were one of the epicenters, our backyard of cicada activity. It was so bad in our backyard that when our daughter would come over with our two grandchildren, she said every time she'd go away with a headache She said it um she was sure that it exceeded the ninety decibels that you hear about as the peak. You literally could not carry on a conversation in our backyard. There were times When you could not see the trunks of our trees, all you saw was bodies of cicadas all all up and down as far as you could as you could go. Uh the noise was deafening, but it wasn't a plague We could still walk through our backyard, and if you were careful, you could walk without stepping on cicada bodies. I had to be careful. But you could do it. You couldn't do that with the plagues. The plagues were absolutely overwhelming. There was something supernatural. There was something horrifying. And the tenth plague was the worst of all of them. The tenth plague, God said, I am going to take the lives of the firstborn of every family. The angel of death is going to pass through every family in Egypt. The Egyptians, as well as the Israelites, every family will lose a firstborn. But to my people, I will give the possibility of an escape. If you believe me in this, and you take a lamb, and you kill that lamb, and you take the blood of that lamb on a hyssop branch, and you sprinkle that blood on the doorposts of your home Then when the angel of death passes through, he will pass over your home. That's where the origin of that word Passover comes from. The eating of a lamb. To remember that God provided a lamb as a substitute and the blood of that lamb to redeem, to be the purchase price for the firstborn of every family. Now that, I remind you again, was thirteen hundred years before Jesus. Isn't that amazing? God pictured substitution by the payment of blood. 1300 years before Jesus was born. God says, I will redeem you with my outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment, the payment of the price of blood. So that you, third point now, can go free. The result, of course, is complete freedom. That's the idea. of redemption. I'm going to deliver you. I'm going to bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves from them. You recall that after that Passover and all the Egyptians woke up to find a firstborn son dead in their beds. And all of Israel took off. Pharaoh said, get out of here. I don't want to ever see you again. And they took off toward the Sea of Reeds. As he got to the sea, there was this impassable barrier. And then somebody in the rear looks back and he says, Oh no. Guys, I can't believe it's the Egyptian army coming after us. We're trapped God isn't good. God's cruel. At least we could live back there. Now God has trapped us between the sea and the Egyptian army, and they're going to come and they're going to slaughter us, and we have nowhere to go. And then God says, Haven't I told you I'm going to free you? And so He opens up supernaturally a path. You kids know the story, don't you? A path through the sea. I mean they didn't even walk in mud It was dry ground. And all those two million or so Israelites walk through that path in the sea, and they get to the other side. And they look back and they said, That was marvelous, Lord. I heard pretty impressive, you know, but uh the here come the Egyptians and now they're coming through the sea. What's gonna happen? And as they look back, they see, in amazement and horror, the waters begin to come tumbling back in, and they tumble on the Egyptians, and they hear the screams and the cries and the curses and the horses. As the chariot wheels first get stuck in the mud and then sink down and the waters come over top of them until soon it's all silent again. And there's not a single enemy to be seen. God says, I told you I was going to free you from the Egyptians. When I say I'm going to free you from the Egyptians, I'm going to free you from the Egyptians. And they sing a song of deliverance in Exodus 15. God has redeemed us. He has brought his power through the horse and the chariot. He's thrown into the sea And that's the meaning of redemption. Release from bondage with a payment of a price so that you can go free. But from time to time we've heard at Columbia Presbyterian people who hear that message that the essence of God's salvation is that He is someone who can deliver you from the bondage of your sins, your addictions, to your idols, whether it's to alcohol or to drugs, prescriptive or non-prescriptive. Whether it is addiction to sex or pornography or food or shopping or some behavior that you loathe and feel captive to in your life. The message of the gospel is God can set you free. Jesus can set you free from that. Amen. And you know, from time to time we've heard people that have said, I came into that message, into that service I might have been a Christian or might not have been a Christian, but I didn't really believe that Jesus could deliver me. And I got up every morning with a weight on my chest, and I felt this is the way I'm going to live till I die. And then God showed me he really means that he can deliver me from the bondage, the bondage of your sin and my sin. And I believed them that day. We've had people that have said, I've never taken a drink since that day. I've not been on an online pornography site. My marriage has been restored. God has begun to turn things around. Usually there is that transition period where there is not an immediate and absolute victory. We still wait for that and Jesus return. But sometimes there is. And so I stop and I ask you before I go on, are you in bondage this morning? Is there some area, a major area of defeat in your life, of bondage, and you've never believed that Jesus could really free you from that? I announce to you in the name of Jesus Christ this morning. He promises you he can. I will deliver you from out of the yoke of the Egyptians, of that sin in your life. And I will free you if you believe me and trust me and look to Jesus this morning. You can do that. And you can know his power in a way that you've never, never known it before. You believe him? I really charge you. I ask you to trust him and see what God would do. We'd love to add to that list of testimonies of those who have found the power of Jesus manifest today. And having said that, what else could he say? Well he says, I'm just getting started. Because having redeemed you from bondage I don't just stop in the from, but I redeem you to something. It's into a relationship with myself, and that's the second R. Yahweh Jehovah means God has redeemed you out of bondage into a relationship with Himself. Look at verse 7. I will take you as my own people. And I will be your God, and then you will know that I am the Lord your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians, and I will bring you. That's verse eight Okay, three times he says there in verse 7, relationship language. I will take you as my people. I will be your God. You will know that I am Yahweh, Jehovah, your God. Relationship. The gospel is about a relationship with Jesus Christ. It's not simply about being forgiven or being delivered, it's about a relationship. And that relationship the Bible goes on to describe in chapters after this in the Old Testament, on into the New Testament uh how that relationship is a relationship of intimacy. Do you remember in the Song of Songs? We had that statement three times. My lover is mine. I'm his. I belong to my lover. My lover is mine. I belong to my lover, and his desire is for me. The Bible describes that relationship in terms of a sheep to a shepherd. The Lord is my shepherd. And I shall not be in want. He makes me to lie down in green pastures and leads me beside the quiet waters. He restores my soul. It's a relationship, you see. Relationship of a Dumb, dependent sheep and a caring, faithful shepherd. He describes that relationship in terms of a child to a father. God says, You're my people, and he goes on to describe and Latter parts of scripture more and more how he's a father and we're his children. And I described to you how In Romans chapter 8, the Spirit witnesses to us that we are his children Describe to you how my son Dean at that time about ten years of age one day in the fall, beautiful, crisp, clear blue day, climbed Old Rag Mountain down in Virginia. After we came down the mountain, we were headed back along the trail. Dean just in this on rush of of happiness said, I love you, Dad. And I squeezed him and I said, I love you, Dean. I said, that didn't make him any more my son. And he didn't become anymore my I I wasn't anymore his father because of that interchange, but it was the sealing of our hearts to something that was true, the relationship that existed God says, I'll take you to be my people. I invite you into that relationship. You know what God's saying, telling you this in this verse, he's saying, I'm giving you my cell phone number. Yeah? I mean you think of what that means in our culture. You know, we all have these numbers, but you know, you don't list your cell phone number You give your cell phone number to people who you want to have that privileged access. They can get you anytime. God is saying, I'm taking you as my people. I'm your shepherd. I'm your father. I'm your daddy. You can call me anytime. I'm here for you. Then he goes on and he describes it's even more intimate than that. He says it's like the bridegroom and the bride. You know, we've had three weddings uh in this month, and two of the three couples are here in the service this morning. I always enjoy the fact that I get the ringside seat in these weddings because I get to see the couples right up close. You know, and I can recall Oscar and Steve's look at each other as they stood there right before me and Jen and Mike and the tears coming down Jen's cheeks as Mike looked at her tenderly and recited his love for her. And and as I see that, I'm reminded of that day. When I will go and approach my Lord Jesus, who will be waiting and waiting for you, for me, I will see a look in his eyes like you've never seen in any human being. And that look of love will be so pure and so delightful as he takes you to himself, my bride, my beloved, come, come enjoy my love forever. You know, I thought of how so much of the pain of our marriages, my marriage and those of you who are married is oftentimes in the insecurity of wondering if we're really loved, isn't it? Does Kathy really love me or Do I really love her or are we in the deepest parts of our being using each other? Wondering, is this person really out for my good? Or have we developed a relationship of convenience, a relationship of give and take? But not that relationship that's described here. God says, you know. You can never doubt that I love you. For I've given the blood of my own son as the purchase price to release you, call you into that relationship. I've called you out of bondage, into a relationship, most intimate relationship with myself And you might say, well, what else could there be? He says, there's one more point. Redeemed into a relationship with a reward. How do we say that together? So you just get that and you can remember that this week, and I want you to go back and go over these verses, but that you fix that. That's the summation of the gospel. Redeemed into a relationship with a reward. Let's just say that together. Redeemed into a relationship with a reward. Let's say it again. Redeemed into a relationship with a reward. Now what's the reward? Well he looks, he tells you in verse 8, I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. I will give it to you as a possession. I Jehovah. It's the land. A number of times in the book of Genesis, God promised to Abraham, I'm going to give you this land as far as your eye can see, all of this From the sea to the river, from Dan to Bersheba, all of this land is going to be yours. It's a fertile land, a beautiful land. And then you come to Deuteronomy chapter 28, and God says, of course, those who inherit this land must keep my covenant. You say, oh, that that sounds ominous because um I'm not sure I can do that. In fact, you get to the prophets, Jeremiah 10, and many other places, and God says, You're all covenant breakers. So you say, well, that's great. God gives a promise with a hope that can't be fulfilled. He says, no, you notice what he says here in verse 8, I will give it to you as a possession. I will give it to you. How's he going to do that? He says, I'm going to send my own son to keep that term, keep the terms of the covenant In your place. You'll be credited with what he has done to earn the land. And so you turn to Galatians chapter 3. You see that Paul there says and is picking up on this idea from Exodus 6, talks about redemption. Verse 13, Christ the Messiah, redeemed us from the curse of the law. He's brought us out from under his curse, the bondage of it, by becoming a curse for us, for it's written, Cursed is everyone who's hung on a tree. And then he connects that with verse 8. He redeems us in order that the blessing given to Abraham, that's the blessing of the promise of the land and the nation, the mighty nation, might come to the nations Through Christ Jesus, so that by faith we might receive the promise of the Spirit. So what is that promise? Well, it's not simply a hunk of real estate in Palestine Now that's simply a picture that God gives in the Old Testament. He tells us in Romans chapter 4 what it is. For there you read, it was not through law that Abraham and his offspring received the promise that he would be heir of what? Not real estate of the world. The premises of the whole world. But it's not this world. It's not a world that's decaying and a world of pollution He says it's the new heavens and the new earth, and the end of Isaiah describes that. And in Romans chapter 8 says we live under the bondage of this world, looking with anticipation for that world that is coming. That world, Emmanuel's land, that we so look forward to, that our eyes strain for, that we eagerly wait for is the fulfillment of his promise The reward that's Jesus' reward, but given to you and to me, I will give it to you as a possession by grace. And so you think of a poem like Anne Cousins, Emmanuel's Land. The sands of time are sinking. The dawn of heaven breaks. The summer morn I've sighed for. Low humidity, crystal clear blue sky, cicadas all gone. Enough rain, but not too much. The summer mourn I've sighed for A fair, sweet morn awakes. Dark, dark has been the midnight, but day spring is at hand, and glory, glory dwells in Emmanuel's land The king there in his beauty without a veil is seen. It were a well spent journey, those seven deaths lay between The Lamb, with his fair army, doth on Mount Zion stand and glory, glory dwells in Emmanuel's land. O Christ, He is the fountain, the steep, sweet well of love. The streams on earth I've tasted more deep I'll drink above. There to an ocean fullness his mercy thus expand, and glory, glory dwells in Emmanuel's land. The bride eyes not her garment, but her dear bridegroom's face. I will not gaze at glory, but on my King of grace. Not at the crown he gives, but on his piercing hand, the Lamb is all the glory of Emmanuel's land Redeemed into a relationship with a reward. And you've entered into that if you belong to Jesus Christ this morning by the power of the Spirit For it's the Spirit who gives you regeneration, new life, delivered from bondage. It's the Spirit of adoption who calls you to be that child of God with immediate access into his presence. It's the Spirit of God who gives you the first fruits, the down payment of the hope of heaven, secure to you. I strongly suggest you meditate on these verses. Think of memorizing them this week. Go through each one. And think of your bondage. Claim the power of Jesus. Think of your loneliness and come into his presence. He's given you his cell phone number, and he's always there, and the hope that he gives you of that land. Let's pray. Lord our Father, we want to enter into that hope. We want to see this name, the Lord, Jehovah, Yahweh. The one who, by your very identity, sum up to us the good news of the deliverance from our bondage, addiction to our idols The sense of loneliness that we have, but having to fend for ourselves and seeing that you are there, accessible to us, at every need and every time. With that hope, that hope of seeing your face in Emmanuel's land forever and forever to enjoy the fullness of the delights of your being. Lord, fill our hearts. With the gospel, we might live out of that this week. In Jesus' name. Amen.