Last September we celebrated our twenty-fifth anniversary of our first worship service as a congregation, and at that time I offered that um if anybody wanted to suggest a sermon or any of the sermons that had especially God had used in your life individually or in our life together, um let me know and I would uh consider doing some favorite sermons. Well, um got a number of suggestions, uh far more than I can um do in any series together. So I've decided that um this summer I hope to pick eight of those. I've already picked them I'm just hoping to get them in up until September the twelfth if everything works out okay. But they'll be interspersed mixed with other things. Um done basically chronologically in the order that I preach them. And um there'll be one exception to that that I'll explain when we get to it Um and I I hope that uh you know for those of you that heard him before be a blessing if you never heard him before. You'll see what you missed in the early days, you know. Um Today I'm going to begin with the first sermon of that series that I preached back in October 1979, shortly after we began And uh the roots of that message actually go back to a cold day in Syracuse back in 1976. Uh our church had decided to do a Sunday school series on basic Christian doctrines, and they assigned to me to do justification. So I thought, well, that's no big deal. I'll put something together and got all my notes from seminary and crank this thing out and um you know, hopefully the Lord will use it, but it wasn't a big event in my life Until I began to study justification again, began to read on some things and began to look at what it really meant. And God overwhelmed me With the truth of what justification is. In fact, if I was of the kind of group of Christians who would speak this way, I would have said that was the time of my second blessing You know, I mean it was like the Spirit came upon me in a whole new way. In fact, God began to deal with my moralistic, legalistic heart in a new way that day that he has continued to be doing up until this very day now. So when we began our church, I wanted to lay a foundation of the gospel. And this was in that series the message that I thought was the very heart of the gospel. And that's what I thought would be a good way to start this series of messages that God seems to have used in our history as a church. Now uh perhaps the the best way to begin to uh understand why this had such an impact on me and why I would hope that it would minister to you rather than, well, you know, I think I know what justification is or a word that's like that. I'm not particularly sure I care what it means. Uh I think it matters a great deal in that many Christians don't understand what that means, and I'll illustrate it by two simple questions that you see in your bullet and outline. Within an outline, you see two questions. Very simple, on what ground or on what basis does God justify or accept a person? Now you've got two choices, and don't even leave it open-ended. So you could uh 50% if you guess, you know, there it is. Uh but I'd like you to pick one. Which is it? A life of perfect obedience or faith in Christ. Which is the ground or the basis on which God justifies or accepts you or any person? Second question: Do you believe that the grace of God in your heart is able to make you acceptable in the sight of God? Simple answer is either yes or no. Make a little mark, something that maybe nobody can see that says, here's what I think the answer is. I want you to commit yourself to an answer, not just kind of think So we talk about it and you say, Well, yeah, I kinda wondered, that's kind of what I thought. Which one do you think it is? Now, as you do that, maybe I ought to warn you that I preach this sermon back north of Boston in nineteen seventy seven. And that morning in the congregation was Dr. Meredith G. Klein, who is one of the foremost theologians of our generation, prolific writer, and one of the sharpest minds in Reformed theology. When the service was over, he came back to me at the door and said, I was sure you were going to give the wrong answer. Now I didn't know if that was because he had had me as a student at Westminster, or whether it was what he said, which was, very few people get the right answer So what are the answers? Well, the answer to number one is not B, faith in Christ, but A. On what basis does God justify or accept a person? A life of perfect obedience. Not faith in Christ. Number two, do you believe the grace of God in your heart is able to make you acceptable in the sight of God? The answer is no, not yes Now, before you decide you're in a heretical cult and want to leave, let me try to persuade you that these questions focus on the real meaning of justification Which is the very heart of the gospel, but often misunderstood. You see, in number one, the point is it's not our perfect obedience, but Christ's perfect obedience that becomes the ground or the basis of God justifying or accepting us. In number two, the grace of God Not in your heart would never suffice. It's the grace of God in Christ, outside of you, that becomes the means of being acceptable in his sight. So maybe this will show you that we perhaps don't understand justification or the heart of the gospel really as well as we might think. What I'd like to do is um as I was doing back then, back in nineteen seventy nine, I wanted to lay a foundation for the gospel. in our church that I hope has continued to be a mark of Columbia Presbyterian, exploring, discovering, and living out of the gospel. We don't take the gospel for granted around here. It's something we continue to explore and build our lives on. And to see that that's something we can return to again with profit. And particularly since probably only 5% of you ever heard that message the first time. I want to explain the wonder of justification and then I want to apply it and some of the implications of it this morning. And uh I'm gonna build on it in the next couple of weeks, actually, from other messages back in those early days. Um If you find that this material is helpful to you, then let me state that in some of our middle hour classes and some of our cells in small groups, materials that unfold this kind of thing are used. It's not something unique to me. But often it is lost in contemporary evangelicalism. And so if you find uh I'd like to understand a little bit more of that, we have a lot of things that we use around here that will help you to do that Okay, first of all, look at the nature of justification. That's the first thing we need to see. Justification, the heart of the gospel. What's the nature of justification? The word simply literally means to declare righteous. It means to declare righteous, not to make righteous. In fact, the word is simply the verb form of the noun righteous or the adjective righteous. Nam righteousness, it it literally would be righteousify. That's kind of what justify means. To justify is to righteousify. It's simply a legal declaration. Doesn't make you any different. It's simply a statement about you. Let me illustrate that with three passages from the Old Testament, you see here. In Deuteronomy chapter twenty-five, you have a statement of the job descriptions of the judges of Israel. Moses says there, when men have a dispute, they're to take it to court. The judges will decide the case, acquitting the innocent and condemning the guilty. Now that highlighted phrase, acquitting the innocent, the word acquitting, which is in all caps, the Greek translation of the Old Testament The word that's used there acquitting is the word justify, from which we get justification. So the judges will decide the case, justifying the innocent Condemning the guilty. So justify means to acquit. Proverbs 17, 15 says, acquitting the guilty and condemning the innocent, the Lord detests them both. So you can't acquit the guilty because you're not changing the guilty. You're simply declaring What he is or she is. And so it is uh justifying the guilty would be wrong, you see, because it would be unjust It's simply a statement about the guilty person. When you take in Luke 7. 29, again in Proverbs 17, the word justify in the Greek is used in the Old Testament translation of that verse. In Luke 7. 29, you have the word justify used in a very interesting way. After Jesus had done some teaching and miracles, it says, All the people, even the tax collectors, when they heard Jesus' words Acknowledge that God's way was right. Now the literal of the Greek in that is they justified God. uh because they had been baptized by John. Uh now you don't make God something he's not, you don't improve God, you don't, you know, y it's simply saying they are making a statement about God. They say God is just. He is righteous in all of his ways. So it's an objective statement about someone. Doesn't change them, doesn't make them anything they weren't before. Now what then are the grounds of it? If that's the nature of it, then what are? I said the grounds of justification, God justifying, is a life of perfect obedience, not faith in Christ. What do I mean by that? Well, first of all, you need to appreciate the problem. If we take a light view of sin, then it's really no big deal for God to justify sinners. If, however, you take the view that the Bible does, that God in His holiness and justice detests someone who would acquit the guilty God himself cannot acquit the guilty. He can't justify sinners. So how in the world is God going to be both just And justify you. Remember what Tim read there in Romans 3. 26? That he would be both the justified he would be both just and the justifier of the one who believes in Jesus. It's only when you really feel that problem, the tension of how God could possibly justify you or me that you can begin to appreciate the phenomenal answer that the Bible gives to that problem. And the clue is in the phrase that you see there in the text, Romans 3. 24, where it says, we are justified freely by his grace. For all of sin fall short of the glory of God, and are justified, righteousified, declared righteous, acquitted freely by His grace. That word freely is a an instructive and interesting word. It has two main meanings. The first one, seeing your bulletin outline, first blank there is means no payment. Freely means no payment. Now again, let me give you three examples from the Old Testament. In Genesis chapter 29, you have Jacob who's working for his uncle Laban. He says to him, um, uh Laban, his uncle, after after he's been trying to cheat Jacob and they're trying to cheat each other, and been going on for a while and you know comes to him magnanimously and he says, Now just because you're a relative of mine, should you work for me for nothing? Again, the Greek translation of the Old Testament, the word freely used in Romans 3. 24 is the same word that's used in that verse. Should you work for me freely? Uh tell me what your wages should be. So you see what it means is should you work for me for no payment? Um that's the idea of the word. We're in Exodus 21, verse 2 If you buy a Hebrew servant, he's to serve you for six years, but the seventh year he shall go free without paying anything. Literally for nothing. Same word of Romans 3. 24, Greek translation. He shall go free, freely. Go free without any payment. That's the idea. 2 Samuel 24, 24, after David conducted a census, God brought judgment by a plague. David thought he would cast himself on the mercy of God and offer a sacrifice. to seek God's mercy. So he had to get a place to do that and um went to Aurona For a threshing floor? Arana said, We're in a crisis here, just take it. David's response. But the king replied to Avana, No, I insist on paying you for it. I will not sacrifice to the Lord my God. Burnt offerings that cost me nothing. Romans three twenty four, burnt offerings freely, without payment. I'm not going to offer something that doesn't cost me So David bought the threshing floor, and the oxen and paid fifty shekels of silver for them. So we are justified without payment. We are justified freely But the other meaning of the word is even more intriguing because it is the word freely means not only no payment, it means no cause or no reason. No cause. Again, three examples to illustrate that from the Old Testament, the Greek translation of it This this word is used, this word freely, or without any cause. We are justified without any cause, with no reason by his grace. First Samuel chapter 19 and verse 5 We read that uh David uh took his life in his hands when he killed the Philistine. The Lord won a great victory for all Israel, and you saw it and were glad. Why then do you do wrong to an innocent man like David by killing him? For no reason. Uh there's no cause. The guy doesn't deserve to die. Why are you wanting to kill him for no reason? The same word is used In Romans three twenty-four, justified freely, justified without any reason. Psalm sixty-nine verse four, David says, Those who hate me without reason Outnumber the hairs of my head, same word, those who hate me freely without any cause, uh outnumber the hairs of my head. Jesus Uh John, writing about Jesus, uh, quotes that verse in John fifteen twenty-five, and he says, But this is to fulfill what is written in their law, that is in Psalm 69. 4 They hated me without reason, without cause. And so you see, there is just as much reason for God to justify you as there was for people to hate Jesus. There's no reason. It doesn't make sense. Hosea fourteen, four, God says to Israel, apostate and spurned his love and gone their way, and he says, I will heal their waywardness and I will love them freely. Same word as Romans 3. 24, justified freely I will love them freely. I will love them with no payment. I will love them for no apparent reason. There's nothing in them that you can point to that's lovable. I will love them freely, for my anger has turned away from them. So you see, the Bible says that you and I are justified freely, no payment, no cause, and how does it happen? The answer that the Bible gives, the phenomenal answer, if you'd never heard it before, never conceived this, no person could have ever thought this up. God sends his own son, perfect, and Jesus lives a life with a perfect record. Absolutely perfect. So God justifies Jesus. He declares He is just, He is righteous. This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. Then Jesus trades records. That's the next blank there, trades. He trades records with me, with you. So because he trades records, Jesus takes his perfect record and he says, here, I'll give it to you. Now give me your record. And so you give to Jesus the record of your life. And Jesus suffers the consequences of that record. God judges him, he suffers, he is scourged, he dies on the cross, because that's what that record deserves But you now get the consequences of his record. You get his record, and because you have his record, and here's where the word imputation comes in, you say you Theologians use this word imputation. What does that mean? Imputation simply means to treat somebody as if something is true. If I impute certain motives to you, I am saying you are acting as if these are your motives. It's not saying they are intrinsically yours, I'm treating you as if it's true, you see. So God treated Jesus as if he had lived your life. And you saw what he got for it. But now God treats you as if you had lived Jesus' life. When you read the Gospels and read about Jesus' sacrificial love, his tenderness, his thoughtfulness, and you are astounded by how he treats people, broken people, immoral people. people whose relatives had died, people in pain and disappointment, you say, how he went out of his way, how sensitive he was, how strong he was How he never thought simply of himself. There was never a lustful, selfish, controlling thought. All of his life was lived in a way that's difficult for me to even relate to it God treats you as if you had lived that life, as if you had thought the way Jesus thought, as if you had treated people the way Jesus treated them. That's imputation. Not only has he taken away your sins. See, people say the old thing you might have heard in Sunday school, what's justification? Just as if I'd never sinned? That's part of it. But it's not just just as if I'd never sinned, it's also just as if I had lived Jesus' life. Double imputation. Hallelujah. It's still there. It's still there in our hearts. And it is a hallelujah. Because it means you're not on probation. It means that God has imputed to you the record of Christ, therefore, he is able to justify you. Doesn't change you But he is able to declare that. Now that is amazing. And of course, if you are justified You will change. Nobody can be declared righteous by God and continue to live as if God had not justified them, because God has declared something that has changed your relationship with Him. So you will change, but we must always be careful to remember that the ground, the basis of your acceptance before God Has nothing to do with your change. It is only ever the outside objective for you record of Jesus Christ imputed to you. That is the basis of that acceptance. It's not his grace in your heart, it is the grace of God in Christ charged to your account. Now that's a big deal at our General Assembly meeting of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church this week. They are discussing the question of justification and its relationship to good works. And there's some brothers who are very concerned to be able to bring in how that change takes place. And there are others who are very nervous that there is a gravitational pull within the human heart to always want to add to Jesus record plus nothing. Something that says that our performance has something to do with our justification. We must resist that like the plague And pray for the brothers who are dealing with that, that the statements that will come out of this assembly will be crystal clear on the gospel. But even more for you and for me, there is that tendency to mix What I do in response to the gospel to become part of the basis of my relationship with God, with Christ. Well, does this mean that everybody's saved then? Was there anything that I do? Where does my response play into that? That's the third point. The means of justification See, the means of justification are faith. It's faith. Paul says there in Romans 3, after for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified freely. By his grace, through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus, God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement, that's his bearing the consequences of my record, through faith in his blood. That's faith in the work that he accomplished. You look back in verse 22, and you see it's in him as a person. This righteousness from God comes through faith in Jesus Christ, to all who believe. And that's where Tim brought out then there's no difference. There's no difference between the person who's the Jew trying to keep the law and the person who's without the law. There's just simply no difference. Nobody can do it So faith is simply the means, it's like the hand that lays hold of the gift that's given. Now let me give you a silly illustration that first time I did this I thought was too silly, but it seemed to make the point, so I continue to do it. Let's suppose that after the service this morning uh a group of terrorists come in and they kidnap me uh and hold me for ransom. And so um I'm being you know sequestered away someplace and Eric and Heath are counting the offering this morning And so after they count the offering, they say, This is all we got to give, will you take it or not? And they say, Well, pastors aren't worth that much anyway, so okay, you know, give us the offering and you can have them back besides He's just over here preaching and making a pest out of himself. So take him back, go ahead. So you know, Eric and Heath come with this the bag of the offering this morning and they say here and I take that bag with my hand And I'm going to go and say and I give that to my captors and they say, now go ahead, get out of here. And then the Columbia Flyer comes to interview me. And they say, you know, we haven't had a lot of Kim Dap pastors lately, so that's a story. Tell us about it. What was it that saved you? And I said, well, it was my hand that saved me. And they said, Well your hand. That's very interesting. How did your hand do that? I said, Well, these guys came up and they gave me this bag of cash, and I took it with my hand, then I gave it to these guys with my hand, and they let me go And they'd say, could we suggest a visit to Taylor Manor? We might be able to get a little more fruitful discussion here, you know? Well, you see, the point is, as silly as it seems, we do the same thing with our faith, you see We're always looking at our faith and looking at the quality of it. Is my faith strong? Is my faith weak? As if it's our faith that saves us When all the time what the gospel says is, forget your faith. Look to Christ. It's Christ that saves you. It's not your faith that saves you. It's not the quality, the strength. weakness, the faithfulness, or any of that. Look to Christ, but we're always looking back to my faith and my obedience and how am I doing We come to pray at the prayer meeting this afternoon and we say, Lord, you know, can we come before you? Have I been faithful? Can I do I have a right to pray that you'll hear me today? And God saying all the time, you know, your what you've done has nothing to do with whether I hear you. It is Christ's work completed, finished. We come to the Lord's Supper tonight. Why do we come not to sit here and think about our sins? We come here to look at those elements and receive them to speak to us about Christ. So that you look at his body and his blood, and you are thrust outside of yourself. So many of our problems come from our always reflecting on ourselves and justification, the very heart of the gospel, more than anything else. Else in Scripture gets us outside of ourselves because our hope is only in Jesus outside of us. Amen. Brothers and sisters, when you grasp that, that's the root to freedom and joy, I'll tell you. Let me draw that out for you just a little bit. Fourth point, living by justification. Consider two opposite problems that we all have. The problems of pride and self-righteousness and guilt and worthlessness. Now, isn't it interesting that we all have both these problems? Because they're opposite, but they're characterized in all of us, and we flip-flop and go back and forth through those all the time. Let me illustrate Do you see yourself as proud and self-righteous? Now I'm not looking for hands, just you know, ask, answer in your own heart. Do you see yourself as a proud and self-righteous person? Let me give you a test. Do you remember Jesus' parable of the workers in the vineyard in Matthew 20? He talked about this owner that had a vineyard. And he uh called some workers to go work in the fields and at the very beginning of the day he gets a group of people and says, Go on out and work in the field. And so they work for twelve hours Then it says the third hour he went and saw some other people. He says, now you guys come on, you want a job, go out and work in the field. So they worked for nine hours. Get some more people at noon and says, You want to work in the field? Fine. They go out and work for six hours. Three o'clock in the afternoon, you want to work in the field? Yeah, go out for seven for three hours. Then it says the eleventh hour, there's some people who still haven't worked. And he goes and he says, You guys want a job? Yeah, no, no, nobody's hired. Okay, we can go out and work for one hour Then at the end of the day, he says he g pays them all their wages. And he starts with the last verse. He gives them all a denarius. They say, well, that's pretty good for an hour. Boy, great deal. And the guys who worked all day are saying, can't imagine what we're gonna get, because the denarius was a typical day's wage. So he goes down and he gives them all a denarius. And they start grumbling. They say, that's not fair. After the sun was past the peak, and we worked all day and we still get the same thing. It's not fair. When you read that parable, what's your thought? It's not fair, right? You know why? Because you and I identify with those at work most of the day. And Jesus' point is, you're all eleventh-hour workers. See, Jesus' point is Because you identify with that early person, you're revealing your self-righteousness. You assume you are the worker. And Jesus is saying you're not. You're those that receive by grace. And until you understand that, what'll happen? You compare yourself with other people to show that you work harder. You know, if somebody else would work in a nursery like I've been working in the nursery, maybe we wouldn't have this problem around here, you know, and Sandy wouldn't be fretting back there at the table. You know, and I'll go to the plan meeting this afternoon and what about the people you look around and see who's here, you know, who's there? Well, okay, well, there's only this faithful remnant of us The ones that God really loves, it's the ones that's close to them, seek his face, you know. Come to the Lord's Supper. Here's people come to the Lord's Supper. You know, slime bags, win and what you know, don't you know that God's given us to feed us and so what do we do? Instead of you see living out of grace, we're always trying to establish a record of righteousness. And that shows that we have missed justification. Justification puts us all on the same level at the foot of the cross. I don't have any righteousness to establish. All that I do is simply a thank you to Jesus for his righteousness. And as soon as we do that, that comparison, that's what produces critical churches, churches that divide, you know, was so blessed this morning in the Discoverist class of people saying, you know, one of the first things I noticed when I came to Columbia Presbyterian is people don't gossip, they seem happy. You know, it's I mean it's not perfect, so they don't get swelled head. You know, I point you to the cross again, right But I do believe God by His grace, the fruit of the gospel in our midst, has been that taking away the need to gossip, to criticize, because as we live out of the gospel. We don't need to put somebody else down and compare. And so we serve in the nursery because I'm a living sacrifice and my life belongs to him. And you know if there's a need, Lord, what do you want me to do? Which is very different from I'm better than the other person. Now it flips back right the opposite way. So the last thing is the problem of guilt and worthlessness. You see, because we never can go on establishing our record very long before we get kind of the you know, the reality sort of breaks through and we realize what we're really like. Well, at least we realize a little bit. We realize what we're really like, we probably couldn't live, but you know, we see something enough that it undercuts it. Let me read to you just a brief quote from a letter that a woman wrote to me who had suffered sexual abuse and gave me permission to read this to you I just repart. She says, uh with anguish I come before God with my sins and the sins of the world, and it is with amazement that I learn this holy God chooses to dwell among us, chooses to love and forgive us. Though I should celebrate this, I find it very painful. I want to shout, no, don't, don't you understand? We will defile your name. We will destroy all that you stand for You can't love us like that. I'm not worth it. We will see all that you have given us and slap you in the face with it. I want to hide I want the darkness. I can't bear the sight of you, Lord. My sins and the sins of all of us are too horrible, even more so when brought before you. You see my desperately wicked heart even more clearly than I do, Lord. This brings so much anguish, and what hurts more is that you continue to look at me with tenderness and love. You want to cleanse my soul Never in eternity could I deserve this. So I beg, why? And you just take me with gentleness into your arms. But this only heaps more burning coals on my tormented soul. And it is here that you cleanse me, Lord. Here you made me as a bride clothed in your righteousness. Only now can I know you with joy, and only now can I celebrate your forgiveness, for you have chosen me and I am yours. This is what the cross means to me. The preceding page is not true for me, not yet, because of my own self-contempt. So I find it near impossible that someone would want to love me. Better yet, I don't want someone to love me like God does for two reasons. One, it's very painful More painful than words could ever express. Many times I just don't know what to do with the pain, so I try to cast it aside. Two. Because it works for me not to accept God's love because God would ask me to move towards people in very difficult ways. I want to make my life work, but on my own terms. It is pride. You see the mixture? Self-content, pride, self-righteousness, self-loathing. And I will not humble myself to a God who has allowed such horrible things in my life. I will not trust and rely on God because God would not come through for me like I think He should. I want control. I do anguish over my sins and the sins of the world, and I do go to God with it, and yet his embrace is so very difficult for me to accept, and I continue to shy away. The embrace of the father to the prodigal son is truly one of the hardest responses to accept When I read that, I thought of John chapter 17, verse 23, last slide. Let's see it up there So remember in Jesus' prayer, for you and for me as disciples, he said this one statement, a statement that's so astounding that every time I read it I have to check the Greek to see if it really says that because I can't believe it's like Jesus in a body forever, you know. I can't believe that this is what he says. I in them, that's you and me, and you, Father, in me. May they, that's you and me, be brought to complete unity to let the world know that you sent me and have loved them. Even as you have loved me. That means that the Father loves you as much as he loves his own Son. Is that possible? It seems wrong, doesn't it? I I've gone back to the Greek again and again. I said, what does that word even as mean in the Greek? And what it means in the Greek is even as. You can't get around it. The law says, do good, to the last blanks, do good, and I will bless you. That's operating out of guilt You see, God didn't love you because he justified you. He justified you because he loved you. The gospel says, I have blessed you. Now do good. And that makes all the difference It makes all the difference whether you live out of joy or judgmentalism, whether you live out of grace or out of the law, whether you live out of guilt or whether you live out of gratitude. Which do you live out of? God has given you the record of Christ if you have trusted Him. And you can't improve on that. All you can do is thank Him and live out of it. Let's pray. So, Lord our God, for some of us who hear this and realize we've never even entered into a relationship with a God like that, we pray that you would show them Christ. And his finished work, plus nothing, which is their only hope, a necessary hope and a sufficient hope. Lord, for some of us we may be saying, I think I'm a Christian, but I mix the two together so much I'm not really sure. Lord, we pray you would strip away that desire to establish my record and that they would be able to, once and for all, finish finally, rest. As Ephesians 1-3, resting, seating, being seated with Christ, to not add anything to what you have done, but to only trust what you have done, plus nothing outside of us. And for us, Lord, who continue to mix those in ways that are still insidious, comparing ourselves, blaming ourselves, and missing what Is really at the heart of the gospel, Lord, free us up that we would understand the cross, that we would live in the freedom of it. For that's what makes a people who are a joyful people. That's what makes a people who want to serve. Lord, we we need you to do that in our lives. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.