Thank you, Tom, for leading us. This is uh a privilege that I have been given to preach. Preach on our final service here, but it's just for temporary. It's just for a time being. And you may wonder why is Tim here and Alan there Taking pictures from the floor. Alan taught at the Reformed Theological Seminary this past week. He was preparing the course. He taught the course, had 19 students Jeff Corbett was one, uh Craig Colburn was one, so you can ask them what Alan's like as a seminary professor. But uh uh Alan and his wisdom trying to lay out the plan um thought it best to not do that and try to prepare a message and preach. So I have uh been given this honor and it is uh certainly an honor To bring God's word anytime, and it has this extra auspicious nature because it's our last service here for a while. So let's turn our attention to the book of Joshua. Joshua chapter 1. I want to read the first nine verses. We're going to focus on verse 9 eventually. And see what the Lord would have us to hear from him today. God's word for us. After the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, the Lord said to Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' assistant. Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land that I am giving to them, to the people of Israel. Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given to you, just as I promised to Moses. From the wilderness in this Lebanon as far as the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites to the great sea, toward the going down of the sun, shall be your territory. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life, just as I was with Moses So I will be with you. I will not leave you or forsake you. Be strong and courageous, for you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. Only be strong and very courageous, being careful to do according to all the law that Moses, my servant, commanded you. Do not turn from it to the right hand or to the left, that you may have good success wherever you go. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. For then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success. Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened. Do not be dismayed. For the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. God's word. Let's pray together briefly. Gracious God in heaven, we ask that you would, Lord, work in such a way in this moment and time. that we mere mortals would be able to see you more clearly. We pray for this preaching event now that you by your Spirit would work in our hearts the comfort that is. The promises of God, the challenges that are as well your commands, that we would see our only reliance The only thing that makes sense, the only thing that will bring success is to trust you fully. Lord, please work in us at this moment in time to bring glory to your name, for you are great and greatly to be praised. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. What frightens you? What are you afraid of? What discourages you What gets your heart dismayed? What do you lose sleep over? Think about that thing If I were to ask, we'd have probably many different answers. And according to your age, it would probably differ, right? For example, my family, if you just started at the young ones, they might say Biggest thing I lose sleep over is that wild pack of St. Bernards that lives behind us. There's four of them in counting. It's a great dane and handful of Chihuahuas. We you know Keeps us up. Might talk to some of my other children and they may say the thing that causes them some fear is the prospect of high school, which is looming large. Or the prospect of college, which is looming large for some. Or if you talk to some family members, they might say how to pay for said college Depends where we are in life, what we consider to be that which gives us the most fear, the most fright. It could be that You have an upcoming doctor's appointment. Maybe you're awaiting some test results. And you are afraid of what will come from the doctor's mouth. Maybe there is a strain in your family or your neighbors, someone who's close to you. And you fear the next time that you get together because you fear what that will be as far as the relationship goes. Maybe you like me, your beloved church is going through a time of transition. We're losing staff. We're adding staff, Lord willing. We have the not so slight inconvenience of meeting off site for a year or so while this uh facility undergoes some much needed enhancement. What brings fear? Maybe you Struggle with none of those things. But you struggle still with the greatest enemy that may that we will meet: death. The end of your earthly existence and what lies beyond. Regardless of your situation, regardless of your station in life, and regardless of your answer to the question, what brings you fear? The answer for all of us is found in the text that we have before us today. Because in this text, we see again the creator of all things compassionate, caring, and eminently involved in the life of his creatures We need to see God again clearly today. All the things that I mentioned in the introduction, all these things have one thing in common. A future that we don't know. Uncertainty. It's all involved in all of those possibilities that bring us fear. Because what comes with an uncertain future is the possibility of pain. Future denotes that they'll be changed. Time stands still for no one. Right? Time marches on. And even if you like me would just choose to sit on your couch. You're still changing. Because time waits for no man. And with that change comes uncertainty, the uncertainty of tomorrow. What will be And with that uncertainty comes the possibility of pain. That's what we fear. That's at the root of where we're at, is we recognize we're not in charge of tomorrow. We're not in control of that. And our frailty as creatures is revealed once again. We are laid there And so the purpose today in this preaching event is not merely to try to prepare us for some off-site worship time. Because that's a pathetically small goal for opening up God's Word. It's to take a look at what grips your heart and mine with fear, and to see again that our God is faithful. He is strong. He will, and his love will endure. So we look at God's word. The context of this passage is change. A whole lot of change. The times they are changing. They're changing for a man named Joshua. Joshua is a real person in real history alongside a real people, the people of Israel The God who created all things and spoke and created a from the dirt a man named Adam and formed from Adam a woman named Eve and from those two produced. People, God came to a man named Abraham and promised to him that his Uh lineage would be like the stars. We heard about this last week. Like the sands, like the grain on the desert floor. Many will come and will be called by my name. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Israel, and his sons. And those sons. Ended up eventually in Egypt in bondage. And those same people, in bondage, unable to do anything about their condition, cried out to God, and God delivered to them one man, Moses. And Moses stood before Pharaoh, demanding the demands of Almighty God, let my people go free. And with a rod he stood before the Red Sea. We just rehearsed these things in Psalm 136. And the people saw the sea part with Moses' outstretched hand. And Moses, when the people were hungry Pleaded with the Lord and the Lord brought food. When the people were thirsty, when the people needed direction, Moses saw the pillar of Cloud by day and fire by night. Moses was important to the people of Israel. It's difficult to overestimate the importance of Moses. But this chapter in Joshua, which comes right on the heels of the first five books of Pentateuch, that describe the people of Israel, their beginnings and their wanderings and their exodus. We see this beginning that maybe is Dickensian, Charles Dickens, stole from the book of Joshua when he began a Christmas carol. Marley was dead. There can be no doubt about that. Marley was dead. The coroner had signed the death certificate. And Scrooge himself had signed the death certificate. You must realize before this story goes forward, Charles Dickens said, that Marley was dead. Nothing else makes sense if you don't realize that Marley was dead. In fact, he was dead as a doornail. And Joshua starts about the same way. Moses is dead. We don't, I think, appreciate the weight of that, but we can kind of, because we have transition and change coming our way. Moses was dead. And the significance of that now falls on the shoulders of Joshua. And with very little pomp and circumstance, the scriptures say, the Lord said to Joshua, son of Nun, Moses' assistant. Moses, my servant, is dead. Now therefore, arise, go over this Jordan, and you and all this people into the land that I am giving to them. Very little ceremony. Moses is dead. Joshua, it's on you now, and this is what we're going to do. Now, this is not the first time that Joshua had heard this. Let me read from Deuteronomy 31 selected verses. Moses continued to speak these words to all Israel, and he said to them, I am 120 years old today. I am no longer able to go out and come in. The Lord has said to me, You shall not go over this Jordan. The Lord your God Himself will go over before you He will destroy these nations before you, so that you shall dispossess them, and Joshua will go over at your head, as the Lord has spoken. And the Lord will do to them as he did to Sion and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land when he destroyed them. And the Lord will give them over to you, and you shall do to them according to the whole commandment that I have commanded you. Listen, be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. And then Moses summoned Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong and courageous, for you shall go with this people into the land that the Lord has sworn to them, their fathers, to give them, and you shall put them in possession of it. It is the Lord who goes before you. He will be with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. Do not fear or be dismayed. See, Joshua knew this day was coming. But here it is. We do that too, right? There's that thing off in the future. We're planning for it. We're laying some plans. We're thinking about it. It it might keep us up at night. It might not. But we know it's coming. But it's out there. It's out there. It's future still. And what is occurring here in this passage is that future thing is here. It's now. Moses. Has gone from the scene, and Joshua, it's your responsibility to lead the people into the land that I have promised to them. And so our focus today is on Joshua 1 and verse 9. Have I not commanded you? Be strong, be courageous, do not be frightened, do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. Only in seeing God for who he is and for what he's done can we receive and obey the command, fear not. Fear not. Fear not. Why? We see first, fear not, because our compassionate God is our only real constant in a life of change. In a world that is filled with circumstances that change and fluctuate, our compassionate Creator God is the only real constant we have. God signifies that by the beginning of this verse saying, Have I not commanded you? You see, the absolute authority of a sovereign God is displayed in him reminding Joshua. I commanded you. I have the authority. I'm in charge. I am sovereign over all that co occurs. Have I not commanded you? And I have the absolute authority to accomplish all my holy will, and the power to fulfill all that I promise. When we feel worry or fear coming on, when we feel the dread in our heart arising, we need to remember who God is and what God does. and what he's done for us, beloved. That's what Psalm 136 is all about. That's what we just recited. And here's this command coming to Joshua. Joshua, who lived Psalm one thirty-six, he was a part of that I love the sure and certain command and reminder that God gives to Joshua in verse three. Every place Every place that the sole of your foot will tread upon, I have given to you just as I promised to Moses. See, God makes sure that Joshua is reminded again that he is a covenant-making and covenant-keeping God. He fulfills his promises. And he tells Joshua, I am going to give you every place that the sole of your foot will land upon. I have already been there. I have conquered that. That is yours by my command. We have a great and mighty God. Psalm 139, verse 16, the scriptures say, All the days ordained for me were written in your book before one of them ever came to be. That's the kind of God we worship and serve and follow and endure. You remember in the Lord of the Rings, the Fellowship of the Ring, you remember Bilbo. He was the uncle to Frodo. And Frodo had been given an assignment that Bilbo could not. Complete to take the ring and to destroy it in the fires of Mordor, right? Mount Doom. And you remember that not That less than confident words ringing in the ears of Frodo as he and Samwise took off on the journey. Bilbo's words ringing, it's a dangerous business going out your door Step onto the road, and if you don't keep your feet, there's no telling where you might be swept off to. Not so with our great God. Not so with our great God, the God who spoke to the psalmist in Psalm 94 and verse 18. The psalmist says, When I thought, my foot slips. Your steadfast love, O Lord, has held me up. When the cares of my heart are many, your consolations cheer my soul. Or Psalm 121, verse 3, verse 1, I lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come from? My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. It comes from the Creator God. It comes from the Lord, the covenant-making, covenant-keeping God. He will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. That's the reminder that we need that our compassionate Creator, God, is our only constant in this world filled with change. He's in charge. When we're distracted, when we're restless, when we're asleep, he is never those things. Ever. We get caught up in the details and begin to fret because we forget. We fret because we forget. Can you remember that? I need to. Can you remind me? We fret because we forget. We forget who God is and what he has done. So God is not only our constant in times of change, but we can also Receive and obey the command of fear not, because our loving Heavenly Father knows our fear factor. Individually, personally. Speak about the fear factor in the Flora family. St. Bernard's in the backyard. It's about a fear factor of about a two for me. It's about a fear factor of an eight for others. The fear factor of driver's education. It's like right up there in the nines. Because I gotta keep global thermal nuclear war something. Ten, I guess. So God knows our fear factors. He knows our heart. He knows the number of hairs on our head. He knows our intimate thoughts. He knows the workings of our heart. He knows what keeps you awake at night, even if I don't. He wants to address himself to you. Your loving Heavenly Father knows what you're afraid of. And this command comes to Joshua. He knew Joshua. Be strong, be courageous. Three times this is given in the charge. Why? Because Joshua was just like you and like me. He was weak. He was afraid. Even though he had prepared for this day, and here was the day, the command comes with the reminder, Joshua, be strong, be courageous. Do not be frightened. Do not lose heart. Do not be dismayed. See, God knew Joshua, and God still chose Joshua. And that's a comforting thought. That's where I find my greatest comfort in reading about these men and the women who are just like me, filled with fear. God does that. He does that to glorify himself. Paul told the Corinthians. He chooses the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. He chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even the things that are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, so that no human being might boast In the presence of God. God will not yield his glory to anyone or anything, and so he gets the glory. When weak and frail and fearful people like you and me take his message to the world in the strength and the courage that he provides by his spirit. He gets the glory, and we get the good, we get the benefit, we get to see the wonder-working God at work in his world. So is it wrong to be fearful? Is that a sin? It seems like to me that the scriptures almost assume that there'll be times when we are frightened. The psalmist said in Psalm 56, 3, when I am afraid, I will trust in you. When I am afraid. I will trust in you. So it's a more focused point for us, would be to whom or to what do we look? too for our source of strength when those times of fear come upon us. Where do we place our trust In whom do we find our hope and our peace? God commands Joshua to be strong, to be courageous, to not be frightened. And then he joins that command. He joins that command with the promise of his presence. Do you see how he works this out? Be strong, be courageous, do not be frightened, do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go. God does that for Joshua. He does that for us. He joins the commands with the promise of his presence. I mentioned our lovely Saint Bernard behind us. And somebody after the first service said, I've never known a Saint Bernard to be mean. I said, you gotta come to our backyard then. Think Tujo. Think really snarling, really nasty, scary beasts. One morning, a couple of I guess it was a month or two ago, I was up early, Anna was up early. And I thought it'd be good to go out and repair the chicken wire that our neighbors have holding the massive St. Bernard's from getting out. And so I grabbed my staple gun and I thought it'd be neat to get this on film. Why not? We're Facebook generation after all And so Anna, armed with the iPhone on video mode, followed me down to the fence. And he could hear the birds chirping and the sunshine lightly dancing. You can't hear sunshine, but it was lightly dancing on the leaves. And I got the first staple in And I put the second staple in. And sure enough, here they come. And they charge the fence and they bite at the wire and they jump up on the boards and everything, you know. And I'm trying to get the last staple in just so I can get that thing in. And we went back in and we watched the video. And do you know what I was most impressed by this video? that when we were down there, in the midst of all those raging beasts, Anaflora had a steady hand The entire video. Now maybe she was, you know, oh I'm gonna make some money if Dad gets eaten alive. Uh we can get this on, you know, YouTube or something But we come to discover later that Anna's steady hand is there because when they're in the midst of that great threat From the Saint Bernards. If Dad is among them, if Dad is in their midst, they're not afraid. She had a steady hand. Now look at me, you guys, okay? I I don't know what the deal is with St. Bernard's and stuff, but the illustration should not be lost on any of us In this world there is great threat, great things to be frightened about. But the promise of the presence of our loving Heavenly Father is that which brings confidence. to those who follow him. When Dad is in the midst, you don't have to fear what's behind that fence. God joins together this command with the promise of his presence, and we see the third point that our victorious Savior has conquered our greatest enemy already. What have you to fear? We have the greatest calamity to come upon a creature is the wrath of God poured out for sin. That's the greatest thing that you and I have to concern ourselves with. Are my sins? Taken care of sufficiently so that in the day of judgment I will stand complete in Christ. You see, if we were to take this passage of Scripture without the benefit of the cross, without the benefit of the gospel, without the benefit of God's grace, we'd probably Go right to verse 7 and verse 8, and we would find the keys to success, and we would do them. We choose civility. I thought Tom was going to say choose facility. So maybe we can get those printed up and we have those at the back door We're a people just like the Israelites. We'd go and we'd find, oh, it says, in this you'll make your way prosperous. Verse 8. In this you will find success in what you do. And then you will have good success. And we'd say the keys to success are this. Do not turn from all the law that Moses my servant has commanded you. Do not turn from the right hand or from the left. That word picture there is do not veer. Completely obey everything that the Lord your God has commanded you. Have perfect obedience. And we come down further. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may be careful to do according to all that is written in it. Then you will make your way prosperous. If we were to read this without the benefit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, we'd say, there's the keys to success. Let's get about the business of doing them And it's good and fitting and proper to obey the commands of God. And it's good and fitting and proper to meditate on the law of God, the word of God. In fact, that word, that Hebrew word meditate. mean it's uh haga, which means to basically continually mutter, that it's always on your lips, that you're always rehearsing and reviewing and remembering the goodness of God The commands of God, the promises of God, those are good and fitting and proper things for us to do. Because God knows that when we do them, we get to see the fact that we cannot obey. Those commands perfectly. That's what's going on in this passage. A little bit later on in chapter 1, the Israelites standing before Joshua, and Joshua, and they answered Joshua. All that you have commanded us, we will do. And wherever you go, and wherever you send us, we will go. Just as we obeyed Moses in all things. They have, if you will, the nerve to say. Because they're just like us. When when presented with the perfect and spotless law of God and our attempts to Completely obey the law of God, we fail miserably. That's one of the purposes of God's law. God's law reveals who God is, his perfections, but God's law also reveals to us the fact that we are lawbreakers. And God's law then in turn points us to the one who has perfectly kept the law on our behalf, the Lord Jesus Christ. This is the gospel. This is the good news. Because you and I have a requirement to perfectly obey all that God has commanded. And we cannot the Bible Tells us that there is a severe penalty for that disobedience. The penalty is death Bible uses the word sin to talk about any instance Where you do not fully conform to God's requirements for you. The Bible uses the same word, sin To talk about any instance where you actually disobey or break the commandments of God. All the commandments. Any commandment. Murder, adultery, theft, or hating, lusting, coveting, any and all commandments. The Bible in First Corinthians, Paul the Apostle, tells us of this enemy, death. The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law. That's what the law does. It points us to our lawbreaker status and it points us to the fact that That we have a punishment coming. In other words, the reason that death is an enemy to be feared is because that the harm that death brings is caused by our sin. When sin has been removed, then the sting of death is removed. Death simply becomes A momentary disruption for those who have their sins covered by the finished work of Jesus Christ. I don't care at all about all the headaches that we're going to experience and that we have experienced in the transition of facility and staff and everything else. As much as I care about you knowing for sure, and me knowing for sure, that our sins are covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. We cannot let these other things distract us from the greatest thing. And so the command to be strong, to be courageous, to know the presence of God with us is only found for those who are secure in Jesus Christ. Is that you? I trust that it is. If it is not, I plead with you today to talk to someone That you know, that knows Christ, and get those things worked out. Let's pray together. I've asked Tom Broad to conclude this time of prayer, so we're going to kind of pray together as we affirm the greatness of our good God. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the way that you work and operate and can use your word now to cause us to grow. to even, Lord, understand more fully what it means to follow you, to trust you. And I pray that for all the beloved here who have Tasted and seen that you are good, that you have forgiven their sins, and that they are your children. And I ask, Lord, that you'd strengthen their faith. Cause the fear to be exponentially reduced as you grow their faith, Lord. And I pray for those, Lord, who are here who have not ever placed their faith in you That today salvation would come to their heart, and that you would receive the glory through your almighty and powerful name as you protect us and lead us. From time past to the future that is uncertain, we look to you and you alone. In Jesus' name we pray.