Good morning. Some of you may be surprised to see me here And you're not as surprised as I am to be here a third week in a row. The first two sermons that I preached on fear and doubt had their origins in a conversation that I had with Al Harris last winter. And I was telling him of what I thought God had been teaching me in my life And sharing with him some of the insights that I had had. And he said, you know, those would be, I think, very helpful to share with the body. Would you consider preaching about those? And I thought about having preached on contentment a couple years ago and said, Yeah, I'll do that. He said, Well, would you consider two Sundays? Two sermons And I'd never had an opportunity to preach two sermons before. I'd never really had an opportunity to develop a particular thought or theme that much. So Alan said, I'm gonna be gone four weeks. Do you want to take two of them? And I said, Well, okay. I'll do that. It might even be fun to think that I have two weeks in which to say all that I want. So keep in mind that I was thinking about the past two messages messages back in the winter, in the spring, early part of the summer. I didn't start thinking about this message until last Sunday when I found out I was going to preach it. I was asked if perhaps I had more than I was going to be able to fit in even in last week's message. And would there be a chance that I could give the message this week? I also traveled to California this past week. So that's why the sermon outline looks like this. I'm not going to refer to any blanks obviously, but I would encourage you to take notes, particularly the scripture references that I use, so that you also can look into what God's Word has to say about our topic this morning. Well anyway, I um two years ago I gave one sermon, and this year I thought I was going to give two sermons. And now I find myself giving three, and I think that does constitute a series. I don't think two sermons is really a series on anything, but three is a series on something. So this is a real new thing for me to preach a series And the series is on fear and doubt. Some of you haven't been here for the last two weeks, so you should know that two weeks ago we looked at Psalm 55 and studied fear. David expressed about his own fears and the proper response to fear. Last week we looked at Mark chapter 9. In the story of the father whose son was possessed by a demon and also quite ill, and how that father said to the Lord Jesus Christ, I believe, help me in my unbelief. He obviously had doubts. And he was expressing those doubts to Jesus, and Jesus still healed the boy. Well, last Sunday when I started thinking about what I was going to preach on and whether I would actually be able to preach. The verse that came to my mind was 2 Timothy 1:7, which is, but God did not give us a spirit of timidity or fear, but a spirit of power and of love and of self-discipline. And I wasn't real sure what I was going to say about that, but I knew that I'd consider that text as something to preach on for the last two weeks. So I prayed that the Lord would show me what I might use that text to say, that He would want me to say to this body. And I had some interesting things happen to me. On Monday, well, Sunday evening at the Lord's Supper, Elmer Dortzbach came up to me and said, what I already knew, but didn't really want to be reminded of. That anybody who is foolish enough to preach on fear and doubt needs to be prepared to be plagued by fear and doubt in the weeks that follow And as some of you will remember, two weeks ago I thought about the timing of my preaching on contentment and then becoming depressed, and it is sort of scary to think about what what might happen to me. But interestingly enough, on Monday I was praying in the car about what I might be preaching on, and I got to work, and after I'd been there for a few hours, I, to my surprise heard one of my colleagues telling another colleague the dreadful, awful story of the car accident that happened up in um on Delaney Valley Road a week ago Friday, in which a woman, a Christian woman and her thirteen year old son were both killed and died a very horrible death. And I don't really need to go into all the details, but it was a horrible thing, so horrible, that Baltimore County enlisted psychologists to provide counseling to the witnesses of the accident immediately after it happened. because of the trauma that those witnesses faced simply watching it. So you can imagine the horrible death that it was As I heard about that, I became paralyzed with fear. It was not willful. I just suddenly thought, Lord, how can you let that happen? How can you let that mother go through that? And I couldn't work. I had to get up from my desk and walk around. I thought, Lord, why should I pray even that I don't have to go through that? Because that woman was a leader in Bible study fellowship. She plot I presume had prayed for safe safekeeping and yet you let that happen to her. Should I even pray about that? And the Lord was very gracious to me in showing me that that was probably the very issue that I needed to preach on this week. That we are not to be paralyzed by our fears, we are not to be paralyzed by our doubts. We need to move on beyond those. So that is what I want to preach on. To put it another way, we who are fearful And full of doubts must not expect that the Lord is only going to erase those fears and doubts. He does, as we have found in the last two weeks He does comfort us and encourage us and essentially erase the negatives, but that's not all that he does. He does not simply teach us how to cope or give us the power to cope. No, the Lord takes us who are fearful and weak and says, You need to go forward for my kingdom. You need to go forward in my power beyond your fears and doubts. To serve me and to minister in my name. You are not to be paralyzed I will not let you be paralyzed. On the other hand, you are not simply to sit there encouraged and comforted. You are to move beyond that and to go forward. Now I like to think about this whole issue of what we do in response to our fears and doubts in terms of conflict. Because I think it is a conflict. I don't think that it was an accident on Monday that I became plagued by a dreadful fear and became inactive I believe that Satan uses fears and doubts. He very willfully and very intentionally wants us to stop what we are doing. He wants to disarm us. Think about Satan. Think about how he responded to God. God created, out of his own will and for his own purposes, created a perfect world. He created something that was so beautiful and so wonderful that he pronounced it good. Satan's response was one of envy. And Satan decided that he wanted to corrupt what God had created and made perfect. So he tempted Adam and Eve. And sin came into the world. Rebellion came. God responded to that by doing something that was, in fact, even greater than his creation. He redeemed man. He sent his only son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to redeem those who had rebelled against him. And if Satan reacted against the perfection of God's creation by wanting to dishonor God, Think of how he must have reacted when he realized that God was not only going to create something perfect, but he was going to redeem the very people who had succumbed to Satan's temptations. and who had done Satan's work. And that was to defile God's creation. I think Satan continues to seek to dishonor God and continues to attack us, who are his people, so that we will be immobilized, so that we cannot serve God's kingdom. And one of the ways that Satan does that is to attack us with fears and to attack us with doubts So it is with it with that background and with that context that we turn to 2 Timothy chapter 1. So before I read it, let's join together in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, our gracious God You have taught us and shown us that you care for us in our fears and our doubts. But we do believe, Lord, that you have given us power To serve you and to move beyond where we have been and to go forward for the kingdom. We pray that you would give me wisdom through the power of your spirit. To preach the truth as it is revealed in Second Timothy, we pray that you would be with everyone in the congregation to give them ears to hear the truth and give them the ability and the wisdom to recognize that which is not yours. Help us, we pray, O Lord. In the name of Jesus, Amen. Hear the word of God from Second Timothy chapter one, verses one through twelve. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus. To Timothy, my dear son, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God, whom I serve, as my forefathers did, with a clear conscience, as night and day I constantly remember you in my prayers. Recalling your tears, I long to see you, so that I may be filled with joy. I have been reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice. And I am persuaded, now lives in you also. For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands For God did not give us a spirit of timidity, but a spirit of power, of love, and of self-discipline. So do not be ashamed to testify about our Lord or ashamed of me, his prisoner, but join with me in suffering for the gospel. By the power of God who has saved us and called us to a holy life, not because of anything we have done, but because of his own purpose and grace. This grace was given us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time, but it has now been revealed through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who has destroyed death And has brought life and immortality to life through the gospel. And of this gospel, I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher. That is why I am suffering as I am. Yet I am not ashamed, because I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that he is able to guard what I have entrusted to him for that day. The Lord will bless the reading of His Word, because it is His truth. Now in order for us better to understand the power that we have as we read about it here, I think we need to understand what is happening in this passage and what First of all, who wrote 2 Timothy? It says Paul, an apostle I was surprised to find that there is debate among scholars as to whether or not Paul actually wrote this. Clearly, those who believe that the Scripture is the Word of God and is without error believe that Paul wrote it. But there is a surprisingly large body of literature which claims that Paul did not write it, that it was written later on. I believe that Paul wrote this, though. I believe that he wrote it during a second imprisonment in Rome. You will recall that in the book of Acts, there is the story of Paul's journeys and then of his journey to Rome, and Acts actually ends with him in prison. Some people think that that was his first and only imprisonment in Rome, and that he was killed with that trip. Others believe, in part based on this letter of 2 Timothy, that Paul was released from prison That first time, and perhaps traveled more, perhaps traveled to Spain or to other places, and then was imprisoned in Rome a second time. And it was during that second imprisonment that he wrote this letter. If you read through Acts, particularly in Acts chapter 28, you will see that Paul was active in that first imprisonment, seemed to be under house arrest, and was free to preach and spread the gospel. As we read 2 Timothy, we see that he was in chains, apparently suffering, and was hidden away in some jail. You see in verse um Seventeen is this chapter that Anesophoros is not. Does anybody know how to say that name? Anesophoros? Does that sound pretty good? He had a hard time finding Paul, and I think we can infer from that that Paul was not under house arrest, but was actually in jail somewhere. Hard to find. We see in chapter four of this same book that Paul expected martyrdom. He expected to be killed and not to be released from prison. Also, we see in chapter four that he felt deserted, that those who had been closest to him had left him and deserted him and left him on his own. Paul seemed to write this letter as a very personal communication. It was not the same as his letters to the churches at Ephesus or Philippi or Corin. He wrote this letter to Timothy and it even has some interesting personal notes again at the end where he asks Timothy to bring a cloak that he left in another city. And he hopes that Timothy will arrive before winter. We don't know whether Timothy got there in time. We don't know if Timothy got to see Paul before Paul was killed. Remember that Paul was a man who also faced fears. We think of Paul as someone who was brave and was always facing difficulties but had such courage that it He it didn't bother him. We noted two weeks ago and r and can read in both First Corinthians and Second Corinthians that Paul was filled with fear, fear and trembling. He was plagued with fear. And well he should have been because he went through some very difficult times. Who received this letter? Of course it was Timothy, to whom the letter is addressed. I find that Timothy is a fascinating man. Paul refers to Timothy as my dear son in verse 2, and that suggests that Paul had a great affection for Timothy. Many people think that Paul actually was responsible for Timothy's conversion, that Timothy was converted when he was a teenager or maybe a young man. Timothy had a Christian grandmother and a Christian mother, as it says in verse 5. He apparently was the son of a Greek father and the son of a Jewish mother. It's not clear when his grandmother and his mother became Christians, but in chapter 3 of this book, in verse 15, there's reference made to scriptures, which are presumably Old Testament scriptures. So there was an active Jewish household at some point in Timothy's upbringing. Timothy, as I said, was converted by Paul. He was circumcised as an adult so that he would be freer to minister to the Jews. And he became a very active colleague of Paul's. Timothy was an evangelist, it says in 2 Timothy 4, verse 5. He was ordained with the laying on of hands by elders and by Paul. So he had the authority of an elder. He presumably had a particular gift that he received from God with the laying on of hands, according to verse 6, right here in chapter 1. As I studied Timothy, I was struck by what an active role he did play in the New Testament. Second Corinthians, Philippians, Colossians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians and Philemon. All say that they at the beginning are from Paul and from Timothy. So he apparently was active in the writing of some of Paul's letters. He traveled with Paul. He went with them from city to city. Sometimes he stayed behind after Paul left, presumably so he could do follow-up after the evangelistic work. At times he was sent by Paul as a messenger or a courier. One passage that I'd like to read to you is Philippians chapter two, verses nineteen through twenty-three. They indicate that Paul was going to send Timothy ahead. They also are very revealing in what they say about Timothy's character. I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy to you soon that I also may be cheered when I receive news about you. I have no one else like him who takes a genuine interest in your welfare. For everyone looks out for his own interests, not those of Jesus Christ. But you know that Timothy has proved himself, because as a man with his father, he is as a son with his father, he has served with me in the work of the gospel. I hope therefore to send him as soon as I see how things go with me. So clearly, Timothy was a very trusted and a very faithful companion of Paul's. and a man that Paul loved very dearly. Timothy, despite all that, also was a man who apparently was plagued with fears and doubts. He was relatively young. It says in 1 Timothy chapter 4 that he shouldn't let anyone look down upon him because of his youth. It says in the next chapter in 1 Timothy that he suffered frequent illnesses. And we know that he was timid and afraid, both because Paul admonishes him in 2 Timothy, but also because of an interesting passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 16, which I also want to read. In First Corinthians chapter sixteen, verse ten, it says, If Tim if Timothy comes See to it that he has nothing to fear while he is with you, for he is carrying on the work of the Lord, just as I am. No one then should refuse to accept him. Send him on his way in peace, so that he may return to me. I gather from that that Timothy and Paul must have talked about Timothy's fears, and that Timothy probably asked Paul to get a good word for me in that letter so that I have an introduction and so that people won't be too mean to me. I am very timid, Paul. Help me out. As all of you who were here the last two weeks know, I can relate to that I feel that way, full of fear, and very timid. The key thought that I want all of you to take as you think about who Timothy was and what his character was like and also how active he was for the gospel, is that there's almost an irony in what we tend to think of when we think of the leaders in the New Testament and the fact that they suffered, were martyred. They must have been incredibly strong of character, they must have had great courage, they must have been strong in will. Think of all that they accomplished, but Timothy was not like that. Timothy accomplished all of that by the grace of God and with the power of the Holy Spirit, but in his own nature, in his own character, he was weak, he was fearful, and he was ill. So for those of you who feel like me, take heart. God can use you just as he can use someone who is not plagued by fears. Yeah, what is Paul saying to Timothy in chapter one? Well, let's look first at verses three through seven. That's a paragraph in the NIV. I have an idea as I read this that Paul is aware that once again Timothy is plagued by doubts and plagued by fears. Timothy must must be anticipating something. And that he doesn't want to face. Timothy may even be wondering, as the father in Mark chapter 9 last week wondered, if God was going to take care of him, if God was really going to be his strength. Paul, in addressing Timothy, remembers things. He brings things from the past, remembering The tears that Timothy shed when they last said goodbye. And then he says, I am reminded of your sincere faith A faith that first lives in your grandmother and mother, and here's what I think is interesting. And I am persuaded now lives in you also. Why would he have said, and I am persuaded? I think that what Paul was doing was saying, Timothy, you may not be persuaded, but I am persuaded of the strong faith that you have. And I need to remind you that you've got it And then Paul exhorts Timothy, having reminded him that he really does have that faith. That he really is a child of God. Paul then says to Timothy, God did not give us a spirit of timidity, but a spirit of power, of love, and of self-discipline. I think Paul was being gentle when he didn't say in verse seven, for dot God did not give you a spirit of timidity. I think he was being gentle and recognizing that all of us face those fears and doubts, so he universalized it a little bit. Now, I don't want to stop there Even though verse 7 is really the key verse. I also want to look at verses 8 through 12. Because I think they explain what moving beyond our fears and our doubts is all about. In verse 7, Paul is saying, do not sit back. Do not be afraid. You have power. You have the Holy Spirit who gives you power. The Greek word here is the root word for our word, dynamite. So we're talking about real power. You have love and you have self-discipline. Why do you need those things? Is it merely so that you can cope with your day-to-day existence? In verses 8 through 12, I think we see that Paul was saying that you need those things, Timothy, so that you can serve the kingdom of God. You are not just an ordinary person. In fact, I think that an ordinary person might read verses 8 through 12 and get rather intimidated. Because the verses are about suffering. They are about shame. And I think an ordinary person would say, why do I need that? But we are not ordinary people. Timothy was not an ordinary person. We are children of God who have been saved and redeemed by the Lord Jesus Christ. And we have the power that He had when He conquered death. He has given us that power through the Holy Spirit. What a great God we have. What a great God we serve and what a great kingdom we are a part of. Read these verses. I get excited as I read. God saved us and called us to a holy life, not because anything we have done, but because of his own purpose and grace. As an aside, can you think of what a Calvinist could preach about that verse? The grace of God, we contribute nothing. It's worth another sermon, but I'm not going to take that opportunity next week, fortunately. But think of that, not because anything we have done, but because of God's own purpose and grace. And then further down in verse 10, this grace is revealed through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus. Who has destroyed death? The Lord Jesus Christ did not merely live on this earth and show us a way of living in a way of loving. The Lord Jesus Christ. Conquered death and destroyed death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. Our God is gracious. Our God is victorious. And then we see in verse 12 that Paul is convinced that God is able to guard that which he has given him which he has entrusted to him, which I think is Paul's salvation and his eternal future. God is able to guard that. Our God is gracious, our God is victorious, and our God is steadfast and able to guard. For us. We are freed from our fears and our doubts because God wants us to serve Him. He loves us and calls us to love Him. and to spread the gospel. What are the applications of this thought to us First of all, as I said before, Timothy was a weak man. He was a man just like we are. He had fears, and yet God, through the power of the Holy Spirit, used him to spread the gospel, to plant churches, and to serve him Paul, believe it or not, likewise was a fearful man who God used in a supernatural way. And God can use us in the same way. As I said, God does not intend merely for us to cope with our fears. He intends to encourage us so that we will move beyond them in serving Him. I'd like to read to you two passages from a book, Outgrowing the Ingrown Church. This is a book that I think Alan has referred to in the past. It's a book that all of the elders have and have read as part of their growth with the session. It's a book that I read and that changed my life. Because you see, last year, when I was facing depression, I was trying to survive I was not worried or even thinking about becoming a part of the army of God that would move forward. I wanted to survive and to cope. And God was very gracious to me. And he healed me. And he enabled me to cope. But he did not stop there. And one of the ways in which he got my attention so that I would start thinking about taking the power of God and going forward was through this book. So let me read these two paragraphs. Miller writes, The local church was intended by Jesus to be a gathering of people full of faith. Strong in their confidence in him, not a gathering of religious folk who desperately need reassurance. Perhaps seeking personal comfort is not wrong in itself. But it is desperately wrong when it becomes the primary reason for the existence of the local church. And I will add there that our relationship with Jesus Christ is not merely one for personal comfort. or for encouragement. There's more to it than that. Miller continues, when that happens When a church meets primarily for personal comfort of its members, the local church is no living fellowship at all. It is a retreat center where anxious people draw resources that enable them merely to cope with with the pains of life. The church then becomes a religious cushion. Later on, he says, so let me call you and your congregation not simply to survival for another week. Instead, let me call you to radical commitment, to believe Christ's promises and to do his will at all costs. That will is revealed in his command to the church. To go with the gospel to the nations and to make disciples of them. Our task, then, is a missionary task. This mission consists in the whole outreach enterprise of evangelizing and discipling mankind. And it involves the participation of every living member of the local congregation. I think that's the message that Paul gave to Timothy. And I think that that's the message that God has for us. We have a wonderful God. And He is very excuse me. He is very gracious in how He comforts us. And heals us. But he did not bring us together merely for that. He brought us together so that we can reach out. And carry the gospel, the gospel of God's grace and of his salvation, of our redemption to Colombia and to beyond Colombia. That's the application that I see in 2 Timothy as it relates to fear and doubt. I exhort you and I encourage each of you to think of how you participate in this body, to think of what God is calling of you, and to think of how God might be calling you to move beyond your fears and your doubts. So that you can be part of the missionary mandate. The missionary mandate that Paul and Timothy were a part of, the missionary mandate that our church today is a part of as we spread the gospel of salvation throughout this town. and beyond into Howard County and throughout this state and throughout this world. For non-Christians who are here who wonder, what is this power? Is it really there? Well, I challenge you to turn to Jesus Christ. Turn to Him. Confess your sin and that you have not followed Him in the past. Seek his redemption and his salvation. And he will fill you. He will save you, and he will fill you with your holy with the Holy Spirit, and he will fill you with power. Let's pray. Almighty God You are so gracious. You do not lead us kicking and screaming. You do not force us to do things. Instead, you see us where we are, you love us as we are, you comfort us as we are, and you give us power. You give us the Holy Spirit and encourage us so that we can see that through your strength and not our own, that we can be a part of your kingdom. And that we can be a part of spreading the good news of Jesus Christ. Encourage each of us, Lord Jesus. That we might be yours throughout the remainder of this day, into the coming week, let us see a change in our lives. Amen.