Hear the word of God as it is read from Psalm fifty-five Listen to my prayer, O God. Do not ignore my plea. Hear me and answer me. My thoughts trouble me, and I am distraught at the voice of the enemy, at the stairs of the wicked, for they bring down suffering upon me and revile me in their anger. My heart is in anguish within me. The terrors of death assail me. Fear and trembling have beset me. Horror has overwhelmed me. I said, Oh, that I had the wings of a dove, I would fly away and be at rest. I would flee far away and stay in the desert, I would hurry to my place of shelter, far from the tempest and storm. Confuse the wicked, O Lord, confound their speech, for I see violence and strife in the city. Day and night they prowl about on its walls. Malice and abuse are within it. Destructive forces are at work in the city. Threats and lies never leave its streets. If an enemy were insulting me, I could endure it. If a foe were raising himself against me, I could hide from him But it is you, a man like myself, my companion, my close friend with whom I once enjoyed sweet fellowship as we walked with the throng at the house of God. Let death take my enemies by surprise. Let them go down alive to the grave, for evil finds lodging among them. But I call to God, and the Lord saves me. Evening, morning, and noon I cry out in distress, and he hears my voice. He ransoms me unharmed from the battle waged against me, even though many oppose me. God, who is enthroned forever, will hear them and afflict them. Sera. Men who never change their ways and have no fear of God. My companion attacks his friends He violates his covenant. His speech is smooth as butter, yet war is in his heart. His words are more soothing than oil, yet they are drawn swords Cast your cares on the Lord, and He will sustain you. He will never let the righteous fall But you, O God, will bring down the wicked into the pit of corruption. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men will not live out half their days. But as for me, I trust in you. The Lord will bless this reading of His sacred word. Before we join together and pray I'd like to say something that I think you've probably heard from everyone who preaches on an occasional or individual basis in contrast to Alan who gets to come up every week. And that is that it's really uh an awesome experience to stand here before all of you, the body of Christ, and to preach God's word. It's If you notice the topic of the sermon, almost a fearful experience. But primarily it's one in which I am struck by the responsibility of it and also by my own inadequacy. by the sin that is in me that corrupts me and keeps me from understanding God's word. But also it reminds me of the power of the Holy Spirit. Couldn't drop my watch or I'd never know how long I'm talking. It reminds me of the power of the Holy Spirit that cuts through our sin and redeems us and allows us to understand. So let's pray together. Heavenly Father, as we read your word and seek to understand it, we are mindful of our sin. And we give all praise to Jesus Christ, who died on our behalf, that we might communicate openly with you and understand you. And we pray that through the power of your Holy Spirit, the words of my mouth and the meditations of our hearts would be acceptable in thy sight. O Lord. Amen. This is not the first time that I've preached here. About two years ago, a little over two years ago, I preached. And I preached, ironically enough, on contentment. It was ironic because I was not at all content when I preached the sermon. And God did a lot of works in me, and instead of my becoming content in the succeeding twelve months, I became less content and finally became very depressed. And I suffered from what seemed to me to be a very severe depression. And through the help of counseling and the prayers of all of you, plus many others, God healed me. If you think of the chronology of that, that I became less content after I preached on contentment, you can understand that I approached preaching on fear with some trepidation. But in any case, God did heal me and He taught me many things. So this morning and next week I want to share with you from God's Word what I think God has taught me, with the hope that God might teach some of you in a less painful way some of the same truth. Therefore, my sermon this morning and the sermon next week are very personal. I believe that they're not self-centered and that I will be exposing God's word and the truth in it. But they're still very personal, and I will identify with them very closely. They tie into the recent sermons of Al, where he's been preaching on confession. and on prayer and on healing. Because the basic theme that will underlie this morning and next week will be the importance of admitting and confessing certain feelings and emotions that we have, primarily fear and doubt And then seeking God's healing from them. So confession, even in the context of fear and doubt, will precede healing I do have one brief story I'd like to tell about confession to show you that it has practical applications, not only related to our relationship with God. When Catherine and I went on vacation, we spent one week in Ohio and during that week I traveled on business for three days. And at the end of the three days I flew into Columbus, Ohio, and Catherine and her mother picked me up at the airport. And we got in the car and I drove and I wasn't accustomed to the car and I wasn't paying attention to the speed limit. And I got on the beltway around Columbus and pretty soon, very soon, I saw some very bright blue and red lights and I pulled over and I was stopped for speeding. Interesting my response to that. As soon as the patrolman came up to the door, I started saying, Well you see, officer, I I can't see the speedometer very well. I've never driven this car and All the other traffic was going as fast as I was. And he said, Come to my car please. So I went back and I sat in the car And I repeated to him as carefully as I could that I was just not accustomed to the car and excuse, excuse Well, this guy who was pretty young and um obviously enjoying the authority that he had over a person like me said, You know, I spent three years in the Marines. Three of the best years of my life. And I thought, oh boy, where have I heard that before? What would Dan do in a case like this? He said when I was in the Marines I was taught not to excuse what I had done and to take full responsibility for it And I sat there and I thought, oh boy. And I finally, very softly but carefully, piped up and said, Officer. You've hit me right where it hurts. In my pride. I'm not trying to claim that I wasn't speeding. I'll take full responsibility for it But I do want you to have mercy on me. He didn't say much He called something into the radio, wrote a few things down. I sat there quietly. And then he said I don't know why, but you're not going to get a speeding ticket. Get out of here. So even in the world there is advantage to confessing your sin and pleading for mercy. Rather than trying to excuse your behavior and act as if it's not really that bad after all. This morning, as I said, we're focusing our study on fear, particularly as it is expressed in Psalm 55. Now I chose Psalm 55 for a particular reason. And as you look at your sermon outline, you'll see that there are many examples of blank in the scripture. And the blank is fear. In fact, there are so many examples of it that it's hard to know where to choose. So I've just listed a few of the more important and well-known people in the scripture who seem to be plagued by fear at various times. And you can look up the references. But Adam and Eve were afraid when they saw God walking in the garden after they had sinned. Moses was afraid when he approached the burning bush. Paul was afraid as he traveled from city to city and was persecuted for his preaching. Timothy was likewise afraid. But what's interesting to me about all these examples and the many others that I haven't mentioned is that they mention fear and they indicate somebody was touched by fear, but they don't express the fear. And that's what I like about Psalm 55. Because Psalm 55 expresses the very feelings that we have. when we are afraid. Let me highlight a few of the words from voice verses two through eight. I am distraught My heart is in anguish. The terrors of death assail me. Fear and trembling have beset me. Horror has overwhelmed me. And then the response that David owns up to is, I would fly, I would flee from here and escape all of this. I'd hurry as to the desert as far away from here as I could. Do you feel any of that emotion? Does that touch you at all? It does me. Because I have finally discovered in the last twelve months or so that I am almost plagued by fears. Being afraid of things, being fearful, I think in the past has controlled my life Because I haven't really been able to admit it. I haven't been able to admit how important those fears were or what power they had over me. In the past, whenever I began to own up to my fears, I would remember that perfect love casts out fear, as it says in 1 John So I would repent, saying God has perfect love for me. I shouldn't be afraid, so I'm not going to be afraid. So I denied it. And I never really faced it. In fact, what I think I have come to understand in a very profound way is that I didn't think God wanted me to be afraid nor that he really understood just how afraid I was. I don't think I didn't think that he could understand, and therefore I didn't think that he cared. Well, I faced some of those fears last year. And I began to realize just how afraid I was. In one morning that I will always treasure, I woke up and I went down to our living room and I opened up the Bible and I turned to Psalm 55. And I read Psalm 55, which I'm sure I had read before, but God spoke to me through that Psalm in a profound way. Because in the verses of Psalm fifty-five, I realized that God does understand how afraid I am. He does know that I fear many things. And he doesn't just mention fear in his word as it speaks to me. He expresses the very feelings and the very emotions that I've had. And in Psalm 55, I found out that I have a very dear friend, my friend Jesus Christ. Who not only saved me, but who enters into my existence and knows what I feel and helps me face those feelings. This psalm is very special. Now, also on your sermon outline is the question, what are you afraid of? As I talk to people Having read through Psalm 55 and begun to realize the depth of my fears, I have found that many of you are also touched by fears. But has never really faced them, has never really sought to understand the depth of those fears. So, I've put in a lot of blanks under Roman num Roman numeral two because I don't expect that all of us are afraid of the same things. But I would encourage you to think about what you might be afraid of. What are you afraid of that you've never admitted to being afraid of? What fears do you have that you may have been unwilling to take to God? What fears do you have that may have a significant control on your life? The fears that come to my mind are such as the fear of pain. Whether it be physical or emotional pain, the fear of rejection, the fear of failure, Alan reminds us that An achievement-oriented society, we are certainly plagued by the fear of failure. The fear of insignificance, of not counting for much, either not counting in God's eyes or not counting in the eyes of the people around us. The fear of suffering. The fear of a loss of freedom Think about those things. Think about what you're afraid of. Fear is very powerful. I think that's why the scripture talks about it so much. The scripture doesn't deny it. The feelings that we have are powerful, and those feelings can motivate us. To give you an example, In my own life I realized after I had begun to face my fears that a lot of the activities that I have partaken of related to Social issues and politics on behalf of the kingdom of God have been motivated by fear Now I don't think participating in the activities is wrong, but what I noticed as I started understanding my fears is that much of my activity was not motivated by a genuine seeking of God's righteousness. It was motivated by my fear of what my life would be like in the future if our government continues the trends that I believe it is continuing. Or if our culture continues the trends that I believe they are continuing. And one of the things that concerns me is I look at Christians participating in various activities and getting um motivated to do things is the tendency that we all have to become strident and to become intolerant And I think that in my life that intolerance and stridency reflected that I was doing those things out of a poor motivation, that I was not doing them seeking the righteousness of the kingdom of God, but I was doing them because I was afraid of what was going to happen to me if things didn't change. I think God would have us act on his behalf. Confident of the future because we know it is God's future. Not afraid because we don't think that He'll take care of us. So I encourage you to think about what fears you have. And how those fears affect you. Now let's look more closely at Psalm fifty-five. This psalm is interesting. It's rather disjointed. If you heard as I read it or as you look at it. You'll see that some of it is addressed to God. Abruptly, the author shifts and starts talking to this friend of his who has betrayed him. Um in the middle of his calling upon God to have mercy on him, he also starts seeking God's punishment on his enemies. There's a disjointed feel that to me adds authenticity to it. I get the feeling that David was somewhere having run away from something, was in hiding. And was just letting his emotions pour out. And that speaks to me, because that's what I like to do. I don't always do it, but I need to let my emotions pour out So all of you remember David and what really was going on in his life, oftentimes we think of David as being that teenager who fought Goliath, and then we know that he was a king and he had a great kingdom. But we don't think about the fact that David's entire life was caught up in conflict. It started out because he was the youngest of eight sons. And as an as the youngest in my family, I know that he must have been picked on a lot and he must have faced a lot of conflict just within his own family. But he faced conflict beyond that. He did fight Goliath. He ended up fighting Saul for a long time because Saul was king and Saul was afraid of David because of David's power and David's righteousness. He was constantly running away into the wilderness. He was fighting the people around the kingdom. Finally, Saul died, David became king, but the battles didn't stop. David kept fighting, kept fighting his neighbors. And then, perhaps most importantly, David fought the toughest battle of all. David's own son, Absalom, rebelled against him. And he rebelled in such a strong way that he stirred up the people and the kingdom so that they all turned against David. For the purposes of this psalm, we see in verses thirteen and following That David says, But it is you, a man like myself, my companion, my close friend, with whom I once enjoyed sweet fellowship. It is you who are my enemy. And we see in 2 Samuel chapter 15, verses 12, and then 34, and a few other verses, that this probably is describing Ahithophil. It was described in 2 Samuel as David's counselor and confidant and close friend. Someone in whom David had an enormous amount of trust, a very close relationship. And then David suddenly found out that not only his son had betrayed him, but that this close friend had too. So David fled from Jerusalem He went out into the hills and the caves, and it says in 2 Samuel that David wept as he considered the betrayal and his hurt. And I think that's some of the feeling that we see in Psalm fifty-five. Think of what David felt. Knowing that his own son had turned against him, knowing that his close friend had turned against him. We worry about rejection. David had to have felt rejected He had to have felt betrayed, and he had to have felt afraid. Because of the very people who loved him the most and were closest to him, had turned away from him, and they had raised his entire kingdom against him. Where could he go? How could he escape? He probably wondered even if God was for him or perhaps against him. Had God turned against David? And was Absalom going to rule the kingdom and kill David? There's a parallel in this, of course, when you think of what Jesus felt, when his own disciples, the people who were closest to him as he walked on the earth, betrayed him. And rejected him. So we can see from Psalm 55 that God not only knows the depth of our fears and the feelings that we have with them. But in Jesus Christ, he has felt in a personal way the sense of rejection. that we have probably felt and the hurt and fears that we walk with So we know that David faced a very difficult, difficult circumstance. How did he respond? What did he do as he fled Jerusalem? He ran up into the caves. Well, first he did cry, he did weep. And for those of us who are stoic, And afraid to express our fears, it might be good for us to remind ourselves that even King David wept. But he did more than that. He spoke to God. And through the prompting of the Holy Spirit, he wrote Psalm 55. Perhaps Psalm 55 was something that he expressed extemporaneously. that he sang while on his feet on the road. And in Psalm fifty five we see that what David did He addressed God and said, Listen to my prayer, O God. Do not ignore my plea. Hear me, God, and answer me. He expressed his feelings. He didn't deny them. He said, horror has overwhelmed me and I want to fly away from here like a dove. I want to get out while I can. I'm afraid, God. And then he remembered God's power. And we see in verses 16 through 19 that he recalled that God had helped him in the past. And that God would help him again. And he says it in the present tense, as if he's expecting God to help him at that moment. But I call to God and the Lord saves me. Evening, morning, and noon I cry out in distress, and He hears my voice. He ransoms me unharmed from the battle waged against me. Even though many oppose me, God who is enthroned forever will hear them and will afflict them We need to remember God's power and remember the many times in which God has helped us And then finally, David exhorted the people around him And in verse 22, said, Cast your cares on the Lord. I believe he was speaking to the people around him. And the Lord will sustain you. He will never let the righteous to fall. If you keep reading into Psalms fifty-six and fifty-seven, even though they apparently were written at different events in David's life, you'll see other great examples of how David called upon the Lord. And how he remembered how great God was. In fact, it's just Psalm fifty-seven that David wrote when he was running away from someone again that we get the words to one of our favorite songs here at CPC. Be exalted, O God. Let your glory be over the earth. I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations. I will sing of you among the peoples. David wrote that in Psalm 57 when he faced an equally dangerous situation and was equally afraid. So how can we apply this to us? I've already said this. It's a theme. But hear it again explicitly. We can apply this to us by admitting our fears to God. By admitting or confessing our fears. to our brothers and sisters in Christ, by not denying them, but recognizing their reality, and then by allowing God to comfort us We cannot enjoy God's comfort and God's blessing if we cannot admit to God the depth of our hurt and our fears and of our needs. So I encourage you to receive God's comfort and strength. He does understand. He does know. And we do need to seek him in our fears. For closing Note. I want to point out that this message has been directed toward people who already know Jesus Christ. It's directed toward people who have a relationship with God because they have recognized that they are sinners and that Christ died for them and allows them to be at one with God. But I believe these truths from Scripture are relevant for all people, Christians and non-Christians. Fear pervades our culture. It is everywhere. That's why there is such a focus in our culture on escapism That's why people are running away, maybe through drugs, maybe through other things, but people are trying to escape. And frankly, it's no wonder, because if God doesn't exist or if he's not in control, If he doesn't really have power over the entire universe, I think I would be terrified. Because I'd wonder how powerful chance is. I'd wonder whether I could trust in anything. While we were on vacation, I saw an article in the Reader's Digest that was all about how to stop worrying. And of course, worry is very much related to fear What's interesting about the article is that it just quoted a bunch of scientists who are doing technical studies on technical things that you can do to stop worrying, and never once addressed the fundamental issue Which is beneath people's worry. And that is their relationship with God, their relationship with the creator of the universe, who does have sovereign control over the universe and who has sovereign control over our lives. Scientists may deny it, but there's no way to escape fear and worry Apart from a relationship with the creator of the universe and our Redeemer. Because ultimately, there is something that we should all be afraid of And that is if we should be afraid of the wrath of God, the wrath that He has against sin and against unrighteousness, of which we are all guilty. So those of you who do not know God, who do not know Jesus Christ, I exhort you to turn to Jesus Christ. Turn to him and confess your sin. Confess your need. Your need for his love. Your need for his redemption. Turn to him and allow him to comfort you. Cast your cares and your burdens upon him. For he does love you and he seeks you to be his own, his child. Let us pray. Our gracious God As I read through this psalm and think of your love for me and for all of us, I am again overwhelmed. What a wonderful God you are, that you do not hide in the heavens, you do not hide in the universe, but you come into our lives And you know us, you know our thoughts and our feelings, you know our fears, and you seek to comfort us. Help us on the basis of our forgiveness found in Jesus Christ. Help us to turn to you To confess to you our sin, to confess to you our fears, that you might forgive us and comfort us in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.