Good morning. I'm ready. Now I can talk. As most of you recall, last week I preached from Psalm 55. And I preached on fear and what our response to our fears should be, as we can learn from reading the Psalm of David. It's been very interesting to me how many of you have spoken to me about your own fears, have indicated that my message touched your heart and encouraged you. There was one particularly interesting response though that I'd like to share. One person asked me a question which made me realize that there was one point that I needed to elaborate on last week that would have underscored a sense of fear in a particular situation and would have also underscored the importance of conviction. If you remember last week I told of an incident that had occurred to me on my vacation. If anyone remembers what it was. The questi the uh incident was that I got picked up for speeding. And of course the question that was probably on a lot of minds, but that only one person was courageous enough to ask was, well, how fast were you going? It was a Midwesterner that asked that question. I was going sixty-five in a forty-five mile an hour zone. It wasn't an interstate, but there was construction, so they had reduced the speed. But that may give you a sense of the fear that I felt as I went back to that patrol car and thought How many dollars is sixty-five and a forty-five mile zone worth? How many points is it worth? What's gonna happen to my insurance premiums? It was a a fearful moment, but I was still um blessed to be able to ask for mercy and to receive it This morning I want to talk about fear, but not fear in general. I'd like to become more specific. Last week, I did not address any specific fears, and in fact, I left blanks on the outline so that you could fill those in. And recognize your own particular fears. This week instead, I'd like to focus on the fear that comes when we're not sure God will help us. It's a fear that comes from doubt. It's a fear that comes from our knowing ourselves. It's a fear from just not being sure how much God loves us. It's a fear that comes from wondering if we measure up enough for God to intervene in our lives. Now remember from last week, when we studied Psalm 55, we saw that God really does understand our fears. He is sensitive to them. There are portions of the scripture that express the very feelings that we have when we are afraid, particularly the early verses of Psalm 55. But we saw in that psalm that our response to those fears should be not to deny them, not to pretend that they aren't there. But instead to admit them. And to talk to our God about them, and to seek his help Our response to our fears, based on Psalm 55, is that we should remember that God cares, that God has helped us and is helping us, He has saved us. And he has he is changing us. So we need to remember that, and then as it said in the end of the Psalm, we should cast our burdens and our fears upon the Lord, for he will sustain us. But now let's think about that with a specific fear of the future, the fear of not knowing if God will help. I have to say that just as last week I was basing my sermon on much that I had learned personally in the past year. That this sermon also is tied to perhaps one of the most profound events that I had last year in my relationship with God. And that is that when I began finally to admit my fears and to face up to my fears, I had to look at my faith. And I had to admit that I wasn't really sure God was going to help me in certain situations. And that there truly were times When I was afraid because I didn't know if God would do what I wanted or if that I would be able to change what I wanted to conform to God's will And I want to tell you about the incident and when I ri when I really faced that, so that you'll get a sense of how profound it was for me. I was talking to a friend and beginning to recognize my fears of the future and how I would hang on to all sorts of things, whether they be material or um emotional. But I wasn't hanging on to my faith in God. And I didn't want to admit that because I knew good Christians always trusted God I knew that good Christians had their fears eliminated because of God's perfect love, but I finally recognized that I still feared. And I realized that went back to a single incident in my life. When I've told this to people before, tears have come to my eyes, and tears might come to my eyes right now. So don't be surprised. When I was a junior and senior in high school, my mother was ill with cancer. And I was a Christian at the time, thankfully. But I remember that I was not able to express my fears. My family was just not an expressive family. And we didn't very often talk of our emotions in front of each other. And I never really told anybody that I was afraid that my mother was going to die. And that I was afraid of what my life would be like after she died. And after she'd been sick for about a year, I was at a church camp. And we had a special evening service. And I remember It was at night there was a campfire, and I remember praying on my knees and finally telling God how afraid I was, and I remember sobbing. And my mother lived for another year. But when I was telling my friend this story, he said, What did God do? What did God do about your fears that your mother was going to die? And I responded by saying, Well, God, you know, helped me a lot during that last year that she was sick and And boy, I had a lot of support from a lot of people. But my friend looked at me and he said, She died, didn't she? And at that moment I realized that there was something between me and my God that I've never been upfront with him about. And that was that I had opened myself to him. And I had asked that my mother would live. She had died anyway That was a profound moment in my relationship with God. Because that was the most honest with God that I've been, I think, perhaps in my life. And that began to clear away a fog. It began to clear away a lot of stuff that had prevented me since then from really believing. Because that memory of opening myself and having my mother die anyway had prevented me from seeing how God had worked in my life It prevented me at an emotional level from seeing how much God had changed me for the better And finally, when I was able to say to God, but God, I tried once, I tried to believe. I was finally able to say, as the man, the father in Mark chapter 9 says. I believe. But help me in my unbelief. Let's read from Mark chapter 9. Mark chapter nine, verses fourteen through twenty-nine When they came to the other disciples, they saw a large crowd around them, and the teachers of the law arguing with them. As soon as all the people saw Jesus, they were overwhelmed with wonder, and they ran to greet him. What are you arguing with them about? he asked. A man in the crowd answered, Teacher, I brought you my son, who is possessed by a spirit that has robbed him of speech. Whenever it seizes him, it throws him to the ground. He foams at the mouth, gnashes his teeth, and becomes rigid. I asked your disciples to drive out the spirit, but they could not. O unbelieving generation, Jesus replied, How long shall I stay with you? How long shall I put up with you? Bring the boy to me. So they brought him. When the Spirit saw Jesus, he immediately threw the boy into a convulsion. He fell to the ground and rolled around, foaming at the mouth. Jesus asked the boy's father, How long has he been like this? From childhood, he answered. It has often thrown him into fire or water to kill him. But if you can do anything, take pity on us and help us. If you can, said Jesus, everything is possible for him who believes. Immediately the boy's father exclaimed, I do believe. Help me overcome my belief, my unbelief. When Jesus saw that a crowd was running to the scene, he rebuked the evil spirit. You deaf and mute spirit, he said, I command you, come out of him and never enter him again. The spirit shrieked, convulsed him violently, and came out. The boy looked so much like a corpse that many said he's dead. But Jesus took him by the hand and lifted him to his feet, and he stood up. After Jesus had gone indoors, his disciples asked him privately, Why couldn't we drive it out? He replied, This kind can come out only by prayer. The Lord will bless the reading of his word. So let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, you are gracious to us to give us your word, your revelation to us. We pray that you would, through the power of your Holy Spirit, speak through me and give ears to the people here to hear your truth, that we might grow closer to you. better able to appreciate your love for us. In the name of Jesus our Savior and our Lord. Amen. This father is a very special person to me Because I think he feels many of the feelings that I have felt. And he responds to Jesus as I think I would have responded and as I many times have. This father doubted many things. He doubted after the disciples were done with their attempts, he seemed to doubt whether Jesus could help. But more importantly, for this morning, I think this father doubted whether he was good enough for Jesus to help him. And consequently he was plagued by fears. Fears that his son was going to continue to suffer, fears that his son would die, and fears that he would have to live with that. Now there are various types of doubt. One doubt that I think we see around us a lot, but isn't recognized very often. is the doubt related to deceit. So the first blank you can fill in with DE, deceit You see, a lot of people doubt God because they don't want to have to change themselves. They know That if they truly profess that Jesus Christ is Lord, if they acknowledge God's power in their lives, they know they're going to have to change their lives. Change their behavior. Change their thoughts. And there are a lot of people in our society who claim to doubt Jesus Christ And in fact, are fooling themselves because they are avoiding what must come if they acknowledge him. There's another type of doubt related to conceit. So the second blank is C-O-N. Conceit. And we see people like this around us too. Sometimes we're victims of it ourselves. And that is, we think we know so much. That we know that there's not room for God, or we know that things are more complicated than God could handle, or we think that the world and the universe are just too great for there to be a God. So people walk around claiming to be scientific or logical, when in fact they aren't, because they not deny the very fundamentals of science and logic. They deny the willingness to test the hypothesis that God exists and that God might have a claim over their lives. Now this father was not deceitful. He wasn't conceited. He had doubts because he knew himself and he knew his circumstance And he just wasn't sure that Jesus would take care of him. As a result of that doubt, his father was afraid Last week I mentioned that there are examples of fear in the Bible. In Genesis, after Adam and Eve have sinned, we read that they were afraid. They were afraid of God's wrath because they knew that they had offended him. In Exodus, we saw that Moses was afraid when he approached the burning bush. I think that's an indication of being afraid of God's power, being awestruck by his power. But here in Mark we have a father who's afraid. Because he doesn't know what to think and he doubts and he's afraid that that Jesus won't help him. Let's look at this passage and consider more closely the situation. Right before this passage is the description of the transfiguration The Transfiguration is when three of the disciples were with Jesus, and Jesus was revealed in almost his full glory. It was a special, quote, mountaintop experience. And we all have wonderful mountaintop experiences, but everyone has to come down to the world. And Jesus and the three disciples did. And they saw a large crowd, and the teachers of the law were the scribes, and they were arguing with the disciples. Now try to picture this. There are a lot of people there. There's a lot of commotion and a lot of noise. It's evident that the disciples thought they were going to cast out this demon and heal the boy, and they failed. So you can imagine that they're all standing there sort of embarrassed, wondering, what are we going to do? We've just made fools of ourselves. The scribes are there and they've been opponents of the disciples all along, so they're reveling in the fact that the disciples were failures. I suspect that neither the disciples nor the scribes at this particular moment were focusing their thoughts particularly on the father or the boy. They were focusing their thoughts on themselves. So you can imagine how the father was feeling. He was feeling that no one cared. Jesus arrives and people begin to run over to him, so he asks the question, what are you arguing about? Now it's not clear to me from the text who he asked, whether he asked the crowd in general, or whether he asked the scribes to try to put them in their place, or whether he asked the disciples seeking to help them in a time of great need for them. But he asked the question and presumably there was silence. Because no one knew quite what to say. So the father answers, perhaps tentatively. And he says to Jesus, Jesus, I brought you, my son. But the disciples could not help him. Jesus at that moment immediately focuses his attention, his love, and his compassion on the Father. So notice that shift from being inwardly focused as the disciples were to focusing on the need which Jesus did. Now think about how the father felt. He, as I said, had sought Jesus' help. He apparently, when he came, believed that Jesus could help him, could heal his son. And then he ran into the disciples' failure. Think of the disappointment that this father must have felt. The story is told in the Gospel of Luke, and in the Gospel of Luke it points out that this son was the father's only child. This story is also told in the Gospel of Matthew, and in the in that gospel it says that he knelt before Jesus The father in Mark says that his son has been this way since childhood. So I would venture to say that this father is a man who hurts. Two thousand years ago, when people observed suffering or Evil spirits dwelling within a sun. They believed that somebody was being punished. That God has visited a terrible curse on someone That's what they thought illness was about, and what they thought demonic possession was about. Did this father think Since his only son, his only child, because his only child had been this way since he was born, presumably, did this father think that he was being punished? Did he blame himself for having done something terribly wrong that would have brought this upon his son, whom he loved? He does say to Jesus later on, have mercy on us, take pity on us, and help us. So it's clear that he identifies with his son and is seeking the mercy of God just as much for himself as he is for his son. But I think he realized that he was unworthy of Jesus' help. More than many of us, perhaps, he had faced day after day, year after year. that he had sinned and that he had done something so terrible that he had to watch his son die or try to kill himself Now let's look at the dialogue between Jesus and the Father. The Father says, if you can Presumably, as I said, now that the disciples have failed, he was beginning to doubt how much power Jesus had. Have mercy on us and help us. Jesus, will you help us? Will you have mercy on us? Jesus responds by saying, if you can, everything is possible for him who believes. What Jesus is doing here is saying, what do you mean if I can? That's not really the issue, is it And immediately, that means that the Father responded very quickly. He says, No, that's not the issue. The issue is me. I believe Jesus. Help me in my unbelief. In some manuscripts from ancient days, this verse includes the words, the boy's father exclaimed with tears. So you can sense the deep feeling and emotion that he that came out as he spoke to Jesus. I think that we need to remember that when the boy's when the father says, I believe, help me overcome my unbelief. He is not saying, help me change my unbelief to belief, so that then I will have enough faith so that you can help me. He's not saying that. He is saying, I believe. Help me despite my unbelief. I believe Jesus. But I make no claims to it being a perfect belief. I make no claims to it being the belief that you expect of me. I have unbelief. I doubt. Help me anyway, Jesus. The Father was saying for us, as we need to say, help us, though we are unworthy. Help us even though we don't have faith the way you would have us faith. Have us have faith. Help us even though we're not altogether sure that you want to help us or that you will help us. And what did Jesus do? He rebuked the evil spirit. And he knelt down and he touched this boy, and he healed him. Oh, the love and compassion of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who responds so tenderly to a man who has made himself so vulnerable and has been so honest And Jesus does not say you need to believe more. He heals the boy. What's the application of this for us? As I search this for an application in my own life, I recognize that I am affected very deeply by what I myself have gone through. over the years and what I've experienced. And it may be presumptuous for me to consider that any of you have any similar feelings to me or any similar personality traits. But as I have talked to people about this, I have found some similarities. I think that many of us in our relationship With others, including our God, have a mask in front of us. Because I don't think that we are ready to accept the depth of our sin. The depth of our disobedience, or our true nature, we do not recognize Because we cannot recognize that God loves us but does not excuse us. That's Capital A. God loves us but does not excuse us. Think about how you treat yourself, how you treat the people around you. When someone sins against you, do you base your forgiveness toward that person On a rationalization, do you come up with sort of an excuse for that person? Or with a reason that they probably did that I do. And I think that in doing so, that I avoid loving that person as God loves me. Because God does not excuse my sin, He does not rationalize my sin. He loves me despite my sin. Now not only do we relate to the people around us in the incorrect way. We, and this is capital B, excuse ourselves, but do not love ourselves with the love of God Now, how this relates to the Father is that I think in this episode between the Father and Jesus That father finally began to face all of the fears, all of the doubts, and all of the wrongs that he had done And he couldn't rationalize any of it away anymore. He couldn't pretend that it wasn't true, because Jesus looked him in the eye and asked him questions. And sought the truth. When I have done that in the past, and perhaps when you have done it You've been scared. Because if you think back to that mask, we can become accustomed to our mask. We can get used to the mask and begin to think that that mask is the truth. So that when that mask is moved away and we suddenly see ourselves as we really are. We don't love ourselves. Because that's not the way we want to be. And when we don't love ourselves, I think that very often we begin to question if God loves ourselves. Because we begin to question that maybe God has been loving our mask just the way we've been loving our mask, and we're not sure that He's really been loving us. We need to learn to love ourselves as God loves us. That's capital C. Now we need to add capital D We should, here's the blank, fill in the blank, love our neighbors and our brothers and sisters on the same basis. On the basis that God loves us. I once heard a sermon, and I've never forgotten it. In which the preacher, for a few moments, acted out a dialogue between Jesus and the man. In fact, it was this father in Mark chapter 9. And Jesus said, I love you. And the Father said, Now now wait a minute, Jesus, I'm not sure that you really know me. I don't have the faith that you want me to have. Yeah. I don't believe the way you want me to believe. And Jesus says, I love you. And the father says, No, no, no, wait a minute. Um, you know, sometimes I sin and sometimes I do the very thing that I don't want to do. And Jesus says, I love you. I love you the way you are right now. I love you now, even though you are going to change. And at one time, in eternity, you're going to be with me. And you will be a fully sanctified holy person. But I will not love you more then than I love you right now I love you now as much as I will ever love you. Because I love you in an infinite way. I love you now as a sinner so much that I sent my son to the earth. To die for you. Not to die for you as you're going to be when you are perfect. I sent my son, Jesus, to die for you as you are now. Don't deny that. Look at yourself and admit it. And receive my love and my mercy and my grace. And then share that love with those around you Don't share a love that is based on rationalizations and excuses. Share a love that is based on the grace of God. You will remember, I hope, that both Alan and Mark over the past few months have used the expression preach the gospel to yourself. That one of the ways to grow in grace, to grow in your walk with God, is to preach the gospel to yourself. Well, I think that's what I'm saying. That when we have doubts, that when we're afraid, when we're not sure that God will help us, we need to preach the gospel to ourselves. We need to remember that Christ died for us, that the cross was for us. We need to remember that it was for us in our sin, in our unbelief. It was not for us after we've changed. It was for us now. So for those of you who know Jesus Christ, I exhort you to be honest with him. To find tremendous joy in the fact that He loves you now, just as He's going to love you in eternity. And that he has sacrificed himself for you. And that he will help you and take care of you. And for those of you who are here who do not know Jesus Christ, for those of you who have doubted or wonder if God could really love you. Let me say he does. And he is calling you to give your life to him. To commit your life to Him, to acknowledge your need, your sin, and to receive the joy of salvation. Let us pray. Lord God, how I thank you that you care about us so much, that you feel your word. With the stories of real people who experienced things similar to what we experienced. How I thank you that you have given us a model for being open with you and for being honest with you. How I thank you, Lord, that you love us, that you love me the way I am. Right now. Lord, inspire us to go forth from this time together with a new joy In Jesus Christ, inspire us to go forth and to spread that joy and that love with the people around us. We pray in the name of and for the sake of Jesus. Amen.