It's good to be back. It's nice to see you all. Feels like it's been a while, because it's been a while. We're going to return to a text that we've already spent some time in, but I want to look at it from a little bit different angle and for a little bit different purpose So as Anthony mentioned, we've been working on an evangelism conference. I've been teaching an evangelism conference to the church this weekend, and I wanted to kind of wrap that off. With a sermon that would be helpful to actually, I hope, all of us. There are understandable reasons why we don't share the gospel with people. And I want to take at least one of them away this morning, if I can. So that's why we're going to look at this. Let me read our text and then pray. And let me just won't know well, I'll come back to that. But let me read this. So 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and starting at verse 21, going down to chapter 4 and verse 7. Let's hear God's word. So let no one boast in men, for all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death Or the present or the future, all are yours. And you are Christ's. And Christ is God's. This is how one should regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found faithful. But with me, it This is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I don't even judge myself. For I'm not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me. Therefore, do not pronounce judgment before the time, before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation. From God. I have applied all these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. For who sees anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? If then you received it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? I'm going to pray as I typically do before the sermon and just give you one piece of news that's I don't think well known. Um last night our women's ministry director Diane Heidi was in a car accident down at the beach where her family has a home. She is fine physically, for which we're very, very grateful. Her car is not. It is done. Its life has ceased. But that is comparatively of little import compared to the person, for which we're grateful that she So she'll be delivered back by her family later today and have to deal with insurance and all that kind of stuff. And so um I'm going to pray for her also. So let's pray together Father, we are very thankful for Diane and her ministry among us, and we're thankful that you preserved her life last night. Uh, thank you that uh replacing uh our physical goods is frequently much, much easier than our bodies being repaired this size. Of the new heavens, new work. Help her, this uh always shakes us to be in an accident, to fear what could have been. And so be with Diane. Help her to know your presence today. Thank you for her family around her. And we pray that you'll continue to heal her. even just from seatbelt shock and other things like that. Thank you that you uh care for us deeply when we're in an accident or even as we Look at an opportunity to share the gospel with someone. You're with us. You have a gospel to comfort us. You have good news for us to recall. Paul, that we might have the courage, the willingness, the desire even, to bring the gospel to those around us So work this gospel in us through this text that you've given to us, Holy Spirit. Work it in me. And work through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So I um I really only want to try and deal with one thing this morning, and it's to try and answer this question. Why do we hesitate to share the best news on earth? My wife is the youngest of three um three girls. Um and the oldest sister uh in the family uh has three girls and um her three girls are pregnant at this point where she'll have a total Of grandchildren, that's right, three girls. There's a pattern you might have noticed. Uh when um so the oldest one is pregnant with their second um child, second girl, and the youngest one is pregnant with their first And um when we we kind of had expected the oldest one to to to have another child, the youngest one uh was, shall we say, a surprise. And the Lord's with them, they'll be fine. He's in medical school. It's going to be a little challenging, but they'll figure it out. You you These nieces are precious to me. And you could not get the smile off my face the day I found out that the youngest one was going to have a kid. You could not get the smile off my face. I could have had the worst day ever and I still would have had a smile, pissed it out my face. Why? This was good news. I couldn't resist telling everyone, I'm telling you. That it is good news. It is not the good news though Why is it so easy for us to share what is arguably good news, but not the good news? That's what I want to try and deal with today. Okay? Sometimes I do this conference that I did this weekend in evangelism. I do uh all around the country, different churches And I hear different things from people about why they hesitate to share the gospel with people. Some people think they will say to me, well, I've never really been trained in it. Okay, there's books, there's conferences. That's easy to solve. Um well I'm just really too busy for that. You know, that's easy to solve too. You can repent of that and re-chose how you live your life. We've dealt with that the last time I was here. That's entirely solvable. Well, you know what people are just really hard to love. I agree. And so are you And yet God set his love on you because that's exactly what he does. He sets his love on the unlovely like me. And so if we can if we can own that and believe that and enjoy it and sit in the midst of it, um soak in it Then our lack of love can melt away. These are solvable things, friends. And all these can be true. But I would say, in my own personal experience and also in training lots of people in evangelism, the biggest issue that people have is self-consciousness. They're self-conscious. And this is the biggest barrier that they have. Will I mess this up? Will this person reject me? Am I gonna lose a friend? Is this gonna be worth it? That's the kinds of things that are in our hearts and in our minds. I call that stuff chatter. Inside your head. That's our greatest barrier. Would you give me a chance this morning to convince you that these are all actually forms of pride? Pride to be repented of and to be replaced by a felt sense of deep acceptance and security in Christ by faith. In the place of pride, by faith and dependence upon indwelling Holy Spirit, you and I, we can both have a quiet humility. Where that chatter is diminishing. And so that we feel free out of that humility just to proclaim the gospel to people where you live and work and play. Now to get there, we have to start where the Corinthians found themselves, which was mired in pride. In particular, we need to look at what God wanted to say through Paul to them that applies to us as well. And so let's first Recognize that pride is your problem and my problem. I lumped myself in clearly So recognize that pride is your problem. Let's look at verse 21. So this is a book-ended passage, the common way of ancient writing of saying, you know, here's the section of content because there's no paragraphs or verse numbers and originally what's written in Greek. So you have to do it linguistically. All right. So this is book ended by pride. So verse 21, so let no one boast in men. Go down to chapter 4 and verses 6 and 7. I've applied these things to myself and Apollos for your benefit, brothers, that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written. It's an act of pride to go beyond what is written. That none of you may be puffed up, right? That's the most apparent form of pride, right? Of someone who puffs themselves up, makes themselves bigger in comparison to other people. Puffed up in favor of one against another, pride always has a comparative element to it. For who sees anything different in you? Pride is me working, me getting it done. Who sees anything in you, anything different in you? What do you have that you did not receive? Um Nothing. You cohere, we thought about this, you cohere in Christ, Colossians tells you. The world's upheld, including you, by the word of Christ's power. All that you have, even your coherence as an ongoing human being, is a gift. What do you have that you didn't receive? If then you received it, uh why do you boast? As though you created it. Why do you boast as if you did not receive it? So, pride, boasting. Why do we boast? Why do we boast? Many times it is to prop ourselves up against our doubts. Our doubts about ourself. As we boast many times, what we're also trying to do is lower, we're trying to raise ourselves up and we're trying to lower other people. We do this through critique. We'll think about this in a couple of months. Uh when I when I'm back here in November, we'll think about the nature of critique because I think it's um well, I think it's dangerous. So that's why we'll talk about it. But what what's going on in posting? We're propping ourselves up against our doubts about ourselves, and in the process we're we're pushing others down so that we remain above them in some kind of pecking order. That's why they're saying, well, well, I'm I'm of Apollos. Well, I'm of Paul. That's what they're doing. They're establishing some kind of pecking order and making me up higher in it and making you lower in it. We do this in all kinds of ways. Or rather adept at it. So this is why the Corinthians aligned with particular teachers. They hitch their wagon to, in their case, the teacher, we tend to do it to a trend. To an influencer, to a fad, to a fashion. We attach ourselves to all kinds of things, somehow trying to gain a stable sense of self. But it doesn't work. Why am I not wearing a leisure suit today? Exactly right. We attach ourselves to something in a desire to try and get a sense of self, but it's not stable If it's stable, you don't have to boast. See, boasting tells you you feel insecure about it, and so you've got to boast in order to try and keep it stable. Make that chatter in your heart. Go away. We boast because we're proud of ourselves. We believe, or at least we want to believe, I did it. Shoot, we have whole songs in our culture. What is Frank Sinobsa, one of Frank Sinobra's most famous songs? If you younger people don't know it, you need to listen to this song. There's just newer ways of doing it. I just don't know what they are. But Frank said, I did it. He did it my way. Listen to that song. Besides it being a good song, it is the embodiment of American self-sufficiency Which is our most frequently imbibed drug That side of the pride coin is superiority. But that coin has another side. Why do we hesitate to speak the gospel sometimes? Well, we believe that I'll fail in some way. That's the inferiority side of the pride coin. It's a fear that my sense of self, my pride is going to be wounded and perhaps it won't be recoverable. And that's why we perform that calculation. Is this worth it? Because if this goes bad or goes the way that I don't want it to or doesn't have that desired goal that I have, is this worth it? Can I survive this? Now, note in this that we are thinking about who Me. We're thinking about ourselves in all this. We're not thinking about the person who's presently apart from Christ. We're thinking about self-love, not love of neighbor. And in our pride, we commonly decide that self-protective self-love is more wise than the risks of neighbor love. Let's just be honest. That's what's going on. But are we at risk Really at risk. God says in this text that you're not In fact, in Christ you are never really at risk If you get that, if you can not only recognize that pride is your problem, but be willing to repent of that, instead there's a solution that helps you realize I am not ever actually at risk. And this is why you and I need to embrace adoption, our adoption, your adoption, you need to embrace it as the solution to the problem, to your problem, to your pride problem. The path that Holy Spirit has the Apostle Paul trod in this text is fascinating to me. I've spent a lot of time Pondering this text. This is why we're returning to it for at least the third time from a different perspective. What can we turn from pride to? Right. So you can say, you've heard me say, you know, that the the the the main aspect, what is it that Christianity is about? It's about living this lifestyle of repentance and faith, of turning from trying to save myself in the moment. That's what sin is, right? I'm trying to save myself in the moment. I turn from that in repentance and I turn instead to Christ and and I receive him anew and I trust in him. I don't trust myself. That's what sin is. That's what we're turning from, is trusting in ourselves and trusting in Christ. So what can we turn to from pride? What can we grab a hold of? We're trying to hold on to some stable sense of self. We're trying to protect ourselves with With the self-love, what can we turn to from that? We can turn to a recognition of our unshakable standing in the Father's family because of Christ. We can turn to our unshakable standing in the Father's family because of Christ. Look at the first half of verse 21, chapter 3. So let no one boast in men. Okay, so that's what we're not supposed to do. We're supposed to repent of that. Well, what are we what are we journey to? Look at the second half of the verse. For all things are yours. Now, the way that we typically interpret this or live it out or functionally the way that it works in our hearts is, well, you know, I got a few things. But there's a lot of stuff that I gotta protect. And so I've only got a few things in Christ. And so really I'm the sort of I'm the protector of everything else, including my sense of self. But that's not what this says. It doesn't say, you know, you got some things. You got a few things. You got some small things. The rest's up to you. No, it's what does it say? It says, how many things? Oh come on, you couldn't have fallen asleep already. How many things? You can say it louder than that. Thank you. All things. How could that be? Uh my kids um I try and convince them that they're they grew up in a rich family. And um they're like dad, we grew up in a pastor's family, you know. we look at TikTok and Instagram and we know what rich is. And I'm like, no, you grew up in a rich family. And it is interesting as they've gone out in the world and they've met lots of people that are like We grew up in a rich family as they've met a lot more people. Do they have all the things that my kids have all of the things that they possibly could have had? No. They didn't. They didn't they didn't have all things. Sometimes we think about that, we're just kind of like well, you know, if I had all things then And we fill in the blank with something This isn't saying that you're gonna, you know, get a mansion and be able to retire early or have the best car that you want. That's not what this is trying to talk about. This is trying to say that for your internal life, for what that talk can be when you talk to yourself. You know you're you're your most important coach. You know who you listen to the most? You? All of us do. For good or for ill. That's who we listen to. And what God's trying to convince you here of is that that self-protection of your sense of self is unneeded. Because that which you are seeking, you already have in Christ. Because all things are yours. Let's walk this out. How is that the case? That's whether it's Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death or the present or the future. All of it that you want in your heart of hearts. As it will relate to your sense of self, they're all yours already. You have it. You possess it. It is your grant. It is your family inheritance. Why? Because this is precious friends. You are Christ's. And Christ is God's You're in the family. The verdict's in. The judges said, adopted. All the security and stability that you have sought elsewhere is already yours in Christ, if you're willing to own it to be true. All that you've sought is yours. This is why go on in the passage. This is why Paul could just say, you know, we're just servants, we're stewards. of gospel mysteries. These scriptural truths now revealed in Christ, they put an end what to having to think about judgment. We thought about this earlier in the year. Judgment from God, judgment from ourselves, judgment from others. We can be free of all of that, right? Because the verdict's in, the judgment's been made. Paul, keep going in the passage, verse 3, that I should be judged by you. See, that's where we're trying to go. We'll come back and we'll think about that. But it's a very small thing. That I should be judged by you, or really by any human court. This is justification language, is what Paul's trying to talk about. I don't even judge myself. Why? Paul was okay having the Lord judge him because he knew he had an advocate in Jesus. He knew that as he comes before the Father, we sang about it beautifully, it's the righteousness of Jesus that is in view. Not always done or not done, but the righteousness of Jesus. That's in view. This is the basic form of Christianity. So one question at least for those who listen to this or on the live stream or later in a recording is is that your understanding? Is that what you own for yourself? That your hope you've stopped hoping that somehow God would accept you by what you've done or not done And because that's the that's the movement of of unbelief. I don't need Jesus. I got this on my own And repentance says, I've given up that self-salvation project. And instead I'm trusting in Christ. Is that the movement of your heart? Because that's got to be core. That's the beginning. So you have Jesus as your advocate If you do, you don't have to seek around for the approval of other people. Because you you've already been received by the Father. The most important person has already received you That's why Paul got on to verse 5. Paul could wait for commendation for later. Doesn't have to come now. See, pride is always looking for commendation now. Yeah, Matt, that was a really good sermon. Or someone comes and they critique the sermon. And many times my experience has been that that is the pride of the person. Trying to put me down and lift them up. If you need commendation now, that is telling you that there's something I miss in your heart. That you're not yet grabbing onto, the Father's received me into his family, and that is unshakable because of Jesus. And so we don't need the combination now from ourselves or from men. Right? And so you go under verse 6 and 7. So we're thinking about trying to repent from pride and instead receive our adoption, enjoy it, get inside of it and love it. Pride is me trying to make my way in the world as I seek this stable sense of self, seeking the commendation of myself and other people. But when it comes to proclaiming the gospel, wow, that puts it all at risk. Or so we think. And that's why we hesitate. That's why we hesitate. And so embracing our adoption on a daily basis pushes us back to the reality that in Christ, all that I might seek I already have. And so I don't have to seek my stable sense of self out of how this interaction about the gospel goes. It's actually not attached to my sense of self any longer. They're distinct. Because my sense of self is based on Christ and what He's done in my reception into the family of God. And so that sense of self, I'm received. I'm a child of God That's fixed. It's unchanging. This interaction can't change that. And so it frees me to actually have the interaction about the gospel. That which I might seek, I already have. And my encouragement is grab a hold of that. Ask God to make it near and dear to your hearts. That you might own it deeply, that you might apply it to yourself moment by moment. Because if you live in light of that truth, Then you and I both, we can feel free to proclaim. I typed this wrong. Oh, look, thank you for fixing it. It's very kind of you. I typed it wrong in the bulletin, so that's me. Let's go back to verse 3 of chapter 4. But with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you. Or really by any human corp, by anybody. In fact, I don't even judge myself. Um some of you know if you've heard me on this passage that um Tim Calwar and his little um His sermon, the booklets out of the welcome desk if you haven't gotten one before. It's called The Freedom of Self-Forgetfulness. But at this point, Keller says, when he gets to this verse, he says that Paul's going off the map into territory that we wish we could find. That we wish we could say in our heart of hearts, it's a really small thing that I'd be judged by you. We wish that to be true. But it was true for Paul. That he wasn't, he didn't receive the judgment of other people, and he did not judge himself because Christ had already been judged in his place. That's the path that he shows us. So one way that Keller puts this that I happen to really like I have a very low opinion of your opinion of me. I also have a very low opinion of my opinion of me. Because the one whose opinion matters says, mine, you're in my family. You are my child. That will not change. That is why I gave up my son for you. That is my opinion of you. My adopted child. When that is increasing in your heart Then you're stopping playing the game. The chatter is diminishing. Imagine if you could say this honestly in your own heart. I'm not thinking about what you think of me. And I'm not thinking of what I think of me. I'm just thinking about myself less. My self-consciousness is decreasing. And thus, the title of Keller's booklet, The Freedom of Self-Forgetfulness. When that's my mojo, when that's my internal dynamic, what does that free me to do? Well, if I'm not thinking about me, Then I'm free to serve you. I'm free to actually love my neighbor. Because I don't feel the need to self-love. That's when I'm looking to other people. And that's the heart of someone who's finally free to proclaim. Don't you want that for yourself? Wouldn't that bless your neighbors if you were like that? So, friends, in light of the father's heart To welcome you to his family for the sake of his perfect son. Won't you ask Holy Spirit to help you experience this freedom? So that you would freely, out of love for God and love for neighbor, that you would indeed proclaim the gospel to those around you. Let's pray that God would do that in us and through us. Father, we're so used to doing all this. As my young niece used to say, by self. We're so used to being self-protective and independent and making our own way in the world independent of you. That this could feel so distant and impossible to us. Would you work in us, Holy Spirit? A desire for something different for ourselves. Would you convince us that indeed in Christ we are loved and received and accepted? And for that reason, we don't have to protect ourselves. Free us up that we must proclaim the gospel to our neighbors. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen