That um if you look at it, it's kind of like we're we're going to all four sides of the cross and we're looking at implications of what happened there. Okay, so the cross is the way that it is that God can be gracious to us, and we're kind of trying to figure out what are some of those implications of God being gracious to us. of him accepting us solely for the sake of Christ's righteousness imputed to us. So we're going to spend actually two sermons in this text. So we'll be in here again in two weeks, but uh let me read from Second Corinthians chapter three, starting at verse twenty-one, and I'm going to read down to chapter four and verse seven. Let's hear God's word. So let no one boast in men, for all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or the world or life or death. Or the present or the future, all are yours. And you are Christ's. And Christ is God's. This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found faithful. But with me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by any human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself. For I am not aware of anything against myself, but I am not thereby acquitted. It is the Lord who judges me Therefore, do not pronounce judgment before the time before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and will disclose the purposes of the heart. Then each one will receive his commendation from God. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, you worked in such a way in the Apostle Paul. That he stopped judging himself. Which feels amazing to us because we can't seem to find even the beginning of that Much less the end of it. So would you, Holy Spirit, who gave us this word, who worked in Paul, who changed him? Would you change us? Would you help us to understand this glorious gospel in the same way that you enabled Paul to? That we could we could stop judging ourselves. Help us too, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. So last time we were together, we were in Romans 8, and that we were looking at the fact that because we're under God's grace, God isn't judging us any longer. We're no longer under his condemning wrath, but instead we receive grace from him as we've begun that lifestyle of repentance and faith as his children. This week, we're going to apply what we've been learning about God's grace and his graciousness to our relationship with ourselves. So the way that we think about ourselves and talk to ourselves and relate to ourselves, why would we do that? Um I am not the most influential preacher in your life. Neither's anybody else that stands behind this pulpit or that you listen to in podcasts or anybody else. None of those people are the most influential preacher in your life. Do you know who the most influential preacher is in your life? You You are. The question is, what are you saying to yourself? That's what we're thinking about today Your self-speech is the most important, actually. So here's the bottom line. I'll give it to you first, and then we'll work around it, and hopefully it'll come together, Lord willing. If God isn't judging you, then you can move towards, move towards, not judging you either. That is, you can move towards adopting an entire new form of self-regard. When I teach this, I'm very conscious of the fact that this doesn't seem to barely ever happen in people's lives. I even have to think about this for myself. Why? Why do we end up stuck instead of free? Many times we find ourselves, here's why, many times we find ourselves internally In the midst of the same issue that was plaguing the Corinthians. So in this passage, 1 Corinthians, what's the problem that's going on? Well, you get it in the beginning of verse, um, in chapter 3 in verse 21. Uh boasting. Let's let's stop with the boasting. Right? And as you go on, you go all the way down. I didn't read all the way through seven, but but what's the what's the problem? It's it's boasting. It's comparing. Sometimes that that comparing comes in a couple of different forms as we navigate it inside of ourselves. Sometimes we we do the comparison game. With our own standard or with other people and we kind of we kind of get to the end of the comparison and we go, yeah, pretty good after all, aren't I? I get it. Other people don't, but I get it. I actually am awesome. This is great. No, we're not that honest. I'm helping you get more honest with yourself, right? Yeah, that's yeah, I I get it. I'm I am awesome. And other times We're on the other side of that equation, right? And we're on the inferiority side of that equation. And it's kind of like, oh, I'm never going to get it. I'm never really going to be received and loved by other people, respected, admired, enjoyed. I'll never get it. I'll never perform to get the acceptance I want. Not even for myself. Now, friends, um this is a death trap. Because we weren't made for that. That's not the kind of that's not the way humans were made to regard themselves. It's not meant to work like that, which is why it doesn't work. Wait, briefly, sometimes, if you're on the positive side of the equation, briefly But typically, well, if you're at all like me and you're on that side of the equation, the rest of the people around you perceive you as a jerk because you are, because I am So even when you're on the positive side of the equation and it's blessing you blessing you is cursing everyone around you because you're a jerk. It's a death trap Which is why it's elusive and fleeting and mostly crushing to regard ourselves this way Which is why we're held out hope here that it could be different, that it could be better, that it could be life-giving instead of crushing What Paul is pointing us, what Holy Spirit is actually pointing us here through Paul, is that what is it what is the What is the actual posture that humans are supposed to have? It's humility, it's gospel humility. The essence of comparing is pride Which, if you've been listening, is deaf. And the essence of freedom is an appropriate gospel humility I shouldn't mention here before I forget to that you will notice some of the themes that I'm going to preach on this morning are completely, 100% fully ripped off. from Keller's little pamphlet, The Freedom of Self-Forgetfulness, which, if you don't have one, there are free ones on the welcome desk and you should grab one. And I'm I've been so shaped by that thinking, you're going to hear that inevitably. So let me do this. I'm going to very quickly give you the texture of this passage, maybe another time, maybe in the fall. I'll do this passage more fully because it's worth doing more fully. But this morning I really only want to spend time On the very end of verse 3, I do not even judge myself. But I want to give you the sense of the text so that you've got some idea why where that fits in. So let me just, I'm going to very quickly go through these verses, and then we're going to click on that particular phrase. and dig into a little bit. So look at me at verse 21, chapter 3 and verse 21. So let no one boast in men. This tells you what the problem is. Remember the problem in Corinth? Right? Some people have been affected by Paul's ministry, some people have been affected by PD's ministry, some people have been affected by Matt's ministry. Oops, sorry. And so you kinda had like the the Randy crowd and you had the PD crowd and you had the Matt Rowe. And um and so you you you you had a church that was divided based on their allegiance to people and personalities. And that they thought that their allegiance to a particular person, well that meant something. I'm of And you fill in the blank. We do this all the time, of course, right? Not just with people, but with political parties or positions or persuasions, convictions. I'm of And you're still in the blank, and the thing that you filled the blank in with is the place that you think you can find an identity. The Corinthians, they were like, I'm of a particular teacher that went through, and I became his disciple. But Paul comes along and he says, that's all broken. It's going to curse you. So let no one boast in men. Well, okay, that's what we all do, so how do we how do we not do that? All things are yours. Another time we will come back and talk about the depth and wonder of that. You don't need to do that because you already have everything. Whether you're a disciple of Paul or Apollos or Cephas, or whether you're looking at now or life or death to the present, the future, you you what you were already what you were seeking by being affiliated with something, by with someone You already have, because, verse 23, you're Christ's. We'll come back to that very dense, pregnant, helpful thought. And Christ, of course, is God's. He belongs to his Father. This changes the way that we should regard ourselves. Right, we don't regard ourselves as Matt of, my seminar mentor was Dave E. Be. I'm not Matt of Dave E. Be, though I have great admiration for the man, and he taught me a lot. He tried to teach me more things than I was willing to pay attention to, but he tried to teach me a lot, and I learned a lot. I could have learned more. But not you shouldn't I shouldn't regard myself as Matt of Dave EB. But this is how one should regard us, Paul says. Two labels, servants of Christ, stewards of the mysteries of God. Well what are stewards supposed to be like? They're supposed to be faithful. And then he goes on And he tries to talk to them a little bit about in verse three, how does he he says, This is how you should regard yourselves, this is how you should regard us, servants of Christ, stewards of the mysteries of God, stewards they're gonna be faithful. But then as Paul talks about, as he begins to help them think through, well, how does Paul think about his relationship to the Corinthians? And he says something marvelous here that we will dig into a different time. But he says, but with me It is a very small thing that I should be judged by you. I think that probably the vast majority of us wish we could say that. That it's a very small thing. What you think about me. The gospel holds up the promise that that can be true for us. And not just you, Corinthians, but I should be judged by any human court. And then in the end of verse 3, he says this marvelous thing: in fact, I do not even judge. Myself. I do not even judge myself. So for our purposes today, I'm going to stop there. Again, Lord willing, we'll come back. And we'll look at some of the more of this another time. But I'm going to focus on that last phrase, chapter 4 and verse 3. I do not even judge. myself. I want to treat it like it's a hyperlink on a web page, like where you click on it and it opens up another world on the other side of the click. Okay, so I'm going to click on that And I want to see what's what's on the other side of that world in Paul's way of thinking. And we can know what it is. We can kind of know Paul's inner psychology from the rest of his So we're going to do this under three headings, of course, press training sermon, so it's three sermon three points, right? Um so we're gonna think about first what it doesn't mean. I don't even judge myself, what does it not mean? What is it doesn't it doesn't mean. Paul doesn't mean that self-evaluation is off the table. He doesn't mean that self-evaluation is off the table. What he means to talk about is what you do with that self-evaluation. You'll see that in due time. How do we know that Paul that Paul doesn't mean there's no more self-evaluation? Well, he does self-evaluation. And he felt in fact he tells you what his self-evaluation is. Remember first Timothy chapter 1 and verse 15, Paul writing to someone that he's apprenticing to Jesus, apprenticing as a minister, Paul says this. The saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners of whom I was the foremost. Is that what it says for those of you who know that verse? Not I was the foremost. I am He still considered himself the foremost of sinners. One teacher has updated this for us. Modern people, he says, I'm the worst sinner I know. Can you say that about yourself? Because in in reality, right, if you should know yourself the best, or at least you should know yourself the best. I'm the worst sinner I know. Me, Matt Bowling. I am the worst sinner I know. Because I know myself best. This is the kind of thing Paul's saying. Paul had an acute grasp of his current sinfulness and sinning. And of course, this is critical that you do because it's the only way to live a lifestyle of repentance and faith. Why would you confess? If you didn't have things to confess. If you weren't doing self-evaluation, if you weren't asking, Holy Spirit, Holy Spirit, show me my sin. Show me my need for repentance. Show me where I've messed up. I sent before I went to bed last night, I I Ask a brother for forgiveness. Send an email asking for forgiveness. Because the spirit got bringing you back to me. You did not do that right. You did that wrong. And you need to go tell that guy. You did it wrong. So I did. I sent an email last night asking for forgiveness. This is the only way to live a lifestyle of repentance and faith is to keep asking the Holy Spirit to show you That lifestyle requires that I'm daily asking the Holy Spirit too. So think Psalm 19, right? Show me my hidden faults. It's also why we need each other. Because many times the people around you see your hidden faults that are blind to you, and if they're kind and they love you, they can gently tell you if you're open to hearing it. It's part of why we need each other. So Psalm 19, show me my hidden faults, keep me from presumptuous sins, keep me back from ones I want to do, though I know I shouldn't. That requires a life of self-evaluation. Early on in my Christian discipleship, I ran into Jerry Bridges, the his very ear much of his writing is extraordinarily good. In fact, I don't think I've read something that I didn't think was quite good. His early writing pushed me to think about growth and sanctification as it would relate to the fruit of the Spirit. And growing and bearing the fruit of the Spirit. What God gives us again through Paul is that comparison. Remember in Galatians 5 between the fruits of the flesh and the fruit of the Spirit, right? And certainly we can look at those as though we ought to be avoiding the fruits of the flesh, for sure, because they're obviously destructive to ourselves and to others. And we should be desiring that the fruit of the Spirit would be born increasingly in our lives. One of the ways that God has worked in me over time, related to the fruit of the Spirit, my thinking about it and my Um repenting in my desiring growth and asking the Spirit to grow me in this and to show me why I'm not like the fruit of the Spirit is one of the things that I've learned over time is there's really no middle ground. So it's not just when I bear the fruits of the flesh that there's a problem. It's when I also don't bear the fruit of the spirit. Right, so I cannot have fits of anger, but if I'm not loving, I've still sinned. If I'm not gentle, I've still sinned. If I'm not kind, I've still sinned. If I'm impatient, I've still sinned. There's not a middle ground. And our repentance. Ought to happen when we fail to bear fruit of the Spirit. That passage is there. I think Paul wrote that down because it was Now this is a little conjecture, but I'm going to just say it because I think it's true. It was his grid for self-evaluation So what this doesn't mean, not judging yourself, is that you don't do self-evaluation. We must, with Paul, do self-evaluation. We must ask the Spirit to show us. Where we have sinned. But we can't do merely self-evaluation. This is where it gets into a problem. Merely self-evaluation leads to depression. Maybe you've heard this before, but the the Heidelberg catechism that I'm going to quote a little bit later, it's one of the doctrinal um Well, catechism is a set of questions and answers. They were developed in the Reformation era to teach the basics of the faith to God's people. The Maidelberg catechism is one that was written in Germany. And the basic structure of the Heidelberg catechism goes like this. It goes, guilt. And then it talks it talks about our guilt, it talks about God's grace, and it talks about the gratitude that we ought to give to God and the goodness that we should live out because of the grace that we've received from God in light of our guilt. So guilt, grace, gratitude, goodness. If we only stay with self-evaluation, we're stuck at guilt. And that's a bad place to be stuck. We can't nearly to self-evaluation. Paul didn't wallow in self-evaluation. Okay, so what it doesn't mean? I d it's I do not even judge myself, it doesn't mean we don't do self-evaluation. What does it mean then? Second Here's um, and this is a almost a direct Keller quote, so I'll say it is. Uh here's the sense from Keller. My sins, my mistakes, my errors, my faults. They're not my identity. Jesus is. My sins, my mistakes, my errors, my faults, they are not my identity. Jesus is. My sinfulness, my sins, they're real. They need to be repented of, but they're not identified with me. They don't stick to me. They're not who I am. Because Jesus was identified with them at the cross. He was identified with them, so I don't have to be. What's Paul trying to teach us here? He says a little bit further down in verse 4, he says, it's the Lord who judges me. And I think some of us, if we don't understand the gospel, we can look at that and we're like, ooh, no. Mm-hmm, mm-mm. I don't want to get inside of that. But actually you do. You do want to get inside of it. In fact, you want to grab right a hold of that. Because as you're holding Jesus with your other arm, you're holding on to Jesus. Remember what we thought up a couple weeks ago. When the Lord comes along and judges you, he's already judged his son in your place. And so Paul looks at this and goes, hey, this is good. Because when the verdict comes in, you know what it's going to say? Righteous. Justified. As you're trusting in Christ, you're turning from sin, as you're holding on to Jesus as your only hope, what's the verdict? Righteous. Justified. Mine. You're mine. That's the verdict. And so Paul goes, this is not a big deal for the Lord to judge me. In fact, I want him to as I'm clinging to Christ. Because I'm his. Paul rests in God's judgment against Christ and doesn't judge himself. Paul rests in God's judgment against Christ and doesn't judge himself. Now sometimes when I teach this, I'll hear people say, well, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I mean that's that's Paul. That's not me. Sure, easy for Paul. Not so easy for me. Preacher, you don't you don't know what's going on in my life. You're right. I have no idea what's going on in your life. But I do know what's going on in Paul's life. And I guarantee you that it was not easy. Let me explain. Think for a moment about the life of Paul. Prior to coming to Christ, what does Paul do? He approves Stephen's execution. He persecuted Christ. That's what Jesus says to him on the road to Damascus. You persecuted me. Talk about regress? Talk about sins that you did that drag you down even after Paul's converted. You get further on in the book of Acts. How about that really sad split with Barnabas? I think for me that relational breaches are the hardest, and I tend to judge myself incessantly for them. Think about how Paul had been sinned against Think of all the injustice, the physical pain, the insults, the relational rupture that was done against Paul. No, friends, there's there's no room here for thinking. Sure, easy for Paul, not so easy for me There's no room for that. Paul's trying to kindly show us a path that he had learned to walk on himself. And he kindly calls us to it as a place of freedom. What enabled Paul to know his sin, but not judge himself To he had to have had many regrets, many regrets, but not have them disable them. They didn't disable him. How could Paul have been sinned against innumerable times in the most horrible ways? But commit them to God and keep serving. How is that possible that somebody could do that? Well, I think it was Paul's gospel logic. His gospel self-speak, what he said to himself, what he preached to himself. What I call his inner psychology. Where do we learn about that? Think about Philippians chapter 3 and verses 12 to 14. Here's what Paul says there. Not that I've already obtained this, the resurrection, or am already perfect, another admission of ongoing need for Christ in repentance and faith. But I press on to make it the resurrection my own. Why? Because Christ Jesus had made me his own Brothers, I do not consider that I've made it my own. But one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. You read these words. They are not the words of someone who's blind to his own sin, not blind to having been sinned against. These are words of someone who could very well judge himself. I, as I have faced regret, which I For me. Some people don't struggle with regret. Bless you. I wish I had the kind of heart that you do. But I do. I struggle with perfectionism. I I hate relational breakdown. And I struggle with regret. Paul very well could have judged himself. I can't imagine what the regret must have been like To have sat there proving of Stephen's execution. And then later coming to own the Savior that Stephen even gave his allegiance, gave his life to, quite literally. I can't even imagine what that regret must have been like. And yet it didn't disable him. He could have judged himself, but he chooses not to. How Because of one thing. Just one thing. And he tells us how this is possible, not just for him, but for us. And then third, how is it possible? So embedded in Philippians 3. 12 is how it's possible for Paul to not judge himself, to keep going in the face of his own sinfulness and sin, and of being horribly sinned against and having incredible regrets than he must have had. For Paul, the key thing in being able to forget what is behind, to not be plagued by whatever horrible history is back there in your life and mine. For Paul, the key thing to forget what's behind it and move ahead is a slavish focus on the fact that Christ Jesus has made us his own individually. What we're thinking about here, of course, is God's wonderful act of adopting us into his family. If you want to read more about that, you can look at that in Romans 8. It's a little earlier than what we looked at a little bit a couple of weeks ago, Romans 8, 15 to 17. You can look in Galatians 4, 4 to 7. You can look in Ephesians 1, 3 to 6. These passages are worthy of your meditation, and you can ping me because I rip those off pretty quick. But what Paul got was that he was adopted into God's family. That's what he got. And this is what God's trying to give to us. Paul here is telling us, here's how I live out my faith. Here's what it's like for me. And he's doing it as a kind of a master discipler, as an apprentice maker. He's doing it as one of those leaders that Hebrews 13, 7 talks about, that we look up the outcome of their way of life, and then we go imitate their faith. For Paul, I think it was a matter of taking himself by the spiritual lapels and saying to himself, which is bigger and more important and more helpful? A focus on the past that's disabling as I judge myself. It's disabling as you judge others. We'll think about that in a couple of weeks. But for today, what's more helpful? A focus on the past is disabling as I judge myself ad nauseum? Or is it more helpful that I think about God by his free grace through Christ alone for his glory and my joy wanted me in this family? Which is more helpful. And Paul says I know what's more helpful. That's why I don't judge myself anymore. I mentioned the Hyderabad Catechism earlier. There's a beautiful question and answer on this topic. Then I'm going to read for you. The question is, this is number 60 from the Hunter Catechism. The question is, how are you right with God? And here's the answer. Only by true faith in Jesus Christ. Even though my conscience accuses me of having grievously sinned, this is believers, learning the basics of the faith. Only, how are you right with God? Only by true faith in Jesus Christ. Even though my conscience accuses me of having grievously sinned against all God's commandments and of never having kept any of them. And even though I am still inclined toward all evil. Nevertheless, without my deserving it at all, out of sheer grace, God grants and credits to me the perfect satisfaction, righteousness, and holiness of Christ, as if I had never sinned. nor been a sinner, as if I had been as perfectly obedient as Christ was obedient for me. The catechism writers are really just trying to capture what Paul's talking about. What it means that God's gracious and how that changes the way not only that I think about him, that he's not judging me anymore. But that I also have the opportunity that I don't have to judge me anymore either, since God has it. This is the key for Paul. He chose what he paid attention to. Now some of you will pick up there that I'm pulling a phrase from our author Kurt Thompson. We thought about that phrase last year when we thought about shame sum. And what Kurt Thompson encourages us to do is to pay attention to what we pay attention to. Maybe you know or maybe you don't know, but you'll know after I say it What you pay attention to helps form neural circuits. What you pay attention to helps form neural circuits. If you choose to preach the gospel of free grace to yourself every day, of which one benefit is this adoption, if you do that, you preach the gospel to yourself day by day. Your brain will more easily think of the gospel than the sin or mistake or regret or the being sinned against. That seems stuck to you, and you can't dislodge it. You dislodge it by thinking about the gospel, thinking about Christ and what he's done for you, and that the Father's adopted you into his family. you think about that more because it's bigger and it's more true and it's more wonderful than your regret. Than my regret regrets. This is not a switch. We Americans, efficiency, very important to us. We prefer that you sort of just walk into my soul. Oh, great! I will just switch that on. Hmm? And it's all different. Nope. It's a path. It's a path. Maybe it's a path that you hadn't even considered or even knew was there. And all I've done today is I've said there's a path. That you can walk in this. This is the shape of your daily repentance and faith. That you renew yourself by preaching the gospel to yourself each day and in this particular way that you you can stop judging yourself. Because God has stopped judging you because of Christ. But it's a path, it's a daily walk. Now, if you were on that path, wouldn't that be better? Wouldn't it be more wonderful to feel the freedom to not judge yourself? Let's pray. Father, uh, in ourselves. Apart from Christ, we are most certainly judgment worthy. So, in one sense, our instincts are right. We're worthy of judgment. Of your condemnation, of the condemnation of others, of the judgment of ourselves towards ourselves, we are actually worthy of all of that if Christ wasn't in the picture. But he is. So help us to realize the depth and wonder and goodness that comes because of Jesus. As we depend on him by faith, turning from our sins, giving over the Lordship of our lives to you. Would you, Holy Spirit, work in us a true sense that we are not being judged by God? And so that we would take the freedom we have to not judge ourselves. Work in us, we pray, Holy Spirit, and we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.