Here's a quote from a recent magazine article. The devil's strategy for our time is to trivialize human existence and to isolate it from one another while creating the delusion that the reasons are time-clashing work demand an economic environment. Here's our thoughts. Swift management together. Food maladies In psychology to work. The totally separate in our disease. It's an article by psychologist Philip Gambardo, analyzing human relationships in our society. He calls the article the aims of indifference. The data in this article is aligned by the superficiality of relationships to them. talked about a friend of his a health and TV director. He's uh always working out after five weeks with whatever uh woman he is uh seeking to develop a relationship with because after five days he's going to offer And by that point he has to begin to explain something of himself and he's not able to do that. And so when he has to be genuine and begin to open himself up, he just De model talked about this is possibly one of the reasons why we have lost our concept of finger voting, where there's no longer a fallacy briefing to the phone and in that uh cold sweats and nervous panics and voting to hear the bright one and and the evil accept and to reject the proposal of a ghost starting office. Nobody knows that it is now supposed to put the gang on that to be so and it's sort of um want to come along We find no big deal if you do, no matter if you don't. And we mostly just restrict it to a kind of a high, how are you, how to go kind of level. He talks about the loneliness that provides our time. Well we've rejected uh and replaced people replaced the airline. I remember with Clark Summit, talking with Bob Marker of Nuclear in Taiwan. God project one of the things that make Stop and one of the greatest uh statics of Persian stuff in his last year and zeals have been the different Zivitsky The power needs uh orient their lives around people rather than things. Well hopefully also written and talked about which is extended uh relationship. people over there in Taiwan has bad good class. I could go with spikes um contracted new class and having even having two babies over to be able to The Taiwanese have babies around them all the time. Babies are always good. Because in America the typical smile, you saw a baby in the kid, they say here. products, uh play with it, learn to love it, learn to see that as the thing that you develop a relationship with. And that we replace uh from the very earliest times people with things that we develop our affections with And while they talked about how people had become a very low biologist here when I suppose he talked about the general inability to even live long-term commitments to people Realize in the next ten years, one out of every three people under the age of eighteen will have parents who have been divorced at least once. One out of every three That means as you say, that people growing up in that kind of a culture lose a lot lose a trust for relationships in general. There's a good trust of the possibilities of long-term human relations. We live in a culture of sidewalk, a culture of indifference if you thought, a lot of comparisons. The postuality was not very unlike the popular first century Roman Empire. Remember in those days, we would go to the uh Colapsion in order to keep Latin and tear each other apart. And a there was a parent indifference in human life to characterize our parents. But it was in that contrast, not very much unlike our own contrast in the way that We are heading at the circle, but then we will tell us these things, we will tell you what's only doing in the studio of Jerusalem, God with an amazing place. For at that time and in that place 120 people were cast, and the Spirit of God came upon them. And it was at that time that Peter preached the first evangelist of coming after the resurrection. of Jesus Christ. He finished that message, the 44th, and Acts chapter 3, verse 36, by these words, therefore let all evil be afraid of this. That God has made this Jesus whom you crucified both more than Christ. That's why I will do it to use the scripture for this morning, but it's twice today. We told it an RQ is 27 to 77. RP is 37 to 77 When the people heard this, they were cut to the heart, and they said to Peter and the other apostles, what do we do? If you require, repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, so that your sins may be forgiven. And you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit harmonically for you and your children. And for all who are far off, for all whom the Lord our God has passed. And with many other words he warned us, he pleaded with us, saved with her, and they corrupt their generations, those who accepted his message were baptized, and about 3,000 were added to their members that they devoted themselves to the apostle Peter, to the fellowship, into the breaking of the road, and to the Everyone was filled with awe, and living wonders and miraculous kinds were done by the side. And all the believers were together and had everything They broke bread in their hands and ate together with glad and sincere hearts, praising God and enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their members, saying to the being present. Follow the identity, the subject of the identity of the ch of the fellowship of the whole field. I wanted to deal with four points in contrast to the of their time, reminding ourselves that it's not dislike the culture of our own time. You see the four points there, concerning fellowship, all four screens have you looked in the First of all, the commitment to fellowship, secondly the contents of fellowship, thirdly the character of fellowship, and fourthly the consequences of fellowship You can follow along particularly playing in your diverse as I do this. I can't if you do that as a regular activities and if I'm readings and if I go to point sometimes rather horrible, sometimes sometimes maybe even too horrible. And that you don't get the Sala in the Bible. It's important that you see that the points that I'm getting here this morning come out of these verses. And if you can follow along and see how I'm developing this from the scriptures, not thinking of some sort of a pattern that I can structure. First of all notice the commitment to fellowship that we see here. The commitment to fellowship or if we talk about Notice there in verse forty-two. They devoted themselves, the pastor people, unto fellowship. Verse forty-six, every day they continued to meet together and temple for in their home. The word there is colours deverted themselves is the same way there and those homeships continued as used their homes It's that same word that we talked about last January when the scene had to fifth in place. times we came from the Secret Art we pointed out how in chapter 10 verse 7 that word used to describe as Holden's attendance upon his castle. And it is that continual devotedness. It's it's that Taiwan's followed around the paper. You need to persist, as you see there on the bulletin, it's a persistent devotedness, a commitment beyond fear It seems very easy to start fellowships. Very easy. We talk about what's great flexibility. And you can start fellowship weeks left and right. Inevitably, however, they seem to just fall off. Uh the attendance will go down and uh good seems to lack a sense of purpose. We just begun meeting for meeting place, the meeting is boring now. eat my knees, or often here there'll be tosses. Now there'll be fruitful in the group. And if this not wants to happen, it could be the cloud basis. somewhere else, lost another group. Go to some other site, something else. And this we see this the color of our colours. This is the way that our coaches react to relationships. The data and this article are related to the different. Uh quote this in the reflection on that Thanks. Another song of how ill-related people are. Not one of a dozen students in my wife's college seminar on test rounds could realistically imagine making a long-term commitment to one partner. But it's not very realistic to express it with it. So that's the kind of in situations from we can find ourselves in the house. And so we as Christians find that it's difficult to imagine to imagine ourselves committing ourselves to go to be as these early Christians did to apologize. How is this innovation to students that how you respond in an asking group would be a lot l uh would be greatly reflected you would greatly reflect and determine how you would find the life. If you find in your own fellowship groups that unhappy development, you just wrap out and go near to them, that would be your But only when you commit yourself to fellowship beyond your feelings, what do you feel like continuing to those people? so much. But to learn what family is really all about. It requires a commitment, whether to be purposes, twice that is stated to answer They devoted themselves to fellowship. They continued devotedly to live together. And that is the foundation for fellowship. It's got to be a family. We work at it together. Are you committed to fellowship? So you've got to be 50 people. Are you And the second thing you notice is the context of the telephone. Notice in verse 42, you have a statement of fair as You see, we don't just have fellowship. So having sex. We can do it out of the context of a whole relationship between highlight super circulations themselves. Fellowship to be real fellowship must be interwoven with other activities. There must be the interwoven of the Satan as opportunities. are uh first of all stated in verse forty two and then spelled out in verse forty three to forty seven. You see verse forty two is just a topical sentence And then those four ideas are spelled out and developed in verse forty-three to forty-seven. Now I'm happy to make sense out of the development of this passage. And I notice what they are. First of all, there is the apostle teaching, scriptures. Then there's the statement about fellowship with fellow. Then there is the breaking of rest, worship, and further fellowship, and then forth is faith. First of all, their fellowship must be connected with the apostles' people. The scriptures. In verse 42, they devoted themselves to the apostles. Of Jesus hooked up in verse 43. Everyone was filled with awe, and many wonders and miraculous signs were done by the apostles. The person doing two things. They speak through truth, and they are confirming that by signs and wonders to demonstrate that they speak with absolute authority This particularly would be the pattern of Jesus ministry through sin as he works by his Holy Spirit. And so by doing this, we have process established himself with influence of God, with absolute authority in the His teaching and the disciples submit their minds and their lives to that in the context of fellowship. Now we have that apostle teaching too. We have the same thing. It's been ascriptiated by to us and so we have the apostle people in the Bible. And fellowship is not fellowship unless it is connected with and based on submitting our minds and our lives. to be a part of teachers. That is that our underceptor groups, our fellowship groups, and our faith must be centered on God's Word. They must be centered on scripture You see, it's not enough to simply rub foes together and have good feelings of the phones we call that fellowship. Near Point Anu in the New Testament is based on our submitting ourselves to the scriptures and people can live that out. in our lives together as a community. That's essential to any New Testament science. The second thing that they do is sort of And we're gonna pick that up because that's the measure in point three. Fellowship is mentioned and that's picked up then in verse forty-four and forty-five. We'll come back to that in a minute and play through. The third thing that's mentioned is they devoted themselves to the past of teaching, to fellowship, and to the breaking of the word The breaking of bread refers to two activities. Notice that picks up again in verse 46. Versus saying that they continued the meetings together in the temple court, they broke bread in their hands. But they eat together with glad and peace near hearts. For the breaking of blood referred number one to the Lord's purpose. That's after it was clear if he's spoken to the few people in the other part of the book. You see, they're not talking here about people who are devoting themselves to a path of teaching, to fellowship, to prayer, and then you sort of throw in and then we hear them together. This the whole thing is in the context of fellowship and worship together. That's breaking a bread that's the celebration of the fact that as a community they broke one word And breaking that one word they can check with the fact that they were one body. So that is traded, by the fellowship. But they've also got crazy if you would wait 36 different Not only did they break bread together, which is probably part of that email that they had together. Evidences of the early celebrations of the North Supper or at the beginning or at the end of a community meeting. And so it is linked up here that they also eat together. And you get the idea that they do it all together to the common activities. In fact, you get the idea that they were looking for any kind of speech to get together. You obviously do that in your other country. What makes futures to get together? What makes a job to be together? Somebody gets a uh new job. Look at every kind of. But I get a commercial in his hand, look together in front of it. If you buy us a group, we'll have probably at least one month here. Get together and celebrate that. Have time together and celebrate that. Because we want to be together. They wanted to teach together. They wanted to have that time together. But they loved them. This was what they had for us. They devoted themselves to pray. You see, that hooked up at the beginning of those 46, every day they continued to meet together in the temple court. The reason they were meeting together in the temple court is stated in chapter 3, verse 1 See if we forget the topic of it, he just wasn't part of the original. That's what he goes on from this paragraph. Because in chapter 2 verse 1, we read that one day Peter and John divine up to the temple again at the time of prayer. Christians didn't have to go up at the time of sacrifice anymore, that had been completed in Jesus Christ. But they continued to go to the temple at the time of prayer. But they had here first of all form of prayer means for They continue to use in the temple for prayer. And then at the beginning of verse forty-seven They were changing God. That part you see about part of breaking their eat together in their hands, closing down. They had a balance here, you see, a form of cloud of formal worship and an informal prayer and informal worship. Formal prayer, formal fellowship like we're doing this morning. God is here with one body. In the as the church of Jesus Christ, in order to worship God. The part of that worship is our fellowship together. But then the feeding will leave in our home. And when we and our homes keep together and have informal plan, same thing are with live hearts. But considered also that idea of just one formal getting together. I think it started so often a picture. He's relegated so to the idea of a meter. And it's sad that so often When we get together and we'll talk about something, something the Lord has done, and then they talk about a problem, a complaint about some other drug or Christians. And we've had a good time in the Lord, we've talked about something, and we were And don't just lose. Cause in Korea, case for blow then are count by the number of people. They add six places together. Systems include when they greet each other, the common greeting is hello, brother, let's cross. And again, we're worthy to a place And the Church of South America is one of the faster things And so you think that's hair to be a normal part of our television. What I thought about talk with somebody and then have all that And uh on the phone and we could speak hard and I thought we were putting our favorites. We put a phone together. Well everyone told you in the time that you spend today to be more spontaneous about spending today. So make a big deal about it, you know, instead of feeling like oh well and that's time to go in our life and have time to come. Somebody brings up another subject will be answer five or ten minutes about that. But somehow when we think of care, we think of why it's gonna take a lot of time. Let's be more spontaneous to play for a military thing. Let us interrupt in and out of our fellowship together. Because it's part of the New Testament part of the fellowship. To be devoted to fail. Let's talk with that more time soon. Let's get more tired of our meetings together. And ones and two has been talking each other together. So we spend just a couple minutes talking Don't be the third thing with men too is the character of the telephone. The the character Now I want to come back to that word fellowship and I wonder how to place it in the context of other activities. Focus on it. They devoted themselves to the apartheid speakers and to the fellowship for the greatest church. He was a fellowship, created fellows. It's a separate activity. If you're in a context of anybody, but the word is used in justice. I know what that is. Well, you'd be probably wondering about that because debate that back and forth for a long time except we're not left in that because if you see the the structure of this paragraph you see that that's the word just picked up in verse forty four and forty five. what Luke means here when he talks about televisions. What it means is that all the believers were together and had everything in common. Telling their possessions and this or do it to anyone if you had these. What do we mean by that? See the three things are involved in fellowship. First of all, they were together. Notice in verse 44. All the believers were together. One thing you could say about these pictures is they spent a lot of time together. It just seems like they're pretty good enough with each other. The person who may not do this right, but then it may not purchase they're following their other systems they become credible with intentions and so they have no time for existence. And suspicious is the very potential of things of such a person. Because John told it in first John that one of the loves of a Christian is that the love of the others Because that's how you can tell a sister. Because he loves the brother. And that love is worked out in accent. And one of them both I think the policy could be together. So again, I'm speaking to it, so I think it could be together. Now I don't know how far that extends in your life, so there's a various degree of political representatives right from this. But you have to examine your own life as to how much you want to do with those things. But every one of us I believe will have contact with other people who have inside Christians and have no desire to be with other Christians. You all need to be careful. But one of the marks of a Christian is that he wants to be with other Christians. What he controls for that person who goes And has no desires to be intelligence, to be committed to telescopes, but other businesses. Do weapon and yet fear with me to fall into five Do not take this to think of faith. Don't stand by that statement on the basis of scripture. A person is an objective position who says to their system that doesn't desire to be suggested. One of the big supports of the New Testament community is that they were together. But that's not all that's better about it. The second thing that we see there is that they read all things together for the common good. All the things that they had were due for the common good. Everything says, they came from every day to go from the believers were together and had everything in common. That word incominve there is the word poinant. It is the word related to the word points. There's a part of that word, you see. You see the development because in verse forty-two that they devoted themselves to points. In verse 44, they had everything in points. And relating those two ideas, the relationship develops and processes that in having the three in fellowship. I want to be absolutely clear on the meaning of this phrase because it's engaged in the view. Want to be clear on what is meant by that phrase that they have everything in common. This does not mean that they constructed a communistic society. This does not mean that they paid all their possessions and that they obligated and abolished private But does not mean that. You know that for at least three reasons right off. Number one, because in verse forty six when it describes further that community, one of the things that they did was to make that in their homes You see a lot of these places, uh they don't have in their in their homes, use in their own homes. Uh in their houses, in the places that they have to live in. They have references there in our country. Also we see in verse forty-five is the way that was expressed is in Sarah's work possessions and build them together. The initiative you see was on the part of the person itself. He did the last kind of students. He was not forced at any point in order to be part of the community to simply give everything over as he did when he joined the um universal uh thing. of the movement. So it's not that kind of an idea at all. In terms of multiplication things. Still we have something else each person and listen to it to do what I can And in fact, the third reason we know the different actors, if you take a look in chapter five, in the report we have the discussion of Hanamias and Sophia, who publicly told everything in the to the uh family to the community for their books. So Peter rebuked them who said Capricables for how to do one before we call it what is it yours and perhaps it really And he was asked you told them said the money was at your disposal to do what you wanted. That wasn't the problem. The problem was that you were trying to sound spiritual by lying to the community of the Holy Spirit. He was intended to control these things, and really we did it. You set that part of it to be fine. The thing is a lie, that's a holding life. Because you see here that when this statement here is indeed in verse 44, they have everything in common. What that is saying is not really if all feeling consecuted, but if I try to say In other words, some thought that everything they had was part of their skill and their lives together Uh they couldn't see anyone in the community have a need and close their heart and compassionate about me. They they said, How's the given everything for me? But I give some of the problems I have to a brother. He's a nice Joe Delly once said, before a man comes to Christ, before Christ, a man loves things and uses people. But after Christ And I use the way and love people. And that's reality to have a trust in the creation. John Carlos, when he took the paper talking about the socializing feeling, the attitude is here. Then he talks about how that paper, really in this past, he said to himself, well, you know, if we're really going to be the person Tell everything. Tell our houses, have a whole day, and just let it be at the disposal of the place. And they won't know how to do that. Until somebody raised the place, they're then never going to work. Well uh the cook was here. And then somebody from Argument, I'm an argument season, I don't have to take care of the whole time of their season. Wouldn't it be a lot easier if everybody could move in their houses? Well, okay, well, I'll take care of them easier. Oh, let's have everybody take care of their own houses. All right. In other words, we we stored our houses, we love our things together, but they're at the disposal of the community for the common good stuff into a new thing you don't decide, well, you know, I I think that this is my house to do what I want live or not and I'm going to decide that I'm going to be there. But I honestly If I part of the team, a lot of liberty, to refuse to consider a lead. If that person is my concern, because it's bad part. God card, God closed, God crazy that I have. Now I'm going to place myself a useless favorite. And then in that context, if I do read in the box, then I see how it works in YouTube. And we notice how this worked out in the phase thing, physically, in verse 45. Not only were they were they together, not only were they seeing and hearing of each other at the time. But there's a lot of stuff as well in this selling their possessions and gifts, they do to anyone who hardly needs. You see, they absolutely sacrifice, control, control control. But when three five is telling us the thing, people simply say, Yes, we're ready to do that. We're willing to do that. And they're willing to express a return to time. I don't think this is just every day somebody comes out and spend something happening. But time to time as the new array, they were willing to and their insight with it. They were that was demonstrated by the Melusarai. Well, let's ask them in this class week and see what some of the biggest pictures. We talked in the past week about our spiritual gifts. And how do you know the spiritual gifts By loving one another. Do you see now what point of you is? Pointing is our loving one another at whatever point the need is. If I am loving you and I see a spiritual leader in your life, then I minister my spiritual gift to meet that individual. Now this spiritual gift is given from the common good. I relate that to this. If I see in your life a material need, then I use my material gift to minister to that need. Material things are given for the common good. In the New Testament community. We're saying that it's something saying that we love each other at whatever point the need exists. New Twenty-Cours What is the really impossible to mean to mean this is that these people would go beyond their job bases I saw uh that's what you got. And I apologize for that. But now you're getting something here to settle in too radical. You don't really seriously need to propose that we can put a selling thing and actually do that. in this place. In order to help anyone, they're going to have leaves. And also that's exactly what I mean. And I mean that not because I keep today, I mean that because you and I are And I don't think we'll recall that anywhere else. Well, before we say that well, we got par here too. And we have the person to work with him on these major needs. But the major needs could be less within the power of Jesus. We could as a community be able to deal with those things and see that blessing them. But by and large, I would say that the general needs that we have could be not simply within the understanding Most of these could not even reach the cycle or area. See everyday one of the more kinds of weeds should be part of our story within our brief. And as we do that, what With a result deed it will all be good, very it will all be poor, it can be reduced anybody for the last time of the nominator. I can't ever enjoy anything anymore because I feel guilty that somebody else doesn't have it. Because I walk around and I used to enjoy it. I'm feeling a whole thing. No doy that. Nothing worth your door. That's what I've been tempted to think. That's what I'm tempted to think every time I can again. Look, that's not what I read happen here. Look with me the verses forty six and forty seven. You see the context of the Pharisees. What were the Very forty fix of you that they continue to leave together and the sample place, workflow together, and their hands lean together. And free to your heart. Praising God. Enjoying the favor of all the people. And the Lord added to their number daily, raise the blink for What are the three things that are made of five to use the cards of the parent? The first one is unappeats. For some unknown reason, that I can The NIV has totally ignored that word in the Greek. Literally you see in verse forty six it says every day they conclude with one mind to meet together in the temple church. We might have said it where we got out, but we need to remember that that word is there. They left with one mind. Because that's the effect of joy. It brings us together. I remember a number of years ago how I've worked with on all these friends. This fellow and I were at a very different perspective theologically. We had a lot of great differences in our understanding of music. This guy's a different guy, and I said I've disagreed with it. And we were at a point where our communication was working down. We just we were polarized on all these different objections. And John one day, I got worse from him not in way of uh way of truly but simply uh by the fact that I was supervising him and uh he reported to me that he was a near financial price A number of things have broken down in the house and uh he was sort of uh just about people cut about water and water heated in. I don't even know how many hot water they didn't have all kinds of things. And I'm not saying it was not me, it was my wife. People immediately go on a bag. But Cathy immediately said, We don't give a touch. Any bag to him, anyway. My heart just did not go out in that situation, but I knew it was right. There's nothing I could do He said, we'd rather have some movies for me to tell them something I have without reasonable. But we did put an in My wife may have run off for me, but that kind of brought me along. We did that. And the immediate factory was about being a confidence in us. We have brought much more confidence into one mind than being able to pass it. In fact, later on, uh turned out that he found out that we were commentating accounting trips and not open favorites. And that kind of body claims are not practical. material level helps us in communicating about the scriptures. It helps to bring us together in our fellowship. It helps to develop one mind in our being able to share Christ together. You find that the curse is credible, that the curse becomes heavy, maybe one of the reasons is they're not purposefully. But when we began to get involved in calling to each other and giving to one another, we find that these interviews come more interpreted because we feel what it's like to be a community. Something so you're supposed to say. But this is uh load that you know that one You see that they live together with glad and sincere hearts. That word sincere could also be translated asilant. God and sincere and zealous hearts. Some die together. I bet this idea we're gonna keep giving and giving and giving we've got nothing left. That's what God's calling us to do. God's gonna squeeze it all out of us until we can say yes and we'll be an obedient. But somehow there is not that joy in the communities. You know why that is? I feel that. I see that in the community. I only believe in this country. Nobody's doing anything more than anything else. Nobody's going to celebrate life. Because of all the needs there. How can you laugh and how can you have a slave? And the world's going to hell. We keep anything to be blessed. There was joy in this community, why? Because it was not upon a middleistic thing. She was out of grace. It's the motive for why you and I would be a community of services. And so we've got to do it. I've got to go home and I've got to look at those things that I was enjoying. Rode out of spell this and made out of give up badly, gonna buy this and nobody like this. That's the wrong attitude Be taught your heart is part of the concept. What was it of a spike to? Is it an a spike to the grace of Jesus Christ in their lives that lose them at one other point? You'll find a joy out of that way to be able to require those kinds of Many of you here listen to this. Jesus of Nazareth was a man accredited by God to you by miracles, wonders, and prizes. God did among you through all the experience. He says not. This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge, and you would have helped a wicked men put him to death by bearing him to the price. God brings him up to the world, save him from living with death because it is impossible for death to be to fail. So David said to God when I saw the Lord all these days. Because he is at my right hand I will not be safe. Therefore my heart is miserable in obedience. Therefore my heart is blood and my cold is drunken. And my body will also live in hope, because you will not abandon me to the grace, nor will you let your holy ones be clear. You have made known to me the paths of life, and you will fill me with joy through your subject. Community that lives in the present produce Christ with a community of presence. And if we ever get the feeling before the presence of Christ, we won't continue liberally in the world. Oh what it is there and Jesus Christ is appealing. Oh what it comes out of the pleasure of blood, the apostle Jesus and broken. And this kind of a concern for one another is going to blow to the responsibility. You are building the joy in your happiness. So your sins will be forgiven. And Jesus just to the Holy Spirit. The world of the beauty of Great. The door of the Lord, the second of the Lord. The Lord is the world. It's the competition to confidence. When I was a question which is asking, is that means that long to come? The fact we've joined with so women in this community, but appearance that their age of exhibits notices You then see in verse 47 that they were chosen God and enjoyed the favor of all the people. And the result of that was that the Lord Added to the numbers, not yearly, not monthly, not weekly, but daily going to the new things. How does it be major and day? What are we moving in weekly? Without there, I tend to have a month. And a moral that will go back. Without hearing of a single thing. Jesus. If you notice that in this community not only are the convergence there, but there's not even the most kind of evangelism. That's not because evangelism It's because what Luke is highlighting is that that was related to the polynomial, to the fellowship, as it is expressing itself. He was drawing people to Jesus Christ. The Lord was adding to them and they were being saved, they relate that word saved in verse forty-seven back to verse forty, means saved from the corrupt generations, saved through the finished work of Jesus Christ in his death and resurrection. You and I know that working in the breadth of the poultry is you can't fire away from the television is a secret knowledge to community. We know that that's because God's knowledge is about to come. And we know that when they see community in Columbia, Texas and Coach as a body of people. But that is too resistant with that. And people can have wondering what it is about the easy. That makes them distance. It's contagious. And there's a process, a biblical process that goes on. Verse 31, the Lord added to the number. Verse 32 to verse 46. That number developed a fellowship of the apostles, teaching, caring, representing that, and prayers. The result of that verse 47, the Lord added more. That was become confidence. They know it's house, they're brought into the community, they brought up these easy place, and the words can please the eyes. Sport of Philip and Doris. Sport of Philip A New Testament fellowship has one described these. He would stand out. Maybe all the argument that we could give him about the change of Jesus Christ in the family. to do his done. Maybe it would be your neighbor or my neighbor to do his body because I've seen it. Are you ready for it? Of the fact you have to think is that from home the first year. We're gonna be the second kind of scene like this. Are you ready to get kind of polynomial like this? Lord, I believe that every one of us may know you. So I will tumble a little bit if you find out the level of commitment. Never that I've found it even if you do a science. Because it's the powers of feelings to our people out there. Proper father to have not to thank you, the ministry of our spiritual people. So ministry and material in love and love. Perfect God is to be a community with whom you are devoted, to be a part of secret. So we read our minds and lines in these rooms, the lift things, deliver, fear women, the following. But it even would be committed to find To feel all that we have is for the common good, and the train duty to one another as a family. To be devoted to the broken of breath, to worship of the And to that informal fellowship in our homes together, we're going to celebrate. We're living together It'd be devoted to things, a torn together here as a formal meeting at your body, torn together in our homes as informal meetings, and torn together in feed, as we simply talk together. The deploy for our ladies and our friends are extremely So that they do really have to bring blind. So can't they see that formula in the common way of the new community in these replay The community that lives in the light of keep services, delivery and no danger, and say tensor living, but there's always separate danger and they are Direct and to build our fellowship upon the foundations of grace in Jesus Christ. And our fellowship with you, the Father, the Son, the Spirit And we would never reverse that to cease to have fellowship with you because of our fellowship with one another. Father, help us to have our fellowship with one another, in response to the fellowship that we have with you. Forgiving yourself for us. For calling us to be your people. They forgive me. For calling us your partner. Thank you for that because it's been happening.