Few things I would say affect how you and I live as people any more than our view of what God is like. What He is like, what our image of Him is, which is largely determined by our view of our earthly Fathers, as well as many cultural factors that speak to us about what God is really like. We all have a distorted notion, I would say You'd have to admit, wouldn't he? Of what God is like. A view that has only a vague approximation to his reality, some of us view him as Too austere, or too remote, or too soft, or too inaccessible. And who of us really understands anything of his holiness? For his majesty. And yet it's what we view God as like that really so very much affects how we live as people. And that's especially true at Christmas time. Because Christmas time especially has the tendency to distort our notion of what God is like. For instance, there's the Santa Claus view of God. You know how that one goes. You better not cry, you better not pout, you better not shout, I'm telling you why. Santa Claus has come into town. You know, kinda there's that implied Threat. You better be good because when Santa Claus comes, he's gonna punish the bad boys and girls with coal in their stocking. And if you're good, then you get the presents. But generally as you live through the years, you gradually understand that Santa Claus is really a rather indulgent old fellow. And that everybody winds up getting some gifts on Christmas morning and who of us here ever actually got coal in their stockings? Anybody ever actually get coal in their stocking? I never did actually Maybe a rotten apple at the bottom, but it was never cold. And so it's kind of an idle threat, isn't it? Santa Claus is kind of he sort of hangs over you there to make sure that, you know, you're You ought to try to live good so that you'll get more gifts, but in the end, it doesn't seem to matter a whole lot. Our disobedience Seems to have minimal consequences. And then what's even worse is the baby in the manger view of God. Because that first view, I think, is what we transfer for many of us. to what God is like. You know, God sort of hangs these vague threats over you, but in the end, you know, most people are going to make it. In the end, His mercy's going to try Triumph over any of these threats. You really don't have to worry very much. Now the baby in the major view of God is that view that looks at the baby Jesus there and Everybody likes to think of Jesus as the baby in the manger. He's cute, precious, he's harmless. You ever hear that Christmas carol rocking? You know, he refers to Jesus as that darling, darling little man. I hate that thing. It's a clever tune. It's kinda catchy sometimes to get it on my mind, but to think of Jesus Jesus as that darling little man, you know, very innocuous. And our general view as a culture is that darling little man grew up to be sort of an effeminate religious type. You know, he's the kind of guy who sort of wanders around with his hands folded, gazing to heaven, humming religious tunes and hymns. He's the kind of guy who nobody really takes very seriously in threats. If you do something wrong, there's the idea that Jesus goes, Nike, you really shouldn't do that. But he's not very much of a threat to us. As I say, he's a kind of an effeminate guy with a kind of a filtered glow around his head. And so he's somebody who, as nice as he may seem, you get the idea he wouldn't last ten minutes in my office with my boss. He'd blow them away. He just is out of touch with the dog eat dog real world in which I live Jesus couldn't really cut it in the world that I operate in. And so, um, even though he's a person who can't function in the kind of world you and I operate in. Nevertheless, he's the kind of guy that everybody likes. I mean you can't help but like him. He's a shepherd. time. He's the kind of guy that your mother would love you to have as a friend. And she especially likes him and wishes that you'd be closer to him. But somehow he Even though you like to think of Jesus loving you, when it comes right down to it, it doesn't make a whole lot of difference what he thinks about what you do. Because he's not a very great threat to your life. He's innocuous. He's powerless. He's he's rather impotent. Now let's face it, as much as Because we as Christians read the scriptures and seek to counter those notions, they still affect us, don't they, in how we think about God. The Santa Claus and maybe in the main But what a contrast that is to the picture of Messiah that we have in Psalm 110 that we've been looking at the past couple of weeks. If you have your Bibles and you haven't turned to it yet, please turn to Psalm 110. And as you think of that kind of a picture that I've just portrayed, Think of what the Bible, God's word says, is actually what Jesus is like. This is a picture that is not somebody's conception of him who had a hang up in their relationship with their father. This is not somebody who drew a picture that came out of their cultural understanding. This is a picture that comes from the Actual inspired words of God Himself through David. And here's what God says: that his Messiah is life. Psalm 110. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. The Lord will extend your mighty scepter. From Zion. You will rule in the midst of your enemies. Your troops will be willing on your day of battle. Arrayed in holy majesty from the womb of the dawn, you will receive the dew of your own. of your youth. The Lord has sworn, and will not change his mind. You are a priest forever. In the order of man The Lord is at your right hand. He will crush kings on the day of his wrath. He will judge the nations, heaping up the dead. And crushing the rulers of the whole earth. He will drink from a brook beside the way. Therefore, he will lift up his head Now notice some of those pictures that you get of what Jesus, the Messiah, is like. In verse 1, he's got his foot on the necks of his enemies. In verse 2, He's ruling from his throne with his enemies nipping at his heels. In verse 3, he's leading his troops, glorious troops, in the day of his battle against His enemies. In verse 5, he's crushing the kings of the earth. Those who are the most powerful with their own armies. This one is crushing in his wrath. In verse 6, he's heaping up the dead and crushing the rulers of the nation. Revelation chapter 14 picks up that image of his heaping up the dead. And it gives us a graphic picture of the extent of this. Revelation chapter 14 tells us something about the size of that heap of corpses that this Messiah is keeping And to translate it into a way that we can understand, Revelation 14, picking up on this verse, says that the heap is five feet high of bone And blood that would extend from here, Columbia, north almost as far as Philadelphia, south as far as Fredericksburg, Virginia, east to the Atlantic Ocean, and west to Hancock. Maryland. A pile of corpses five feet high. This is the effeminate Jesus who's walking around humming religious tunes in our Our conception. Quite a different picture that the Bible gives, isn't it? He's the conqueror. He's the one before whom kings fall in terror because of his vicy. Because of his great power, and when his wrath is exercised, no one can stand before him. And so this is the one That we, or the kings, his enemies, those who stand against him, who ignore him, are crushed by him. Have you been ignored? Ignoring Jesus. You ignore the things that he says to you in his word, and you say, Well, it doesn't really matter. Because after all, Jesus just exists to take care of Means to love me. He really isn't any threat in my life. I was talking with somebody in my office just this week, trying to show from scripture that something that this person was doing. Was simply wrong. It was simply not what God says was to be done. The person said, I understand that. But I can't feel like I can do that. But our feelings override our understanding of what the sovereign Jesus says in his word to us. And if you and I think that this is a God That we can laugh off or blow off with impunity. We have not understood anything of what the Bible says is the true nature of Jesus the Messiah. These last couple weeks we've been looking at the three faces of Messiah. Two weeks ago, you remember we saw him as we saw the wriggle face of Jesus, the Messiah who's king. Verse 1, 2, and 3. That he is the one sitting at the right hand of majesty on the throne. Then last week we saw him as the compassionate face of Jesus our priest, the one who after the order of Melchizedek has died and substituted himself for us to take our seat Finally you see, running through this whole psalm this morning, the fierce face of Jesus the conqueror. This one who's the baby in the manger. Grown up and he's become Jesus, the conqueror. Three things to consider about what this means that we're told in this psalm. Number one, that Jesus is at conqueror War. That's the first thing. Jesus is at war. And you and I need to understand Jesus that he is the commander-in-chief in charge of the The forces of battle in a war. Verse one into three speak of this. Verses five to seven very clearly. All through the Psalm. Look again at what verse 1 says. The Lord Yahweh says to my Lord, my Adonai, my master, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your beast. And so we see him directing the troops from his throne, he who is at war with his enemies, waiting until they're going to be brought to be the enemies for the footstool of his feet. And that that ideas so quoted to us that I think we sometimes forget what that image is really portraying. First of all, who are his enemies? Well his enemies are all who refuse to bow before him willingly Those who are allied with the enemy, Satan's, which means the adversary. That's what the name means. And so all who refuse to capitulate And bow to Jesus and say, You are my Lord, I do whatever you please, I put my neck under your foot. Do you know that the word worship means to prostrate literally in the Hebrew one verse? We come to worship on Sunday morning. What we are doing is we are willingly prostrating ourselves before Jesus. We're saying, we're not your enemies. You conquered us, Lord Jesus. Jesus. We're here at your disposal and we worship you. We put our neck before your feet so that you can rule and do your bidding. Whatever it is, here we are. We're available. We lift you up. We declare that you are the one who's our master and our Lord. Those who are his enemies are those that stand and say, I'm not going to bow to Jesus. And in order to understand that picture, you have to understand that it picks up on an idea from Joshua chapter 10. Let me tell you about what happened in Joshua 10. Chapter 10. In Joshua chapter 10, it's after Ai, and you remember the people of Gibeon came and they made a truce with Israel because they were afraid and they saw that God was working through Israel. But there were five kings in the land who Refused to make peace with Israel. Joshua, you remember, means Jesus. It's the same term, it's the same name. Joshua is simply the Hebrew equivalent of the Greek Jesus. us Jezus. And so uh Joshua in the place the conqueror, the one who is ruling uh as a pre figuring of Jesus is standing against these five kings. There can be no neutrality. Either you are with Joshua, you capitulate before In Joshua chapter 10, we read that God said to Joshua in verse 24, Do not be afraid of them. I have given them into your hand. Not one of them will be able to withstand you. Sounds uh remarkable. Like Psalm 110, verse 1, isn't it? God's promise, your enemies are going to capitulate before you. Joshua goes out with the troops on that day, and there's such a slaughter that the only problem Joshua has. Is that he doesn't have enough time to kill the heaps of the dead of all those who God is bringing to destruction before him? And it's on that occasion God God says something happened that never happened before in history and never would happen again. Joshua asked God to stop the sun in the sky. He asked God to hold the sun. And God says that he answered that prayer and kept the sun from going down for a second. space of about a day. I haven't checked with Doug or Bill or Steve or anybody else here that works in the labs up there, but I have understood That astronomers have verified that in fact the universe is about a day out of sync. And that God has done what seems to us Utterly impossible that he on that day, in his great power, that his enemies would be vanquished, caused the sun itself to stand still until the Heaps of dead were piled high, and the corpses lay all about the land. What happened to the five kings? Five kings fled into captivity. Caves. Remember, Revelation says that when Jesus comes, the people are going to flee into caves and they're going to say, Oh, that the mountains would fall on us and hide us from his wrath. Five Kings hid. In the caves. Joshua found them. And he had his commanders in chief call them out from those caves. Joshua chapter 10, verse 2 24. The Bible says that when they had brought these kings to Joshua, he summoned all the men of Israel, and he said to the army commanders who had come with him, Come here and put your feet on the necks of these kings. So they came forward and they placed their feet on their necks. These kings who had said, You're never going to conquer us, we'll stand against you. We'll mock this Yahweh who thinks He's going to come and And take our land. This is a free land. We're a value-free society, and we'll maintain our freedom against anything that you can bring in your religion. Joshua came with his commanders And he said, Put your feet on the necks of those who dare to stand against our God. Verse 25, Joshua said to them, Do not be afraid. You and I are intimidated, aren't we, by those who mock at our belief in Jesus Christ. We're embarrassed when people say, You believe that stuff? You're one of those born-again people? You're one of those that want to impose your values on the rest of us. Joshua says, don't be afraid of them. Put your feet on the neck. Do not be discouraged. Be strong and courageous. This is what the Lord will do to all the enemies that you are going to fight. And then Joshua struck, and he killed the kings, chopped off their heads as they laid there prostrate before his commanders. He hung them on five trees. It's a testimony to who really was the ruler of the land. Psalm hundred and ten, verse one says, Coming a day when King Jesus the Conqueror will place his feet on the necks of all of those who have mocked the gospel. Of all of those who have said, This key Jesus can't rule my life, and I'm never going to give in my independence to him. Jesus will. He's at war now. He's leading you and me as his troops. And that's the second point that you need to understand That not only is Jesus at war, is he arrayed against those bringing in territory, bringing people to bow before him as those who he's conquering. changing their lives and transforming them, not not ruling them in order to manipulate and to control them as one who is evil. One who has only our good. for his transforming us. The second thing is that you and I are at war with him. We are at war with him. Verse 3 Your troops will be willing on your day of battle, arrayed in holy majesty from the womb of the law, and you will receive the dew of your youth. Satan and all of his hosts arrayed against Jesus, and you and I on Jesus' side in order to enforce the victory. Jesus has won. To reclaim those who have been in bondage outside of him. And so to be able to bring to bear the victory of Jesus. in other people's lives. And so your attitude and my attitude should not be that the Christian life is like warfare. So often I think we liken it. to that. We say, you know, Christian life is life is like spiritual war. It isn't like it. It is war. You and I are at war with With Jesus. And until we understand that, we will never quite understand the tension and the struggles that happen to us. So many times I think that we view That the Christian life should be a life of relative peace, in which I can kind of live to myself, to do my thing. And that those tensions, those areas of conflict that I have with the world ought to be. be the exception rather than the rule. And that when it rains on my parade, I say, well, you know, the spiritual Christian life isn't all a bed of roses and it's like spiritual Spiritual warfare. We don't understand that you and I are called as the gospel green berets under the commander-in-chief of Jesus, who has led us into a lifestyle of warfare. To a people who are his glorious soldiers, verse 3, arrayed in holy majesty before him. In order to go out with him and to reclaim the territory that Jesus has won by his death on the cross as the compassionate priest. Forever. So you and I need to understand the nature of the Christian life. It is warfare. It's not occasional warfare. It's not saying That there's occasional peace and joy and the rejoicing of God's goodness, that we don't ever take a reprieve, that we don't ever have R and R from the battle. The fact is, we need to think in terms of a war time lifestyle. You know, even the angels during Christmas, we distort and we we uh change because We kind of view the angels that announce the birth of Messiah as cherubs with wings singing four-part harmonies. About how Jesus is born. You know there's no basis for that in Scripture? That's an utterly false picture of what happened. To the shepherds. What the shepherds saw were not a bunch of cute cherubs with wings flapping about singing four-part harmony about the Messiah. What they saw Were the hosts of the Lord. And the hosts of the Lord were his soldiers, angelic, battle-hardened warriors, who had fought the demonic forces of hell. These were armed men, angels, not men, but in whatever their appearance was, they would be recognizable in a human-like form. Never saw an angel, can't tell you They are terrified. Remember, I said before, first thing an angel ever says when he visits a human being is here. And soldiers, I mean uh shepherds were rough guys. Uh they were extremely rough guys in that culture. They were so rough that you couldn't even take the testimony of a shepherd in court because it was assumed he was a liar. And the Bible says that when the shepherds saw the angels, they were struck dumb, terrified like dead men. These were armed warriors who were declaring the Messiah's come, the commander of chief is about to be born to lead his soldiers to victory in his kingdom. He's going to reclaim that kingdom. He's going to establish it here on earth. He's the one that's declared in Psalm 110 that you and I are to follow Do you believe that you're in a battle? That you're in a war? If you don't, just read the news about you, just look at the Columbia Flyer, it's all you have to do. Every week. Moral and spiritual, ethical issues that are being written. On pro and con, and those who are secularist are saying, you guys get your values off our backs. And Christians writing in and saying, we can't be silent any longer about the imposition. Of sinful lifestyles within our school system and the rest of the society. And so when you read about Gail Bates, a chief aide to Howard County Executive Ecker this week And you see her position about the propagation of gay rights within the public schools and in other situations. See her as a soldier of Jesus Christ. Pray for that sister in the Position that God has raised her up in, and others that God is calling into that position. So that you and I understand that we are in a war together. Things that God is doing now is bringing together our churches so that in October over seventy churches were represented in that evening we had praying for revival and for God, the Lord Jesus, the conqueror, to come and to demonstrate that. He is the king, the lord of Howard County. He is the one who is leading his troops in victory. And when you say about Dana Colette, the pastor of Covenant, And Baptist, and all pure about him. Understand that's not just a psychological, cultural thing we're talking about. We're talking about spiritual warfare and the conflict about whether or not somebody with religious values can be placed on the Human Rights Commission. This is a spiritual battle that we're talking about. Be aware that one of our own members, Dick Stum, was a subject of a news story in Channel 2 News this week. I asked Dick for permission to share this. He said this is fine. That somebody was doing a story there about a teacher who would dare, even in private, to share his faith about Jesus. Jesus Christ with any student who might want to know about it. And more and more pressure being brought in school to say you're not even allowed to in private answer a question about your faith to bring in Jesus Christ if you are on school property during school. School Times. You think that that's just something we're talking about separation of church and state and all these kinds of issues? We're talking about spiritual warfare in that. Time magazine just last year Last week had an article very aptly. What's it called? Last week, America's Holy War. This is talking about the spiritual conflicts that we're talking about. It's Time magazine. Hey, there it is. Cover article. Where's the cover? Came plan. One nation under God. Yes. Right? Time magazine. A couple of the examples they give. Last month, Pennsylvania Supreme Court threw out the sentence of a murderer who killed a 70-year-old woman with an axe. On the ground that the prosecutor had unlawfully cited biblical law to the jury in a summation urging the death penalty. Throughout the case, because the guy referred to the Bible as the attorney. prosecuting attorney. You're not allowed to refer to the Bible in a law court, according to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court in this country. Decatur, Illinois, primary school teacher discovered the word God in a phonetics text. And ordered her class of seven-year-olds to strike it out, saying that it's against the law to mention God in a public school. This is the same schools that used to use McGuffey's readers that talked about the gospel and the Ten Commandments in every public school system in this country. But now we've come to the place where Where it is unlawful to mention God. And in Howard County, that's being pressed. I'll tell you, it is. Talking about spirituality. The town of Oak Park, Illinois, blocked a private Catholic hospital from erecting a cross on its own smokestack because counselors say some local residents might be. offended. Can't put a cross on your own property because somebody might see it and be offended. Time magazine concludes the article saying, I think we've gone a little too far on this. You know, we are in a very unstable position right now at the end of the twentieth century. Because we're in what is being touted as a pluralistic society. Do you realize that's never been touted But we pride ourselves in being pluralistic. And in Grotius's book, Doug Grothius's book, Ask Unmasking the new age, he makes a very good point. He says pluralism is always a transitory phenomenon within any society. Pluralism is extremely Unstable. No society can ever remain totally pluralistic. It cannot remain value-free. It's simply pluralism is a transition from one set of values to another set of values. And when that other set of values captures the mind of the society, it no longer is pluralistic. And what we're doing now is we're seeing a transition From Christian values within our society to secularistic values that themselves are unstable because there's no basis to what I believe is either going to be a revival and not a return to Christian values within our society. our country, but a renewal and a revival unprecedented under the conqueror King Jesus to bring about a true biblical basis for law and for the fabric of our civilization, or we will move into a monitor New age value system that will be utterly antithetical to Christianity. Psalm 110 says, You and I need to understand we are soldiers within that warfare. Do you understand that? Do you see that? Does that excite you as you understand what's going on here? That you and I are given two weapons, the word and prayer? And that those two weapons we are given are powerful. 2 Corinthians chapter 10 says that the word of God is powerful to the pulling down of strongholds, ideas. And you and I can use our Bibles and the gospel of those Bibles and the understanding of right and wrong in those and norms for society in order to speak to people. And to influence the values of our society, to turn people to Jesus Christ. The Bible speaks of God's word as the sword of the Spirit. It's a weapon. You and I, as soldiers, need to learn how to use that weapon. A weapon in the s hands of a soldier that doesn't know how to use it's a dangerous thing. But if you and I understand how to use the scriptures, powerful under the operation of King Jesus, who's conquering territory here in Howard County in the United States. And then there's the weapon of prayer. The awesome power that Frank Peretti has displayed. So well in his books, This Present Darkness and Piercing the Darkness. And for no other reason those books are worth reading to give you an understanding of the power of prayer within the spiritual battle. Friend of mine Paul Miller said that when he ever hears people say, Well, all that's left to do is pray now. The only thing left we can do is to pray about. He said, Oh, sort of remind me. Him of a soldier saying within a war, Well, we've tried all the conventional weapons. Now all we have left are the nuclear war hits. He says we don't understand what we're saying when we talk about all we can do is pray. Because if you and I understand the power of prayer, if we understood that we as a congregation would be praying more We'd be undergirding our ministries with prayer. We'd be undergirding Sunday services, the first and the second hour, and the ministries that are going on within our congregation in prayer constantly, individually, as families, together, concerts of prayer, small groups, every opportunity and occasion. Because we understand the battle goes forward in prayer. The last thing to understand about this is that his victory is sure. The victory of King Jesus is a sure. Sure, victory. Verse 1 says, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet. It's a sure thing. You can't do anything else but eventually occur in the way that he does it. He's describing. Verse 5, he will crush kings on the day of his wrath. Verse 6, he will judge the nations, heaping up the dead and crushing the rulers of the That's Titanic bad news and good news. Gary prayed at the beginning concerning our confession. So it is when you and I I hear this message. It's a warning, first of all, to any of you who are not his soldiers. I can't imagine you're reading this song. And understanding Understanding the evidence for the resurrection. Understanding the evidence of the veracity of Scripture and how trustworthy this book is, prophecies fulfilled, and all the rest of that. And to put off for one more day, coming to Jesus, Jesus Christ as your own Savior and your Lord. There's no guarantee that you will be here or even alive next week. Dad was alive last Sunday. He's dead this morning. You and I have no guarantee of any future days. You and I will live. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 13, quotes Psalm 110, verse 1. And then it goes on to say, how shall we escape if we neglect Neglect so great a salvation. There is no other escape. There is no other place that you and I can run to. There are no caves that we can hide. And the danger is that when you and I hear the gospel, that we confuse the compassion of Jesus for weakness. His compassion. must never be confused by us as weakness on his part to punish sin. One day, you and I will stand in the physical Presence of the conqueror, King Jesus. And when you see him, you will fall down terror-struck at his appearance of majesty and glory and power. And if at that time you realize you have laughed him off or put him off, there will be no words to describe the remorse and And the terror that you will feel afterwards. King Jesus is ruined. I got a letter just this week from president of the National Association of Evangelicals. I assure he was a form letter, one of personal letter. Talked about the fact that he was in Russia back in uh nineteen eighty That time he said that he was meeting with pastors who were beginning to hope for freedoms begin to come. He says this time he came back not at the invitations of the pastors. The president of the National Association of Evangelicals was invited back to the Soviet Union. Union, or what was the Soviet Union, was invited back to Russia and the other parts of the Confederation there by the government officials. He met with Mikhail Gorbachev Personally, for the purpose that the government officials there are convinced that Christian values must play a key role in the transition to democracy, a market economy, and an open society. They met with government officials to talk about how Christianity can be the basis of a new society within Russia and the other states. At the same time that we're going the opposite direction. Jesus can turn it around here too. That's the comfort for you in me. We know that our King Jesus is the one who will rule. And if you have trusted your life to Jesus Christ this morning, you have Have no fear of his wrath. Because he has borne all that wrath on your behalf. There is left for you only the exercise of his power. For your good. You and I know that whatever we do for him, God will bring about eventually victory. As Romans 16, 20 says God soon shall crush Satan under your feet and mine as we roll with King Jesus. What does that mean? Whose side are you on? Let's pray. Lord help us to understand this morning who it is we serve. Lord, whoever it is this morning who has still been putting off, coming to trust you and to rest their lives in your care. Lord, bring that terror that we sometimes Feel when we have a nightmare that makes us break out into a cold sweat and then wake up and realize it wasn't true. I still have a chance. Person, that glimpse of terror, that they might realize that while there is still a chance, they must flee to Jesus. Come and find forgiveness. And salvation. For those of us, Lord, who are following you, but we haven't been very aware of the spiritual battle in the Lord. Wake us up, Lord, to see reasons. To live with a warfare mentality. It's those who are your soldiers, sure of victory, in Jesus Christ.