This morning we turn together on this Easter Sunday morning as we continue in this series Going to Gethsemane. Here we come to this final sermon in this series as we've looked together at finding our peace. In the tears of Jesus, finding our peace in the humility of Jesus. And on Good Friday, when we were last together, we considered the words of the Gospel of Mark as we considered finding peace in the sacrifice of Jesus And when we were last together on Good Friday, you'll remember, perhaps if you were able to join us, that we considered why do we have the atonement and why do we have this particular atoning one? And that is our corruption is complete. Our sin has utterly broken us. Our need is complete. It holds us. And our pride is also complete because it blinds us to our need. But thanks be to God that Jesus Christ, the atoning sacrifice His obedience, his righteousness, and his crying in our place as our atoning sacrifice. That is, he died in our place, though he did not deserve it. He frees us. from sin. He heals us and he brings us out of darkness into light. And that is just the story of Good Friday. But I will tell you, friends, I'm glad that you can join us this morning because all those things could have been said on Good Friday. And without Easter Sunday morning, Jesus would merely have been a martyr. His cause would have been righteous. Even his offering might have been righteous, but without the resurrection, he would have been merely been a martyr. But thanks be to God, we gather together on this Easter Sunday morning to say he is not just a martyr. He was a sacrifice who has been raised from death to life, and he is our Redeemer. And so I say to you again, Church of Jesus Christ, he is risen. He is risen indeed. Alleluia. And so we turn this morning to a passage in the letter to the Romans. To the church in Rome, Paul would write this letter. And I want to remind you again before I begin That oftentimes when we turn to the scriptures and hear I speak to those who either are part of our fellowship or who are a regular part of going to the church. And that is, the Bible can sometimes feel like a doctrinal treatise, or we treat it as something that is below us, something that we study, something that we learn, and we forget that it's our authority. But we also forget it is written to us as an impassioned letter. This is Paul's personal letter. to a group of Christians who are undergoing persecution and difficulty in the city of Rome, as those who have been converted to Jesus Christ. They were wondering, what does it look like to live as those who have come to Jesus Christ? And so Paul writes this letter. And from his hand, he writes these great words in Romans chapter 6. This morning we will look at chapter 6, verses 1 to through fourteen. Hear now the word of God. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died for sin still live in it? Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. For if we have been united with him in death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. Now, if we have died with Christ, we believe that we also live with him We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies to make you obey their passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under grace. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Again, I ask you, pray with me. We now ask you, O Lord, to meet us in this time as we go together to your word. May you teach us by the power of your Holy Spirit, and may we receive it not just as students of the Word. But as grateful recipients of the good news of the gospel, that as we declare that he is risen, So too are we to new life. Now help us, Holy Spirit, to receive it, to live upon it. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. And so, as I said in my opening, I want to remind you that this is the Apostle Paul, who was first known as Saul. who is writing now to a church of those who were followers of Jesus Christ, largely because of his testimony, the letters which had been written which had been circulated, and through the preaching of the various church planters and through Paul's ministry, many had come to faith. In fact, if you were to look at the 26 books of the New Testament, you'll realize that most of them have been written by the Apostle Paul. And so, before we go any further, it's important for us to say a couple of things as we gather together on this Easter Sunday morning, something which I am aware of every single year. And any time I spend reflecting on it, there is no way that you and I can truly tame by reason The reality, the beauty, and the power of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. It cannot be tamed It is a truth that is larger than us, that is outside of our ability even to wrap our imagination around it. Nor can we truly tame why Jesus, the Son of God, would die in our place. Though we deserve death, he took it for us. We cannot tame that by our reason. And our hearts cannot contain that kind of love, for it is only divine love that would do such a thing. And so if we cannot tame it by our reason, nor if we can truly understand it fully by our imagination, I think what we can do is look at and consider first the Apostle Paul. And before we look at anything else, I want us to just consider a couple of points that I think we need reminders of this morning. First, Paul was for Saul, and as Saul, he was religiously scrupulous. He was thorough in his spiritual life. He was a leader of leaders, and he was a zealot. And by his own words, he was perfect in his zeal. But that is using religious language. It's even using biblical language. Can I bring this language just a little bit into our common everyday understanding? Paul was an absolute, complete jerk. Prior to his conversion, yes, Paul was a persecutor, but he was a religious bully, which made him the worst kind of bully, so much so that he had such a set of authoritative fists. He makes Twitter rage look mild. He makes all the rambling on Facebook and people who are angry know he is much worse because he took it to the nth degree. He was willing to kill and to have persecuted to the point of death those who were converting because of the call of Jesus Christ on their lives. He was present for the death of Christians because of their appeal and belief in Jesus. Paul was the worst kind of bully. He was a religious bully. How do we account for his change? Paul tells us that Jesus appeared to him and appeared to him and the gospel was made clear to him. And he is now telling us through this personal letter, no longer as Saul, but one who's been converted as the Apostle Paul, now speaking to a largely Greek audience converted to Christianity, and he is telling them. Not just about the gospel, but about himself. Remember, this is a personal letter which he is writing to the church out of his own experience Led by the Holy Spirit, he becomes an instrument in God's hands, no longer persecuting the church, but leading the church to greater faith in Jesus Christ. And so he's telling us about the foundation of our peace and the resources for new life in Jesus Christ. And that is none other than the victory of Jesus. So as we look at this passage together this morning, two points. He shows us that Jesus' victory over sin and his victory over death. is the foundation and source of our peace, but it is also the foundation and source of living a new life in Christ. It is his victory over sin and his victory over death that is our source for peace and new life. So together let's consider this first as we look at verses 5-8, how Jesus's victory over sin becomes a foundation for our peace. Again, this is what Paul says. He says, For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For the one who has died has been set free from sin. What is Paul getting at? Is he saying that there's that there's something horrible or messy or ugly about our physical bodies? Is that what he is speaking to? No, what he's talking about is something that happens because we are enfleshed beings who are broken because of sin. Our very body is given to the deepest desires of sin. In fact we could say that prior to conversion, Paul's deepest desire, though he did not know it because he was blinded by his pride, his deepest desire was sin. And he's saying the same to us who have now believed in Jesus Christ, if that is your proclamation, he's saying that formally In your very body, sin had its enslaving power placed upon our deepest longings and desires. And I do believe, as the professor Dr. James K. A. Smith says, we are not first and foremost thinking things, we are first and foremost loving things. that sin has its deepest grip on our will, what makes us who we are and what we most long for and desire. And so when he says these words, we know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. What is he saying? He's saying that our union with Jesus Christ by faith, trusting in Jesus' sacrifice, and now looking at his resurrection That those desires that most deeply long to sin have been robbed of their power. That now, Jesus' victory over sin in the resurrection, our deepest longing and desire is no longer sin, but our deepest desire is to love Jesus. Our deepest desire is to worship him. Now, it's not that sin is no longer present. That is something Paul writes about. And that even though we sin, grace abounds all the more. That doesn't mean, which is why he began this chapter, it doesn't mean that we continue to sin that grace might abound. No. He's telling us something about being united to Jesus Christ in his resurrection. That if we now have victory over sin, it no longer is something that we desire to do, long to do, bent to do, but rather Pleasing Jesus, loving him, and walking in newness of life. It is telling us that sin is emptied of its power That it is no longer our master. Though it may be present, it is no longer the deepest compass of our longings. It is Jesus. But not only do we see here that it is victory over sin which Paul points us to, he's also pointing us to his victory over death. And in verses 9 and following, as I have read earlier, we know that Christ being raised from the dead will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died, he died to sin once for all. For the life he lives, he lives to God. Here he is saying that the death which Jesus died to sin was once and for all, meaning forever. And the same is the case now, that he has been raised for life, and death will no longer hold him again. And it is saying something about the nature of our union with Jesus Christ. He says, we know that Christ being raised from the death will never die again. And because of our union with Jesus, we Will never die. That yes, we will die of this physical body, but as Christ was raised And that is what we celebrate this day, so our bodies will be raised. This body will be raised and united with our spirits, and we will be with him in our enfleshed beings forever. But today, today, we can declare that Jesus' death And victory over sin is ours. That Jesus' death and victory over death in his resurrection is also ours. What it is meaning, we find peace because now death does not cause the deepest fear in us. In fact, suffering does not have to become that which we shudder at. Because, as Paul would say just a few chapters later, that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Jesus Christ. What Paul has been teaching us in this brief passage is our union with him And though all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, as you are called to Jesus Christ and you make confession of your sin and your faith and trust in Jesus, That by the mystery of the Holy Spirit, we are brought into a relationship with Him. And that is what he's calling union. But to even talk about it in relational terms, like you and I understand relationship, the closest we can get is a is the human picture of marriage. That we are now so united, as a husband and wife are united in one flesh. We are now united to Jesus Christ by faith. And receive the Holy Spirit. And the promises that are declared in Christ are also for us. Yes and amen. Does that mean I still do not sin? No, I I do. As we talked about on Friday night, we do still struggle with sin and its presence But it is no longer my deepest identity or my deepest desire. And it is not our master. That because Jesus was raised to life in power, so we receive that same power of the Holy Spirit, and we can now say no to sin and yes. to the Lord Jesus. Which is why Paul would say, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies to make you obey their passions. They will if we will be tempted to do so. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. We can now say, because of our union with Jesus, being made new, being freed from the power of sin, which is death. And being raised to life spiritually through the resurrection of Jesus, receiving a whole new life through the power of the Holy Spirit, we can now, by our renewed wills, Say yes to the Lord by saying, I will give my mind, I will give my heart, I will give my loves, I will give my very body, my hands, my imagination to Him. And because his grace and mercy are made new every morning, I was reminded this week we also need to do that every morning. Lord, today I belong to you And this should be a place of peace. But peace in two ways. That not only is the victory of Jesus over sin and death in his resurrection the foundation of our faith and the source of our peace in this life. It also becomes the resource, the power through which we can walk in new obedience and we can also trust God. Walk in new obedience, and we can trust God. What do I mean? As one writer said it this way, We are to understand the work of Jesus Christ as Paul declares it here in a subjective way, first as an individual That the resources being declared here through the power of Jesus' resurrection are for the believer the ability to, by the power of the resurrection and the power of the Holy Spirit, to make a conscious decision. To live for Christ and to give our bodies, our minds, and our hearts over to Him. We can, as Paul would say later in Galatians, we can walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. I've been teaching a class over the last several weeks at a local seminary on the doctrine of the Holy Spirit and of salvation. And I'm glad that we hold those two things together. We cannot talk about the salvation and resurrection of Jesus without talking about the power of the Holy Spirit given to us. after the resurrection of Jesus to those who believe as the source and power of how we walk in new life and new obedience. Paul would later say in Galatians that, but the fruit of the Spirit, the power of the Spirit, what the Spirit does in you and me, as we give ourselves over to him. By decision, trusting in him, the Spirit gives us love, joy, peace, patience, kindness. Goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Jesus Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us walk by the Spirit. Galatians 5. 22. I encourage you to go look that up today. Because you know what? Today, this week and these last few weeks, many of us have been cooped up at home And it has been a field day for our minds running wild and we don't know what to do with ourselves. We feel discombobulated. And many have written about and talked about how overly distracted they are, and they finish the day going, What have I accomplished today? Perhaps you feel in that place. Perhaps you've given to yourselves hours and hours of mindless distraction online. or Netflix or video games. And while there's nothing wrong in any of themselves, any of those things in and of themselves, How quickly in these moments and in this season where we're everything is turned upside down, temptations abound all the more. But thanks be to God on this Easter Sunday, we can be reminded that where sin abounds. God's grace abounds. And today we have the personal resource through the Holy Spirit and through the power of the resurrection. to offer ourselves again to him and our minds, our souls, and our bodies to choose life. But not just subjectively, but corporately. Meaning if you have been gathering together through Zoom or through House Party or through FaceTime or whatever it is you use to gather together, I encourage you, use those for Communal celebration. Reach out to someone if you're in need of accountability. If you're in need of someone reminding you of the promises that are ours in Jesus Christ for new life, reach out to them. And as iron sharpens iron so we can encourage one another, so long as it is today, we can encourage one another to walk in new life. Because the resources are here, not just subjectively, but corporately together. We need one another. We need to be praying for one another. That has been my prayer for you and for the Church of Jesus Christ. That in this season, in the midst of our suffering and not knowing what the future holds, that the Church of Jesus Christ would flourish. And what I mean when I pray that is this. That this would be a time where you and I are reminded again of the deep and powerful resources of the gospel for new life. To love him and to love one another through the power and resources that he gives us But not only is the power over victory, the victory over sin and the victory over death given us the power to walk into obedience, it also enables us to trust God anew. And church, and anyone who is joining us this morning, I want to say to you, I don't know all of your circumstances, as you do not know mine. But this is what I've been reminded of this week and even this very morning. I invite you to trust God Because he's got this. And he has you. He's got this. We are not defeated. We will not be broken down. We will not be removed. We will not be separated from his love. God has got this. Because we're reminded this morning of his victory. He has already won. Let me remind you as I was reminded of this wonderful story, and and those of you who are regularly join us and and you know that I I love a lot of things but I particularly love anything that involves a board snowboard surfboard skateboard I love it all and uh I remember the first time I ever snowboarded I my mind was I was blown away. I said, I'll never ski again. Snowboarding is for me. And uh in 2018, a Korean American young woman by the name of Chloe Kim won the gold medal in the 2018 Winter Olympics. And what's interesting is this is that she was born in Long Beach, California, not known for its snow. And she was raised by her parents, and her father quit his job to drive her to the mountains of California and also to be able to travel with her as she competed. She started uh on her snowboard at age four uh at the Southern California Resort of High Mountain and or Mountain High, and she started uh competing at age six as a member of a team Mountain High. And she was She trained in Geneva, Switzerland from ages 8 to 10 before returning to California in training at Mammoth Mountain. And she joined the U. S. snowboarding team in 2013. That's just the data, but but listen to what happened in the 2018 Olympic Games. Chloe Kim was uh the widely held favorite of the Olympic Games in the snowboard snowboarding event. And she did not disappoint. And on that day, she posted such a high score, a 93. 75 out of a possible 100 points, on her very first run of three. She had the gold medal clinch before she ever took her final run. And when as the last rider in the competition Chloe stood at the top of the pipe. She knew she had won the Olympic gold medal. Whether she had the next run, whether the next run was going to be her best run she ever did, or whether it was the worst, it didn't matter. The lowest score would be thrown out She had absolutely zero pressure. In the cycling world, we call that she was pedaling without a chain. She was in the zone. She had already won. Chloe went on to record in that final run the best performance ever run at the snowboarding event in Olympic history. She scored a 98. 25. I still get goosebumps when I think about it. She landed back to back 1080s. If you don't know what that is, ask me later. I can relate, as one writer said, I can relate to how Chloe felt in that final run. She must have felt incredibly light and free. And excited to see what would happen without the pressure that comes with competing. You see, Chloe, Kim, knew she had already won. And when she set off on that final run, she was completely free. The gospel of Jesus Christ teaches us that all those who are in Christ Have already won. That Jesus, who is victorious over sin and death, has won the race. He has died for sin, our sin, and was raised to life, and those who are united to him in faith are victorious over sin and death, that though s sin we are still tempted by, though death still is around, Jesus will come again and we can say, in the face of our suffering, we have already won. But let me go further in applying it this way. Another Olympian, his name is Ryan Hall. He's married to a woman named Sarah. Ryan Hall became the best known marathon runner in American history. A few years ago, he ran a sub-2, two-hour and five-minute marathon. the fastest ever run by an American in competition. He also has run the fastest in competition, the fastest half marathon. But Ryan Hall would retire from the sport in the mid-teens, and he is now a power lifter. But more than that, and what he wouldn't want to be known for, that he and his wife are professing Christians. And as he as he has reflected on the nature of the resurrection, he is remembering his years and years, years of competition. And reflecting on the resurrection, he said these words as he considered his life. He said, The burden of performing was a stronghold in my life. And it took a long time for it to be broken. It wasn't in broken, it wasn't broken until I understood the reality, the reality that I had already won. Not because of anything I had done, but because of what Jesus has done for me. I realized that much of my competition I really wanted to win because of something I wanted. But I realized a number of things in the middle of that life of competing. Was I seeking some kind of completeness? I now realize I was already complete. Was I seeking some kind of acceptance? I now understand that I'm already accepted. Was I thinking the elation that comes from doing something great? Greatness now dwells within me through the form of the Holy Spirit. Was I seeking wealth? My Heavenly Father already owns the entire universe. Was I seeking fame? My heavenly Father is already the most famous person of all time. Was I seeking glory? My Father will one day get all the glory in heaven and on earth. I finally realize the simple truth that there is nothing I can possess that is more valuable, nor is there anything I can accomplish that is greater than knowing God and being in a right relationship with Him. When the Holy Spirit comes and resides within all who have chosen to accept Jesus' free gift of salvation We have received and achieved something far greater than anything we could ever experience on a playing field or a finish line in work or in business. Or in anything life can give us. We, he says, we have already won. And so I finish today with the words of the Apostle Paul. He says Who is it that condemns? Christ Jesus is the one who died, more than that. Who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or the sword? Or the coronavirus? Or a broken 401? Or an unknown future? Can any of that separate us From the love of God in Christ, Paul declares, No, in all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation Will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus, our Lord. This is the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is our victory. This is our hope. This is our peace. Church, he is risen. He is risen indeed. And if you're hearing my voice today and you do not know the Lord Jesus Christ, I invite you this very moment into the most loving and caring and purposeful relationship you have ever known. And that is the one with the living God. It is his kindness that leads us to confession. And it is his grace that invites you to confess your sin this very moment. And to receive and trust in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. And I can say to you that if you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that Jesus Christ is the Lord of our salvation, that he will come to you. And that His Holy Spirit will be given to you. And that if you are not a part of a living body of Jesus Christ, if you have not been to church before, and you just happened onto this page this morning, I encourage you. Go and Google search the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America. Go look up a gospel preaching church in your community and find the resources, not just for you as an individual, because you can't do it alone. You can only do it being part of the community, the body of Christ, where others can pray with and for you, where you can be discipled and learn what it means to grow in Jesus Christ. This is how I came to faith. This is how I grew in what it meant to know Jesus Christ. And the only reason I stand before you today and preach the good news to you. is because I can tell you I was an enormous jerk before I became a Christian. But God took a jerk like me, and he took a loudmouth like me, he took a rebellious heart like mine, and he made it his own. And though I struggle against sin, I now can say that Jesus is my Lord and it is the one that has changed everything. And it is the only reason I have anything in this life. And so I invite you I invite you to know Jesus today. And let me say, because I can do this today, I know my family is listening to this live stream. I pray today that you would know the peace and victory of Jesus Christ and his salvation. It is the only thing that has changed my life. And that has given me anything. And the reason why I love you is because Jesus has changed my heart. And I pray that you would find that peace. In the victory of Jesus today. And I pray that you would be able to find a place where you can worship Him and trust in Him alone. To the church here at Columbia Presbyterian Church, I pray that today you would know the peace of the risen Christ. As you eat and pray and celebrate today, may you know the peace that comes to you alone through Jesus Christ, and he is our hope and victory. I thank you for your patience. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, I want to thank you today for the good news of Jesus Christ. I thank you for visiting it upon my life. I thank you, O Lord, for the salvation that is mine and that you have given me victory over sin and death. The slavery of sin was a dead end. It never satisfies. Ever. And all that was ever before me, O Lord, was nothing but darkness and death. But now you brought light into my life. And you have brought light into so many's lives, so many people's lives. And Father, I thank you for the light of the gospel. That though we do not know what tomorrow will bring, today we can say that we have Jesus Christ. Thanks be to God. Thanks be to God, because your love will not let us go, and nothing can separate us from the victory that is ours in Christ Jesus, because we have already won. Lord Jesus, thank you for interceding for us. May you draw many to yourself, and may you build up your church in greater faith and dependence on you, and may we declare with all that we can. Jesus Christ is God, and he is risen. He is risen indeed. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.