This morning as we gather together, as we have on these past Sunday mornings, we have a regular time where the deacons and elders of this church gather together for a brief time on Sunday morning. as we seek to pray for the needs of our congregation, ways in which we can care and serve you. I was reminded of that this morning as we interceded for you as we come to this Palm Sunday. And I was also reminded as I entered into the doors of the sanctuary how I missed the sound of our children gathering together to sing the praise of our Lord together. How I wish we could have our children waving the palm branches, singing Hosanna in the highest. And it is no less to the praise of our glorious God that we are worshiping Him while separate. yet together digitally. But I was reminded how I long for the day when we'll be able to gather together to sing his praise. And while we look towards that day, It was all in my preparation for this week as I considered what this week represents in the life of the church. We call it Holy Week. We call it a week which is bookended by Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday, where the Lord would begin as he journeys into Jerusalem In many ways, a journey into descending into his passion, into his suffering, and it will finish with his being raised from death to life for our salvation. Praise be to God. But as I was thinking about that in the last few weeks and preparing for this particular week, I came upon a hymn, and there I was guided by the Spirit, I believe, to come with the name of the series. that will mark this week. It is going to Gethsemane. And this week as we gather together in our various services, and you'll be hearing more about that, in an email that will come this afternoon. We plan to gather together not only for uh Palm Sunday and Easter Sunday. We'll also be doing shorter services that we will have an opportunity for you to join for Monday, Thursday, as well as Good Friday. But as we go into this week of Holy Week, I was thinking about going to Gethsemane as I thought about the old hymn. going to dark Gethsemane. For this whole week, really in many ways in the Gospels is a journey narrative. A journey narrative that represents and displays the work of Jesus Christ as prophet as priest and as king. And as we come into this Palm Sunday, and as we think about his going to Jerusalem, As a part of this journey narrative in the Gospels, it is particularly on Palm Sunday that Jesus functions most clearly in his office as prophet. But we will also see the murmurings of his being the king and the shouts of Hosanna. But we will also witness his function of priest. As he weeps over the city of Jerusalem, indeed as he weeps for you and me And so I'd ask that you join me this morning as we consider just briefly the words of this hymn. Though they're not provided for you on the screen, they're easy enough for you to follow along as I read them briefly. The hymn goes like this, go to Dark Gethsemane, feel the tempter's power, your redeemer's conflict see. Watch with him one hour. Turn not from his griefs away. Learn of Jesus Christ to pray. Turn not from his griefs See him at the judgment hall, beaten, bound, arraigned. Oh the wormwood and the gall The pangs his soul sustained, shun not suffering and shame. Oh, shun not suffering. Learn of Christ to bear the cross, Calvary's mournful mountain climb, adoring at his feet, mark the miracle of time, God's sacrifice complete. It is finished, hear him cry. Oh, it is finished, done. Learn of Jesus Christ to die. It is finished, done. And so we, as we remember and as we celebrate Jesus Christ offering for our salvation his very life, that we might find redemption. We now begin this week of Holy Week as going to Gethsemane, as we are reminded in the passage today in Luke chapter 19 as Jesus enters Jerusalem. Now the passage which I will be focusing on this morning begins in 41 of chapter 19, but I'm beginning to begin reading. in chapter 19, verse 28. Though that will not be projected for you, I encourage you and invite you to open your Bibles. There at your home or wherever you are joining us, whether it's on your phone or in a physical Bible, please join with me in Luke chapter 19, beginning at verse 28. And when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going to Jerusalem. When he drew near to Bethphage, And Bethany, at the time, at the mount that is called Oliveth, he sent two of his disciples, saying, Go into the village in front of you. Where on entering you will find a cult tied on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you why you are untying it, you shall say this, the Lord has need of it. So those who were sent away and found it, just as he had told them. And as they were untying the colt, his owner said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, the Lord has need of it. And they brought it to Jesus. And throwing their cloaks on the colt, They set Jesus on it. And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road. And as he was drawing near, already on the way down to the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works. that they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. And he answered, I tell you, if these were silent, the very stones would cry out. And then the passage we have for us today. And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, saying, Would that you even had known on this day the things that make for peace, but now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up barriers around you and surround you and hem you in on every side. And tear you down to the ground, and you and your children within you, and they will not leave one stone unturned. Because you did not know the time of your visitation. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Now we ask you, O Lord, to hear our prayers as we begin this holy week, as we go to Gethsemane following the Narrative that the disciples have written for us in the Gospels. O Lord, we ask that you would help us to find peace today on this Palm Sunday. As we're reminded of Jesus weeping over the city and over the nation of Israel. Lord, help us to find peace in the tears of Jesus. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. And so this morning, as we look at this passage together, I want you to see that as we look together at this passage, there is a specific historical context, of course, that we need to understand. But as we place it into its appropriate historical context, there are two things that I want us to see demonstrated, and it is in some ways an instruction as we look together. First, how do we see ourselves as we read back over this familiar passage? And then secondly, seeing ourselves through the eyes of Jesus. As he weeps for the city, as he weeps for his enemies, and as he weeps for you and me How do we see ourselves and seeing ourselves through the eyes of Jesus? So let's begin first with a brief historical context. What we need to remember is that Jesus is fully in control. As we enter into this passage, Jesus has just been healing. He's just been inviting, particularly Zacchaeus. Inviting him to himself to trust in him for salvation. Zacchaeus was seen as an enemy of the people, for he was a tax collector. He heals a blind beggar. And he also demonstrates to his disciples he's preparing them for what is to come, though they would find it hard to receive Jesus demonstrates to them as he says, listen, I'm going up to Jerusalem. This is about to happen. I'm going to give myself over to the leaders. And yet I will be delivered over also to the Gentiles. I'll be mocked and shamefully treated. I'll be spit upon. I'll be flogged. And they will shout, kill him, but on the third day he will rise. But they did not understand any of these things. In fact, much of what we understand and how we understand this passage wouldn't come until after the resurrection, where all the things that Jesus taught. Would be understood by the disciples. And so I want you to remember, people of God, that though Jesus was going into Gethsemane, he did so by his own will. For Jesus is fully in control, for he was not taken unaware, he was not shrouded in darkness and non-understanding why these things were happening to him. Jesus knew what was going to happen to him, and at just the right time, Jesus gave himself over. And so Jesus is in full understanding of what he is doing. And so as he enters into Jerusalem, he demonstrates to his disciples that what they are to do He knows the animal which he is going to ride in on. He also knows that he will be received with shouts of Hosanna. Glory to God in the highest. A chance only reserved for the one who is the king, who is the redeemer. And while even as we as the Church of Jesus Christ rightly on this particular Sunday remember and sing Hosanna in the highest, Glory be to God. And we wave these palm branches and we remember the praise shouted upon Jesus. It also happened fully in a much more complex circumstance. That while at the very same moment that they were shouting, Hosanna in the highest, glory be to God, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. There would also be those in the crowd who were angered and who were offended by what they were claiming regarding Jesus. Jesus knew this. In fact, they tell Jesus that he is to silence his disciples. And then Jesus utters something which is both profoundly beautiful and is also another invitation for us. even to worship, for he says, I tell you, if they were silent, the very stones would cry out. Friends As I've spent time outside over these last couple of weeks, I'm reminded of just how glorious the creation shouts, Hosanna. Hosan in the highest. For the creation cries aloud in praise of our God And as I've said to you before, I never want to be outpraised by rocks and trees, but glory be to God, if we ever fail to, the creation will continue to. Thanks be to God. And yet Jesus, knowing that there were those in the crowd who were angered and offended at the praise of him to be the King of heaven. Jesus would go to this place as he would look over the city, and he would cry and weep and intercede. So as we remember this familiar setting, as we remember this familiar story, I want to ask you briefly this morning. If you are a professing Christian and you're joining us on this Palm Sunday, as I would undoubtedly think that you've been part of some Palm Sunday worship service. As you've heard this story even again this morning, I ask you this question. How do we see ourselves in this passage? Do we see ourselves as we hear the passage read? Do we see ourselves among all those who are gathered because of what the disciples had done and joining with the disciples and singing? Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. You see, what's tempting for the Christian is that we read back into the Gospels. we somehow read ourselves back into the the audience that we're saying, praise be to God. Perhaps even as we hear the story of Zacchaeus, we read ourselves back as being like Zacchaeus. And not like those who were offended that a tax collector would be forgiven. How do we see ourselves Christians? Do we puff ourselves up? Do we think, surely, I would have been among those who would say, Hosanna the highest? Blessed be our God. Or are we like the Pharisees? Who were offended? Do we see ourselves like them? Do we see ourselves like the Pharisees who said, How can this be? How can this man claim to be the Son of God? How can this man forgive sins? How can this man break the Sabbath? How can this man bring healing? How can this man be the recipient of praises? How can it be that this man be called Redeemer? How do we see ourselves Well, one way. One way I've tested myself. Do I pray for my enemies? Do I pray for those who most offend me? Would I be willing to sit down and have a meal with someone? who I find repugnant in their attitude, in the way they carry themselves, in the way that they argue, in the way that they spout all kinds of ideas. Even as I'm saying it, I'm thinking of of not maybe not a particular person, but maybe a group of people. Maybe someone who's in my past. Maybe someone in your past. I ask you this question. Think of that person, think of that group of people who you find so completely and utterly offensive. I ask you this question. If you are a Christian, have you prayed for them Let me ask further. Have you wept for them? Have I ever wept For someone who has so deeply offended me that I did not want to be in their presence. And the answer to that question Helps me to answer this first question. How do I see myself in this narrative? And the answer I come to is I don't believe, knowing my own heart, that I would have been among those who would have sung Hosanna in the highest. I think I would have been among those who would have been offended. You see, the part of going into Gethsemane The part of looking at Jesus and not turning my eyes from his suffering as the hymn asks us to do. As we do not turn away from his words, we come into a very serious intersection The nature of the gospel and the state of my heart. And at that intersection, I begin to see just how dark And just how sinful my own heart is. And when I go to Gethsemane, I do not see my own heart or my own mind among those who praise God, but from those who would ask Him? How do you see yourself? I think this passage means to invite us into a far more humble position. then perhaps we've greeted it before. And particularly during this time When we don't know what's going to come in the future? Will our jobs, our economy, will our communities be restored? And how much damage? Will I or loved one be healed of the coronavirus? When we begin to ask questions Why now? Why this? Oh God, where are you? I think a passage like this invites me. into a place and an intersection of the gospel and the state of my heart that helps me to see myself in a lot of in a very different way And it draws me into silence. As I hope it would you. And when we come into this place of silence, And before we even dip into this passage, I ask you to consider, can you hear the words of Jesus this morning? And so let's briefly then look at seeing ourselves through the eyes of Jesus This passage begins in verse 41, and he says, And when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it. And so I want to tell you that we need to metaphorically see ourselves as members of Jerusalem. Jesus is looking upon humanity. And yes, he's looking upon the city of Jerusalem. And you'll see here, as I put it at the first some point, he weeps over the city, for it says, Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace. But now they are hidden from your eyes. For the days will come upon you when your enemies will set up a barrier, a barricade, around you, and surround you, and hem you in on every side. So as Jesus weeps for the city, what does he see? He sees Jerusalem. as the nation of Israel's prized city. And he sees that the city, though it should be prepared for his visitation, Which is, this passage leads us to understand in Jesus' weeping, which is only the second time that we learn of Jesus' weeping. And Jesus' weeping here is not one of anger. but one of longing, one that is a very visitation of grace itself. As he weeps over the city, he says, Would that you, even you, know that what the things that make for peace are visiting you. And so Jerusalem, in its Passover setting, should be ready to receive God's pronouncement of peace as an invitation. through the person and work of Jesus to receive redemption and restoration. Not political restoration, not economic restoration, but spiritual restoration. Relational restoration with God their Father. And Jesus weeps for the city And he warns them. He warns them as a prophet. And here I want to remind you here what is reminded of for us in the book of Jeremiah. Jeremiah, very much like Jesus. A long time before, weeps over Israel. And he says of himself, as he calls out to God, In chapter 9, he says, rather, yeah, chapter 8, I apologize, of Jeremiah, he says in verse 22. Is there no balm in Gilead? Is there no physician there? Why then has the health of the daughter of my people not been restored? Oh, that my head were waters, and my eyes fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. Then, just a couple of chapters later, we hear a similar thing And now there is this weeping that comes as Israel is about to head into exile because of its rejection of the peace which God was offering through his forgiveness and grace and mercy, yet they rejected it. And this is what it says. Hear and give ear, be not proud, for the Lord has spoken. Give glory to the Lord your God. Before he brings darkness, before your feet stumble on the twilight mountains, while you look for light, he turns it into gloom and makes it deep darkness. But if you will not listen, my soul will weep in secret for your pride, my eyes will weep bitterly and run down with tears, because the Lord's flock has been taken captive. You see, Jesus is very much functioning like a prophet here over the city of Jerusalem, much like Jeremiah. And he's weeping over them because they are rejecting the peace that God is offering in relationship with his people, in inviting them into his grace and mercy through his son, the Lord Jesus. Yet they are rejecting him. They want his disciples silenced, yet Jesus weeps and saying, Oh, if you only knew the peace which was being visited, but know this, if you reject me, and not all would reject. But the city does. The city, metaphorically, being the whole of the nation of Israel, he's warning them that a day will come when they will be surrounded on all sides. And that would come, not immediately. But what is being prophesied here is the fall of Jerusalem in 70 A. D. , some almost forty years later. But I want you to know this, that as Jesus is weeping over Jerusalem, the city. He also continues to intercede for the world. But that weeping is not a message of judgment It is a message of invitation to the whole world. Come and see the peace which is being offered to us. Come, do not reject the peace which God is offering to His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And we, as we are susceptible to disease and disaster and natural disaster, we are reminded in these days of our physical frailty, of our physical brokenness. I am not suggesting that this coronavirus and the suffering that we are experiencing is a direct result of a prophecy. No. I'm saying that we, as human beings, because we are sinners, we are given to brokenness in our bodies and in the world. And as such, you and I do not know how long we will live. How many days that we will enjoy life. God in his son, even here, is weeping Over the nations. Oh, that you would have known the day that brings and makes peace. That is today. Do you hear the tears of Jesus? Do you see the invitation? But not only does he weep over the city of Jerusalem, he also weeps for his enemies. Jesus has just heard the voices of his enemies. Not because he has made them his enemies, it's because they have made him theirs. Verse 39, and some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. And we know Because as we will see as we go through this journey to Gethsemane, that it wouldn't just be the Pharisees' voices, it would be other voices that would join with him. Perhaps even some of those voices that would shout aloud, Hosanna the highest would by the end of the week join the voices that would cry out, crucify him. And yet Jesus weeps even for his enemies Even as he cries out, not just to the city metaphorically, but to its inhabitants, he's inviting directly his enemies. Oh, that you would know the peace which is offered to you. And I invite you, friends, remember the words of Jesus even on this Palm Sunday as we look to Gethsemane of what Jesus uttered even on the cross. Father, forgive them. For they know not what they do. Even here, Jesus is experiencing his passion. He's going into Gethsemane. He's beginning to weep over those who he knows will cry out, crucify him. He is not surprised by his enemies. He knows what is in their hearts, and yet his invitation is one that is weeping. The disciples they want silenced. But now we have for us the testimony of the Word of God for time and memorial. As we hear, and when he drew near and saw the city, he wept over it, not just for it as a city, but for his very enemies. I don't know where you are with regard to the Lord Jesus Christ I don't know if this time of suffering has caused you to be more curious about the nature of what Christianity has to say. And while I cannot offer you the answer that I know why this is happening around us with the coronavirus, what I can say. Is that Jesus invites you? He does not consider you an enemy. My question is, do you consider him an enemy? And the tears of Jesus are an invitation to you to come to find peace in the tears of Jesus. Because what is happening around us is out of our control. What is happening to our retirement plans or what is happening to the future plans which we had put in place. causes us to ask, then what is the purpose for my life? And perhaps you've never considered Jesus Christ. Whether you are young, whether you're in the vibrancy of the middle part of your life, or you find yourself in the sunset of your years. Do you hear Jesus inviting you? He has wept for you And he says, peace has visited you even this day. But he also, I want to say to you, Christian. If you are a Christian Regardless of your theological tradition, regardless of what you think of your own faith If you profess faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, my message to you this morning, it is not the strength of your faith, it is not the size of your faith, it is the one in whom you place your faith that matters. And Jesus weeps for you. You see, as we go into Gethsemane, as we hear these words of Jesus, And he says to them, and they will not leave one stone upon you, upon one another in you, and because you did not know the time of your visitation. I will say to you, if you're a Christian, you have heard this call and you have heard the call to the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and you have said that you believe. But some of you may meet us this morning and you may doubt. Thanks be to God, our faith is robust enough for any doubt that you bring to the service this morning For God is not thwarted by our doubts. He is not thwarted by our unbelief. He is not thwarted by the very idea that we might consider him unworthy of our praise, and yet Jesus weeps over you. But Christian, I say to you this morning these wonderful words. I want you to remember this morning. That in the Christian faith, at the heart of our faith, is a Savior and a Redeemer, the Son of God who was made man who suffered in every way and is tempted and was tempted in every way that you and I will ever experience temptation. And he experienced suffering. He experienced a suffering to the point that you and I cannot truly grasp or imagine. And yet it is displayed for us and told to us in the scriptures. But this very moment At the end of this week, as we look forward, we will rejoice in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And the scriptures declare to us that Jesus is seated at the right hand of God the Father. Do you know what was begun here as Jesus weeps for the city of Jerusalem, as he weeps for his enemies, as he weeps for you and me? Do you know that the end of this week comes the promise that Jesus is still interceding for us? He's interceding for you. Here's what God's Word says in Hebrews chapter 12. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely. Let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. Christian, are you weary? Are you growing faint? Do doubts crowd your mind? I say to you, Jesus is interceding for you this morning. By the authority of God's word, Jesus is not only our great prophet He is not only our King and Redeemer, He is our priest who intercedes for us. And he has endured temptation, he has endured suffering, he's endured hostility. So that you and me While we are weak, we are made strong because of his intercession. Consider the words of Paul in 2 Corinthians 12 Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this, that it should leave me. But he said to me, My grace is sufficient for you, for my power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore I will boast all the more gladly of my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me. For the sake of Christ, then I am content with my weaknesses. insults, hardships, persecutions, and calamities, for when I am weak, then I am strong. Thanks be to God that our present suffering is not a surprise to our Lord and Savior. And his word to us through the Apostle Paul is that when we are weak When we face persecution, hardships, famines, insults, calamities, diseases The Lord is our strength. You see, we need to remember that this time is a time for our teaching. A time for our learning. That our hope is not in man. Our hope is not even in survival. Our hope is not in governments or in cures or in bank accounts or in education Jesus weeps over us because he longs for us to find our hope in him alone, whose strength is made perfect even in our weakness. I share this with you as we close this morning. Again, from the work of Dr. John Frame. Writing about the intercession of Jesus. He says, What is the resurrected Christ doing right now He is interceding at the Father's right hand, even now. He is thinking of us, bringing our needs to the Father's attention. Of course, Scripture also speaks of the Holy Spirit interceding for us, Romans chapter 8. The two persons, the Holy Spirit and Jesus, act in unity to bring the believers' needs before God's great throne of grace The Father willingly hears the intercession of his son and his spirit. The bottom line is that we can be sure that the Father will withhold no good thing. From us. The whole Trinity is on our side. God is on, God is of one mind on our behalf. And if God is for us, who Or what can be against us? Thanks be to God. And so I invite you this morning as we consider this passage Jesus does not weep for himself, as one writer said. He weeps for the city. He weeps for those who will soon shout, crucify him. And in other words, he weeps for us. All these tears, and every tear that has ever been shed by anyone anywhere is rolled up in the tears of our Redeemer Jesus. God's Son weeps for you, and may you know that today is the day of his peace, which is visited upon us, and his weeping is our invitation. To receive him. May the Lord bless you today and remind you of his intercession, of his love for you, his grace to you, and your families are wherever the Lord has you. And regardless of age, regardless of background, his message to you is peace. May you know his peace today. Let's pray together Heavenly Father, we now ask that you would receive and hear our prayers, that you would hear the cries of your people, and that you would hear the intercession of your Son and your Holy Spirit together On behalf of your people and on behalf of the world. May all those who hear my voice know that today is a day of your visitation That the peace of God has visited upon us and invited us to experience and to drink deeply of your mercy and grace. And may your weeping be for us strength. And may your strength be made perfect in our weakness. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.