A wide range of experience. He was a missionary in uh Seoul, Korea for twelve years from nineteen sixty to nineteen seventy-two and has traveled extensively throughout the world teaching, working with various missions groups on times since that. He's a man known for his deep, uh rich scholarship. He has written a number of books. He has edited more books when I taught a course. in seminary on hermeneutics. It was his book on hermeneutics that he had edited that I used as the text. He edits the urban a journal on urban missions. There are a number of things he's contributed to and is well known for his scholarship. He's also qualified by A Heart for the City that God has given to him. He has worked for a number of years with the Center for Urban Theological Studies and has helped to develop that work as a model for training inner city pastors. and uh a number of things that he has done in order to help Christians within the city to use the resources, to be trained, and also to link them with other Christians to more effectively build the kingdom of God there. But I would say that the thing that uh is most important to me is, as I've known him through the years, his devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. And a joy that permeates uh his being. He is a man who has known uh at least his share of suffering and trial. And yet has been one who has been a testimony to me of the sufficiency of Christ, of the grace of Christ. He is the kind of guy who just kind of enjoys laughing at himself and enjoys life fully. And so, uh, I uh know that for those of you who were here on Friday, you've already been blessed. In fact, I'll I'll risk it. Uh How many here uh on Friday received some blessing or challenge? Uh this so you were here Friday and you received that say amen. Okay. But let me, as I put Harvey on, remind you that this is a man who has traveled with the church very broadly and is very used to speaking to black churches, African American churches, and other kinds of churches And so uh he's used to interaction. And so, you know, even though I keep pressing you about how uh preaching God's word is a two-way operation. It's coming from the Lord through the speaker to you, but there is a reception and a feedback. Don't be afraid to break the Presbyterian stereotype and to respond as God speaks to you. And as I commend to you to hear and to be challenged in your life now, Dr. Harvey Kahn. Actually I'm not a doctor. I'm a saint. I always like hearing those introductions about myself. The uh then I go home and describe them to my wife and she just sits there and laughs and The uh only the the truth is known only by God and your spouse. Uh the uh I'd like to draw your attention this morning to a verse that was read to you earlier from Luke chapter 15. Uh I I th I think I found out or if I heard something right at the breakfast table. I rarely hear things at the breakfast table except, you know, I'll have another cup of coffee. Uh The uh but I think I heard uh Al say something about this text has already been preached on a week or two ago. Did I hear that? The subject. Okay, okay. Well I'll throw this sermon away and we'll uh uh great. Well let's turn to Genesis. I love this. Uh the uh I remember uh I think it was a few weeks ago I went to a church and I preached the same message. And there was some godly saint who happens to remember every sermon preached by anybody. And uh You know, she said, Oh, I really enjoyed this message eighteen years ago. You changed an illustration, you know. And I said, Oh, may the Lord curse your children. Anyway, uh the last time I was here was about eight years ago I think, and you were in the uh the mall, as I remember, and uh the uh surely no one will remember this one. Uh The uh when then it gets preached two weeks ago, well I'll talk about the anger of the Lord. Uh The uh verse I want you to draw uh uh to uh put before you especially verse seven of this fifteenth chapter. I tell you that in the same way there is more rejoicing in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous persons who do not need to repent. Uh I'm immediately grateful by the way for the microphone. Those of our who are here Friday night could hear every sound that came from my body. The uh I haven't eaten for two days just being afraid of what would happen this morning. Uh But it's so far it's so good, you know. Lovely. Uh the uh what was I saying? Uh the uh Uh in this uh uh passage, uh surely very familiar one to most of us already, uh what's Jesus getting at? Uh some years back, uh too many years ago now to remember, uh remember accurately, but well enough to draw sermon illustrations from I was in a very large city in the Midwest and uh is my voice changing uh and invited to a Bible study The uh Bible study was held around midnight. That should have warned me about something, and uh uh held in not the liveliest or most comfortable part of the city Uh but that's places where I've learned uh long ago learned to enjoy. Uh we walked up this uh my friend and I walked up this rickety staircase. Uh The uh everything smelled the wrong way. Uh a couple of empty light bulbs overhead and uh into this room. There was a long table and fr flowing table in front of us and uh uh seated around it uh small group of people, ten, twelve folks as I remember now, uh at one end of the uh table uh uh was the uh uh leader of the group. Uh the uh he wore this black t-shirt with a with a cross and the skull on it and uh the uh it looked a little bit like Sylvester Stallone and he had this big tattoo on his arm, uh heart with a dagger, blood dripping from it. I think the blood was real And uh across the word mother. A homie fellow. Uh at the under at the other end of the table uh was the leader of the Bible study. Uh uh in front of the leader an open Bible, can of beer. There were beer cans all over the table, uh, cigar smoke in the room. uh the Bible leader was smoking a very long black cigar and she was really enjoying it. And I thought, boy, this is my kind of crowd. Uh you're sort of taking a little bit aback and then the uh Bible study starts. It went on until about three o'clock in the morning These were uh new believers. Uh they asked the hard questions that new believers do like where did Cain get his wife? Those kinds of things. Uh But they were very genuine questions and it was very evident that the Lord had been working in their hearts. People around this Bible study were bikers. Uh the uh two, three of the members of the Bible study uh had come to Christ uh from hell's angels. Uh they had been they'd become another kind of angel. Uh the fellow at the end of the Bible st at the end of the table with the uh uh tattoo uh was a member of the Christian uh uh motorcycles association. He spent six months of his year traveling from one biker camp to another, sharing the Bible, talking to people about Jesus. That's what Jesus is talking about here. There is joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. Uh uh about a year or so ago we found ourselves in Sydney, Australia, talking to the pastor of uh organization called the Wesley Gospel Mission. Uh they had just uh dedicated a 13-story building right in the heart of Sydney, Australia uh to the evangelization of Australia and uh this brother was excited. Uh I asked him uh how he carried on his work. And he began to talk about one uh to illustrate it, began to talk about one particular group that they had just started working with. He says we're always on the lookout for people who seem to be on the fringe and not really interested in Christ. So uh he said we got talking I got talking with my assistant pastor who happened to be Chinese and we started talking about the large number of Chinese and Asian immigrants that had poured into Australia since the end of World War Two particularly. And uh uh he said, Oh, we just sort of d started dreaming and I said to myself, I wonder how many uh illegal Chinese immigrants there are in Sydney. And uh then my associate pastor says, I wonder how we can get them into the church and hear the gospel. So uh uh said this pastor, I gave that assignment uh to my associate And uh uh for three months uh he gathered that data. Uh how'd he gather data on illegal Chinese immigrants, I asked. And he said, well, he said, we decide the best way to do it uh was to send uh the pastor around to visit all of the Chinese restaurants in downtown Sydney Only he visited them about two o'clock in the morning, uh, and he went around the back door. Uh so they wouldn't think he was uh uh an agent from immigration or something uh and for two or three months he collected his information that way and we found out at uh the end of his study uh that there were about uh twenty five hundred to three thousand illegal Chinese immigrants uh in Sydney. Uh then uh I asked him, well what did you do next? And he said, Well last Sunday uh we had our first worship service for Chinese illegal immigrants. And uh uh he said uh we had two hundred and fifty out for our first worship service Uh what time did you begin? I asked. We started at 3 a. m. on Saturday night, when everybody gets out of the restaurants. Uh there is more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents The uh few years ago some of us uh were in East Africa in the country of Uganda. We had gone there Short very shortly after I Yamine, you may remember his name, had left the country, uh Uganda was in total disaster. Um everything had collapsed, fallen apart, nothing was moving, public services were just non existent. And you'd walk through the capital city, Kampala, and you would see literally on every block massive piles of garbage, uh, because the health system had broken down, there were no trucks anymore, people would just take their garbage and dump it on the streets. uh by the central market. It was a pile literally about twice as high as uh as I am. Uh and we started thinking What can we do? Uh we are faced also with a city and a people uh that had lost all sense of hope, literally. Uh uh you would g uh uh you got when you conduct in public street meetings some of the strangest questions I think I've ever received. Uh I remember uh the first time we did it there and someone asked me out of a large crowd that was gathered to listen Someone asked me, do you really think God is here in Uganda? Someone else uh asked the question, has God on a di on another time, has God abandoned Uganda And we started struggling with how can we tell these people and show these people that God is still here and that he loves Uganda? And how can we do this with evangelism? So we decided, let's do garbage evangelism. And uh the uh uh we went to the Minister of Health And we asked him, told him who we were, and we asked him if he could loan us a garbage truck. And I remember that visit, he couldn't believe uh who was in his office There were very few uh what were then in called in U in Uganda Europeans around and I think it was the first time he'd ever heard a European uh ask if he could collect garbage The uh that's not something in Uganda usually associated with whites. Uh so we told him our purpose. Uh uh he looked uh in astonishment Then he took us down behind his building in this long open parking space and you saw all the garbage trucks. Every single one was up on blocks. Because when Edi Amin left the country he took all the wheels off the trucks. uh for his tanks and uh and uh and uh his own trucks. The uh and there were only two trucks left for this city of several hundred thousand people Uh so he said, I'll loan you one garbage truck. Uh so out we went and uh we put uh big sign on the side of one of the garbage trucks saying Jesus is the answer. And then we uh headed for the largest garbage pile we could find right near the uh marketplace And uh there were uh several of us from uh the United States, large numbers of uh Christian brothers uh from Uganda And all day long we threw garbage into the truck. Uh we uh threw the garbage in and while we were doing that we would sing gospel songs as we heaved the garbage and uh there would always be somebody taking a break. besides the garbage pile who would be uh preaching. Uh I took the most breaks because I was the most gifted preacher. Uh and this went on for a whole day. Uh Uh there were uh without uh any kind of preacher's exaggeration, there were about two hundred people who never left that garbage pit all day uh uh to hear us as we talked about Jesus. And uh suddenly uh faith and works came together in a very concrete way. And from that time on, uh two days out of every week, uh we tackled the garbage piles. all over the city of Kampala. Uh the uh the results of all that, uh one young man who'd been sent on an errand to the market by his boss, stood by the garbage pit, listened to us knelt down uh in the ground to pray uh and to receive Christ as his Lord, uh went back an hour late to his job and got fired The uh how the Lord answers prayer. Uh the uh uh then we had to go to his boss and explain to him what had happened to get him back on the job uh and to encourage his boss uh to accept Christ. There is joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. This passage, that you've got in front of you is uh very old ones and the story most of us know pretty well. Uh It's a heavy favorite with the beginners' classes in Sunday school. Uh I find that adults like to do heavy things like Romans and Deuteronomy. Uh uh our one of our kids uh went to uh Christian college down south, Covenant College and I remember we took them down for the uh uh their when they entered when the uh our boy entered and the little church nearby the uh college where the pastor was preaching the Sunday were there on Deuteronomy. And uh we went back four years ago uh when uh our boy graduated and the pastor was in the sixth chapter of Deuteronomy. And I think the church just about died. The avoid Deuteronomy if you want a growing church. Anyway The uh uh this one's fairly easy, so generally, you know, young uh adult classes don't bother with this kind of stuff. Uh But children in the beginner's class like stories about fuzzy lambs. Uh and you can put cotton batten on the back of of uh pictures and things like that. Uh Here's this uh uh here's the uh shepherd. Uh he uh uh sociologically he would be middle class. Uh He doesn't have a a large uh herd of sheep or whatever you call a bunch of sheep together. Uh he's uh got a hundred. Uh that puts him uh in the middle uh roughly in the middle class in the world of his day. Uh he doesn't have a large operation. Uh you'll notice uh in the story he doesn't have any hired hands to do all this running around for him. Uh he is the shepherd. He takes care of things himself It's time for the evening count, and uh says Jesus in the story, they all sort of march by uh and uh uh he discovers very quickly one of his sheep is missing. Uh now in our day we could write this off as a tax credit. Uh the uh and I suspect probably in the days of Jesus there wouldn't be many around who get that excited. I mean one out of a hundred is is not a terrible loss. But uh the sh this shepherd is concerned. So uh we're told by Jesus that he leaves the sheep and he goes out into the open country to find his lost sheep. Uh in the church where I was a cr uh saved, uh there is a picture of this parable, and you probably uh maybe in your Christian lifetime you've seen a picture of this too. Uh I found usually I find it whenever I go back and visit my home church, it's usually uh behind a door in the kitchen. And uh I have a feeling increasingly it's not great art. Uh the uh So you may have a same picture. Look behind the door of your kitchen. Anyway, there is this uh uh uh you've seen this before, I'm sure. Uh Uh it's this terrific uh cliff and uh you know it's really dark like a huge chasm and and then you see this shepherd and he's Uh as I recall, he's hanging on to a bush or something and he's sort of reaching over the edge, you know, sort of an Adam Twelve kind of thing. And uh you know, it's Indiana Jones and the lost sheep. And he's uh Uh and then way down there somewhere is this sheep who's sort of hanging on by his teeth or whatever sheep hang on by. And the shepherd's reaching down. You've seen that picture, right? Uh or I think probably in the hymnal that we often use in our churches there's uh there's a hymn about this uh uh parable and it you know it draws on all the agony and the blood and the gore. I don't think we did that in the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. But anyway, uh the uh uh that hymn isn't very accurate biblically. It sings okay. And certainly the picture isn't. Uh because uh in the parable of Jesus the focus is not on all the agony that the shepherd goes through to get there. Uh it's open country after all And all you get is just this simple picture of the shepherd finding the sheep. Uh when I did some Bible study for this one uh the uh passage I found out for example that the uh uh that uh sheep apparently do not run and and jump off of cliffs when they get lost. Uh they're not like those Well those lemmings, you know, that when they get lost they run out to the sea. Sheep don't do that. Uh the instead, uh this one Bible scholar told me whose father was a missionary in uh in what's now Israel Uh he said that usually what sheep do is when they get lost they just sort of lay down where they are. Uh you know, they don't run around demonstrating the uh uh more rights for lost sheep Uh uh they just sort of lay down right there where they are. And I think that's the picture you've got as you read between the lines here. Here's the sheep Uh the shepherd finds the sheep. You know, he doesn't run around for about half an hour like Jerry Lewis trying to get this sheep. It's right there. He picks up the sheep, he puts it on his shoulders you know, grabs hold of the front legs and the back legs and back he goes home. It's that simple. And the story ends with the shepherd walking into his village, uh calling his friends and his neighbors together, and saying, Rejoice with me, I found my sheep. Now The uh if the Bible scholars are right here, this language, rejoice with me, is a special kind of a language. It was sort of proverbial in the days of Jesus for let's have a party. So what's happening here is the shepherd is inviting everybody in his neighborhood to have a party. Uh you know, they're gonna tie ropes off of the edge of the field and they're gonna have this huge block party. Uh Uh they'll have this roast, and the guest of honor will be this sheep. Uh and that's how the parable ends. Uh now the uh at the center of the parable, very obviously in all of this, is this picture of the shepherd. Uh the shepherd who seeks uh this sheep. Uh what uh is this central figure of the story? Well, most of the time when I heard this preached or taught, uh the focus is usually on uh the uh on a call uh for many of us to become involved as shepherds. Uh the uh uh this is a very handy one to preach for example Uh when it's summertime and you need a teacher for vacation bible school for the uh maybe for the high school group. Uh everybody always needs a teacher for the high school group. Uh because we all volunteer for the beginners. Uh the uh you know, wouldn't you like to become a shepherd of the high school class? Is he kidding? Uh the uh uh it fits in there. Uh I think it's uh I think that approach is wrong And I want to suggest to you that uh the sen in this parable, uh the center or the defining who this shepherd is Uh you have to push a little bit further than talking about uh about uh looking for teachers for the Sunday school. Uh you're gonna have to uh rethink it if uh you've decided that uh Jesus here is talking about evangelists. No, he isn't. In this parable, through this image of the shepherd, Jesus is talking about himself. The uh he is uh in the Old Testament uh uh you will frequently come across this imagery or language about shepherds, and almost always the imagery theologically is about God. In the book of Genesis, for example, I think it's Jacob towards the tail end of the book who talks about God who has been my shepherd all my life up until now. And then there's Psalm 23, right? The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. Isaiah talks about God as a shepherd. uh who gently carries the lambs in his bosom. Uh theologically, to the Old Testament people of God, to talk about shepherds was to talk about God. Now, near the end of your Old Testament, Something happened to this picture. It was read, I think part of it, you got a picture of it, in that passage from Ezekiel that was read for you this morning. Ezekiel chapter 34. And uh in that uh beautiful chapter, uh, you've got the Lord speaking uh to his people, uh the Lord specifically addressing the kings and the leaders of their people, whom God had called to be his shepherds. These kings, these leaders of Israel, were supposed to be shepherds. They were supposed to take care of sheep. So the passage in Ezekiel 34 begins with that kind of rhetorical question. Uh woe to the shepherds of Israel who only take care of themselves. Should not shepherds take care of their flock? Of course they should. And then the passage goes on to condemn the shepherds who don't take care of their flock. Verse 4, you have not strengthened the weak. or healed the sick, or bound up the injured, you have not brought back the strays or searched for the lost. There's that picture again. Uh so God says his sheep are scattered all over the place and God says, I am now tired of these fake shepherds. Uh I myself will come, says the Lord. and I will remove them from tending the flock, and I will rescue my flock. God Himself will come down to tend his sheep and make them lie down. I will bind up the injured. I will strengthen the weak. And then the passage ends, verse 23. I will place over them one shepherd, my servant, David, and he will tend them. He will tend them and be their shepherd. A prophecy. When is this prophecy going to be fulfilled? When will God come and take care of his sheep? When will God send his servant David once again to take care of the sheep? And that's the point of this parable in Luke 15. Because you see, the heart of this parable is Jesus speaking very quietly, almost indirectly, to this question. But still answering it in a very powerful way, it's Jesus saying, I will be, I am this shepherd. I am that servant, spoken of by Ezekiel. I'm the son of David who's come to be the shepherd. And that's the good news. That's the here and now of it. God has come to be a shepherd. And God's name is Jesus. Uh it's a very powerful passage at the center of it the Lord. And now says uh Luke, we can all rejoice because this great promised day when the shepherd would come We don't have to wait around any longer, no more sitting for hours and hundreds of years in that waiting room for God to say you could come in now. uh because now uh the Lord has opened the door and now the Lord says it's here. Uh the shepherd has come, there's a new day. Uh God has come to pick up his strays. And uh at the heart of this story is Jesus. Must have been quite a shocker to those who listen to this parable. And around this grand theme that Jesus relates to us is not simply the shepherd, not just Jesus as the shepherd, it's Jesus as the seeking shepherd. In the New Testament, I think this is a course, as you know, this runs through your New Testament, right? Matthew's gospel, Jesus looks out on the multitudes and sees them as sheep that had no shepherd. Uh John's Gospel, Jesus speaks, I am the good shepherd. Peter describes Jesus as the Prince of Shepherds. Everywhere you turn, it's there. And it's all theology, I see. It's not Jesus drawing us nice little pictures we can use to describe to kids. It's Jesus and the New Testament writers saying, okay This is the time for the big change. The curtain's going up, the doors are opened, the Lord is here, and the Lord's a shepherd. uh makes all the difference in the world. And he's a compassionate shepherd. He's a seeking shepherd. He's looking for the lost. Uh this category of the lost is a heavy one uh in the gospels. Uh most people I think when they go to a passage like this and they're sort of thinking, well what does Jesus mean when he talks about lost? Uh the uh it's uh uh y if you're if you've listened to Billy Graham or most preachers, uh you very quickly have picked up the idea that uh r the word lost is just sort of another word for sinner. Instead of everybody's a sinner, everybody's lost. And that's generally how folks look at this passage. I want to suggest to you that that is quite wrong, and that that is not what Jesus means by the lost in this passage. Jesus does not use this term As another term for everybody under the sun who's drifted away from God. That's not what Jesus means by this term. Uh actually, you don't find this word very frequently in your Bible. Most of the time you'll find it in the Gospels. Paul doesn't use it much at all. But there it is. Jesus begins his public ministry and he talks to his disciples. What should they do? And Jesus says Well, this is what you shouldn't do. Don't go, he says, to the Gentiles. Don't go to the Samaritans. But he says, go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Interesting He doesn't just say go to Israel. He doesn't even just say go to the sheep of Israel. He says go to the lost sheep of Israel. And if you remember, later on in this gospel, Jesus uh brings Zacchaeus into the kingdom of God. And when uh Jesus' ministry is criticized by his opponents. Jesus responds by telling them why he's come, and he says, The Son of Man, meaning himself, has come to seek and to save that which was lost. And suddenly this category of lost is a word that not only describes the ministry of Jesus' disciples, it's also being used to describe Jesus' own ministry. Now what does he mean by it? Uh when the Lord used it, how was it used? Well, I think to get at it, we if we take a minor sidetrack. And look at the thinking of the Pharisees. Remember, will you that in Luke fifteen, uh, Jesus is speaking this parable uh in response to the Pharisees. As the passage opens Uh the uh Pharisees have been criticizing uh Jesus. They don't like his table manners. Uh the criticism is not addressed to his preaching. It's to the kind of people he eats with. This man welcomes sinners and eats with them. And then says Luke, Jesus told them this parable. So this is a story intended to respond to this angry antagonism of the Pharisees So here they are again, this uh holy, happy group called the Pharisees. Uh those of us who've been in the church or around long enough to listen to Pastor Harris. Uh know that Pharisees are the bad guys of the gospels. Uh they're the ones that wear the black hats. These are the twisted Chuck Norrises of the New Testament. Uh and we all know probably by now these are hypocrites, you know, these are very bad type people. Uh I think that's very unfortunate. Uh they have been given a bum wrap And uh the uh uh probably uh because we know all of this, we miss the punch of this passage. Uh it's sort of like reading a mystery novel and you read the last chapter first to find out who did it, you know, and then you can read through the rest of the book and said, aha, I knew that. Uh and we do that with Pharisees. Actually Pharisees were very good people. Uh they were moral, they were clean living. They were the kind of people you'd like to have in your church. Uh if you read some of the other stories about them in the New Testament, you begin to see just how good they were. Uh for example, they were tithers. They took a tenth of their money and they gave it to the Lord. Uh I suspect that probably the deacons in this church would love to have plenty of Pharisees in their c in this congregation. You know, we could take care of probably this huge debt we've got for this building. Or at least pay for a light bulb up there or somebody put it in. The uh not the insurance, but anyway, uh the uh Pharisees uh gave willingly of their money. They were enthusiastic witnesses. In one of the parables, Jesus talks about how the Pharisee would stop on the street corner and lift up his hands to the Lord, you know, and pray. The uh you know, these are the kind of people it'd be great. They'd go to malls and pass out tracks. Uh the uh uh the they go to the World Cup Finals today, you know, and pass out Bible verses. Uh these These are the cut they'd have they'd be there for the march on Jes uh for Jesus yesterday. Uh these are clean living people. Uh they are moral people. They have a sense of what's right and what's wrong. Th Uh you know, they don't mess around with uh their uh neighbors. Uh they uh behave themselves, they're clean living proper kind of people. They are the kind of people you'd like to have in this church, right? Sure they are. And that's exactly how they were perceived in the New Testament. Good, honest, straightforward people for whom religion meant a great deal. I mean, these are the kind of people George Bush talked about. The uh not quail, but anyway, he couldn't spell Pharisee. Anyway. The uh uh these are the right sort of folks, right? Sure they are. Now the Pharisee, when they looked out on their world, they divided their world up into two parts, the Jews, like themselves, and then the rest of the world. And they didn't have much time for the rest of the world, for the Gentiles, the the outsiders, those who didn't have the Word of God. But they weren't even done with their Jewish world. They rolled up they rolled up their sleeves again And they cut the Jewish world into two parts, unequal, of course. Here are the Pharisees, and then here are the rest of the Jews. And included in the rest of the Jews were those who sometimes made their living by violating the law of God, prostitutes. Uh in this passage in Luke chapter fifteen it talks about Jesus gathering the sinners to hear him. And if you've noticed in your bu in your New International Version the word sinner's got little quotes around it. Sinner was a term often used in the n in the gospel to describe it was a euphemism for prostitute, for hooker. And so here's Jesus, surrounded by all these hookers, and by the tax collectors, regarded in the first century as thieves and traitors to their country. All the wrong people coming to watch Jesus. Now, the Pharisee had a word for these people. They were not the kind of people you'd like to see at Columbia Presbyterian Church. Really not. The uh Uh what would happen, for example, if you had a if we transported this congregation to Atlantic City and uh one Sunday morning and you only had faithful regular services, and then one Sunday morning into this congregation comes the head of the local Mafia family. You know, he has you give him a seat all alone by himself in the corner and sort of quietly pray he won't come again. The following Sunday he's there with his family. Very generous in the collection plate. You're beginning to wonder how he got here The following Sunday, several people from the chorus line, one of the local gambling spots, shows up. You start talking about what Pastor Harris is really doing. The group grows. Now they show up in their tuxedos. And there's a quiet movement to uh talk to Pastor Harris about his activities. See uh we don't ordinarily like those people, they don't fit. They're not really the righteous kinds of folks, are they? No, they're not. The uh you know the term the Pharisee used to describe uh those who made their those Jews who made their living by violating the law of God? Call them the lost. And now what Jesus is doing here is taking this term used by the Pharisees to describe not everybody in the world, but used by the Pharisees to describe those Jews Who did not conform to the law of God, and now Jesus uses that term, and in using that turns the whole theology of the Pharisee upside down. And uh he says, You know what God has come to do? He's come to look up all those telephone numbers in the men's bathroom that you've graffitied onto the wall because he wants those people in his kingdom. And it doesn't make any sense. You really want those kind of folks in your church? Uh that uh lady who ke who uh walks in, she's been here before. She's got uh three children out of wedlock and she looks pregnant again. You want to have a church filled with those kind of people You want to have a church uh uh filled with people with the wrong names and the wrong colors, coming from the wrong backgrounds? You wanna have those kind of people, church? And the Pharisees says, Of course we wouldn't. And Jesus says, Of course we would. Because there's a word for that. Now for the Pharisees, this is way out of line. God does not like sinners. God does not love sin. Sure doesn't. But God loves sinners. And the word that we have in the Christian church to describe this is grace. And that's what's at the heart of this parable. Turned the whole world of the Pharisees upside down. There is a revolution brewing in this passage. And it's a revolution at the center of which Stand a group of people isolated by their sin, pushed out to the very edge, no place for them within the circle of God's love. And Jesus says, uh, uh I've got a corner just for them, uh right at the feet of the Lord. Uh because uh there's more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. In the world of missions today, frequently we'll talk about this, and uh I think maybe uh this will fit in. Uh Pretend with me that we've got a big world in front of us and we'll divide that up into about four pieces. Now actually we should probably divide it up into three, but that ruins my illustration. Uh we'll divide it up into four roughly equal pieces. And we'll pretend that one of those pieces represents the number of people who profess the name of Jesus in the world. Actually, that number is now up to about 33%. Then we'll pretend that all the rest of those pieces, three-fourths of the world or two-thirds are those who do not know Jesus Christ. Okay? Now let's take one, another one of that quarterpiece And let's pretend for a minute that these are our neighbors. These are the kind of people we can talk to. We can invite them to church. We speak the same language. Uh the uh these are the people that may pick up a track we put on a bus uh seat. These are the people who can turn on their radios and listen to Billy Graham probably twenty-four hours a day. There's uh Christian radio stations that will be constantly reaching out to touch them. In other words They're sort of always within the hearing of the gospel. Uh there's always some way we can get across. Uh their neighbors or whatever. Uh they don't know Jesus, but the church is there and the church can reach out to them, okay? Now let's take the rest of that piece of ours. That's about 50% of the world, right? And let's start dividing up that world of ours that left into all kinds of groups of people. Sometimes different languages, sometimes diseases, uh sometimes occupations, but they've all got sort of their own little circles. We'll call these people groups. And then let's deal with the reality, uh, with one reality. Uh that these groups, and there are thousands of them, maybe now about eleven thousand or more. These are groups that are without Jesus Christ. These are groups within which there's no organized, structured, functioning, excited church to share Jesus. How are these people going to hear about Jesus? Well, how about all those next-door neighbor Christians? No. That won't work. Why won't it? Because there are no next-door neighbor Christians in these groups You mean to tell me that over eleven thousand people groups in the world have no way to hear about Jesus? Exactly. That's exactly what I'm trying to tell you. Well, how on earth are these groups going to hear? Uh how are they going to be touched by the good news? Somebody's got to go do it. Uh we need a shepherd who's gonna cross uh the open country and welcome back the sheep. And not be afraid what color the sheep are or what language they speak or how different they look from our kind of sheep. And there's all kinds of groups like that. Uh one of the largest groups of untouched peoples, I think, today, is a group that has been created really only in the last ten to twenty years Something popped out of nowhere. It's a group that crosses almost every ethnic line. You will find within this group people who speak Polish, speak up people who speak Korean, Japanese, Spanish, English. Uh these people are gays and lesbians. These are the people these are the AIDS patients. They are an unreached people. They are what has been very properly called the lepers of this century. And we don't touch 'em. The uh we've got our feelings, our concerns, legitimate ones. But all of that hinders us from reaching out to gays and to lesbians. And say, hey, there's a place for you uh at the banquet table of the Lamb. Active and exciting ministries I have seen in terms of reaching gays and lesbians for Christ. Just a few years ago, uh they began to extend that ministry uh outside the uh church building of a wide sidewalk right in the heart of downtown Philadelphia. A lot of uh uh male prostitutes began going after the men as they came out from the evening service. Some of the members of the church got upset, came to see the elders, Pastor, should we call in the police And the pastor's answer and the answer of the pastoral staff, call in the police, we need to call in Jesus. So uh started evangelizing the male prostitutes that did their hooking on the uh front doorstep. I visit 10th Presbyterian Church and the last two or three rows probably will be filled with male prostitutes. Come to hear about Jesus. Jesus has come to seek and to save the lost. And he's got no neat definitions of how nice you've got to be to qualify as lost. Only the Pharisees carry those definitions. Unreach people. The uh few years ago uh at a meeting of Urbana I was in a hallway talking to a missionary from Japan. He'd heard something I said and shared this story with me. He said that as a missionary in Japan, he had decided in order to try and reach uh Japanese business people. He found that uh the businessmen love to do golfing. So he said I started uh golf evangelism. Uh I didn't say anything Uh the uh and he said I go out to the uh greens and I would become I join in and become a foresome. And he said it gives you marvelous opportunities to go through those eighteen holes and you're talking to share Jesus And he said, I did that for over six months, nothing happened. Nobody became a Christian, and there didn't seem to be a great deal of interest. And he said the change came one day when he was walking back to the clubhouse after the eighteenth hole and the Japanese caddy that was with him and had been carrying his bags over I don't know how many uh countless courses. asked him uh about this Jesus he'd been talking to about. And he said, uh several of the caddies at the clubhouse uh would like to hear you talk to them about Jesus So he walks into the clubhouse and begins sharing the gospel with Japanese caddies and unreached people. The uh and uh the Lord just sort of slips them in front of you. Uh Yeah, back in the 1980s, uh the federal government began to empty out the mental hospitals. No preparation made uh by the state or the cities to take care of them, but the government with its new federal policies was determined to clean the house So in neighborhoods like mine, uh streets became filled with mental patients, no money for housing, who just wanted the streets. Uh sometimes a very can be a very scary situation. In Philadelphia, uh the Albert Einstein Hospital has a very large outpatient uh service for mental patients. And uh the um there's sort of hanging around sometimes just uh three or four standing by a mailbox or sitting on a bench or just standing. Uh the uh man who taught me New Testament Greek at uh Westminster Seminary, Dr. John Skilton, uh retired from uh teaching. He is an evangelist now in that area. He walks by and he sees these mental patients standing around, reaches out to them, stops to talk, to share the gospel. Uh a couple of years ago uh so successful had been his ministry that he uh was even gathering medal patients for worship services on Sunday and uh went there once for a service it was a Fascinating kind of thing. Uh you know, the I guess the combined IQ in that uh service that morning was probably around twenty-five or thirty. People holding hymn books upside down and you'd sing the hymns about seven or eight times. I have sort of a a a a weird sense of humor and I kept thinking as this was going on Boy, I'm looking forward to the day when they ordain their first elder and send him to Presbytery. See, uh anyway I think it might change the whole face of Presbyterianism. Uh marvelous kind of thing. Uh, and that's exactly what Jesus is all about in this passage. There is joy in heaven over one sinner who repents. Are there invisible people at Columbia Presbyterian Church? that we see all the time but we really don't see them. Uh are there people with a lot of pain and they hide their pain because it's not right, it's not nice to bring it out in the open. Are they unreached people that need to be touched? Diseases have a funny way of creating alliances, don't they? They can cross language barriers of a major sort. The uh and uh there are uh groups, aren't there, uh, that you can go to when you have one of these diseases Uh some of us I suspect are members of those groups, support groups. Marvelous open doors to talk about Jesus. The uh uh some of us uh uh uh have will have some rich opportunities to do that. Uh take them And remember, across spread across your globe are thousands of groups like that, still untouched by Jesus. And that remains the great challenge of our world today. People waiting to see the compassion of Christ. Let's pray. Father, challenge us by your word. Touch our hearts. Melt away our obstacles. And help us to see in the faces of angry people, frustrated, broken people. Help us to see their hearts that are crying out. And people that want to find satisfaction and peace in Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen.