You hear preaching, so you know to sit down, right? Let's get started. Yeah, I remember uh many years ago reading the story of uh Mrs. Wang a small, frail, highly educated Christian lady in communist China. She was the head of the language department in a large university there. She loved Jesus and so eventually They removed her from that post and forced her to collect garbage and to spread it around the dump. That was in order to purify her thoughts She was so frail that she could hardly do this, was on the verge of collapse many times, but she continued to do it day after day. Week after week, month after month, for sixteen years She said, I served Jesus by collecting garbage to his honor. After sixteen years he was remarkably released and restored to the position of head of the language department at that same university. Do you remember last year, last week, we looked at Luke chapter 17, verses 7 to 10, and we saw that he, Jesus, is the master. We are the servants. The servant doesn't question the master how to serve, how long to serve. It's for the servant to serve, it's for the master to determine how. And so, if God decides that Mrs. Wang, with all her advanced degrees, is to serve him by collecting garbage, she says, that's okay with me. It honors him. It honors him because I live under a government hostile to the gospel. And if I can serve him in that way, so be it. She went on to say He gave me the strength, the patience, the peace, and yes, the joy in all this. For I knew that I, not my guards, was free, regardless of my circumstances. She said she learned that her life before had been rather distracted. But as a result of her imprisonment, she was very focused. Christ was her life. Now, perhaps you've read stories like this Most of us as Christians come to be exposed to these kinds of stories and I find that um when I read those I generally have two responses, maybe you have similar. The first is always admire the person who is able by faith to go through such suffering and to be s faithful and steadfast for Christ. Second response is be scared to death that he's going to call me to do something like that, you know. And I wonder how would I respond if the Lord calls me in suffering and What would I do? There's also a a kind of a confusion. You know, I read that and I think uh it's a response of a mature Christian Do I really want to be mature? I mean, do I want to have that kind of heart? Do you? And and doesn't it produce some tension in the light of a lot of the things that we read and hear, tapes and you know, messages today, things that are sent to us, forwarded through the internet about what God is really like But God is there to protect us, to comfort us, to answer our prayers, to deliver us. And so why do these things happen to people that He loves And promises to protect. Does Jesus simply want to relieve you and comfort you and encourage you and protect you, or Not. I mean is is life the Christian life living under God's blessing and protection or is it rather Learning how to not whine in suffering in a life that's really rather grim One of the uh just recently I I just finished reading a story about a man who had uh hiked the entire Appalachian trail over 2,000 miles in just over four months. And um he's an admirable character. He was very savvy about the trail, very smart guy, um, very resourceful. He mentioned in his uh telling of this story that he believed in God, and he said he decided to name his God Manitou. Manitou was with him all along the trail. Every time he had trouble, he just called on Manitou. Manitou Take care of them. It comes to the Kennebec River. Everybody dreads on the Appalachian Trail. It's too deep the wade, it's too swift, no bridge, too wide. So you gotta be resourceful. And he said he just asked Man at two, hey, what are you gonna do? Along came some people and had a boot. Yeah, it's not that far from the way we often as Christians hear that God is portrayed. Right? He's just he's there to get us out of jams. He's there like Luke 17, 6 says. So you can say to the mulberry tree, hey, here, get uprooted, be cast into the sea. And we'll do it. I think one of the things that we struggle with so much today is these ideas that we have about God who wants to protect Make our lives easier, comfort us, and how we square that with things like Lisa House having years of life-threatening health issues. This week almost died. God rescued her. She's doing better But why? Crisis after crisis after crisis. Or Kathy McDill through years of her diabetes, and we prayed for a pancreas transplant, and she got it, and it failed She continues to struggle. Or Thomas and Miji Chang with their two beautiful twin daughters and Juan Hope with genetic defects and an uncertain future. For Noah Larson, we prayed, would stay in the womb and he'd determined to pop out at two pounds and eleven ounces with all the stress that that's produced. One of the things that I think makes life harder for us is that there are these views of Christianity that are very popular today. That undermine the idea of hardship in going through these kinds of circumstances, I have uh enumerated five, which I'd like to present to you, five myths. of the Christian life in contemporary teaching. And what I want to do is to see how each of these myths are corrected by Paul's experience described in the book of Philippians. Particularly in chapter 1, and most especially in chapter 1, verse 21, where Paul says what we said together, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. We said it because it was up on a screen. Paul said it from inside. What does that mean? What's it say to us? Myth number one, a strong relationship with God should come without much effort. Now, let me note that each of these myths I'm stating rather baldly. You know, you might not say any of the things I'll say quite as extremely, quite as bluntly. They're more subtle in the way we buy into them, but I find that I buy into some of these, and I suspect you do too from time to time in various subtle ways. So ask yourself as we go through each of these. How do I buy in to that myth in ways that undercut my walk with Christ? And how is it different from the way Paul described his relationship with Christ in Philippians 1:21? So again, myth number one, a strong relationship with God should come without much effort. We live in a day when technology makes so many things easy for us, don't we? And so we've become rather self-centered and feeling-oriented, and we think that any good relationship shouldn't take a whole lot of work. It should just flow, you know, if it's a good relationship. Some people today react against parents who hated each other but stayed married just because they wouldn't bail. So many today say, I refuse to live like my parents, and if the relationship becomes too much work, I will bail And yet we know that love involves sacrifice. I think of a mother who I read of recently who had an autistic son And so she moved from her home to a place of treatment, and she spent 14 hours a day. seven days a week for eight months retraining his brain. At the age of three, he is reported free from the symptoms of autism. But at what a sacrifice. We don't have a problem sacrificing and working hard at our careers, at sports, at hobbies. But somehow relationships, especially a relationship with God, seems like it shouldn't require a lot of work to us, doesn't it? Paul says, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But you know, Paul did not get to that point overnight. He got to that point, he goes on to describe in chapter three, by reflecting on when he first realized that his relationship with God was rather mechanistic. He would establish his own righteousness by following the commands, and that would obligate God to bless him. The problem was he began to see that his heart was such that he could do things externally, but not internally, that he needed a righteousness much deeper than he could ever attain. a righteousness that was only available through Jesus Christ. And so he says, I came to the place where all of my righteousness was to me like refuse, like garbage. in comparison with knowing Christ and his righteousness. And then he says in chapter 3, in verse 10 I wanted my goal was that I want to know Christ I want to know him. I want to know the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings. Becoming like him in his death, that is, like his attitude when he died. And so somehow to attain to the resurrection of the dead He goes on to describe how he has not already come to that place, but that he continues, he says, I press on. I strive. I don't consider that I've taken hold of it, but forgetting what's behind, I strain toward what's ahead. I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus. He catch that language, straining, pressing, striving. He said, this matters more than anything else in life to me. To know Christ. And it's something I put all of my effort into. We said, well, you know, we know Paul is unique and he's kind of strange and pretty intense He said, hey, in case you think this is just me, verse 15, all of us who are mature should take such a view of things. And if on some point you think differently, God will make that clear to you. I don't have to worry, I'm just street and you out. God will show you You see, if you think that knowing God, that making effort to that is always going to remain a back burner issue to you. You will never know him intimately This past month, my wife Kathy and I spent a lot of time working through a book that pointed out how Jesus loved in some unique ways And I found myself so impressed again, seeing deeper than I had seen before. The mysterious, perfect union of honesty and compassion Of truth and love, of justice and mercy. And I found myself saying again and again, Jesus, I just admire you. You are so different from me. You are so worth knowing. I've never seen anyone like you. I can't imagine anyone living responding in this situation, situation after situation, the way you responded. But you can't know him by study alone. You know him by following him. And that involves daily repenting of those things that you see that are out of Kildrin, trusting him, looking to him in lifelong, life-transforming relationships. And once you start that, you can't imagine turning back, knowing him. is worth it all. For me to live is Christ, is knowing Christ. To die is gain. Myth number two then. God wants me to be happy above all. God wants me to be happy, above all. I mean if God didn't save me to be happy, what's the point, right? The problem is, of course, we have a very narrow view Of happiness that centers on me and my pleasure. I can't imagine that God would want me to stay In a difficult marriage, having to love a difficult person. I can't imagine saying with Paul In chapter 3, verse 10, I want to know Christ, the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of sharing in his sufferings. Becoming like him in his attitude of death. I can't imagine longing for that Do you remember the circumstances under which Paul says, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain? You remember he wrote that in prison. He didn't write that commuting in an air-conditioned car to his office We want to be happy above all. Paul says his above all is that Christ is exalted in his body. Look at the two verses before verse 21. Paul says I know that through your prayers, the help given by the Spirit of Jesus Christ, what has happened to me is going to turn out for my deliverance. I believe I'm going to get out of this prison, which he did. I eagerly expect and I hope that I will in no way be ashamed, but will have sufficient courage so that now as always Christ will be exalted. He will be above all in my body. Whether by life or by death. Again, remember, he's the servant Jesus is the Master. Lord, whether it's by life, whether it's by death, hey, that's up to you. My longing is that you'll be exalted in me I would have preferred to go out preaching the gospel. I'm sure that Paul prayed that God would deliver him from the Jews who intended to do him harm, but they've succeeded. Here he is in prison. He's thinking now, why am I here instead of out preaching the gospel? But because his attitude of a faithful servant was such that he could rejoice. And say, This is where you want me, here's where I am. And he talks a number of times through this letter about his rejoicing in Christ. The guards who were with him said We've never seen a fellow like this. Brees to the prisoners under our charge, cursing us, threatening us. Wheedling us and cajoling us and promising things that they'll do if we will just let them out and they'll bribe us and all kinds of stuff. We've never seen a guy who was content to remain a prisoner. Who's more joyful than we are? Who has some inner strength and peace that we don't know anything about? And so some of the guards became Christians and the gospel began to penetrate up through the palace And a divine strategy for bringing the gospel in high places superseded anything Paul could have planned. But when you're a servant, under the rule of an omniscient, Master, you can leave to him how he wants you to serve. But that serving He's not going to have your happiness as the chief goal. But can you imagine the satisfaction that Paul experienced and felt to see how God had used him? Through his life in such circumstances. And so myth number three is that gratification should come immediately. We think gratification should come immediately. We live in a 0% financing, no interest for two years culture, right? Do you know why we get two years of interest-free financing? Because they know that you won't be able to resist buying three or four things at 0% financing with zero interest for two years. And so by the end of the two years, you're not able to pay them all off. And then all the back interest kicks. We gotcha. And you're paying more interest than you ever expected, or you would have paid if you had had interest from up front. Because we need to have it now. We expect to have it now. And that even penetrates the way we pray. Let me give you an example. Remember last fall when we had the two snipers on the loose, and everybody's freaking out in Maryland about that situation? During that time, I received a number of emails from local pastors. And the gist of the email was this: if we can just get all the pastors in Howard County to agree together in Jesus' name that this must stop, it will stop on that day. Amen, brother, right? And I thought, how American. Just agree together. If we just get the number to agree together, it's all going to be seen. We expect mulberry tree to be uprooted. Planted into the sea. See, I can say that. And if I can say that and I can get you and me to agree together, Jesus says, whatever, two or three agree. You know, then you have it Which is distorting what he intends because we are so prone to instant gratification. Paul's here rotten in prison Maybe he didn't have enough friends to agree with him. What was his problem? But here's Paul. And he's in prison, and his struggle is not, his chief agenda is not Come on, if I can get 150 of you to agree that I'll be released, I'll be released. His struggle is that he would be useful where he is. Verse 21, for me to live as Christ and to die as king. Then look what he goes on to say. Verse 22. If I'm to go on living in the body, this will mean fruitful labor for me. Yet what shall I choose? I don't know. I'm torn, I'm really ambivalent. Desire to depart and be with Christ, that's far better. Well, know him more fully, all this struggle will be over. But des Verse twenty four, it's more necessary for you that I remain in the body, so I'm convinced that I will remain, like you said before, believe I'll be delivered. And that I'll continue with all of you for your progress and your joy and the faith It would be more useful if I stay here a little longer, so that through my being with you again, your joy in Jesus Christ will overflow on account of me. His love for Christ is so consuming. He says, Well, you know, whether I'm in prison, whether I'm out of prison, whether I live, whether I die. The main thing is that Christ Is exalted. I I don't need to have the gratification now, but it's not like he ignores the meet the immediate. He says, For me now to live is Christ. It's just that his joy Is more completely satisfied in serving Christ because he sees how worthy he is. So myth number four. Suffering should be the exception, not the norm, and then it should soon be sought followed by victory, by deliverance and victory, suffering should be the exception, not the norm. And then any suffering should soon be followed by deliverance and victory. It's still Surprises us when we suffer, doesn't it? I mean, where is the loving Heavenly Father who could have prevented that? I've just this last week experienced some painful, but rather trivial bits of suffering and frustration. Made harder by the fact that I specifically prayed that those things wouldn't happen. And so God didn't prevent them. Why? M Why doesn't God simply heal Lisa rather than bring us from crisis to crisis of life-threatening illness? Why did Kathy McDill's transplant not work when so many of us concentrated such prayer on that? Or hope Chang be born. without any difficulties in her little body. Or Noah Larson's stay in the womb where he belonged until full term. Why Why did Paul stay in prison? Why are your prayers for deliverance not answered? We don't know the answers. What we know in Paul's situation is because his attitude was to rest in the trial, in the suffering. He decided he had some time on his hands, so he would start writing to the churches he could not visit. And the result was that enjoy And with wisdom he wrote thirteen letters, half the books of our New Testament, mostly from prison. Which still comprise the bulk of our theology and our encouragement as Christians today He wouldn't have done that if he was grinding his teeth about why he was there in prison rather than out preaching the gospel. So much of our usefulness and our joy comes from trusting that there is a Master who has called us to serve in the way He has called us. It may not be the way we have chosen. But Paul says that's his gift to you. Believe that? Look at verse 29. Verse 29, he says, it has been granted to you. The word granted is from the Greek word grace. Literally, it has been graciously given to you, graciously, it's a gracious gift given Two things that have been given on behalf of Christ, number one, to believe in him, faith. Secondly, to suffer for him. Suffering. Two gifts, faith and suffering, granted to every believer. He doesn't say this is just for me. In fact, verse 30 says, since you are going through the same struggle you saw that I had, and now here that I still have. He says, circumstances may be different in details, but I suffer, you suffer. I had frustrations this week, you had frustrations this week. We have joys and times of respite. There are also times you've had of suffering and pain and confusion. Why is that? Somehow God knows that the only way we become intimate with Jesus is when pain drives us to Him And that makes us more like him. And that tribulation will only be brought to an end when you and I are made like Jesus at his coming. Revelation chapter 7, verses 14 to 21 describe that scene. And in that scene you have a picture of God, God Almighty, the creator of the heavens and the earth. They produced Mars that we looked at this week and everything else beyond. And that God, Revelation 4721 says, is going to take your face in his hands. And he is going to personally wipe the tears from your eyes. Did you ever think about that? What that will be like To have him hold your face so close that he personally wipes away your tears. And you will never weep again Suffering is not the exception. Suffering is part of this life which is still under the curse and in rebellion. I grew up in a time before there was Novicain. I know that seems like ancient history before electricity and everything else like that. I did have electricity, but we did not have newachine when I was a kid. And I would go to the dentist. I did not have great teeth, and so I often went to the dentist They did not have the high-speed drills they have now. And so you would sit in the chair and that drill that was grinding Would grind away at your teeth. I know I'll get comments afterwards about how I was too graphic on this, you know. Why don't you feel this? Especially you kids have never experienced this, you know You'd feel the heat first as we'd grind away at the enamel. Then it would get down to the nerve, you know. That would really wake you up. You know, and and I remember, you know, those experiences, you know, oh And and when I became a teenager, this new thing, Novocaine, came out. And then the dentist would say, well now for a little extra, um, we can put this Novocaine and then you won't feel it. Our family couldn't afford Novocaine. So I continued to feel it. But my friends didn't, and I was still going through. In fact, after a while I got so used to it that it wasn't until my late twenties that it occurred to me when I was paying the bills to say, hey, let's try that Novacaine, okay? Have it just once, you know Boy, I'll tell you, when I tried it, I thought, you know, I I realized something. I can choose to not have pain. Isn't that great? The problem is you begin to think that that's true of everything. You know, I can choose to not have pain. So when you have pain, you say, wait a minute, it's not supposed to work like this I have a heavenly father who answers prayer. I live in a high-sect society. I choose to not have pain. Why am I having all this pain? Because God uses that pain to make Christ your all. Paul Miller in his book that helped us so much and I highly recommend to you, Love Walk the Monga, says As those around Jesus became uglier, his beauty shone more brilliantly, the more the pain The sweeter is Jesus, and the more precious he becomes to you. So it brings us to the last myth. You say, okay, I get the point. So the Christian life is a denial of all my desires, right? Christian life is a denial of all my desires. Holiness is to squelch my passions. Christian maturity is an absence of personal desire. Gut it out till heaven. That's not what Paul says. Paul says quite passionately, here for me to live is Christ. This is not a negative, stoic statement. It's a statement full of passion, but passion that cannot be satisfied with the fleeting pleasures. That this world alone can offer. But rather the passion that is satisfied only in the one who is so worthy Of all my affections and adorations. And again this summer, as I read and rediscovered more of the depth and the wonder of Jesus, I found myself again and again saying, Jesus, you are amazing. I so admire you. I want to draw closer to you. I want to know you more. You are wonderful. And you died for me. And he died for you and he offers you his death if you don't know him, that you might have his substitutionary sacrifice to take your sin, to give your life abundant That is centered in him to know him and to look forward to that day when you will know him fully and completely Let me ask you, what is your passion this morning? If you were to complete that statement, for me to live is, how would you complete it? Or maybe what I should ask is, how would your family complete it for you? For your friends For me to live is eating. For me to live is shopping. For me to live is sports. For me to live is TV. For me to live is my hobby, my computer, my house, my car. What is your passion? We're going to talk a lot about passion in the next month as we celebrate our first 25 years as a church and look forward to the future. And so I want us this morning to be in touch with our hearts and where our passions actually are. Where is it in your life? C. S. Lewis, in one of his celebrated passages in Mere Christianity, addresses this. Let me read to you an excerpt from that. He says, when a man turns to Christ and seems to be getting on pretty well in the sense that some of his bad habits are corrected, he often feels that it would be natural now if things went fairly smoothly. So when troubles come along, illness, money troubles, new kinds of temptation, he's disappointed. These things, he feels, might have been necessary to arouse him and make him repent in his bad old days, but why now? Because God is forcing him on or up to a higher level, putting him into situations where he will have to be much braver or more patient or more loving than he ever dreamed of being before. It seems to us all so unnecessary. But that's because we have not yet had the slightest notion of the tremendous thing he means to make of us. Imagine yourself a living house. God comes in to rebuild that house. At first perhaps you can understand what he is doing. He's getting the drains right, stopping the leaks in the roof and so on. You know those things. needed to be done, so you're not surprised. But presently he starts knocking the house about in a way that hurts abominably. It does not seem to make sense. What on earth is he up to? The explanation is that he is building quite a different house from the one you thought of. Throwing out a new wing here, putting on an extra floor there, running up towers, making courtyards You thought you were going to be made into a decent little cottage, but he is building a palace. He is making you into the creaturely reflection of his own image. And that, dear brothers and sisters, is a mammoth task. Some years ago, I had a strange dream in which I entered into Paul's body in his last imprisonment And I remember thinking about the next day where my execution was coming. And I remember thinking about it, and the time dragging on, I came to the next morning, and I saw the sword that was going to take my head. And uh, you know, dreams kind of drag along, you know, and I finally got to that point. The sword came down upon my neck, my head was severed, and I had this sense of exquisite pain, and then immediately following it, exquisite glory. Light, beauty, and angels And all the pain receded into dimness and transience, and Jesus was at the center. Jesus stood there And he said, Well done, good and faithful servant. I've made you faith you've been faithful over a few little things. Now I'm putting you over Many things come and share your master's pleasure. And I thought of how Earth seemed so temporary, so distant, and it was so trivial compared to the reality that I was now in. And then I woke up. And immediately things reversed. I was now back in the real world, and heaven seemed unreal and dim and far. And I thought, why is that? Why can't I hang on to the true reality? That's what Paul saw. For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. And Larry Burkett wrote many books and many of us read them about preparing for retirement at age 64 this last month. God took Larry Burkett And he's now with his master. He doesn't need to prepare for retirement anymore because he is in the place, home, where he belongs, and you belong, and I belong in Jesus. Back in the 50s, Bill Bright started Campus Crusade. He said many times, for me to live as Christ and to die as Gain, last month at age 81, God took Bill Bright to be with him. After much suffering. And he too now knows the reality. The game. The fullness of Christ. Brothers and sisters, do you see it? Do you see it? Do you see? To me, to live as Christ and to die is game Oh, let's pray. Let's pray. Lord, we want to see it. We want to see Jesus who captures our hearts. We want to know him. We want to have our hearts set on that hope. We want to be useful to you more than have you come and simply make life easy for us here. We want our passions to be stirred. By the admiration and adoration of Jesus. Open our eyes to see Him. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.