What would you say is personally your most precious memory of 2002? Obviously I don't want you to share this and speak, but I just want you to think So just in your own mind, what was your most precious memory? What was your greatest joy for 2002? On the other hand, what would you say was your most painful memory? What was The thing that caused you the most shame or regret in the last year. Now, when you think of the future Think of 2003. What's the thing you're most looking forward to? Keenest anticipation. What is it you hope for? What on the other hand is the thing you most dread as you think about the new year? That's your greatest fear for 2003. Now, if you've given any little bit of honest thought to that, you're probably thinking, I need a word from God to address that. Not some inspiring little thought from Alan Harris, but something solemn from God Himself. And I would like to offer to you that word from Hebrews chapter 12, verses 1 to 3. God Himself speaking to you there, just as John just read it to us. Let me read it again, and I want you to notice something as we go through it. I want you to particularly notice That this refers to both the past and the future. And there's a lot in these verses, but I want us to just focus particularly on how he connects what is past and what is future. to Jesus and running the race that is before you. Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let's throw off everything that hinders and the sin that so easily entangles entangles and let's run With perseverance the race marked out for us. Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and the perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, scorning its shame And sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him who endured such opposition from sinful men so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. You see how the past and the future motivate you to keep running the race there? Notice verse 2. Fix your eyes on Jesus. Who, for the joy that was set before him, future, the anticipation of that enabled him to endure the cross, scorning its shame. Verse 3 is the past. Consider him who endured such opposition. Remember him. and what he endured for you, so that you can run the race described in verse 1. Let us run the race marked out for us. Life is kind of like a race, you know. It's one of the metaphors that the Bible uses. A race. 2002 was one more lap around the track. 2003 will be one more lap around the track. For some, it'll be the last lap. For others of us, continuing one more lap around the track. One more lap closer to heaven and seeing the face of Jesus. And one of the main themes, if not the main theme, of the book of Hebrews, is persevering in that race. Persevering in the faith, hanging on to the faith, enduring with joy. Notice the context of this, just real quickly. In chapter 10 He's talked about the wonderful privileges that you and I have through Jesus Christ. We have access to God's presence. We have a conscience that's been cleared, our bodies have been washed from all impurity. And then uh as Tim Floor when he preached on this pointed out, you got three heads of lettuce after that, in verses twenty-three, twenty-four, and twenty-five. Let us hold firm to that hope. Let us encourage one another. Let us not abandon meeting together. And then in verse 36, he says you need to persevere. So that when you've done the will of God you will receive what He's promised. Persevere in this. Hang on. Then he says, some people haven't. They've shrunk back. You remember the last Lord's Supper we had sadly to consider somebody who was part of our body and Sang praises to Jesus and now says, I don't want anything more to do with Jesus. I've given up on the Christian faith. Shrank back. Could you ever shrink back Before you say too easily, no, no, no, no, I can never do that. The warning of Hebrews is that many who think That would be impossible for them. We'll be surprised. You look at this last year. Do you feel closer to Jesus now? Or is there just this in your heart and your soul, just a little bit of distance? And that distance you find increasing, and you find more disappointment with Jesus, and you're finding that the things of God are less savoring to you. What about 2003? What will it do? Will it bring you closer to Jesus? Will there be more distance? He finishes that chapter by saying, we are of those who persevere in the faith. And that raises the question, what is faith? And so he goes right on, the next verse, chapter division for us, but it's right on the next verse. He goes on, he says, now what is faith? Chapter 11. Faith is being sure of what we hope for and certain of what we do not see. Two things. It's being sure of what you hope for, it's being certain of what you don't see. Isn't that amazing Your priorities, your values, your choices, your actions Are determined by something you can't even see. Convictions that are not against reason but go beyond reason. And those convictions, that conviction of things you don't see, but that you're sure of, is what keeps you moving. You see, it's from your desires. Faith is being sure of what we hope for. What you hope for is what you desire. The desire of your heart. And so then chapter 11 unfolds a roll call of people whose desires were not satisfied in this world. These were not religious people who had weak desires easily satisfied by church socials and prayer meetings. That's all they really wanted, after all. But these rather are quite passionate people whose desires are not so easily satisfied by a few beers, a widescreen TV, and some superficial relationships. You think about this last Christmas. We come kind of weary to a service like this, all that we hope for and what reality delivered. And what about your toys? You're playing with your toys and enjoying them. Now I'm not just talking to you kids, I'm talking to adults too, you know. And you know what they say, the higher the age of the boys, the higher the price of their toys. And uh we are a culture that is immersed in toys. And that high-tech toys continue to multiply in an unfascinating, blinding array. of choice. One that I saw, I mentioned the first service that I saw this thing, and my wife reminded me Tell them where you saw it. You was watching Oprah with me for a few minutes. All right, all right, I'll confess it, all right. She talked about this this toy that this is a must-have It's a digital camera, cell phone, wireless internet connection that you can carry in your pocket. So you can take a digital camera, a digital photo of your friend, and then you dial up another friend. And you can send that photo across the internet so that they can then receive it and they can tell you that they like it or they don't like it or if it's something at a store, you know, you just take a picture of it, you want it, yeah, buy it, you know, whatever it is. I mean No, isn't this something I mean you've gotta have that. Yes. I was in Target the day after Christmas. Always clean up there, you know. And uh I saw a group of teenagers all clustered together. They had gotten gift cards for Target And they were debating getting one of these things. And you know, and talking about the brands and should you get this, you know, Oprah had Samsung, is that the one you should get? You know, which what what should you do? You know? All these dilemmas, you know Verse 16, here's a group of people that had a place, and they said, it's not good enough. They're longing for a better country. You're saying everything that we have here, it just it doesn't deliver. There's not a resonating of my heart that this is reality. It's a shadow They're looking for a better country, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for He has prepared a city for them. A better country Joel Steen in Time Magazine this week says that 2002, look at that, I'm old enough, I still say 19, 2002, he says. Was a year of retro news. We got all caught up in things like rescuing coal miners and debating whether thieving corrupt CEOs should go to jail. Whether traitors like John Walker Lynn should go to jail, things like this, he said, because in his opinion, we are freaked out by the news of what could happen So we're not up to facing the reality of what could go down in 2003. A better country looks pretty good, doesn't it? A country of stability and security and justice and peace. And no terror and no violence. They're looking for a better country. He goes on to talk about Moses. Moses had offered to him a top position in Egypt, all the wealth and the power that his heart could desire. Kind of reminds you of Lord of the Rings, doesn't it? Here's the ring. And there is that grip, you know. You can't see it without being drawn. You want it, even though it's going to destroy your soul and consume you like golem, you must have it. What's it say of Moses? It says that he was willing to suffer affliction with the people of God rather than to have this temporary power and wealth. Because he was looking for a better reward. There was something better, there was something to keep going for, something to endure for, something to keep going in the race, something to keep going with his eyes fixed on the prize. He goes on to then talk about those who were delivered and they've gained this and they've gained that. None of them it says received the promise. But then verse 35, he says, others weren't delivered. They were persecuted. They were killed. But they were looking for a better reward. And he finishes up by saying, none of them have received the reward. They're still looking. I was reading an article recently that talked about how those who had been delivered in the first part of Hebrews 11 had received the reward. No, they didn't. None of us have received the reward. He says in verse 40, they're waiting for us, so that we will all receive it together. Now in chapter 12, he comes down to you, and he says, now, as you see this whole cloud of witnesses, run the race. Run the race. And then verse 2 with your eyes fixed on Jesus. After the first service Ken Plant reminded me of what it's like to run the Boston Marathon. And I've run a half marathon, but I've never run a whole marathon In that case, half a cup's better than the whole one. He said uh you come down at the end, I think it's Boyle Street or Boylston, and he says you're coming down that street about a two-thirds of a mile, and he says there's bleachers. And he says, on both sides, you're hearing screams and yells of encouragement. Go, go, go! And they're all yelling and screaming. And he said, but you don't you don't notice anybody There's only one thing that has your attention. It's the sign up there that says finish. Your eyes are on the goal. And you run for all your worth. You're on autopilot and you just keep running. I've run races and I know after that end you're saying, I w I can if I can shave off one more second and your body saying, Forget it, fella. You're not shaving off anything. You're only on autopilot here to finish this thing. But you keep going because you see the goal. And Hebrews says, looking on to Jesus. That's the goal. That's the goal. Now what about um how you look to 'em Notice that Jesus is here both our example of faith, and he is also the object of our faith. He's the example of how to keep running with your eye on the prize for the joy that was set before him, it says. He endured the cross, even despising, scorning, and shame. Sat down at the right hand of God's throne. Remember, there was a time Isaiah 49:4 tells us that Jesus looked at his work and he says, In labor have I vain, In vain have I labored It's all for naught. Jesus, the Bible tells us, was tempted to give up when he saw his people rejecting him. There's times, maybe this next year, you're going to be tempted to give up. And Hebrews is telling you here how to keep going. Jesus is not only the example of your faith, he is the object of your faith, looking unto Jesus. And there's two ways he tells you to look to him And then he connects the past and the future. Look at that real quick. First of all, how to look to him. First blank, the nature of your looking then. The nature of your looking in the first way is in verse two, a steady, fixed, habitual gaze Let us fix our eyes on Jesus. It's literally looking unto Jesus. The Greek is the word afferontes. Now uh I didn't have to look that up. I had that memorized. Why? Because I'm a Greek scholar? No. Because in nineteen sixty-four, right after college, I went to a conference, a Labor Day weekend. In which a rural Pennsylvania country preacher spoke for five days on this one theme, looking unto Jesus. And I still recall him day after day saying, Aferuntes, a steady, fixed Habitual gaze. The word he says does not refer to a glance. It doesn't refer to a stare. It's not something that you do as simply a look. It is a steady Fixed, habitual gaze. It's steady. It's not wavering It doesn't look to Jesus and then get distracted. It's fixed, it's focused. It's habitual. It's the habit of the heart. It's the thing that you wake up to do. You wake up and and you say, Lord Jesus, I gotta start looking at you. Remember we talked about Learn. Sit, kneel, walk, stand. Book of Ephesians. I wake up. Lord Jesus, I need to see you. I've forgotten your promises My mind is so fleeting. Lord, get my eyes fixed on you before I get out of bed. Teach me again what it means as I lay in this bed to rest in the finished work of Christ. Get out of bed, kneel down. Lord, teach me to kneel. That I might ask you to show your love and your power. This day in my life. I get up and I walk to the bathroom, and as I walk, I say, and I'm walking by faith this day in your promises and in your commands. And you stand there and you look in the mirror as you stand the fourth position of Ephesians. You look at the enemy You say, I'm gonna stand. I'm gonna stand against the assaults today. Looking on to Jesus. Steady, fixed Habitual gaze. The gaze upon someone that you love and find of infinite worth The gaze that can't get enough, the gaze that's hungry for the beloved. And I still remember that guy, Harry Rickards was his name Don't think he was known by very many people, never had very wide ministry, but he was a man who deeply loved Jesus. He was deeply in touch with Jesus, and he affected my life and made me hunger for Jesus. I mentioned I was just out of college. I was entering the next week into seminary. I'd been saving all summer for a car And uh I just kind of worked. I worked overtime, did everything I could. This was 1964 and uh Uh the car was going to cost a total of $2,000. I knew I was a little short from everything I had scraped together. I didn't know how much The last day of that conference, Harry Rickers walked up to me and he said, The Lord has told me to give you this. I don't know how he told him, but he handed me $150. $150 in 1964 is worth about $1,500 today. That's like somebody walking up to you and says, The Lord has told me to give you this and hand you off $1,500. Guy you'd only known from the conference. I took that money home and um my Parents were not believers. My father was rather antagonistic to my going to seminary. He thought all this stuff was pretty foolish and impractical kind of stuff. But he had been keeping the book, so I said, Dad, how much am I short for the car that I need? And he said, I don't know, let me figure it out. And he figured it out and he said, Looks like about $150. I pulled out the $150 and I said, the man gave me this and said the Lord told him to give it to me. At that point my father said, Jesus Christ. And it wasn't in worship. But I'll tell you, it got his attention. A steady, fixed, habitual gaze upon Jesus for all your needs. For all of who he is and all that he is to you. But he doesn't just say that. He goes on in verse 3 to say, consider him. Not just to gaze upon him, but to consider him. Think about who he is. Think about what he's done. Consider him who endured such opposition from sinful men, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart. Think about him. You and I think we know him, don't we? You know? You know Jesus? Yeah, I know Jesus. No, you don't You know, I believe that day when you and I see Jesus, we are going to be so amazed. How superficial was my understanding? I thought you were harsh when you were gentle. I thought you were compromising when you were holy in your integrity. I had you all mixed up and screwed up with my father and everything else in this world, you know like the Jews that we talked about last week. who had their view of what Messiah should be, Jesus contradicted every expectation and fulfilled every prophecy. Hebrews says 2003. Consider Jesus. Think about him. Have some sort of a Bible study plan. Covers Old Testament, New Testament. Have something that gets you into his word that he can take those thoughts and he can revise them and reshape them and say, My child, that's not what I'm like. This is what I'm like Consider him. If you have nothing else, we'll offer this thing. Daily Bible reading guy, 2003. We've got them all there on the back table. Got them from the uh National Association of Evangelicals They are, it's uh readings. It's not through the whole Bible, it's just some brief readings under topics and categories for every day of the year If you're interested, pick yourself up a copy if you have no other plan. Some plan to consider Jesus. Now look at the object of your faith. The nature is gazing with a steady, fixed, habitual gaze, considering him the object of your gaze is Jesus, and here's where you see Jesus both in terms of past and future. Jesus in terms of memory and hope fixed on your desires. Two unusual words that the author uses there. He is the author and the perfecter of our faith. Author refers to Jesus in terms of the past. Perfector of Jesus in terms of the future. In other words, from beginning to end of your life, He's all you need. He's everything that you need for your faith. First of all, he is the author of your faith. It's the same word that he uses back in chapter 2, where he says in verse 9 We see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels, now crowned with glory and honor, because he suffered death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. In bringing many sons to glory, it was fitting that God for whom everything exists should make the author of their salvation perfect through suffering. The author of their salvation, which he accomplished through his death, it says, the author is somebody that produces something. The author of a work produced the work. The author of your salvation produced your salvation. Jesus is the foundation. English Standard Version translates this: the founder of your faith. He is the founder, the foundation. He is the blank you have there, the beginning. That is, you look back to him and what he did for all of your need. You stay in touch with the cross this year. Stay in touch with Jesus and see what he accomplished for you. Consider him who endured such opposition from sinful man for you. Endured opposition from sinful people. And you remember Jesus was totally sinless. He didn't deserve any of it. No matter what you get this next year of opposition, you are not totally innocent. Now I said this in front of my wife, the first service. When she criticizes me and lets me have it, and I think Now sometimes you're right, but this time I am totally innocent. I didn't deserve that at all. And I said, I have to, after a little bit of time, say, well, maybe just a little bit. Maybe my motives weren't totally pure. We always deserve a little bit of the opposition, even in terms of how we react or something. Jesus endured opposition, and he was fully innocent. He deserved nothing of it. And he endured that for you. You remember that and you think of him and you think, Lord, I'm enduring this opposition now. I remember that. And I'm entering into a fellowship with you through this. If you endured that for me, Lord, can't I endure what I'm going through now? Because it draws me to your heart, and I know that I'm not fully innocent. Teach me from my accusers what you want me to learn, and draw me to your heart. That's the past. But he also says And in that past, by the way, you live, just for those of you that want to make sure you get all your blanks filled in, you learn to live out of gratitude for what he has done in the past. John Eldridge in his book about desire says that we wake up every morning as unbelievers. He says, I forget again and again every day God's faithfulness and his promises, and I have to remind myself Of his faithfulness. I have to remind myself he's trustworthy. I remind myself of his truth And they live out of the gratitude for what he has done. But then there's also the future. He is the perfecter of your faith. Salvation is not only from death, chapter 2, it is also to glory, chapter 12, verse 2. He is the one who is the perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross. scorning its shame, and has now sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. His suffering is finished. He is established and is the author, the beginning and the foundation of your faith. He is also the perfecter or the end and the completion of your faith. Next blank. He's the end or the completion of your faith. As the author of your faith, he is the one who is necessary for your salvation. No facing God without terror, without Jesus. But he is also sufficient. For your faith. He is necessary and he is sufficient. There is nothing you can or need to add to Jesus. He knows what it is like to suffer, and he knows that his hope sustained him in the suffering. He gives you that hope of sharing The joy of heaven, sharing the joy set before him that he's entered into, sharing that with him. In that day, when you come to the finish line and you cross it, and you see Jesus standing there with those eyes that gaze upon you. And say, my daughter, my son, come on in. Come and join the party that I have for you. Come and enter in to the delight, the deepest delights of your heart. And as you learn how, remember, Christian maturity is not learning how to kill your desires so that you can be holy. Christian maturity is learning to identify your desires and connect them to Jesus. One of the things that amazes me is that Jesus was always fully in touch with his heart He knew exactly what he wanted for the joy that was set before him, that he saw crystal clear, he was able to endure it. The scorn, the shame, the opposition, and the cross. My problem is I don't know what I want. Do you? See, we know what we want on a superficial level, but do you know what you really want this next year? If you're like me, you don't. And a critical part of the Christian life is learning what the deeper desires of your heart really are. What I really want is not a digital camera, cell phone, internet, wireless connection. What I really want is my mind stimulated by creative things. That fascinate me. And I delight in those things. That's more the desire. You see, what you really want is not just lots of money You know, you think you want that. What you really want are the delights that money can buy and the security that it provides. Not just the money. You see, sex itself, what do you want? Hey, starting to mess around here. Sex is, you know, what we really want in that is sensual delight and intimacy. And so we're always looking at things on a certain level and saying, if I only had that, and we're missing what's going on in our hearts. I'm convinced most adulteries and unfaithfulness in the church of people who have walked with the Lord for years is because they've been out of touch with their hearts. And finally, when a desire and a passion hit them, it overwhelmed them. So much of our vulnerability is because we are out of touch with our hearts. And Hebrew says, look to Jesus. Connect your desires to Jesus. See the joy that was set before him, that he wants to share with you, and see how all your passions and your desires fit into that. How they joined with him, so that when this next year you have some unfulfilled longing You don't say God hasn't given you what you wanted. What God wants to give you Is exactly what you would want if you knew everything he knows Let me say that again. God does not give you what you want, and he will not this next year, but he does give you everything that you would want If you knew everything he knows, fix your eyes on Jesus. Consider him. Remember what he has done, that he is all the righteousness you need. And remember the joy that is set before you. That Jesus who has crossed the finish line waits and he beckons. Come, come, my child, one more lap. Keep going. Endure. Keep going. Come on. You're closer to home. Keep coming. All that I have. I'm lavishing upon you. I'm giving you right now the first fruits as you engage in the depths of your heart to see the connection. And in that day, you and I will share fully. Memory and desire. These two things enable you and me to endure and to continue through this next year. Until Jesus brings us home, looking on to Jesus With a steady, fixed, habitual gaze. Amen? Let's pray Father, we come now. Recognize how fleeting our glances have been to Jesus. How we have looked at our desires and we don't understand them, they confuse us, and if we're honest, we have to say, I don't really know what I want. All I know is this last year I screwed up a number of things and it was probably misplaced desires and I just was consumed on the immediate Ah, Lord Jesus. Now we thank you for your faithfulness that you were totally, perfectly faithful, that you endured such opposition for sinners and died to take our sin. So that we would be accounted innocent, forgiven, but that you also hold before us the desires of this next year. You call us to get more in touch with them so that as we do, we can connect them with you, Lord Jesus, with a steady, fixed, habitual gaze because we see you Are our security. You are the one who knows us and continues to love us. You are the one who provides uh the fascination of one to give our lives to because you are so worthy and majestic and worthwhile all of every breath and every day that we live. So Lord, in this quiet moment we come to give ourselves to you. I ask you to turn our gaze upon Jesus. And with that cloud of witnesses to look upon you, to desire you, and to find our satisfaction in you. Amen.