Very lovely, thank you for leading us. Good morning. My name is P. D. Mayfield. I mainly applied for the position because it's PDC. It fits really nicely. Smooths over really well with my initials. It is great to be here. As Wayne mentioned at the very beginning, with a formal, well-known, powerful passage as Isaiah, we tend to forget um because it's so well known and and just likewise when you w worship week after week, sometimes you you don't realize the water that you're swimming in and it takes someone outside, maybe a visitor for the first time, even as myself visiting for the first time. Other visitors you're not asked to come speak for the first time like I am. But you you get to experience How a local body worships the living God. And that is a joy. It's a joy to share in that. It's a joy to be here on behalf of my wife Kelly and I. We have loved the weekend. We have been warmly welcomed. and uh to the session and to the search committee and to the to the congregation. Thank you so very much. Please turn with me if you have your Bibles to Mark chapter 10. We're going to be looking at verses 32 through 45 this morning. And it's on the screen as well to follow along. As you're turning, as you're getting acclimated to where we are in the passage, here is a question: What do you want Jesus to do for you? Have you ever thought of even asking the question? Some people may be afraid to ask the question. It's taboo or sacrilegious or off limits. And others might have a very, very long list. of things that Jesus, you're very ready and willing for him to do something for you. But what would you like Jesus to do for you? This morning here we are at the end of chapter 10, and this fits beautifully in a very much larger section of the Gospel of Mark, where we see in between two healings. Two blind men receive their sight. And on the one end, in the middle of chapter 8, very soon after that, we see the transfiguration. James and John and Peter get to witness that. And here we are at the end of chapter 10. And right at the beginning of chapter 11, there is another healing of a blind man. And then we see what is commonly known as the triumphal entry. And so we have this picture in between these two bookends, three cycles of Jesus predicting his death, three cycles of the disciples misunderstanding Jesus' death. role and his purpose, and three opportunities for Jesus to correct that misunderstanding by showing truly what is discipleship and truly what it is to the cost of following him. So, this morning, as we look at the text, where do we misunderstand Jesus? What do we expect from him? I'm going to read the passage, follow along, and then we'll pray, asking God to help us. The word of God. And he was it would be helpful start where I started. And verse 32. And they were on the road going up to Jerusalem. And Jesus was walking ahead of them, and they were amazed, and those who followed were afraid. And taking the twelve again, he began to tell them what was to happen to him. Saying, see, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and to the scribes. The religious leaders of the day. And they will condemn him to death and deliver him over to the Gentiles, the Roman occupiers of the day. And they will mock him and spit on him and flog him and kill him. And after three days he will rise. And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came up to him and said to him, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you. And he said to them, What do you want me to do for you? And they said to him, Grant us to sit one at your right hand and one at your left in your glory. Jesus said to them, You do not know what you are asking. You are, are you able to drink the cup that I drink? Are you able to be baptized with the baptism with which I am baptized? And they said to him, We are able. And Jesus said to them, The cup that I drink, you will drink, and the baptism with which I am baptized, you will be baptized. But to sit at my right hand or at my left hand is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared. And when the ten, the other ten of the twelve disciples, heard it, they began to be indignant at James and John. And Jesus called them to him. Now he's talking to all twelve. And he said to them, You know that those who are considered rulers of the Gentiles, lord it over them. And their great ones exercise authority over them. But it shall not be so among you. But whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be slave of all. For even the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of God stands forever. It's a little bit of a taste of how we in the reading of the word at the church I most recently served at in Richmond. For this is God's word and it is good, it is challenging. There is an older song. It was first sung in 99. I actually thought it was much older than it really is. I like Country OK. It's not my favorite, but the song is from Kenny Rogers. Don't worry, I'm not going to sing it. But the first verse says, little boy in a baseball hat. Stands in the field with his ball and bat. Says, I am the greatest player of them all. He puts his bat in his shoulder and he tosses up his ball And the ball goes up and the ball comes down, swings his bat all the way around. The world's so still you can hear the sound. The baseball falls to the ground. The second verse goes on, very similar. Now the boy, the little boy doesn't say a word. He picks up his ball. He is undeterred, says, I am the greatest that there has ever been, and he grits his teeth and he tries again. And the ball goes up and the ball comes down. He swings the bat all the way around. The world's so still, you can hear the sound. The baseball falls to the ground. What do you picture hearing those two verses? Do you see yourself watching the boy holding his bat in the ball, or do you picture yourself as the little boy holding the bat in the ball Maybe you're uh more humble than I am, but I imagine myself as the little boy holding the bat and the ball. Putting myself as a little kid many, many times in that picture and that opportunity to win the winning game single-handedly. That ambition for glory, whether that's of my own my own doing or a very insatiable desire to be right next to the person who is has won the game. wanting very close association and sharing in that victory. And the passage today speaks into how we want glory. But the way we seek it, the way we want to obtain it, the way we want to experience it, steward it, manage it, dole it out as a currency, is contrary to the way Jesus intends. And so we see Jesus defining a path for us, this path of glory. And it's a path of discipleship. It's a path of following Him. So we're going to look very briefly for a pastor who is semi-out of practice. It's hard to give him a time limit because you know how pastors practice, they just go longer. I'm going to save and spare you that. But we're just going to look at this passage very briefly. There's so much more we could say here. But just wanting to unpack this path of discipleship in the two ways, and they're really held in tension by a path of glory following where Jesus leads and a path of glory of leading how Jesus serves. And they feed, they fold in on each other, and they it's chicken egg in some ways. They have to be held together. So we're going to look briefly first at how following where Jesus leads, and we get this very much from the context in verse 32. Right out of the bat. We see that they are walking to Jerusalem. Now, Jesus and the twelve, they have been making their way south. They've come from Capernaum in the north of Galilee, and they're heading south to Jerusalem, which is in Judea. And they are on a quest, and everybody has their opinions about what's going to happen, everybody has their assumptions. Everybody has their own hopes and dreams of what Jesus is about to do, but they know something's about to happen. Something's about to go down. And we see the Gospel of Mark telling us three different times. Just as the disciples did not get clearly each time. But we the reader get three pictures of Jesus talking about this discipleship. And we see the importance of the journey in verses 33 and 34, where in this third time he explicitly mentions what happens, what is going to happen. J He's self-aware. He knows intentionally what's about to happen. And in this particular prediction, it's more graphic and it's more descriptive than the prior two. But he says, see, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests. And the scribes, and they will condemn him to death, and deliver him over to the Gentiles, and they will mock, they will spit, they will flog, and they will kill. And after three days he will rise. He is laying out before them, contrary to whatever their opinions might be, he's laying out, I'm going to be executed. And then in verse 45, the end of this passage, we get a further, fuller meaning of the importance of what that execution brings about. To give his life as a ransom for many. We have seen this throughout the worship service this morning, from scripture being read, hymns being sung, of the beauty of the work of Jesus. And what does it mean for him to be a ransom? To be a ransom is to be a price of release. It is something that we're maybe more familiar to with maybe Um something, some someone, maybe a kidnapping, someone or something. That's something that's current in our context and our technological age of even data being held hostage. And and those kidnappers requiring a ransom for that exchange, a price paid for the exchange of the person's life or whatever is being held. But in this first century context, there's a more of a nuance to this word. It really is the means for payment. Delivering a slave from bondage. The price of that slave's freedom. That is what Jesus is referencing here. He is the ransom of bringing someone out of bondage. He's clearly connecting his death as an act of substitution. We see that in the phrase for many. It kind of gets lost a little bit in the English, but that the text, the original languages really does have this picture of on behalf of, instead of, in place of. The many, and that's just a comparative word meaning a large number of people. He knows that his one single life is going to be the ransom price for multitudes. That self-awareness of what is about to happen. And so how do we follow where Jesus leads? Well, briefly, some of us will be killed. I don't know who, I don't know how, I don't know when. We know that there are brothers, brothers, and sisters in the world who are experiencing that reality very much in our present. This is not something that's in the past. There are reports that this is something as soon as Oregon, the shooting that took place. And this is elsewhere in the world as well. So that may very well be some of your calling. To follow where Jesus leads is to Jerusalem to die. To follow in the footsteps of Jesus is to bear witness to him. Him as the second person of the Trinity, the King, the Savior, and our Redeemer. And just as he was handed over, so might some of us. I don't know when, I don't know who, and I don't presume to know. But I do know that That's a calling that is not calling us to run towards suffering. It's not he's not asking us to run toward um in a sadistic, egotistical way, um in a way that proves our devotion to this this cult leader that wants us to sacrifice for him. No, he has gone before us and he has sacrificed himself for us. But most of us, the opportunity is to take up our cross daily, in the day by day, moment by moment, everyday mundane of our life. What does it mean to die to self? That is what Jesus is getting at. Following him where he leads is A path to glory, to be sure, and we're going to get to that in a minute, but it is a path that requires letting go of you holding on to your life and letting that go for the sake of others. And uh if you've read anything by Paul Miller, this is something that he he he loves to paint this picture, this the shape of the gospel of Jesus. He calls it the J-curve. This path of humiliation, of being humbled, of experiencing pain and suffering, being subjugated to circumstances around us. in a way that is following Jesus, experiencing his rest, his calm. His hand on our lives, and that he is present with us, and that this brings us into Exaltation. This brings us to the end of the story when all things are made right. And there's pictures of that even now, but we long we await for it at the end of the story, so much of the story yet to come. And in this J curve, it's not something that we do to merit his favor, his devotion to us, his love for us. Actually, it's nothing we can do to earn anything. And yet, we see that Jesus has gone before us. He's gone ahead of us. And he rose. He rose from the grave. He's even predicting that part. But death is not even the final part of the story. He rose just as he said he would. He has defeated death by going through death. And that is how we can let go of our anxieties and our worries. It's how we can wrestle with our fears and our shames. Because we actually stand no longer condemned in Christ. For those who have repented and believed and are looking to Jesus, You are forgiven. You are adopted as a child of the King, the Savior and Redeemer of the world. Your sins are forgiven. And he has overcome the grave. And he sits on the right hand of God the Father. He is indeed ruling and reigning on his throne and glory. And it's hinted at all at all parts of the scriptures, but no one really saw it coming, especially the disciples. And so we see Jesus embodying his own teaching for what it means to be great. He switches places. He switches places. He becomes the slave so that the slave can become free. So he calls us to join him and follow in that path. And secondly, this passage is just looking at this path of glory that Jesus outlines is leading how Jesus serves. How did he serve? Well, the gospel writers tell us an endless story. He made the deaf hear, he made the blind see. He drew near to women who were discarded by society. He healed people. of debilitated diseases. He came near to them and freed them from the oppression of evil forces. He pushed back the curse. That is the Messianic promises to come. Everybody, so long ago, even King Josiah A wonderful king of Israel who was not perfect, even him, awaited this Messiah to sit on the throne of David. Jesus called to his disciples and he gives this contrasting picture of leadership. He paints this picture of the Gentiles. Referencing the Romans occupying Israel, lording it over them, them also being subjected to the authorities over them and the Roman structures of governance. There is a competency. There is a garnering power and influence and leverage. And using that against someone in order to put forth an agenda. That is the anti-example that Jesus is painting. He's painting a very different example that he himself walks. And this fits also in the contrast of James and John's request. If you remember from the transfiguration, who was with Jesus and Elijah and Moses? It was James, John, and Peter. Here we are, not too far later, we have James and John. So a very beautiful mercy and a goodness of God in giving James, John, and Peter this glimpse of his glory. Not that much later, we have two of the three wanting to get a little bit closer, wanting to wrap their arm around Jesus and whisper to him, hey, can we get a little closer to you? Can we be on your right and your left in your glory and your throne? And in their mindset that I idea of in your glory on your throne really is an anticipation that things are about to go down, the Messiah's here, the Romans are getting kicked off. out and all will be right in Israel. We can now live in that covenant relationship with God. He is our Redeemer that not only brought us out of Egypt. But he has now kicked out the Romans and our Messiah reigns on the throne and guess what? We're part of the king's entourage. We get all the glory that comes with that. We get the we get the scraps, but those scraps are awesome. This is James and John clamoring for bits and pieces of glory, but they don't get what Jesus is saying. Dan Alender in his book Leading with a Limp writes this about power and control. Power and control are a high flying trapeze that takes a leader farther and farther above the ground with each swing. The greater his achievements, The harder it is to let go. But a leader gains true confidence only if he forces himself to let go. And confidence in the goodness of God is what a leader really needs, much more than he needs any false sense of control. But a leader will trust in the goodness of God only to the to the degree that he has a history of brokenness. and surrender. This J curve, this path of to experience glory, is to go through this path of suffering and brokenness. And Alander goes on to later write, a broken leader is no longer driven by the need to impress people or to secure their approval. That is freedom to be your own man or woman, to be in the spheres of influence that you have in your life, whether that is a top position in a company or a child in a family. We are all called to lead, and we're all called to lead in the way Jesus has lined it out Um coming from Richmond, I more saw the Pope's visit from the news. Um maybe people in Maryland saw it closer. But a recent article about his visit from CNN, um there was a a a writer who who wrote Basically asking the question, why does Pope Francis get respect? Even love in the hearts of millions, including so many non-Catholics? And the the the the article was like the top ten reasons why he thinks people love uh Pope Francis and why his examples How he leads is a wonderful example and a moral challenge to each of us. And but what I found interesting about the article, yeah, the article's okay. But what I found what more interesting was one commenter said this It's pretty simple. I'm not a Catholic. I'm also not a fan of organized religion in general. But the Pope is actually talking about doing the very fundamental things that all religion is based on. He is talking about people taking care of people. He is talking about lifting each other up instead of tearing others down. He wants us to care about the earth and to love each other. He is hopeful and joyful and peaceful. He walks the walk. He is the most impressive religious leader I've ever heard. He gives me faith. High praise. And I would say only partially right. There is something that is an indictment, for sure. That he here is a man witnessing something in in in in this man, this religious leader's life. That I think there are many good things to commend about. But even in even this non-religious commenter doesn't recognize his own cultural presuppositions that have been influenced by Christianity. Because the disciples had it right. The Messiah was supposed to kick out the Romans. That was his power, that was his authority, that was his right to be reigning on the throne. And yet his right to reign, he chose to a different path by choice. He chose to give that up So I'm just beginning to meet many of you, and as the Lord leads, I hope to know many, many more of you well. And so this is really something that we unpack in our lives over years and decades and lifetimes. And as people pass away, a new generation comes to us. another Lord. This path of discipleship is what the church has been walking for thousands of years. It's not going to be eloquently spoken about and explained and in Um sorry, a little bit longer than what I was given. This is life, and this has to be lived in community. The community of the body of Christ, worshiping him There is a forward direction for sure. So notice this too. This is a small subtle difference that this would be much more to unpack. But I want to leave it with you. Jesus is walking to Jerusalem, knowing he's going to be executed. He is going to Jerusalem knowing he's going to be executed while his disciples are following him, not knowing what he's about to do, even though he's telling them what's going to happen. And he is patient. And he doesn't stop. He doesn't stop and just say, okay, I'll put off that later. While he's walking to Jerusalem to die for as a ransom for many, he turns and he patiently instructs. He teaches. Discipleship is about a humility. There's an inward direction of our discipleship that can only be fostered as we walk with the Lord. Being shaped by the power of the Spirit, being challenged and encouraged and cared for by each other as a community. So this is this is to be worked out in your community groups, this is to be worked out in your families. This is to be worked out in your marriages. This is to be worked out as we think about what does it look like for C Not only to worship Christ, but to be a witness to the watching world here in Colombia, here into the region, and to participate in what God is doing in the world. That is glorious. There's always more to say The end of the song says this. He makes no excuses, he shows no fear. He just closes his eyes and he listens to the cheers Little boy, he adjusts his hat, picks up his ball, stares at his bat, says, I am the greatest when the game is on the line. And he gives his all one last time. And the ball goes up, and the moon so bright, swings his bat with all his might. The world is still as still can be. The baseball falls, that's strike three. Wondering what you're thinking. Now it's supper time and his mama calls. Little boy starts home with his bat and ball Says, I'm the greatest. That is a fact. But even I didn't know I could pitch like that. How you saw the song says something about your definitions of glory and grandeur and honor and esteem. Jesus gives us a very different path that flips our presuppositions, our our our definitions of what that looks like on its head. And he says, I am king. I have a right to rule on the throne. And I am. But first I have to go to the cross. And this cross says it bids us to come and die so that we might find that we actually truly live. That is the beauty of the good news of the gospel, that this paradox accomplishes ransom. Following Jesus is rarely how you imagine it to be, but it is always better than you hoped. You might think surrendering control and dying to yourself is the surest way to ruin. Because it's it's scary. And maybe many of you are suffering and have been ruined or are experiencing ruin right now. But the good news for you is that Jesus says this path that he outlines is it's the only way to joy. Do you trust him? Are you walking with him? Are you following after where he leads? Are you seeking to lead how he serves? May we do that with God's help. Let's pray. Father, we are grateful for today. Thankful for worshiping you in song. Thankful for your story of redemption from the very, very beginning. And how there is wisdom and how you reveal it over time with great patience and steadfastness and faithfulness you have Brought forth the means of ransom, the payment on the cross, the curse on the tree, in my place. Your righteousness, mine. Nothing I can do. All of your grace, all of your mercy, we give you praise for those things. In Jesus' name. Amen.