Amen. In all I do, in all I do, let me honor you. Amen. If you have a copy of the scriptures with you today, I invite you to turn to the 13th chapter of the book of Hebrews. New Testament near the end. Hebrews 13, we're gonna read in just a bit Also, uh, you may have noticed that um we can send Alan and Kathy off, but they just won't leave And um the Harrises are worshiping with us. Uh actually they um because of Alan's uh appointment with the General Assembly next Sunday and all the packing and moving and everything and preparation. And Alan just couldn't think of a better church to go to worship than Columbia Press in Howard County. So we're we're glad to see you again. In case you didn't get a chance to say uh farewell, you can uh seek them out. Afterwards. And we haven't mentioned Alan's name so many times to this point simply because he's here. It's just because we're just all those things we wanted to say about him. Hebrews chapter 13, we've got that placemark. Let me say that I am a team sports kind of guy. I like football. I like basketball. I gotta say that in the church that sponsors upward cheerleading basketball. But I really love baseball. It's fun to watch a well coached baseball team. You've got all these players with skills and different gifts and abilities. And then you've got that coach, the coaching staff. And that's with any team sport. It's a beautiful thing to see Coaches and skilled players operating together. And you don't think about that when they get to the professional level, but like What was the case Thursday night when you you see LeBron James and D. Wade and Chris Bosch and they the timeout gets called. These guys that make multi-billion dollar, trillion dollar an hour salaries. They go over to the sideline, just like the level one boys and upward, and they stare at the coach and his little clipboard because they want to get that final shot in over the Dallas Mavericks, but too bad. So sad. Didn't didn't happen Thursday night. We'll see. We'll see how the tournament goes. But team sports Skilled players, coaching staff, all working together in mutual submission. Isn't that a beautiful thing? And what a picture God has given to us in all those things. The primary wonder of the body of Christ at work. Because all those team sports, they kind of take their cue. They don't know it. From the picture that Christ gives to his church. There is a fellowship of believers, and he has placed over that fellowship leadership And we're in the midst of this transition of leadership. And I thought that as the Lord was leading me to a passage, it may be good to take a look at what it is to be a part of a followership. It's not a word that you'll see in Webster's, but it is a word that we're going to discuss today in detail. The followership of the body of Christ. Let's read from Hebrews 13, beginning in verse 1. God's word. Let brotherly love continue. Do not neglect to show hospitality to strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares. Remember those who are in prison as though in prison with them, and those who are mistreated since you also are in the body. Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled, for God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. Keep your life free from the love of money. Be content with what you have. For he has said, I will never leave you, nor forsake you. So we can confidently say the Lord is my helper. I will not fear. What can man do to me? Remember your leaders, those who spoke to you, the Word of God, consider the outcome of their way of life and imitate their faith. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. Do not be led away by diverse and strange teachings For it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those devoted to them. We have an altar from which those who serve the tent have no right. To eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the holy places by the high priest as a sacrifice for sin are burned outside the camp. So Jesus also suffered outside the gate in order to sanctify the people through his own blood. Therefore Let us go to him outside the camp and bear the reproach that he endured. For here We have no lasting city, but we seek the city that is to come. Through him, Let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. Do not neglect to do good and to share what you have, for such sacrifices are pleasing to God. Obey your leaders and submit to them, for they are keeping watch over your souls as those who will give it Who will have to give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with groaning, for that would be of no advantage to you. God's word. We are in the midst of this staff transition. Last week many of us were filled with real emotion as we heard. Pastor Alan Harris preached from this pulpit his last sermon as the regular pastor of Columbia Presbyterian Church. And many of us are filled with emotion as well as we look with hopeful expectancy to Randy Lovelace. Coming to take the uh position of team leader pastor here at Columbia Presbyterian Church. We Read all, most of us I was gonna say, but read all. We don't know the future. We don't know what the future holds. We don't know what the next day is for us. We know it's a new day for CPC, but we have no idea what it is. But I think the very best thing that we can do as Columbia Presbyterian Church Is trust the Lord who knows the future and be the best church by his grace that we can possibly be, regardless of Well, let me say this whoever is in charge of the church Because that is the picture of the body. We're not looking to a team leader pastor, and we didn't look for thirty-three years to a senior pastor in Alan Harris. to do the ministry here. Alan would hate if we thought that that's what he spent teaching us all these many years In fact, quite the opposite. It is the work of the leadership to equip the saints for the work of the ministry. And we'll hear that again and again and again as we go into the future. Hopefully today we can look at this text and see what is followership. What are we called to be and to do, and by God's grace can achieve? I was inspired by Alan Harris last week, in fact, as he attempted in the 35 minutes allotted to preach from Genesis to Revelation. The entire theme of the presence of God and among his people. And so you'll see in the outline thirteen points to this sermon. And if you do the math, which I can't do, you'll see later. That's about two or three minutes per point. So fasten your seatbelt because this checklist, this evaluation, this set of criteria is for us as followers. All of us, regardless of who we are, Tim, Randy, Robbie, Jan, we're all followers because there is one head of his church, and that is Jesus Christ our Lord. So let's look at the followership features and see what the Lord would be pleased to work in us. You'll see right off the bat, the writer of Hebrews says to his audience, let brotherly love continue. Followership is characterized by love, genuine love one for the other. You remember Jesus' last words to his disciples in John 13. He said, This commandment I give to you, this is what I leave with you, this is what I want you to remember, that you have loved one for the other, just as I have loved you. You also are to love one another. By this what? Love. All people will know that you are mine. That's the way we're to be showing who we are as disciples of Christ, our love. And you see how the writer says, let this love continue. Indicating it's already there. It should be. And when it's not, we should seek it out. We should call for it from one another. And when it doesn't show up in meetings and get togethers and coffee gatherings, true love, then we should actually rebuke And correct, because love is what characterizes the people of God. You remember the old campfire song? They will know we are Christians by our love, by our love, right? Not necessarily by our unity, by our purity, as important as it is for us to be unified and and to be in fellowship with the brotherhood of Christ around the globe, that's not primary. And as important as it is to be doctrinally pure That's not primary. It is to be speaking the truth of God in the love of God. Sometimes love takes on a different complexion. Sometimes love is tough Sometime love rebukes, sometimes love corrects, but it's always love, and it's always undergirded with truth. So let your love continue. The second feature of followership we see is to practice hospitality to all. And this is not entertaining in your home. This isn't HGTV stuff. He says, do not neglect to show the hospitality to the strangers, to those who are foreigners, to those who you are uncomfortable with. Practice hospitality. The hospitality, the welcome, the reception that God has shown you in Christ. Because at one time you too were alienated from him. At one time you too were enemies. At one time there was no you dwelling in the presence of God. And the writer says, this is the type of hospitality that we should practice. This is where we must rely on the grace of God to work in and through us. Because, can we say this honestly? I don't like to be uncomfortable. I don't like people that I don't like. Do you That's why a command must be given. Pray for your enemies. Because if that command wasn't here, then all I'd want is for their destruction. And yet they may be my brother, my sister in Christ. We may be around the throne for eternity worshiping, but right now we're at odds. Right now, they With venom revile the thought of Jesus Christ as Lord. And the writer says, practice hospitality Practice hospitality with love. Love bears all things, it believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. I don't like strangers. I don't like to be inconvenienced. How about you? The third feature of followership is that we are to be sympathetic to those who are enduring trial. He says, remember those in prison. Remember those who are mistreated as if it was happening to you to sympathetically enter into the life of another. That's the call of the body of Christ. To enter into the pain, the trial, the adversity, to come alongside More than likely, the writer of Hebrews writing to a Jewish audience, those men and women who have been uh recipients of the gospel of grace and understanding of their need for Jesus as Messiah. They've been now ostracized from their comfortable Judaism setting. And they're outside of their comfort zone. And what the writer is saying there is those who have been now persecuted, those who are enduring trial because of their faith, those who are just enduring the hardship of life in the fallen world. Enter into that with them. That's the mark of followership. That's what the church looks like. Maybe you've experienced those times. They're sweet, they're precious. Where God I don't know what happens, I'm not a mystic, but it's kind of like where God kind of peels back the the veil and he allows you to see someone. Maybe someone that you're at odds with, and you see a little glimpse into why they're so mean or why they're so downtrodden, why they're so despondent, why they don't get along well with others. And God peels back that layer, and your heart goes out to them. And you want to embrace them and you want to cry with them and they'll still push you away Sympathy for those enduring. I heard a simultaneously heart-wrenching and heart warming story this past week. Member here in this body of Christ. And the family is undergoing some really severe trial with regard to a medical diagnosis. And one of the members of the family reached out to several friends in the body and in the uh larger body of Christ. And these friends rallied around the family member. It was a Wednesday afternoon phone call and a Wednesday evening get-together. That's how quick this body responded to this need for sympathetic encouragement. Don't you just want that more and more and more to be characteristic of who we are? That's followership. Writer of Hebrews says that followership is marked by purity. Let marriage be held in honor among all. Let marriage bed be undefiled. And then the judgment of God is in view. For God will judge the sexually immoral and the adulterous. Let the marriage bed be undefiled. It almost goes without saying. I said almost. It almost goes without saying that the only lawful expression for our sexual drive is the marriage bed. The only lawful expression of our sexual drive is the covenant bound between one man and one woman committed together for life. Even as I say the sentence, there's security in that. There's trust in that. Husbands pull their wives closer. And let me just camp out on this point for just a moment The church that ignores the marriage bed or that doesn't honor the marriage bed is a church that will not be a church for very long. First of all, you see the judgment of God. For God will judge the sexually immoral and the adulterous. But we also know that in this real time there are immediate consequences to sexual sin. Just this past week in the World Magazine, there was uh an article by Marvin Olasky where he reviews a book called premarital sex in America, where two sociologists have taken uh numerous studies over the last decade, and what they've concluded As they have found just staggering statistics of young people outside of marriage uh engaged in sexual activity that love and marriage no longer go together like a horse and carriage, but apparently promiscuity and depression often do, especially among women. And the staggering statistics increase as that promiscuity increases. You can read the article or check out the book But we already know that. We already know that sin brings with it devastating effects. And a church that is following its head, the Holy One of Israel, is a church that honors marriage. And keeps the marriage bed undefiled. Whether you're young or old, married or single, male or female, it is all of our right, responsibility to honor marriage. So I could camp out here and say what's your view of marriage? How do you speak about your spouse when you're in a setting like Cell Group or Home Fellowship Group? When you're at work, how do you discuss what goes on at home? Those are the things. If you're a single man or woman and you're in the setting with your friends, What's the view of your sexuality as you discuss things? John Piper in a sermon For the uh seminar called Sex and the Supremacy of Christ speaks of this very thing that A healthy church proclaims the preeminence of Christ, and by proclaiming the preeminence of Christ, that soul-satisfying Savior fills those needs that we have. It doesn't eliminate the drives that we have as humans, but it brings him into proper perspective. Listen to this quote. Sexuality is designed by God as a way to know God in Christ more fully. And knowing God in Christ more fully is designed as a way of guarding and guiding our sexuality. Piper makes the same point in the negative way. He says, all misuses of our sexuality distort the true knowledge of Christ. And our misuses of our sexuality are derived from not having a true knowledge of Christ. It's uh Very logical, very understandable, and in this well-lit room with fluorescent lights beaming down on us, we say, of course I get that. But maybe not so strong are we when we're all alone or when we're with that special person that we think is gonna be our spouse And I just want to encourage you with this, that a healthy church, a church where followership is practiced Has forgiveness offered fully and free through Christ Jesus our Lord It's certainly um something that we're aware of that in a room this size there probably are. Some, maybe many, who have sinned in that regard. And you need to know that Jesus Christ is the answer You can be forgiven. You can be set free, and you can be set aright again on that path of purity. If that's something that you want to discuss further, please, please. Talk to someone. See me. Email me. Tim at ColumbiaPres. org. Or talk to an elder. Followership is also marked by contentment. Contentment in all circumstances. Look at verse 5. Keep your life free from the love of money and be content with what you have. For he has said, I will never leave you, nor will I ever forsake you. You see, the security that Christ provides is the security and the only security that we need. In a time of downturned economy and recession talk and all the things that are going on, we need to know that the security that we have is found in the secure one. A strong tower, the righteous one of Israel. He's the one that said that he will provide for your every need, the one who clothes the flowers of the field, feeds the birds of the air. Says Are you not more valuable to me than they are, little birds and flowers? The answer, of course, is yes. Yes, you are the special part of his creation. And beloved, you are the apple of his eye. And he has your every need already considered and is providing. Every need Like we say at Christmas, not every want, every need considered, and every need met in Christ Jesus our Lord. It's interesting for me the point number four and point number five in the scriptures are always connected. It's something about our heart that lusts for more. Just one more. If I could just get one more, you know, chocolate chip cookie or uh glazed Dunkin' Muncheon or, you know, whatever it is. One more And the writer of Paul, when he wrote to the Ephesian Christians, he associated greed, lack of contentment, with sexual lust. In Ephesians 5 3, but sexual immorality says, and all impurity or covetousness must not even be named among you, as is proper the saints Those two go hand in hand because they spring forth from our sinful hearts that left unchecked will be left unconquered. Only that soul satisfying Savior can fill the hole in our hearts. The late English writer and Christian apologist G. K. Chesterton Said that every man that knocks on the door of a brothel is looking for God ultimately. Every one of us who plunked down money for the lotto or whatever. For that big hit, that big win, where we can be secure in and of ourselves. Ultimately, what's hungry is our thirst and our hunger for God. Let Him fill you up. That's why the followership is characterized by their security in the Savior alone. Look at verse 6, quoting Psalm 118, the writer of Hebrews says, The Lord is my helper. And knowing how strangulated we are by the fear of man, the reminder comes to you and me, weakling. You and me, frail one. I will not fear, for what can man do to me? Remember the words of Jesus in Matthew 10. Do not fear those who can kill the body. And cannot kill the soul, but rather fear the one who is sovereign over both body and soul. Fear the one who can destroy both body and soul in hell, Jesus Christ said. Maybe that's the first time you've ever heard that verse. Why would Jesus refer to the loving Heavenly Father in such stark judgmental manner? It's because there there will be that day, that day of visitation where all of our deeds will be will be held to account. And in that day, we either stand in our own righteousness or we stand in the imputed righteousness of Jesus Christ, received by faith. In which righteousness will you stand in that day? Our security in the Savior The followership number seven, the feature that's there is that we are to be pursuing doctrinal soundness. You see, I don't throw theology away because we mentioned love earlier in the sermon. In fact, a proper theology drives our love. Paul said to the Corinthians, We are compelled by Christ's love. Well, how do you know the love of Christ except that you properly understand the sinfulness of man? The holiness of God. And the only solution to bring those two in reconciliate and reconcili and recon and reconciling peace is the cross of Jesus Christ. Reconciling peace, reconciling peace, reconciling peace. Everyone, remember that only Christ, only Christ is your hope. And so the writer is bold enough to say this. Remember those who have instructed from the Word of God. We are thankful that Alan Harris would close his office door and study the scriptures diligently and present God's Word. On a regular and recurring basis. And what we heard from the Word of God, the writer of Hebrews says, then we need to imitate that. The instruction we see receive from the Word, what we see of the faith of the leaders as it's lived out, we need to imitate that. Imitation scariest thing a preacher can ever call his people to do. But it's almost over-emphasized in the scripture. You see in 3 John, beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good. Ephesians 5:1, be imitators of God as beloved children. 1 Corinthians 4, Paul says, Then I urge you, be imitators of me. Really, Paul? Everything? No, Paul wanted them to imitate God. And 1 Corinthians 11 he goes on, be imitators of me as I imitate Christ. You see the point there is that we don't want to walk around becoming, you know, R. C. Sproul or John Piper or Alan Harris or Tim Flore or Randy Lovelace or whoever We want to become more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ, being conformed to his image. One of the scariest concepts that I ever heard when I first became a father was more is caught than is taught. And so as you see the life of faith lived out, imitate that life of faith. aspect of followership is that our eyes are on the only constant. You see how the writer weaves in the sovereign, loving God throughout this passage Lest we be too weighted down with the burden of the law, he reminds us again, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. The world around us is constantly changing. Yesterday Alan was cleaning out his office and he knocked on my door and brought in to me a cassette player. Some of you younger people, you need to look that up in the history books. And twelve years ago I would have gladly taken a free cassette player with headphones We see how the world just constantly changes, ever churning. We can't even get each other straight. But Jesus Christ is the constant one, the same yesterday, today, and forever, and because he is the same Savior. It's the same gospel that's preached. It's the same calling on our lives to live holy and blameless, to live as those who have the name Christian. The same. And so the writer says that we're to be growing in grace and knowledge. Verse 9 through 11. The diverse and the strange teachings. They're out there. The PCA General Assembly is meeting this week and the OPC General Assembly begins Wednesday. both of these denominations with pre-conference seminars and and guest speakers and lecturers coming in to talk about things that ten years ago you would have never thought needed to be discussed. Was Adam a real man? But that's being discussed. Why? Because theologians are becoming enamored with the idea that he was probably a myth. He's probably a figurative thing, and we can manipulate different things now. Well, if you do that, you're in trouble with the rest of Scripture. In fact You basically need to call Jesus Christ a liar and a deceiver if you throw out the historicity of the first eleven books of Genesis. You can't do that. It's the word of God. Hold fast to the Word of God. The writer is saying that Those who are good followers, those who are uh engaged in this body of Christ, they're the ones who will be growing in grace, growing in knowledge. And they're unashamed to go to Bible study. They're not worried about what their coworkers say about. Man, you guys sure do read a lot at that church. You got another seminar this weekend? And you say, yeah, because I'm just tapping the surface. I don't understand the depths of the love of a holy God for a sinner like me. And the seminar is gonna help, so that's why I'm attending. Number ten, the writer says we need to be willing to suffer He's writing to a a a group of Jewish Christians who have embraced the gospel that Jesus Christ is Messiah. They've given their life to him, and therefore they've been kicked out of what they were. uh raised in. Jesus himself suffered. He endured the reproach he Did what was necessary to take your sin and my sin onto himself. And the writer says, then, let's go to be with him outside the camp. And let's endure and bear the reproach that he endured. Remembering always that we've not been called to the popularity contest. It's really not about us either or anyway, isn't it? It's about him. Our main purpose was to Glorify God and to enjoy Him forever. And that's why the writer is wise to point our direction, our gaze, not to this world, not to all our, you know Countertop this and cabinet cover that and the new tires and the eighteen inch spinner wheels and all the different things that we could get caught up in easily, but he says, here we have no lasting city. And so, as the followership of Christ, we encourage one another with what? The hope that endures. The presence of God. John in his revelation, he saw the holy city. And the interesting dynamic of that picture was that the city was descending. And the dwelling place of God was with man. You will be my people, and I will be your God, and we will be together. That's the hope that we foster among ourselves. We don't foster a hope in our retirement plan or 401k or what you're going to do in the next level up in your uh career path. Those things are all good, I'm sure, but the hope that we have is in that city to come. And that's why Followership is characterized by a lifestyle of worship. He says, through him, through Christ Through Christ's finished work, through him, let us continually offer up a sacrifice of praise with the fruit of lips that acknowledge his name. That's to love God. And then he says, So then let us not neglect to do good and to share what you have. For with such sacrifices they are pleasing to God. That's the love for others. See the two greatest commandments there in view? They're always there. And none of us is equipped in and of ourselves to obey those commandments to the full, and so we rely on the finished work of Christ. It's a lifestyle of worship. It's not what takes place between the call to worship to the benediction. That certainly is important for the life of the followership. The corporate gathering should not be forsaken. In fact, the writer of Hebrews, a couple of chapters early, says that very thing. Do not forsake the assembly of the saints. But it is in every uh venture that we encounter this week that we will bring the worship, the sacrifice of praise to God. And so then we come to point thirteen and the conclusion. Because if we'd have started there, you'd have said, aren't you arrogant? Asking us to obey you. Get out of here. I submit to you respectfully that those who have been placed in charge of the church. Those who have been placed in charge over the family, parents, those who have been placed in charge over society, if you were to ask them honestly, hey You feel the clip to have all those people submitted to you? I think that every parent, every husband, every head of household, and every civil magistrate, and every pastor in the room would say no. Not at all. And that's why when we think of the team working together, that's the beautiful picture. You see the leaders in the church, all these features of followership That's what we desire to see springing forth in abundance from the body of Christ. You desire that too. And that's why the writer says, obey your leaders In such a way to make their job. Their job is what? They're trying to get this stuff out of you. So obey them in such a way that their job becomes a joy for them. Because if it's not a joy for your leaders, he says, What benefit will that be to you? Your life will never reflect this if you continually rebel against the word of God preached. And against the doctrines of grace as they are laid out clearly in Scripture. We understand that theoretically, but it's when our prideful heart starts getting sucked on one side and the other that everything fleshly Rises up. And that's why we go to one more verse. Pray. You see in verse 18, writer is not stupid. Inspired by God, he says these things. So then, pray for us. For we are sure that we have a clear conscience and we desire to act honorably in all things. And I urge you the more earnestly to do this. See, it's a spiritual battle we're in, regardless of what transitions taking place and the outcome of the uh congregational meeting tonight and all the things that we've got going on. Every aspect of our lives is spiritual in nature. And so we pray. Let's do that right now. Gracious God, I pray that you would now please take uh whatever uh you can from these words spoken. Lord, from your truth. And that you would apply particular points to us, Lord, that you would remind us that our obedience is Possible because you were the faithful one. And I pray for our congregation that you would continue to equip us to be the church that you've called us to be Operating together, leaders and followers, all working under the head. Jesus Christ, it's in your name that we pray. Amen.