I want to right now uh wrap up the month of missions before we extinguish the torch at our service this evening and declare that missions is closed and we will hear no more about missions until the next year of missions, right? No Of course not, because missions is the warp and the woof of the Christian life. And uh in fact that's so true. I want to take this basic verse so familiar to us, John 3. 16 And I would like to point out to you three facts from that verse to speak to our hearts and remind us of some challenges. that God has brought to us from the speakers of this last month as we seek to apply them uh personally so that we don't kind of drift through that month and say, well, got through another month of missions, didn't have to consider anything, change any plans, do anything seriously, personally. I apologize to those of you who haven't been here during the last month because uh this morning I will be unusually light on the actual opening up of the text and looking more at application of it. But next week we begin a four-week series of meditations on Easter. We believe we're already up to that. So we'll start that then. But this morning I want to look at God's Word, John 3. 16. Let's have that up on the screen now, please. And uh as we look at this verse, I'll remind you that um we're not actually sure. You've got one of those Bibles, you know, has Jesus' words and read. We probably have this in red, but we're not really sure that this is what Jesus said or whether what Jesus was saying to Nicodemus ends at verse 15, and this may be John's commentary on that Either way, it's the word of God, doesn't change the meaning at all. But let us then consider God's word. I'm going to read from verse 16 to verse 21 For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish. But have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe stands condemned already because he has not believed in the name of God's one and only Son. This is the verdict. Light has come into the world. But men love darkness instead of light because their deeds were evil. Everyone who does evil hates the light, and will not come into the light for fear that his deeds will be exposed. But whoever lives by the truth comes into the light, so that it may be plainly seen that what he has done has been done through God. Larry Crabbe has said that this used to be the most familiar verse in the Bible. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. That he gave his one and only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. He said that's probably now been upstaged by uh Matthew 7, judge not that you be not judged. Take it a little out of context, but nevertheless, it is indicative, I think, of a change of what we're comfortable with as a culture. This verse is not as popular because it says some strong things that make us uncomfortable today. Notice three facts from this verse. Number one This verse tells us that everyone will either perish or have eternal life. It tells us that many people are perishing. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. And yet we live in a day, and by the way, if if that's not clear enough what he means by that, uh he makes it absolutely clear in verse 36 Where he says, Whoever believes in the Son has eternal life, but whoever rejects the Son will not see life. That's what he means by perish, will not see life, for God's wrath remains on him. That makes us a little uncomfortable who live in a day when in a recent survey Sixty-four percent of Americans surveyed agreed with this statement. Christians, Jews, Buddhists, Muslims, and all others pray to the same God, even though they use different names for that God. Majority of Americans still would claim to be Christians in some vague sense, but sixty-four percent of Americans agree that Christians, Jews, Muslims, Buddhists all pray to the same God. Exact same number, 64% agree with the statement, all religions are equally good. Now, that survey was taken before September the 11th. I don't know if it would still be the same number, but there is still certainly the same emphasis on the fact that Muslims and Christians really look to the same God and why make a big deal about the differences. In fact, there's more of a pressure on that. Because people who hold to absolutes are seen as potential threats. Kathy and I were riding in the car recently and were listening to NPR. Gotta tune on in on NPR every once in a while and listen to the Diane Ream show. And she was interviewing a blind Indian author, Ved Meta. And uh in the interview she asked him, uh he had gone to boarding school in the United States in the South in the forties and fifties. And so one of her questions to him was Uh did you find that you were ever um experienced that you experienced prejudice uh in the South and the boarding schools in the forties and fifties, either because you were blind or because you were Indian? And his answer was very interesting. He said, no, really didn't experience any prejudice here. Actually, the only example of that was this one Southern boy who told me that I was going to go to hell because I wasn't a Christian. And then he began to elaborate on how that was a prejudicial, intolerant, insensitive, and um demeaning kind of statement. We live in a culture now that does not seem able to distinguish between the statement, I'm concerned that the Bible says you will go to hell without Jesus and the statement, go to hell. Just the declaration that you could be perishing That what the Bible says in one of its most popular verses, most known verses, perhaps the verse you ever memorized as a kid. A verse that you kids have come to know is seen now as a verse that breathes intolerance, insensitivity, even hate language. Now, let's face it, we can't live in that culture and not be affected by How that brings us intention when we read a verse like John 3. 16. We go through a month of missions that says we need to mobilize and we need to invest our lives in the Great Commission because people are perishing. And something down deep in you might be reacting and saying, well, I'm not really sure. Let me tell you, if you're not Forget the call of missions upon you. It's based on the conviction, the absolute truth of Scripture, that people are perishing. Do you believe that? Or you're waffling on that. Do you believe that the people that you work with, that you play with, that you talk to across the driveway and across the backyard Who seem so self-sufficient are in fact perishing. Verse 36 says that God's wrath is remaining on them Because they have shut him out of their lives and will one day stand before him with only the hope of justice for all the things that they know they have done wrong. The Bible says they're lost. And we as Christians must recapture the notion of lostness if we're going to take seriously the call of missions on our lives. The things you've heard in the last month. A week or two ago I read about a survey, a statistic that really disturbed me. It didn't really impact me when I read it, and so I forget where I read it now. But I believe I have the statistics correct. It was a survey done among teens, and the question was this If we could give you a drug that would guarantee that you would win a medal in the Olympics, but would also guarantee that you would be dead in five years, would you take it? You think anybody'd take it? Fifty-four percent of teenagers today said, yes, I'd take it Now what does that say about their value of life? Lost. A moment of glory is worth years of living. And so when you pull out of the driveway here and you begin to drive home 108 either direction, does it occur to you that you're passing lost people? People that are perishing? Or is that an antiquated term to you? Or perhaps if you're here in this room this morning And you do not have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ and have never admitted that you've shut God out of your life, that there are things that you are guilty of that you cannot excuse before Him And that you desperately need his forgiveness through the finished work of Jesus on the cross and in his resurrection Then I say it to you, as one who tries to speak to you as a friend, you are perishing. And you need to come to Christ. What hope is there for you? Well the verse says that God loves sinners. That's the second fact. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. This last month will make no impact on you if you're not convinced that people who are without Christ and are perishing as sinners are also people that God loves. We must believe that God loves sinners. And so let me ask you, as I ask myself, a difficult question not to be answered superficially: Do you love sinners? Do you want to spend time with unbelievers, with non-Christians, not simply because you enjoy what they do. Some of the things that they do you can greatly enjoy and enter into the full, and other things you can't. But you want to spend time with them because the love of God in your heart compels you to love sinners. God loves sinners. There's a danger, you know, as Christians, that the longer we've been Christians, the more isolated we become from unbelievers. All our friends are Christians. We hang around church people doing good things, like Upwards, Vacation Bible School. A lot of things. But if in all the activities that we do, we're not willing to get close to sinners. then we will find ourselves increasingly uncomfortable with sinners. I mean, after all, you you know, you you don't talk the same language Um you're with sinners and you're always kind of wondering, you know, what point am I supposed to get the gospel in here? You know, maybe I'm gonna say the wrong thing, or they're gonna put me in a compromising situation and say, you know, there's all this tension. You know, you're with Christians, you can sort of relax. You're a bunch of sinners too, but hey, you know, we're all sinners. You can relax. But you know these unbelievers, you got a responsibility, you know. I have one word to say to you. Relax Sometimes we get so uptight about what we're supposed to do with the sinners, we can't just love them. I've told you a couple of years ago my cousin, well, my whole family's pagan. My cousin became a Christian after years of sharing and praying. And uh her husband, who I've gotten to know and enjoy doing a lot of things together, I think there's a mutual enjoyment. But you don't want to talk anything about religion. Uh just, you know, that's your area, that's fine. In fact, if I'm ever in their house, they have me say grace. Kind of the honorary grace sayer, you know, because I'm the guy that does that. He knows how to do that stuff. But we won't talk about the gospel. Recently, just in the last week or two, he sent me an email And uh he was telling us about a bunch of stuff. And he let drop this one little sentence. He said, I've started going to church with my cousin. Maybe someday I'll do what needs to be done. You know, when I read that I wanted to weep. Because first of all, I was so happy that after years of praying that he's begun to go to church with her. Well Hopefully you'll hear the gospel, and um that's out of some stress. But I also saw in what he was saying a hopelessness. She's done something, she's crossed this line, and somehow something's changed her, and I don't know how you do it, and that it's all a mystery to me. So I know some someday maybe I'll get it. It'll happen to me, but not really sure that ever could And you know it's so tempting as Christians, isn't it, to say, Well let me tell you about the gospel and how it is that you do it. I think that would have been a big mistake for him We've talked a little about that. But I I just love this guy. And so I just wrote back and I said, let me guess what it must be like to have your wife become a Christian. Do you feel angry or afraid or maybe kind of confused about what this new thing has happened and tell me how you feel about that. I just want to know where his heart is. Because I do care for him by God's grace. I think if we simply can learn as Christians to cultivate our relationship with the Lord Jesus, and then as God puts us in contact with unbelievers, To simply allow what God's doing by His Spirit in His to just respond to them, loving them. And as God gives opportunity to share the gospel. That's very important. I'm so glad that We've got a couple of couples that are going to be following up on Upwards folks to share the gospel with them and perhaps to offer training in evangelism next fall For people to be here for VBS, we need to declare the gospel. But the first thing is to enter into the heart of God who loves sinners. And if you haven't dealt with that, then um this month of missions isn't going to make much impact on you God loved me when I was a rebellious, fist-shaking sinner outside of Christ. And he didn't give up on me. He pursued me, he brought me to himself. And when I think of his amazing grace As you go on with Christ, that amazing grace can somehow become fascinating grace, which somehow becomes interesting grace, which merely becomes grace. And the only solution to that deterioration is to think again, what would your life be like right now without Jesus Christ in it? What was it like before him? What would it be like without his love for you and what he's done to change you? To renew that passion for Him and a love for sinners. Because his love is not simply a sentimental love. It's a sacrificial love. You see in verse 16, God so loved the world that he gave. And so you notice that, put those both in blue to see the link. God so loved the world that he gave. And love is willing to sacrifice and give for the one it loves. Not because love enjoys sacrifice But because it's willing to make a sacrifice for the benefits achieved. I think of Fred He was a student at a Bible school and during one summer he took the summer to work at Hope Town in New York, sometimes called Hopeless Town, because the people that they work with there Our society's hopeless cases. His job was to diaper a 12-year-old, to feed a 15-year-old by hand, to guide and carry people The most would have written off. And while Fred was there, he met a girl who had the same kind of heart for hopeless people, Ronnie And they cultivated the relationship and eventually married and Ronnie finished her degree in special education and went to work for handicapped children in a state institution and there Ronnie met Bonnie. Bonnie was nine years old and looked like six. She had been so abused she did not speak, she only grunted and drooled. And they adopted Bonnie as their daughter As they were seeking to love Bonnie, they got a call one night from somebody in the church that said that A mother of three teenagers had just been killed in an auto accident, and these three teens were now orphans. They were all in trouble with the law And they knew more about guns and alcohol than they did about games and books. And so they brought them all into their home And one by one, they led them to Christ. During that time, Ronnie became pregnant, but along with the baby in her, there was a cancerous tumor And so she went through a round of chemotherapy and radiation, finally was pronounced in remission, and so they took that as God's green light to get involved with some needy people. And the five of them took off, the six of them took off to New Guinea to work with ex-cannibals Ronnie's cancer came back and that next year just before Christmas, their daughter Bonnie, now able to speak. Prayed one night at her mom's bedside. Jesus, mommy hurts too much. Please take her home. And he did that night. Now what can produce the kind of love in people that will make that kind of sacrifice? I don't have that kind of love. Maybe you're thinking I don't have that kind of love. Hey, okay, let's admit it. Let's not try to pretend But then let's go to the cross and let's see there a love that is so far beyond anything that Fred or Bonnie, Fred or Ronnie could have ever exercised the love of God who gave his one and only Son for sinners. Now don't miss in that little phrase there, gave his one and only son, and you think, well, you know, what that means is, you know, there's Father, Son, and the Spirit. There's only one, you know, so I mean that's what it means. He's unique. I think it's saying something else too. When you think of sacrificial love and you look at God, doesn't it seem ludicrous to talk about God sacrificing? I mean, he's omnipotent, he makes everything, he gives you something, he can make another one. You know? You give something to somebody and say, now I don't have any We'll never kill with God. Whatever God gives, here we go. There's ten more. But not his son. John or Jesus' words are emphasizing here. That when God gave his Son for you and for me It was his one and only Son. The Son with whom he had fellowship from all eternity And he was willing to give that son, and that son was willing to go to take the curse that you and I deserve for our sin. And when you look at the cross and you see what God sacrificed, it changes your heart. It's not the mission speakers. It's not all the exciting tales of persecution and sacrifice and all the rest of that. It's looking to Christ. And to see God loved you and gave his son for you So that you would not perish, but have life. And because it's not automatic, but you must believe that message has got to be conveyed. Like it was brought to you, so it needs to be brought through you to other lost people And so the toughest question, perhaps, of the whole month of missions is: what are you and what am I willing to sacrifice? To be part of God's global kingdom building program. What are you willing to give? Out of a heart that God is changing to Make a bit more loving and willing to sacrifice. And so I've included the green sheet there and take it out for just a moment. Because uh I want you to take this and take it home and to bring it back to the prayer meeting tonight at five This afternoon. Um along with that yellow booklet when we meet at five o'clock, you know, we've got that um missions booklet that we've been using through the um month. If you have one of these book lists, please bring it back. We'll have a few of them down there. But I'd like you to to take this and just prayerfully go through it before the Lord Goes through the month, starting with Dan Iverson. We used to have a group that met to pray for our mission in Japan, the Ask and Receive Prayer Group. They send requests and You get the request and simply meet together and ask God to to accomplish the things that are needed and then they give you the answers and see what God does. It's It's a faith builder. Dan spoke about the amazing thing that God has done there in answer to prayer, beginning of the month, but that group doesn't meet now Would you be willing, is there somebody here perhaps that God's calling to restart that group or to participate in it? Would you be willing to bring that before the Lord? Decide how often do you want to meet? Every week, once every two weeks, once a month? I mean, whatever it is. Or secondly, and talked about uh coming to Japan, perhaps uh if you are high school or recently out of high school, one of the nine to fourteen-day mission trips. that they have, we could pull one together in summer of 2003. Or you think about the mission trip that we have going this summer Do you know we have 25 kids? Uh you know we actually have over 30 kids signed up for 25 slots here. We've got a problem. We've got a bump six of you. I don't know what we're gonna do We'll have some sort of contest. I don't know. Yeah, twenty-five kids will be going from CPC to a mission in West Virginia. And uh they need to be sent. They'll need about ten thousand dollars for that mission to occur and some vans. What about our support of that? Or uh what about going to Japan and taking a year or two, as Jen Calvert and others have done, to teach English? It's a very, very effective way to attract seekers over there You say, you've got to be kidding me. Well, why is that impossible? Would you be willing to just pray about it? Think about it. To take that time and see what the Lord would do. What do you think of Gustavo Crocker who spoke here the second week and talked about how he was an architect in Central America and God called him to give up that promising career to work for world relief. In impoverished areas to do radical things. Like he talked about the guys who opened the tiles on the ceiling to bring their friend to Jesus. Would you be willing to pray, as you see it there, the prayer that I've listed, Lord, show me how small my world is and enlarge it until I see it as you do? I'm willing to give you my career to use as you wish in the Great Commission. You willing to pray that? A little risky, isn't it? What do you think? Bring that before the Lord. Or as Mark Reeb said about his friend that he took to Africa, and the elder of the church came there and said, Are you ready to die for Jesus? To bear his brand marks? If you are, then we'll listen to you. You say, Well, I'm glad I'm not there. Yeah, but what about where you work and where you live this week? Are you willing To be identified with Jesus when it may cost you something, even just your image or uncomfortableness. And to take that small step to see where God will lead you as you begin to more openly be identified with Him. I still remember a student in Innervarsity back when I was working with one school and this this kid had was a new Christian. And one day I saw him and He obviously was a lot happier than I'd ever seen him before. He said, I am so happy. I said, Wow, what happened? He said, you know, for all these last months I've been kind of pretending That I fit in with my non-Christian friends and then I with my Christian friends and I'm a Christian. He said I finally decided I'm going to be a Christian. Take it or leave it. I'm going to be one person. Boy, is that free. Are you trying to fit in, pretend that you're part of the gang, rather than to be identified with Jesus? Month's not going to mean much to you unt until you've settled that basic issue. Are you willing to teach English, perhaps, with one of our Orthodox Presbyterian missionaries in some one of our fields where it's also an opening for the gospel, Eritrea, China, Japan, other places. Were you willing to consider or pray about joining Robert Carr in one of his short-term trips, planning churches over in Uganda and Kenya? Dates there for this year or following years? Reconsidering possibly participating with our World Missions Task Force, just to get involved here, right here in our congregation, to help us as a congregation to be more globally minded. And attend one of the meetings. There's a number of people you could call and talk to, but George Walgrove, Jack Schaefer have given leadership to that for some time. May want to just talk to them. If you don't know who to call, call the office, we'll tell you. Or um you see on the back an idea to consider being a global giver. Principle is your heart follows your money. You pray for what you pay for. So as you give your offering to the Lord, think about following where that money goes, reading New Horizons, seeing the missions reports that we give. And then think about m possibly giving your own separately supporting a missionary or missions, praying for that mission, getting their literature Seeing the difference that your money is making in the kingdom. Then possibly gradually expanding to other areas so that you see that your heart is following where you're investing. Think about it. Or at least, please come and join us this afternoon at five o'clock as we pray. As sinners, we just offer up to the Lord. Lord, here's where we are. Take us as a congregation. Lord, we're going to pray for the missionaries that were mentioned this month. We're going to pray for the specific needs. We're going to pray for other needs in our congregation. Pray for needs of our nation. Pray for Mike Milligan as we ordain him this evening as deacon and for Peter Lee as we vote on him to be an elder. We're going to pray for the needs we have. Just come and join with us. I hope that I hope we'll have a room like this. We're going to be packed out downstairs. Come and join us. If you can't get there just at five, get there as soon as you can. And then we'll move on to the Lord's Supper What are you investing your life in? And I think of uh Greet Riekirk who was here who invested her life in Eritrea and Kenya as a medical missions doctor And Greet Rekirk was speaking at one of our sister churches, Grace OP Church in Vienna, Virginia, a few years ago. And as she spoke there, God prompted her to issue a challenge, and she said, In a few years I'm going to retire. She is retired now. She was here this morning, heading back to the Netherlands, her home. And she said, I'm going to be retiring in a few years. Who's going to replace me? Is there possibly one of you who God would call? To become a medical missionary in my place. And in that group that heard her, it was a ten-year-old girl, and she put up her hand. She said, I'll go! I will. Everybody thought that's nice. As she grew, she got training in medicine, went to medical school, has graduated, and she's gone to Africa to replace Dr. Greet Rikirk. What about you kids? Is God speaking to you and the investment of your life? What are you trading your life for? There's a fellow in New York City that appears fifteen times in the Guinness Book of World Records. His goal is to be known. He holds the record for the most appearances in the Guinness Book of World Records. For phenomenal world-changing feats like the longest non-stop yodeling, twenty-seven hours Doing nonstop somersaults for twelve miles. I remember seeing a tombstone years ago. Had the name of the person underneath it said Bold 300 in 1963. Summed up as life. What are you trading your life for? God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him will not perish But have eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we offer our lives to you now. Pray, Lord, that you would remind us that we would take these sheets And we'd bring them before you this afternoon. And we'd ask, Lord, what do you bid your servant to do? Lord, give us hearts that as we look at John 3. 16, our hearts could enter in, and we'd be captured by the love of God for us Be captured with that love for sinners that causes us to want sinners to bring you the glory that you so deserve, and they would have life instead of death. Everybody here, Lord, would have life through Jesus, and nobody in this room would be perishing, heading for death. So, Lord, take us, speak to us, make us open, give us willing hearts to be obedient to you in Jesus' name. Amen.