And the last word and the language of forgiveness. The word forgiveness. We're going to see the language of forgiveness today And next week we will be having some people joining our congregation and being baptized and so I'm going to take that opportunity to speak on that most popular topic baptism. Many people ask questions, maybe people are not and then ask you that next time And I'll be moving into the root of forgiveness, the comparable to forgiveness, and some of its consequences as we work some of the implications of what we have set out So I have a chart which uh sums up for you the words that we have studied. Uh surely uh all of you haven't been able to make all of these and so this at least gives you some idea of what we have covered, the material there. and uh let you see the relationship of the words uh put all together on one sheet. So hopefully that will help you to put together some of the things we've studied over these last weeks Now this week we're going to finish this word charisma, the word that has come from the Greek word power for grace. And you call that word to be said that that word means to give freedom or to graciously bestow something But the word is often used in the New Testament to mean for good, translated by the word for good. And you see some references listed there there, where that's And the point of this word, the point of God using this word to give freedom, to grace that he bestowed, as one of the New Testament words, one of the two most significant words for to give The point that I'm trying to show us from that is simply that forgiveness is always an act of race. We need to keep that clearly in mind throughout our whole study Forgiveness is always an act of grace. Remember last week that we defined grace in two ways. He said the grace is not getting what I do deserve which is that judgment and the other whole race is getting what I don't deserve being adopted into a family called its son. Because we quite simply not getting what I do deserve and getting what I don't deserve. And that's the office of forgiveness. to give the person what they don't deserve and then to not give them what they do deserve. And so we see that the grace teaches us three things here about God's production. given. One that we call is freely given, not noted. Two you see there that it's abundantly given not music, and three, that it is willingly and personally doing, not mechanical. Last week we looked simply at point number one that is clearly given and not merited. We take a look at Luke chapter 7, verses 36 to 50 Parable there of the woman who had been forgiven much, and so therefore she threw herself at Jesus' feet and lavished herself upon him And I was struck in thinking that through and preparing for that of the movie trends that I see in the church today that are taking us away from a few, fewer things And therefore undercutting on understanding the book grace is because of a romantic view of the gospel, a gospel which is seen as primarily fulfilling ourselves. them to understand the heart of the gospel, not mean fulfillment, but rather forgiveness. And doing not guilt for grace. God dealing with it. That woman in Luke 7, overwhelmed by absolute helplessness and rottenness before God Therefore she receives the abundance of his grace. And therefore her whole attention is upon Jesus. This is something which has so much been displaced today. An example of that. of structurally if I think you've been thinking about like this week is if you were to take for instance an old classic such as John Owen's excellent book on the Forgiveness of Tim written a couple hundred years ago and you see the first topics would be deal with and His whole emphasis is now that you see the need of his evening changes to say that God really won't exist So there's very few books you would see that is all that relevant an issue today. Nobody questions the dog for you. It's the question of what you're going to do to forgive me, what you've forgiven you. And so this whole uh area seemed to be something that It's not relevant to the news today. And what I submitted is relevant today if it was ever relevant. When Ellen Works or when the scriptures were written. Need it for grace. That's really the heart of the gospel. I think of another book that I came across this week. Um it's a book on uh the spiritual life and I had a chapter in a called Knowing Yourself Betters Referred. A rather interesting title and this chapter went on to talk about how care is a great aid to getting to know yourself And uh that's really uh where much of the emphasis on because we have forgotten how much prayer can be used to help us to get into ourselves and to understand ourselves and to speak out loud with an awareness of God's presence. We see then a shift that we're going through in a orientation from God to self. Whenever there's that that orientation, then we have a picture of a woman taking herself As opposed to the Luke 750, we talked about yesterday, a woman lavishing herself upon Jesus, a woman before men as it were making a fool of herself, wiping her feet with her hair. That's the We were unself-conscious because of our devotion to Jesus Christ, with his church and his people. But the point then, and I was trying to make some all of that, was First of all, we need to be more aware of our own subtle self-righteousness. We need to be not only aware of that, but to repent of it and to read it out. That's the first point. The second point I was trying to make under that was that we need to be aware of the influence of our culture upon our view of sin and grace. We need to not be so naive as to think that what the culture says is not going to affect the way you and I read the bodies we say. And the way that the culprit speaks to us about the human condition today will affect the way you and I look at what sin is, the problem, the human problem, and what grace is in God's solution in Jesus Christ. So we need to examine all self-help Christianity in the light of scriptures. Now having said that I haven't dealt with that. I want to move on to the second and third point about the abundance and about the willingness of God's giving. These points having once established the forgiveness is always costly, always costly to the forgiveness. But yet freely given, we see now something that forgiveness is not only freely given, it's abundantly given. Forgiveness in God's grace is not living. God doesn't gall out his forgiveness as a miser saying that Well, okay. I'll forgive you one more time. But don't do it again. Watch out, you know. Don't presume on you Is this somehow that God is uh paying for it in a way that uh takes something from him every time he has to forgive us instead of grudgingly dispensing it Rather, God does not have forgiven or to give us his reservation. But the simplest teachers is that he forgives us abundantly. So take a look, for instance, at how this word is used in Romans chapter 8. In Romans 8. 32, we have this word, the charizma, used there. In Romans 832, we read, He did not spare his own son, but gave him up for it Given up for us all, how will we not also, along with him, freely give or graciously give us all things? That one does graciously give or freely give is this word charismatic. And you see the context is forgiveness. So look at verse 33 Because you'll bring any charge against those who God is changing. It's God who justifies. God's the one who forgives. You see, Paul is here arguing from the greater to the lesser. He's saying if you have any doubt about God's attitude in the abundance of his grace for Remember that he's already given that which was most precious to him for you. He's given against us. And the entire universe in comparison. The God's giving is a small mind. God's already given us the most conscious thing. Constantly not going to leave and freely give you everything else that goes on all the body All this part of you being adopted into his family means his own family. You see he's not only given up his criminal, but party. He follows into his own family. The banquet in his table. He calls everything. If you have any doubt about the abundance of that, look at what he's already given to you. Then how can you ask yourself whether God will give any reservations and movement as anything else? That thing, with the you good and his glory. So this is the same word that's using. Then we see the same word that's also used in 1 Corinthians chapter 2. In First Corinthians chapter two, in verse twelve, the same words, charidulae. Where we read, we have not received the spirit of the world, but the spirit view is from God, that we may understand what God has freely given us. That word there, freely given, is this word charisma. So what is it that God is freely given to us? And it's given to us the inheritance of the faith. Well what's involved in this inheritance of the faith? Well uh let me draw you a picture of this inheritance of the thing. Let me describe it to you so we keep it in really acting something of what that means. You know, I think if I would begin to do that, I would find myself pretty fascinating I can't do it. So why can't I do it? Well take a look at verse 9. Paul says there, he says, what have God really given to you? Well he says, No I have seen, your ear heard. No mind has ever even conceived of what God has prepared for those who love us. For the words have done We and I can't even stretch our imagination for us and begin to understand what God has really given us. The extent of his grace is beyond the wildest imagination of the most fruitful, truthfully minded Christians, we declared to see. God says the abundance of this grace is more than we can understand I think of the example of uh perhaps he was floating and said he was riding along one night. He was thinking of his own knees, he was thinking of his uh simple extreme Whether God's grace is really sufficient to cover all of that. And really sufficient to such a miserable creature of sin. And then he said, all of a sudden, he said, I burst out laughing. He said it was as if as if I was a kid. A a little guppy as it were, swimming around in the ocean saying, I wonder if there's enough water here, whether I'm gonna run out. I mean maybe I'm going to come to the end of a bank and everything's gonna dry up and it might not be enough for me to find it. And I know what I can only see this not. It's the real unit in the similarity. And that's that God will lavish upon you in the forgiveness in Jesus Christ and call you to be your thing since God Himself could not God is God and the greatest salvation. That which we've called you and you said I have to love you if I can do anything. Well it's something that God himself could not have thought of a greater salvation because he called us to be conformed to the image of his own strength And there is nothing greater than us. So God Himself has given us all that he possibly can give. So this I think is illustrated in Isaiah chapter 55. So take a look at that film. In Isaiah chapter fifty five, you have this thinking About the gibbets. And often Isaiah fifty five is misunderstood. Very quotable A verse here but often misunderstood. So let's make it a context. Notice the uh line of thought in Isaiah 55. Now this word charisma isn't used here, but it's the same idea In Isaiah 55. 1 you have the beginning of an invitation, come, all you who are thirsty, come to the water. And you who have no money, come and buy in each. Very much more. Buy to eat. Now what do you need to buy? Well you could come by wine and milk. Without money now. Without cost come and buy us. So why spend money on what is not bread and labor on what is not satisfied? Listen. Listen to you. Eat what is good and refill with delight and delicious. I'm not going to throw out a few crumbs and crap you. This is what I want you to come and buy. The richest piece you can think about. But I want you to buy it without money. There's no way you can pay for it. You have to pick your free. So what's he talking about? Well take a look now in verse 6 Seek the Lord while he may be stand. Call on him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way. And the evil man to stop And let him return, turn to the Lord, and he will have mercy on him if you are God to use your free parts. Now notice that man that's described there, the wicked man or the evil man. The word they're used for that is a word that refers to deceit and perverse wickedness. He's a guy, he's rotten to the core. That's what I'm talking about. He's a fellow who holds the line of his life with a lie. If any of you know about uh this famous uh John Todd, who's been going around the country, preaching the gospel, making prophecies about the church and talking about all kinds of conspiracies going on in the United States. And while he's doing this, he's deeply involved in the occult. He produces girls of his own revival meetings and involved in all kinds of corrupt and rotten things bringing disgrace upon the name of Jesus Christ raised us. There's nothing to do to good. It's all corrupt. One of the feasts that I says about this person, not that God Let's just fellas turn to the Lord, and He will have mercy on us for our God, and He will freely pardon. Now that word impartia is the word we considered if you have that little feet. You see it's number uh five, the word five He will free part of the word which means literally he will multiply to pardon. Now to what extent is God going to multiply his forgiveness in pardon? Verse 8. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declared the Lord. As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your wings, and my thoughts than your thoughts So that's a verse that we also use, those two verses, as a kind of a pretext for God's holiness. See how far beyond us God is, and his ways are not our ways, and his thoughts are in our things. and we talk about this and about providential dealings with us and things that we don't understand and that's all we couldn't expect and we're saying that's not what that's talking about. The context is ways and forgiveness. The thoughts that are being talked about in verse 8 and 9 are his thoughts of forgiveness. And his ways are the ways of his pardon. What God is saying Him to be quite clearly and quite simply, don't know your mind forgiveness by your own standards. When you talk about forgiveness, the tendency that you and I have to do is that we look at how we treat one another. And we think of the best forgiveness we've either ever experienced or given. And that's what we extrapolate to God. We say, Well that's what God's like. You forgive me like the time I was forgiven and I do this or I do that or That person did something out in the eye for reason. That's what God's forgiveness of life. God says if that's what you use them is a measure of life, you're still growing in the dirt Because it says, you look at my forgiveness by one of contrast rather than comparison in the world. And a lot of the problems that we have as Christians, in our own problems in how we deal with God, and in not understanding the wickedness of the spirit It's the problem that you and I compare God with ourselves rather than compared things to listen to this race with a poverty of our own See what I'm saying here, quite simply, that when you and I look at how we understand forgiveness He then uses the most all conceivable existence. He says it the heavens are higher than the earth. Well, how high are the heavens than the earth? It's just immeasurable. And that's the way God says his forgiveness and his grace are in comparison with our own. And so that's the problem that we often get into, and it's not only uh said in this book uh forgiveness of sin. What a due consideration of sin with whom we have to do, measuring with the lion of our own imagination, bringing him down to our thoughts The always is the cause of all our description. Because we find it hard to forgive pain, we can forgive to not forgive pain This third thing that I wanted to see in this is the willingness and the sentiment of God. Not only is it infinitely above and behind anything we could consider, but it's also willing and personal, not material. Think about the second Corinthians chapter two. Second Corinthians chapter two is then we have this word charismatic. We read there in uh 2 Corinthians 2 verse 7. Paul says, now instead, you are to forgive, find our fellow who has wrong. Do you just say Life without congregation. You've had to be put out of the conjugation. Instead of continuing to inflict the punishment on him, instead you ought to forgive and comfort him. So that he will not be overwhelmed by a present sorrow. Now that word for good is the word paridema. You ought to bring to me, abundantly bestow upon him, forgiveness But you notice it's linked with comfort. It's not a forgiven and of comforting. It's a very personal and intimate kind of transaction that's going on here Well many Christians have a great problem with these things. I find it very often we as Christians tend to look for God's salvation as a very mechanical kind of problem When you look at the gospel and what it says, we see the problem of sin. And then after the problem there is the author of salvation. And so you look at that author and you say, well that's uh that's an offer But I need I'm a sinner and I need what Jesus Christ has done on the cross and he's paid the penalty for all sins of uh of anyone who will come to him, I use that offer of salvation Until after the author there is the response. I look and I say I respond to that, I turn from myself, I turn from my sin, my custom in myself, my third in myself Trust in Jesus and to cling to him alone to my hope of salvation. And be effective that is what I am saying Well you see the problem with that is that even though you and I may say, Well, I know that I'm forgiven, give it a wish that you knew how God felt about it Well I know I mean but sometimes I wonder if I have likes to I just gotta feel like uh feeling it's like uh Uh air travel, you know, you um you buy the tickets sent to you and the guarantees that you're going to uh get to San Francisco because the tickets that you And the steward is here. This is very friendly. Uh very unique wind and they're very gracious to you. When you go through the ship and you get off the end, they always get to a heavy very good But somehow the whole thing is so official and impersonal that it doesn't really mean a whole lot. You sort of feel like you just move through a system And you know that because those people deal with all these people every day, they're not really wishing you to really hope you have a good day and it's really gonna mess up their day if you don't And you know that when they bring to a gospel to say, Ellie's good to see you. I really was hoping you'd come to me, man. It's just all a very offensive kind of thing And very often I think of Christians is kind of the way we do our relationship with God. And see we see the words on pain on the pages of scriptures Well there's what according to read them and here they are, this what says are you forgiven and God loved the world and you kind of but there's no tone of words Well yeah, I put a lot in tone to this. You see if I say to my wife after a week I talked about something that may have raised me a question to her uh something about my love for her and she presses youth me a little and I say, Oh stop pressing. You know I love you. Well that's one thing. There's always a resistance. And if I go through her and I say, you know I love you But it's just the time that makes all the difference. The one just raises more questions of whether the love is genuine. affirms it and really places it in a way that's meaningful. And I think that very often we look at God as we see the words of the Kingdom Scripture and we have taken this often we see of the fact that there is nothing in it. And I left this I don't back off it. There is absolutely nothing in us which is lovable to God. We're all of sin and corruption. There is nothing in us that would draw him to us favorably, that would say You're an appealing person. I'd love to have you in my kingdom. There is nothing about us which will draw us, which will wise in us, and which will bring us into a changes. We deserve nothing but a draw But we read that he loves us in Jesus Christ. He loves us for Christ's sake. Very often I think it was taken at communion where we see God loves Jesus. And somehow now I've been placed on Jesus' coetails and things that I love me too. But I sort of wondered if he had to love me. It's sort of like a friend, you know, who uh has a monster of a dog Uh you think that that you think it seems a despicable code and sends all over your house. It's a love that friend, you know, and so you say uh Well for the sake of the friendship, you know, it's love me, love my dog, and so uh, you know, sure it's nice doggy you know. I wanted, you know, on the things that you sneak in your lap and next thing you know, climbed up and slobbering over your clothes and laying in your laptop. I love my friend and I want to have him around and so uh you know, I'll just put up with this mazy idiot of a of a monster that goes around the setting on my room So have you ever had a college friend who's very pleasant to you, a roommate, a person that they love the lot, and somehow the person that they picked to know you can quite what you had in mind for But you want to continue the relationship and so you continue to keep things up. And that person sort of tags along, you sort of get to know the closer to you and someone. It's never would have chosen the relationship with us I think sometimes this is the way we need God filled up. He loves Jesus. I'm so bad about that. But I'm sort of tagging along and I'm like a dog that sort of has to handle all after him and I I really don't know if he really ever loved me. I want to look at the scriptures and sell all such notion, it's right down. God's grace. We are a very unbiblical nature. Because you see the very essence of grace is force to realize on the one hand that you and I are totally unlovable. But on the other hand, that God has determined to submit love us. upon us personally and willingly in Jesus Christ. But that love is upon us, not just the fact that God has loved you and that we happen to be in him. And therefore in my I think this is three ways for a deep now. I still can calendar developments a little more, it's some speech and date, but I'm just gonna mention it to you now. First of all, there's some specific statements, so maybe you're wondering if we're gonna get some subscription. I want to just read subscription. There's very little common without some of God's specific statements of his love for us. We all look to be there I suggest you may not want to even look these up. You may even want to close your eyes. Just hear them. Hear what God says about his relationship with us. with you. Just let this project. Use your imagination. As I read these passages to you, and if I say it off to write them down, they're all right down there under Uh first people then Isaiah forty-three. In Isaiah chapter forty-three. So now this is what the Lord says. He who created you, O David, He who formed you, O Israel, fear not, for I have remained you. I called you by name. You're mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. When you pass through the river, there will not be over you When you walk through the fire, you will not be burned. The flames will not set you ablaze, for I am the Lord, your God. The Holy One of Israel, your Savior, I believe it for your answer, kissed and feeder in your face. Yes, you are conscious and honest. In my time. And if I were 53. They smile, nor do the threats, who too, but he threats. And the angel of Jesus has chosen in his life That is mercy to redeem them. And lift of them up and carry them as in danger of all. No longer will they call you deserted. I mean your land definite. But you will be called Hepzabat. That is my delight is in And your land will be dual for night. For the Lord will take delight in you Delight is you. And your mind will be mine. As a young man knows a movie, so will your first know you And as a blind man rejoices over his bride, so will your God rejoice over you. Then silence is Zephyr. The Lord, your God, is with you. He is mighty to save you. He will take place in life in you. He will quiet you with his love. And he will rejoice over you with his life. How many times do you put the life and destinate that? Rather than following it, rather than Having to go allow the more to give it to the fact that he was going to death. And that's what the scripture said. Because if he is going to hold me with food, he allows practically to make sense. He has just in his sake because he has set his love upon us. And therefore he has determined to redeem us. He has said it from his son Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ has made us righteous. But Jesus Christ made us righteous because God in his inscrutable ways to be transfigured out has an eternity spread his love upon us. of these people. Not only are there the specifications, but there's also the images of the relationship that God is giving to us. Now again, I'm just saying the mention some other time to have we can develop them. But no, instead of these two images of the relationship God has described for Himself to us. First of all, the image of His couple. The Lord is my supper. I shall not rest. In John 10, the Lord Jesus says, I'm disciplined. The disciples of my feet. He said the shepherd knows his peace. The shepherd takes care of his feet. The shepherd will even go out into the storm to rescue the feet because his peace is precious to the shepherd. That he even lays down to his feet. Because God looks at us with his feet in that tender relationship as a He's gone beyond that and he's described his relationship with his intensive father Psalm one hundred and three, verses thirteen and fourteen, and read those concerning God's relationship As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. Healers have his voice, and he remembers that we got. In Luke 11, Jesus said, if you as a child go to your father and ask him for a good, because you do a stone, because you think it's a heavenly father He's more austere and more unloving than an earthly father. But God speaks again and again as the bowels of his compassion, reasonable, For those who are good. Easy twelve, as we looked at some weeks ago, tells us that God tends disciplines for our good because we're his children Because of the father who loves us. Now that's intense before. There's nothing mechanical about us. We're not mechanical for our children. And that's dare you and I to think that we are more mother and personal and how we feed our children than how God could be father The main third that he describes is relation to us in terms of the whole seeds. The book of Hosea dwells on this, and we're going to consider that in a couple weeks But I just want to give you a couple verses for that to see again how God looks toward us in his grace as a husband Hosea 2. Again, just listen to these verses as I read them. Hosea 2. Therefore, I am now going to allow her. And I will lead her into the desert and speak tender to her. And God day declared, Lord, you will call me my husband, and you will no longer call me my master. I will be served you to me forever. I will preserve you in righteousness and justice, in love, and compassion. I will present it for myself in the land and I will show my mouth to the ones that I call not my mother. And I will say it to those called not my people. You are my people. They will say, You are my God. In chapter 14, he sums up much of what he's spoken about in this Just by saying simply, I will heal heal their wound and I will love them easy. That's the essence of this word, the original. The God will level three places for goodness of all the beauty knowledge. The Song of Solomon says this whole relationship. It used to be that the Song of Solomon was looked at only in France, it's fine in the case and not in the physical relationship. We've seen a lot more consumers recently of getting happy things. We have to be careful that we don't overreact and see it only in terms of the physical relationship The God is here, people also have his relationship to us, as the guide men to the ground. And James even tips as a relationship The body of the body for us. But we brought. We've got a ball and realize that God's love is for the villain and personal. And then finally the third thing I would suggest is to look, if you still have any doubts, about that willing personal race for you, because you look at how deep it's really recently. How does God respond to your continuous law? To the fact that you're salty again and again And if you're spiritually immature as I am, and we look again and again at our sins. How does God respond us? And you say to yourself sometimes, if I could only know Because I don't know what God speaks about that. What do He's thinking for me now? As I come from the 15th time about that, this week. You have all kinds of doubts. You know, you do have a picture with how God makes it in these circumstances. That's God with the title to take all Why bother games so much like me? Rather abusive to smooth to understand to unbelievable I mean it's really required to leave sometimes to outdo some of the blunders of those out there. And then Jesus is walking along the road one day and he's telling him my wife keeps going to understand something I want you to understand I'm going to be reasonably. And that I am going to bear suffer, I'm going to be mocked, I'm going to be without I'm going to proper poor too. Then I'm going to be put to death. An awful death. And I'm going to rise again from the death. Remember what the point is? It's quite arguing that he's gonna be the biggest in the kingdom. John and James said, hey, we'd like you to do it for the baby ones. You know, and I'll hold it here, I'd be saying Wait a minute. Um very simple you want the big feet, you know. My mom's coming over here and she's saying here that I ought to have the big feet, you know, she comes to feed for her kids, you know, she's My boy is really deserved by the good sensors in the kingdom. What do you think about that, man? Well she was fine about any smart if anything that would send down lightning from heaven, it would be something like that. What Jesus did. He began to instruct him. Because that's not so the attitude to my needs. And it talks to me about what it means to be a student. Be patient and be a Let him take over this thing. Deal with it. But if it's attention, there's no real attention, don't bug with it, deal with it. Well, it's not bad enough to do it at once. Remember even one of the more important. He writes the kids and he gives them the bread and says, This is my body which is broken for you, and then he takes the wine and he says, Here's my blood which is going to be poured out for you. What are you doing doing? They start squabbling around who's going to be the biggest in the calib. Well here he is, just about to go to his death. And he's still haven't gotten a phone. All they're thinking about is their careers And again, he paid with the instructor, he told us what it is that he's really trying to get through. He even goes from that out to the Garden of Gethsemane to pray. This is going to fail in his human nature. In his reason, he says, come with me. He wants to fall. He wants them to accompany him with that greatest trial of his life What do they do? Remember? They fall asleep. Then what does he do when he comes back? Three times he waves the next. And then he concerns for them again and again It if you must stay awake because if you do, if you do not stay awake, the take this going to come is going to educate you. And even then it is disappointment for the life. You got it easy to take a limit, but it's constantly that easy way to have God suggested you that he is the very God exactly today that he was there. And you can look at those that you think still had Jesus told the disciples and it's exactly the way that he is with me today. And I notice if I'm very comfortable to that. He who comes to phone off is on seven two twenty four. Follow them, I miss them. I want for them to be with me where I am for the There may be all things laws. The word that imitates the Father. But Jesus voice and said it. He can't say well on It's clearly walking with a loan for television. A very consumer and willing principle is lower abundance. Let's back it all up and put it together together. And he's saying an application for those of you, with anyone here, to receive the abundance and the personalness of God's grace that we could never receive There's only one basis if you come to us. That's the basic of his grace. If you find it to have still a thread of your own self-righteousness, if you offer it to God, if you accept You have cut to the very heart of the point of salvation, it is by grace. And you can only come to him on the basis of grace. and nothing with you and I can ever do. Secondly, you and I relate to that as distance on the basis of graceful ocean. And we have to be careful that we do not like automatically I think very often it's we glad about quality between how God sees it for heaven and how he sees it later. So you feel the party. And they feel it In the way we're accepted. We have no function that we're accepted for heaven on the basis of Christ's work alone. But then when we begin to talk about how that accepts me now, we very often drift into the psychological on the basis that I have a quiet It's on the basis of what I've done in the church. It's on the basis of my evangelism, what have I talked to my children under a people before? And all these other things that we've set up as used to peace in order for God to accept us. No, you don't have time. It's all the same basis. You want to trust the name. Secondly, because of our notice. We can clearly see that in terms of our coming to God, it's got to be on the basis of love. But then when we begin to operate on this side, we fell back to the material threatening, the motive of them all. We need to see that there is an every difference. But the law says to this is simply if you do good, I will bless you The great tensive is simply, I have blessed you, therefore do this. Christian has somehow got to still operate a little bit on the basis of if you do good as a blessing. I mean this we start talking about patience. You don't do good with all the band or live in patience But he found uh I like to see more on the race and I don't know more. An example of this was uh how easy once he started to agree on the 148 And in this this girl was having some difficulty in her quiet life. She'd believe Christian, but she had become rather sad in the Christian life. She didn't want to read the Bible anymore, who might be all the things, because she's fallen into this thing that I have to do. And she was just things there because of all these things that she had to do inside so he wasn't gonna zap it. And so she was falling into that kind of a motivation. Very interesting how how Lincoln dealt with it. He came to her one day and uh having difficulty with it, he said, Well what I want you to do is uh don't read your Bible anymore. Uh one time you you don't want to do this, don't read your Bible. But when you don't want to read the Bible and you're feeling guilty, you ought to do it in order to I want you to just stand instead of reading your Bible, just say, uh, Lord uh, I like it. But I don't have to read my Bible in order to be accepted by you. And you'll still Well it's really expecting a lot of person, but uh well, thought about that for a little bit And putting forward two days later, she was sitting on a table with six nine pictures around him. She was talking more about Jesus. He said, uh he weren't going to uh get into this while Okay. But the minute you can start saying that, because more I've got to think about the more I realize just how wonderful the Lord is. The more I wanted to meet with it. The more I wanted to talk about it. I just can't help God it I have to be careful that we don't consume. We simply say, well, yeah, I don't have to do anything, I don't want to do. That's not the point. But I like to see the point of that illustration is the motive The Bible says I motive motive is to be the motive of love thought, not pure flesh. You may want to think about that in something that you find because