Nineteen fifty-nine, an Air Force major entered the Texas metal institution for the second time. He tried to commit terrified twice and had been arrested for forgery and robbery. He's been drinking heavily and his marriage had disintegrated. Yet only fifteen years before he had been a model officer headed for a promising career. One momentous event precipitated the name's point. He threw the leaf claim over Hiroshima when the first Adam Bomb was dropped. Shortly afterwards he began seeing throngs of Japanese men, women, and children chasing him in his moon. And his own life began to collapse. The psychiatrist succeeded insecuration was subconsciously trying to provoke punishment from society to atone for the guilt felt over hero human and other acts. Unresolved guilt is destroying his life. Guilt destructive And it's a sickness that all of it, to some degree or another, have been affected by in its devastating effects. Few of it feel the kind of cementing of guilt of things that that man felt, but all of it has suffered some of its effects on it In the last week we've spoken of forgiveness, of putting sin, of God putting sin out of his mind out of sight, out of reach, out of existence, and out of his mind. He's spoken of forgiveness as God's lifting the burden of life, of bearing it, away upon himself We've spoken of forgiveness as cuddling and cleansing guilt and therefore removing our wrath against it We have first enough to forgiveness as an absolute pardon for all offenses, in which God destroys the weapon against us and no longer holds it against us. This morning we're going to look at the last Old Testament word for forgiveness. And this morning we're going to consider guilt as sickness And forgiveness of sin. Let's read again from that passage of scripture that we've been using to tie together our thoughts because it involves all of these elements of guilt and forgiveness. Psalm 32. The first five verses. Psalm thirty-two. Blessed is he who says blessings are forgiven. are lifted up and worn away, remember. Whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man whose sin of the Lord does not come against him. He does not keep a weapon against him, he destroys the weapons. And in whose spirit is no deceit Oh yeah. We call the effects of my thinking we think. So that is Because I remember what it was like when I was deceiving myself and there was a fear of deceit in me And I wasn't facing up to my sins. And it wasn't to affect about your time. And it was those to reflect on When I kept fine, when in me there was that spirit of deceit, God burned the spirit, when I groaned all day long For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was stopped within the heated summons Then I acknowledged my sinkiness. I did not cover up my iniquity. I didn't deceive myself decided to deceive anyone else. And I said, I will confess my transfers to the Lord, and you shall be lifted up and bore away the guilt of my sins. Verses 3 and 4 you see here a graphic picture of guilt, a sickness, of the effect of the easing away at a person who is a stress I broke and tried to figure out and say, I'm really not feeling. And because my bones are open around. My heart float is tacked. Take a look at Psalm 38 and see a picture of this even more graphically as the psalmist describes that the sickness of guilt can be like on it Oh Lord, do not rebuke me in your anger or disappointment me in your life. In your arrow, except me. Your hands have come down upon me because of your wrath with no thoughts in my body. My bones have no standard because of my sin. I guess it was overwhelmed, like a floating too heavy to bear. My wounds flustered and removed because of my sinful silence I am bowed down and dwelt very low all day long until about noon. My back is filled with healing pain There is no help in my body. And feminine is utterly cracked as growing with anger to Christ. All my longings lie open before you alone. That science is not hidden from you. My heart found, that strength failed me. Even the light is gone from my eyes. My friends and companions avoid me because of my wings, my mooding from far away. exists account of safety rates the fearful, the psychological, the physiological of such consequences A gift makes it fix. A gift is a sickness. It's a sickness of isolation, of the tension. It will put it up with an easy way and a more glue that hurt of realizing what I've done, how wrong, how foolish, how stupid And not only have I done wrong, but I've I've loved the wrong. I haven't even wanted to change it. And I and I think of the consequences of it that it's had on other people's lives. And guilt makes you fix. You see the culture is included in the bulletin outline for this morning. Compare fitness with guilt. And we see the other sense. Why the sister, uh, two to these associated together Objectivism, sickness is a physical disease. You feel that uh the body is not functioning, it is independent, because somewhere there's a breakdown in the bodily functions. So guilt is a spiritual disease, since. And there's also a breakdown, a breakdown of the relationship between God and man. Objectively whatever we're feeling or whatever we're aware of, there is a problem that's like with clickment, whether we feel it or not when uh when uh when a person has told it they may not even know in terms of what they feel, but it's eating away up and more more than less And this what is perceived in us is objectively truly there. We are guilty liberally before God because of our disobedience and violation of the commandment But there is also the subjective effect, acceptance and guilt. Subjectively, I feel lousy because of physical change. The body's way of learning. And the same thing is too spiritual. Subjectively feel valuable because of spiritual things. There's no peace, no rest. What would build awareness? Whether or not are um humanly are unhealed before God. But just as with the body Pain is a is a blessing to warn us that there's something wrong. So youth is a blessing in warning us that there's something wrong. Your feeling there's something wrong. It's an alarm, it's a symbol, it's a warning system. Good would be was never meant to be called good The body marvelously copes with a number of structures that are placed on. A body can cope with tattoos, a body can cope with uh cold. Uh a little more of a heat and the rest of the poles be copied with right now. Uh the body is contoured twice. We have uh the Anderson system that uh responds marvelously to uh all kinds of And uh our bodies can cope with many stresses But we don't have a certain that there are two structures, the body has no means, no mechanisms for putting it. Right? There's no problem mechanism in the body to me. Whenever we see, they eat away out here and I just trust it. The body's very purpose The only solution is the one that God has provided in Christ in the person of Jesus Christ. His healing forgiveness. It's the good work in the healing. And that's the word Raka in consider this meaning. This word Raka. The feeling is forgiveness. And it's so texty and how God deals with us in Isaiah chapter 53, verses 46. So let's take a look at that now Inhibit chapter 53. We have in this chapter the clue of any teaching, no clue of how people can honest Christians and the teaching of what Christ work accomplished for the teaching of substitutionary catalogs, or what's sometimes called vitarial catalog. In which Jesus took upon himself all of the guilt, the punishment that was due to us Ten times in this one chapter, there is a reference that he bore something that was due to us. And seven of those ten times, and I'll just these three verses, verses four to six by I find it it helpful in order to really enter into what I was realizing to include my name in there. To substitute wherever I use you or him, the name speeches. And wherever I see the word you or us, to substitute my own name And so I'm going to use you my paraphrase, my consumerization, by verse 53, afford it. So Jesus took up our inheritance in Sonic. And Jesus carried our And what we'll see him stricken by God and splitten by women afflicted. And Jesus was here for Alan's paragraph Jesus was trust for our own innocence. The punishment was right on peace was upon Jesus. And by Jesus means Alan is here. Alan, like the feet of John its way. Each of us returned to his own way. And the Lord has made our undeath. You're looking at the eyes. Plus the answer. The sea that the own names in the text and But now what is it to be communicating to your team about forgiveness of feelings? Well, first of all, notice that the first four references, the substitutionary process I Put rest to a sign up to suffering. Notice in verse 4, he took up my infernities, my grief, my sicknesses. And that word pick up or bore is the same word we considered a few weeks ago in Moscow. It's the word that means to lift up a burden, to bear it upon yourself, and to take it away. It's the word that's translated for you in a number of other places in the Old Testament Clearly then, he took up, he bore my citruses, my infronices We uh built and things to see we are tested as sickness with its result of heartage. He carried our power. That's the second statement of substitution This is the same word used in verse three because a man of sorrow, closed, with suffer and grief It's a word which refers in other places to suffering and pain. He took my suffering. He took my silence Accordingly, you see there in uh the end uh beginning of uh verse five is that he was huge from our transgression. Well, I've got a research statement. We seem to include that uh even when we saw what he said, we were so stupid and so arrogant As to think that he was doing something sitting through the badger. How blind he was. Then to realize that it was our character that he was. Put in fact that he was being afflicted to me. Not running from the Because he was wounded as he screwed, the word is used concerning orange, healed him, armor, or target. He would feel the growing sense of agony to me. He would swing with my parents' response. And then finally, he would cry. for my infirmities, for my iniquities. He was crushed for my sins. The same word used in verse 10, but the Lord was pleased to crush them. And cards and puppets. The word is used in Numbers chapter eleven, verse six, and the Israelites gathered mana They would take the mana and in one in uh numbers eleven eight you read that they ground it in a handhill and crust it in a mortgage. That word is crushed, the same word is used to it and same is used. He was the guilt, the punishment that is due to me, what I could have known. But it's us, God You realize it isn't gonna it wouldn't be easy for the father to have destroyed the whole human race, destroyed the whole creation, create a new heavens and a new earth, and to create a whole new race of innocent creatures Well it would have been do not. There are more believers, some old people, something sad over one more too much And that uh good thing are the fundamental through it and given to you by removing or something and then it uh falls off the gas and smash This thing's only a workshop, twenty-nine cents or thirty-nine cents, maybe nine cents, and you can take it rather even. But because it means something to you, you take all the time. everything you stick to it about the choir now and there's all the baggage put things and put that thing back together. Wouldn't it easier for him to build a whole new line for people than to forgive? Because he forgiven, he had to learn the penalty upon his own son. God had to flee forth his arm in salvation to give up everything that he had so that he would forgive us and be honest. And what is the effect of it? So you see that uh sort of uh in the next two statements and substitutions It members are very five. This promises brought us peace. That's the first effect And the second effect is in verse 6 by who So the word wounds was the same word that I just read a couple minutes ago in Psalm thirty eight, verse five. My wounds are moved from its sins The people heal me and they avoid me, they run the other way, they can't stand the sense of my wound. And that's the word of deep feel to be He was ready for you to be here. And then in verse 7 there's again that statement summing up what all this is about. Basically it's Simply that we like to want to pray to our own rights. And so the Lord laid on him the land of God, the purpose of sacrifice I elected. Before we consider this word, uh, which is the word we use the inverse fix By who's feeling. Before we took a little uh more time to look at that a little more closely. About for. Now this is going to make a whole lot of sense as you read I'd like for us to read this passage with these three verses together out loud, substituting every time we see the word he or him, the word Jesus. And then wherever we see after we, let's substitute our own names. I realize we're different translations, not all gonna go together in unison enough But I think that we will still accomplish the perspective and view together God's words, follow them together as closely as we can And as we hear ourselves, we'll not just worship to God, so this is what Jesus did for me individually as part of this process Let's read together now. I very quickly through verses for the fifth, that's between Jesus and our own first name. Surely, Jesus took up Alan's in front of us. And Jesus carried Alan's for us. What we considered his hip by God. Flipping by him and it flipped me. The Jews were cute, the Allen's connected. The Jews were trying, the Alam's election The punishment that brought Alan peace was upon Jesus. And by Jesus' means, Alam is healed. Allen, like a deceit, has gone its way. We've each turned for our own road. And the Lord has laid unto my own feet. Can you say that from your heart as well as reading it and do it? I hope not. Because that's the only basis for your feelings that I So what is this feeling that he's talking about here? Well the word that's used there for healing, this word Rafa It's the word that has three basic senses in the Old Testament. And you see them listed there on the outside First of all, it's a word which can refer to physical feeling and mending. In Genesis 20, verse 17, we read that God healed King Abimelech. Now I've got to go into these up because I'm going to go over these rather quickly. And that's uh actually uh we're only going to be looking at a couple of things. We don't have the 407, that our feel to a dilemma and his wife had the fact that they were dark and they couldn't have any service. And our political view is the world here laughed at. The first thing to see clearly is using the sense of putting something back together. The scene there is uh Elijah at Mount Carmel. And there's the altar of the Lord, it's laying in ruins. It's been uh neglected and it's fallen into dispetal. And so we do there in first three thirty. But Elijah repairs the altar. He put it back together again. The word that you saw, the home word in Isaiah fifty three, verse thirty five, means that we are healed, we're put back together again, we're made whole, we're created, we've been put back together. And then thirdly, uh in 2 Kings 2 21 it uses making something pure. That's the uh story there of the bad water, poisonous water, and I like that comes along And supernaturally was uh the world's first uh supernatural water purify. He likes uh make the water pure indeed. He makes it poison, lakeable, pure water. And it's the world there again. And we read that he he healed the water, it's the same word Rasa. Infer this word uh he talks about feeling from the express of sin and guilt. It speaks of putting lives back together, of making us pure and pain, along with the forgiveness that's become us The second is it's a word which refers time and again to the healing of license of the picture of sin. In Leviticus 1418, verse 37. Uh chapter fourteen, refer to verse three, that's also uh uses the same word. As well as verse forty-eight, refer here to the ordinances of the truth and the hearing of leprosy. And when God is real with her, he witnessed the word that he uses, not the few of the picture of sin. In Numbers uh 1213, the new one remembered because of her arrogance and rebelling against Moses' leadership About propaganda with leprosy, notice and crying after, Oh Lord, heal her. Use it with same word data. Heal her of eleprosy. Let's be as a picture of cellate what should be telling is it is graphically followed with what's clean like it's ugly, it's destructiveness, it's pervasiveness At the fact that it can't be starts, human increasing, as it takes of course until it finally destroys the person and elopesome agony of unclean Well that's what leprosy is light, and that's what feel is light. And so God graphically proposed that to people and He says for me to feel the leprosy is a picture of my forgiveness. That's just the goodness we love you. It's like stealing them up, it's making them whole, it's making them pure, it's making them clean. It's not simply decoring something, but it's accomplishing something in that person's life. That's what God's forgiveness goes for This is why we see the word is used some of them in the Old Testament uh in reference to healing, uh to excuse me, to forgiveness. For instance in Second Chronicle Uh Satan, chapter uh thirty verse eighteen to twenty, we read there that although most of the many people who came to Esau, Manasseh and Israel, and Zebulum hadn't purified themselves as they came to take the Passover. uh contrary to what was written. They hadn't done it for a long time and they didn't quite even know how to do it because of such apostrophe. Nevertheless, Hezekiah prayed for them saying, May the Lord he is good carding everyone. That's the word spell out. He sets his heart on seeking God, the Lord, the God of his fathers, even if he's not clean according to the rules of the sanctuary The Lord the thought, the Lord heard how to power, and healed the people. The Lord brought that. He forgave the people and in forgiving the people you see who healed them. This is why we need in the New Testament when Jesus came, that uh a lot of time and emphasis is based on his healing and others Mark 1, 40 to 42, you have a picture of Jesus feeling on that, and then in part to see, you see he goes on to this paralytic lay down, stuck down there, and what does Jesus say? Well, which is it easy to do? To present them or to steal a person? Okay now to see a three that I have power on it. To present them, I say why but yes. Because Jesus demonstrated the close connection of healing and forgiveness. And he demonstrated that he was able to forgive by physically healing people. He's saying that he was the king who had come to establish the kingdom. And it forgives no healing. This is why you see when you read in Matthew chapter eight. reference to what it looks like, but Matthew chapter 8, there is the state of Isaiah 53. And even even so many who agreed into that, this is Matthew 8, 16 and 17. And many were brought to him who were spectrum he drove out the spirit with a word and revealed all these things. And if we could fulfill what was spoken through the prophet Isaiah, he took up our infirmities and carried our diseases. He knew it. He took them upon himself, he said. And he called it out. Jesus demonstrated the forgiveness with healing. To say the word of me, say the spiritual healer, it means directly with this idea of forgiveness All the references that are influential things you can take a look at later in each case, uh the word Rafa appears in that reference And it's intended to convey the idea of forgiveness associated with feelings. But I think the clearest one is the one in uh Psalm 103 So take a look at that and see just a minute. In Psalm 183, verse 3, we see here that the Lord forgive all my sins. And healing all my diseases. Where the word to give is looked up with parallel It's placed right alongside this idea of healing. The word heal to all my diseases there is that word Raka. He forgives all my sins and in forgiveness you heal. So closely associated with it. Now this happens with the art system that a person that is fixed. It's not intended to convey or to guarantee that a person of LECD is when you expose. I don't believe that the Bible preaches that, otherwise if you take that to a logical conclusion, the Christians did that it died because they're gonna eat the extra dynamic accident. And even one you might be able to get in there in another time and uh claim of meaning before they would uh pass on. So the idea would be it would be nice but it picked him up with trickles like so he could guarantee all the inches as he was I think the God ways it uh does do that. But I don't think we can say that like a in order to grace the Christian. What in fact it would say is that forgiveness involves a serious healing of our employees of every day things in a king's relationship with God That had been a depth to turn it on. See what I mean here is the government needs to go to certain types of declares You come out that uh well I don't remember the film anymore exactly this norm. You're gonna continue to wallow it. You can see uh forgiveness that goes beyond that The effect system in my mind has made me a work person. I think of all kinds of higher because of sin in my life. I'm full of all kinds of wrong attitudes. Before that when my life and people do something to me, I immediately respond with all kinds of insecurities. And all kinds of wrong attitudes. Why? Because it's free. So what I'm saying here is that 535, and I've got a 53 in other places, when God forgives us He doesn't simply declare that before the bars he dropped it were now innocent. But God will ask forgiveness to feel that they've wrong attitude. of beginning to feel of the hair, of the introduction, of all those things that you're pulling on with your sex, and a power that you're pulling a deal about. Because the give it then is the guarantee the P and I will be doing not a confusion in this life Sometimes it may seem to us a painfully slow healing, but nevertheless the guarantee of a healing, a subversal healing that we can experience in this life. I believe that God is coming here in these teaching and forgiveness in Isaiah 53 and Psalm 103. The one you're just put upon us His our sickness said that we're healed. But if you're saying to us that right now, that you and I can begin to look for observable differences In our lives, as God begins to work out the new nature in us. As we begin to see those turn up again to subscribe Those wrong attitudes begin to be controlled as the insecurities begin to become more secure and balance as we begin to fill in. Spiritual healing then always involves forgiveness. There's no healing without it. And on the other hand, forgiveness will always accomplish spiritual healing. But that's the problem is today. Now let's apply it to our lives. Well first of all, have you personally ever entered in to Isaiah 53, 46? If we read that a few minutes ago, did you find that your own heart rang and dream for this? Uh did you find that it is really to you an act of worship, to you, because Jesus has done from you Or was it something high? Something that you really could say, right? And part part of mine Whatever substituted your name personally, in this and soon is a substitution of Jesus to your friend. There is no human without the game But only the facing of a God is within. The without witness, the root here, a terrific year, one that we need to explore more and more Well let's see that in minute in these last three points. But I thought I'm going to look at uh I would really export these challenges this morning to take part. God doesn't just forgive us of our sin and let us follow in it, but He forgives you feel us of the sin. You are doing sin. Notice it. It is joy. Look at that promise to me. It is forgiveness involved healing. What sentiment is it in your life that pledged you at this time more than any other sin? Something that you look at in your life and you say, I've struggled with that for years. Do you ever want to be rid of this? That's hard for us. And part of it forgiveness. It's the power for you to overcome that. If you really want to do this, the pardon for many of us is that we're really sort of part of your time. Well I sort of want to be with it. We said, well, I'll tell you the truth I sort of missed it if we were gone. And so we really don't want to be healed. Do we want to be healed? He wanted to find out whether people wanted to do it or whether they were reverent. Because he very often does that thing. It sounds like We keep it and we say God deliver me from it. We really don't like to be good. Because healing is our right, a gradual, superficial healing If you really want to be rid of that orange, sometimes the progress makes me always slow. Since we'll be reading Well let me uh throw something up with you. I think that oftentimes we with Christians miss. But very often I think the Christians see the progress as being very slow in the feeling of the pin in the alarm Because the mix looks receiving. Let's take some film that you've been working on for a number of years now and you said before I look at that film and I I see new depths of that film I wasn't even aware of before. Now I'm just uh more and more depressed about it and uh what you uh don't see is it that's good. You see there's things in my life that uh I'm bothered by now, I wouldn't be bothered by 'em five years ago I haven't got to that level. God hadn't healed you enough to begin to see how deep this star is. But part of the faculty healing is that I'm dealing with it on a deeper level, on a deeper level Well that will be T until it always comes again or if any things are so deeply embedded in it, we're never going to be rid of them in the sense that their metabolity temptations are are plagued here But nevertheless the fact that we're still bothered by them by dealing on them on deeper levels is a sign of that feeling, that's rejoicing them, approving that we're not dealing with it on the same level we were a couple of years ago. to that. Even though subjectively it may bother us as much, or even more. Paul reflected on this kind of thing in Romans seven. Because he talks about the struggle of the human feeling of them in a deeper and deeper level. The third is the third point about the system is uh our concession to die. You know I believe that the system needs to confess to die But I believe that uh God continues to pull the reason. He needs to bring the point. One of the particular is who is a problem that many Christians have Now simply here. Okay, some A in your life, some two A in your life, and you have here for good. Remember Psalm 32 that we know? I kept silent, my bones lifted away, through my groaning all day long. Your hand lay heavy upon me, my strength gets stopped because it was coming. But these are the words of the believer. These are not the words of the person coming because these are the words of God, a mature believer, I'm believing in the time of this when I'm on the level with believers in my walk with God. I'm a little far beyond where I am there. And what these are the words of a believer when he's brought in the class would use. So he has this problem. What's the problem? Well I'd say that to you, there's a couple of possibilities. are three general. These three possibilities are number one that there may be a pattern of thing that's still in real life About a forgiving for these things that you've done wrong in the past before you are wrong. You have studied had a good forgiven, as we said before, we have That we've forgiven for those things before you sissy, you're in a state of having been forgiven for your whole life. God does not remember those things, he's no longer kept against you. The problem, however, is that the pattern of laser is still in this and is still uh operating on that simple pattern And so God wants to read it out. And He's going to bring us to your safety by making you feel guilty about that pattern. He wants you to bring to that place where you're miserable enough about Say, God, remitting of the guilt is worse than getting rid of this since. The pain is so bad in the feet I'm willing to go to the dentist. It's just that place where you come to and you say, now the pain saves me that I really need to be able to step out. And that's what that doesn't. So we have to read it out. We gotta deal with it. And uh I know from experience in my own life and I can tell you from others, I'm not gonna get any better You might as well give up now and rule it. Because the Father has his hand on you in an area like that. Either he's not going to absorb it or you're going to become desensitized to the whole movement of the spirit in your life and anything you've been. species. We may have the universe. Where the healing becomes more radical and more patient. That's one possibility. Second possibility is that God has been giving you a good space It's detailed with product. But if it is talking about it, did it exactly only it's funny? But you don't have a tablet Because God may want to bring that to your attention. He wants you to go to that other person to confess to them. I'll deal with that a little more in a minute in point B. But it may be that you need to get the forgiveness of another person. The third thing is, now let's get it down with all the other things token away. Something that you here you are sorry for, it's not a continuing pattern in your life, it doesn't need to choose anybody else's to be this case. Can you still play existence? Uh this is uh kind of a um pattern that's often uh uh see in women who had abortions. Uh something that uh they've been uh it it's um premarital or extramarital text, they had an abortion, and the guilt has been compounded, and they have brought this before God, they have brought it before whoever needed to be dealt with, human peace. They're helping the burden, but they still are not able to endure God's forgiveness and still punish themselves saying that this is an area that I can't accept God's forgiveness. What can I do? You see, you need to realize that this is oppression. This is not the conviction or the Holy Spirit. Because it's not the reason for us. What we need to do is to start rationalizing that area, you need to start learning from it, and it has to be red up. You've got to look it in the face. You've got to say exactly what it is, more about sin. And Lord, you have forgiven sins. We confess it to God, and although he has put it out of his mind, we need to bring it up to him to apply the healing of forgiveness to God of it. Once you can face it, once you can call it for what it is, and once you can apply that to give it, you're free from that and you can experience the reality If you want to know that unit, I must be able to apply that area because once I uncovered it, you see this is like dealing with 13. When I uncovered it I did decide to cover it up, but I opened it up and I said, There it is. Then you forgive the data blindness. Don't open up completely the data And finally the last thing is this matter of feelings is one another. To one another. So the question here is each day someone is if you have a broken burden delay to this. The only solution to that you see is that there have got to be healing psychologists I think so many people we have broken five minutes and all people and we're looking for humans and everything else. Trying to be mindful, trying to be something nice to him. Pivot gone. But this isn't any more of a problem with things. All these kind of days are, but they've never been submitted You say how much how many how much you compensate, how much you try to work things out on other levels until it is that's the goodness. There won't be reeling in that relationship Either you need to forgive that person in your mind, putting out of your mind all those things, forgiveness the way we've talked about it. Destroy the weapons, loop them out of your mind, all those things that they've been able to. Then you're never going to have a healer in that relationship Or if it should be to seek their forgiveness until you are able to go and test before this. This is what you do. And seek before them to forgive you. And then to you Is that the thing? I had my for the moment. And I'm quote it's how you did. May I do that? But I think this more sense after that My son uh who is uh loan and ray, uh he said uh we can talk about everything else. We can talk about all kinds of things So but he said this is something uh it's just something you kill something. We got to serve and just find out what was really there all that turns out that uh back and hunt And the father said there well maybe I I didn't do it from the same thing, but he did white if he displays Maybe I uh handled it wrong and became clear and probably not. And uh you can believe that I'm sorry for that. Uh But if we ever if we ever asked for goodness, in fact, we have that incredible answer to your money. But now it's a good one and The point is whenever we're today, none of it either can do eludes about that period of our lives. I said you're never going to be able to pass these on our feet at times. Until there's a haircut of healing in the relationship so it's easy to step any time. without being we can't accept anything without being any of them. Because there's no feeling. The real top off at one place or another That's very difficult to care. I have to go into a look. Look into a part that's grown and something that's in the deep in the relationship. That it's got a beauty coming. He's back to the back, that is kids and his parents. Where are we related to it? And where we see that there's that feeling of its brokenness. The type of letter and said uh, what are I gonna do? And I learned the lesson of Dr. Panatists, the token out and grandma and everything still, and still uh tells the diamond and he wants to fully tell you the God of the world. And I thought we'd have it in Panzer. We I decide to work together with it, to uh put some pasta together, so how are we going to do it? But to do have somebody uh release on the pastor or over You gotta find your own. You've got to be so good and they thought you on your belly. You guys are representative. There's people. They qualified to listen to other people in circumstances. Well the father may just say we sort of go back to the qualified to give yourself to And what just five of that service? There is Java ADHD radius. The birds had an umbrella settlement for many years. Thousands, hundreds of thousands of miles of plants and bundles, landing and rivers and plants and everything else without a single thousand He took uh a little rabbit, one of them atonics, and put things in one of the open mountains on a particular airplane, and required aside that it was totally silver nuts and flueless. Yeah, who takes it a map and for that about it. And it's for that within that and there's no case. The case about the greater And a record time after that we heard the signal coming from the radio Mobile, Mobon. The plane goes through the phone from the clear on the fat line and then bam and the bat. Seven people still have each of us because the food of love was not following. And that land was the land of third people He said he run into scipats and brutes. He did it out of his friend. Then this went out of his mind. He was seven happy to people with a few of those to his thing. We talk about guilt, we talk about a need for healing.