Issue dominates this new administration that we're in now, like the issue of the economy, right? Even though there's some distractions at the moment. Nevertheless, that's been the issue that in many ways put this administration in office and is the top priority for resolution And no problem plagues the economy like the problem of debt. National debt and individual debt. And I think it behooves us every once in a while to stop and to realize that that is a rather modern problem Let me illustrate. My parents were married in 1936. In 1937, they got their first car. In 1939, they bought the only house they ever had. The car they paid cash for. That wasn't unusual. That was in fact the only way people generally bought cars back then. In the 30s, an auto loan would have been a very, very rare thing. When I paid cash for my car a few years ago and told the person at the bank I needed to put just a little bit on my MasterCard to cover one month. before I would get the whole thing paid off. The bank executive stood up, came from around behind their desk, and shook my hand, said I was the first person in years if she'd ever seen buy a car that way. My father went through college paying as he went back in the 30s. There was no such thing as a college loan. You're expected to work your way through college. Nobody would have thought back then of giving a student a name to be able to get through college. Today, on the other hand, according to the economist Larry Burquette, it's not unusual for a young married couple by their second year of marriage to be $100,000 in debt. He says very often you would uh look at that as say about sixty-five thousand dollar mortgage plus maybe twenty thousand dollars in college loans. Perhaps another ten thousand dollars in one or two honor loans, and then maybe another five thousand dollars on their credit cards Back in the 30s, credit cards didn't even exist. And now we look at them as a way of life. Who could think of existing without a credit card, right? Well you say there's nothing wrong with that, that's just that's the economy, it's good for the economy, it's a way of life. Nonsense. In many ways it's destroying us individually and as a nation. And one of the things that's interesting about this is that Christians generally are about as much in debt as anybody else. And so what we need to do is I think we need to stop and we need to take a look for uh at this opportune moment as we think about the economy and the new administration having just passed a budget for our church. To look at this whole matter of debt from the point of view of Scripture, we have to remember again that the Bible is our only infallible rule of faith and practice. And so we want to look at not what people do and what's expected to do today, but what does the Bible say we should do? For us to be able to understand how the Lord would have us to live here as Christians. There's a lot of passages I could turn to Because contrary to what you might think, the Bible says a fair amount about debt and economy. But I've chosen to take a look at the passage in Romans, Romans chapter 13, verse 8. Because then you have probably one of the most succinct statements in all scripture about the question of debt. Now you remember that Romans 13 deals with a whole question of civil government being ordained by God and therefore that you and I are obliged to give our obedience and our respect to secular civil government. Now that sets the stage of debt. We owe the civil government our obedience and our respect. And he makes that explicit in verse 6. Now, as you come to the tax season, this verse may not be one that will make you smile, but at least it's one that's relevant. Paul says, this is also why you pay taxes. For the authorities are God's servants, even the United States government. They give their full time to governing Alright, so you owe them that. Then in verse 7, he gives a more general principle. Give everyone what you owe him. If you owe taxes, pay taxes. Sorry about that. That's what God says. I didn't say it. God said it. Alright? Give revenue, then pay revenue. If respect, then respect. If honor, then honor. So two categories he says of debt there. There's financial debt, and then there's reverence. In either case, if you owe it, you pay it. Then it comes to verse 8, in which he states even a more specific principle, nailing down the whole question of debt with regard to money. Verse seven verse eight, let no debt remain outstanding, except the continuing debt to love one another. For he who loves his fellow man has fulfilled the law. So it begins that verse, let no debt remain outstanding. Now, the question then that immediately comes to mind is, how long? You know, I mean basically what it seems like Paul's saying is, you know, eventually pay your debts. Don't let that debt remain outstanding maybe too long or forever. You know, eventually pay it off. Don't welch on your debts. Well, unfortunately, that's not really what the Greek says. If you were to translate the Greek literally, the Greek says, owe nothing to no one. Owe nothing to nobody. It's a double negative not to cancel itself out. I was really saying we can owe something to somebody, because own nothing to nobody means no no, it's not the way it the double negative is for emphasis. Paul saying, owe nothing to nobody. That's really what the Greek theory is saying. It's not talking about let it remain outstanding. It's literally owe nothing to nobody. That's pretty forceful. And it's God's simplest, most direct command having to do with the question of debt. Which is simply stay debt-free. Now does that mean that all debt's wrong? Even mortgages? What about Vision 91? What about the bond issue that we just went through as a church? Uh what about the way we're financing the ministry centers that we're constructing? You say, I mean this this guy's going off the deep end, you know? I mean How in the world are you going to talk about getting a house without debt or living in our economy without debt? I mean, come on, let's get serious. Let's make the scripture practical and let's make it relate to our lives the way we are. Well, before we handle the question of whether all that is wrong or sinful or any of that, first of all, we need to remind ourselves that as Christians, we're under obligation to obey Scripture. And so I plead with you for all of us to take even a moment now to just quiet our hearts before the Lord and say, Lord, make me teachable to your word and make that guy wise enough to open your word and not give us his opinions. I don't want to give you my opinions. I want to open God's word to you because this is very important for all of us and our freedom in Christ. So let's pause for just a moment and pray. Lord, this is a very emotional issue for many of us. We struggle with debt. And so, Lord, we ask you now to give us teachable and open hearts in this very practical And very important teaching from your word that we might understand it and that you would give us faith to obey it. Holy Spirit, work in us now, we pray. For Jesus' sake. Amen. Now, before we consider what Scripture says about debt, let me just start off in that first point on your outline by noticing some of the dangers of debt Just what we can observe, why Paul might say, let no debt remain outstanding. Owe no one anything. Owe nothing to nobody. First of all, debt produces marital stress. That's the first thing. Do you know that finances are listed as the number one cause of divorce in first marriages in this country? Not only is it the number one cause, it is listed four times as frequently as any other cause, including infidelity. Financial problems and stress, the number one cause of divorce, of first marriages in this country. How many fights has there been in your house in the last year over money, right? I mean, doesn't it produce stress? And particularly if you get into debt, what happens? The debt begins to produce stress, and then that stress turns to blame. Well, if you didn't just spend this, and why did you have to go out and You know, particularly if one of the partners tends to be a little more impulsive with money, and there's always that little piece of plastic to fulfill your dreams, and then the debts begin to mount and you're under pressure to pay them off and marital stress begins to build. Debt also produces, secondly, warped priorities. Warped priorities. You see, the whole idea of debt Is that it is a means of immediately gratifying your desires rather than deferring them. See, that's the idea then And the the desires that we tend to gratify are desires that have to do with things right here and right now, materially, right? I have yet to find anyone who has gone into debt over their tithe. I had never yet talked to a person who said, you know, I just can't get out of debt because I invested in this kingdom project and I gave away more than I should have given and you know and I just I had a borrow to to give to that mission work and so you know now I'm really strapped. What do we get in debt over? We get in debt over the things that we think we can't do without right now. And so what happens is for many times as Christians, we will lock ourselves into an overcommitment of our funds And then we say, now I have no discretionary money because everything I have is committed to paying off the debts and just surviving day to day or week to week. And so if a kingdom opportunity comes up, or there's something that God provides as a means of mercy, or giving, or missions, or perhaps it's an urgent kingdom opportunity. I say, I can't even think to pray about it. Because I can't even consider it. There's no way in the world that I could give anything more than I'm doing right now. And right now I'm giving a pittance because I'm trying to pay off my debts. So what we often do is we lock ourselves into a debt structure. Thinking, okay, well, I'm just going to do this, and then I'll be open to the Lord with what he wants me to do. But we've already pre-decided that. You see, we've already ruled out Kingdom priorities by locking ourselves into temporal priorities by the debt that we've gotten involved in. And then we're not open to being able to look at things beyond that. And that leads to the third thing, which is that basically debt is bondage. Debt is bondage. You see, when you add up all your debts and you look at your monthly payments, the things that you have for needs for food and clothes and incidentals, perhaps a little bit of recreation, food, gas, insurance, all this stuff. You know, for some of us orthodoncy, you know, bills and tuition bills and all this kind of stuff we pay, and we feel like I am in bondage to this debt. There's just nothing left. And so what do you do? You say, well, I I need to look for more work. I need to take another job. uh you know we've got to shuffle things in our families so that we're both able to work more hours and and you get into the kind of a structure where uh you just feel like you're slaves. To the debt that you've got to pay off. And it produces worry and it produces depression. And I'm making you depressed just talking about it, right? He said, I came here this morning to get my mind off of these things and to worship. And this guy's bringing up all the stuff I was worrying about yesterday. That's the point. We want to bring God's word and the freedom that we have in Christ to bear on the nitty-gritty of our lives. And this is an area where many of us are struggling, isn't it? We're in bondage. And Jesus Christ said he came to set us free. Now what does that mean? Well, let's now take a look at what Scripture says about the question of death. So let's come to the question then, the second point. Is all debt wrong? Let's face it squarely. Is all debt wrong? Now that little line there is for the answer. I'm suggesting to you that this answer to that question is no. Alright, they breathe a sigh of relief. Great. Wow. I'm not in sin. Oh, wait a minute. Let's hang on. Is all debt wrong? No, I don't think so. Why not? Well I'm not going to try to rationalize and weasel out and say, well, you know, I got a mortgage and you got a mortgage and we just went through Vision 91, we just saw all these bonds. So we've got to find some way to say the scripture is going to tell us that all that's not wrong, right? No. Let's look at scripture first. And I've listed some. Tom read to you the first example. That's, by the way, is my fault. That should be 2 Kings 4, not 1 Kings 4. By error. 2 Kings chapter 4 talks about the godly prophet. You notice that as Tom read that, he was a one who revered God. And this prophet, a man of God, died without paying off his MasterCard. Alright? Now Elisha does not respond by rebuking his widow. She doesn't come to him and say, Elisha, my husband died. He didn't pay off his MasterCard, and now the bank's coming to take my kids. That's what they did then. Well I'll tell you what a solution for debt, right? And you don't pay off your MasterCard and they come and they take your kids. Can you imagine how many parents would start running up debts as their kids got to be teenagers? What a solution. Kid turns 13. Wow, ten thousand dollars worth of debt. There you go. You can have him till he's nineteen. You know, then give him back. I'll pay it off then. But you know that's what happened. Nehemiah is the same thing. When you didn't pay your debt, they came and took your kids into slavery But Elisha doesn't respond to her by saying, You fool, why do you haven't why did he borrow money anyway? Deserves what he got. That was wrong, he was sin. No, he doesn't say that. He says, How can I help you? There's no rebuke and no reproof about the debt. Elisha simply says, How can we get out of this situation? Now that doesn't prove that it wasn't wrong. But you notice there's no rebuke. That's just that one bit of evidence. He helps around. And he's a godly man who borrowed. But then you look at Nehemiah in Nehemiah chapter 5, you have several poor Jews who, after the exile, are coming back to try to rebuild their lives. And in order just to feed their families and to pay their taxes, they have to borrow. Now Nehemiah tells us that the lenders were taking advantage of the situation and they too were taking their kids into slavery and they were taking their lands from them. Nehemiah, in an outrage, comes and he rebukes the lenders and he commands them to forgive the debts. There is no word from Nehemiah that the people who borrowed for that need were doing anything wrong. He defends the people who borrowed. And he protects them. And he commands the creditors to forgive the debts. Now take a look also, don't you don't look at it now, probably you know, don't have time, but uh Psalm 37. Take a look at that sometime this afternoon. And in Psalm 37, that's a psalm which talks about don't fret for the people who are wicked and seem like they're all prospering and the godly It seemed like they don't do as well financially. And that whole psalm is a picture of the blessing that we are anticipating who will inherit the land. That's the theme that runs through that psalm. But verses 21 and 26 describe the person who is righteous as one who gives and lends freely. Somebody's in need, he says the righteous person is able to lend. He may not be as rich as a lot of other people, but the character of the righteous is that they lend freely and they give. Now I suggest to you that if it is a godly characteristic to lend, then there must not be anything wrong in certain circumstances with borrowing. Otherwise, it'd be wrong to lend, right? God's not going to say if you're righteous and godly, then you lend freely. Of course, it's wrong to borrow, but it's okay for you to lend. Well, who are you going to lend to except somebody that's borrowing, right? So there's an implication there directly that it is okay in some circumstances to borrow. Or you take a look at Matthew chapter 5 and verse 42, a very difficult verse. Where the Lord Jesus Himself said, if someone comes to you and wants to borrow from you, lend to him freely. Don't withhold. If you have it in your capacity to lend to him, lend to him. But once again, if Jesus tells us That we are to be open to lending to a person in need, then it must not be intrinsically wrong to borrow. Because we're obviously encouraging the person in wanting to do the borrowing by lending to them. So then that leads to the third point. When is it okay to borrow? I would suggest to you, from my study of scripture now and what I have read, okay, so You need to understand this is not the final word on debt. This is one message in which I'm trying to lay some basic biblical principles. As I read Scripture, I see two cases where it is proper and all right. To borrow. The one is when there is extreme need. When there is extreme need. As in the case of the prophet That we saw in 2 Kings 4. This fellow had an extreme need, he borrowed. No problem. Obviously he had an extreme need. Elisha says Uh what do you have to pay it off to there's nothing but a little oil. That's all we got in the whole house. So obviously this and this family was in real need. Or you take in the case of Nehemiah, they were borrowing for food and to pay their taxes, basic necessities, all right, extreme need. U Not raising the standard of living. No, Alice, a VCR is not a basic necessity of life, you see. We have the problem of seeing what our necessities As things which the Bible doesn't see as necessity. With food and clothes, be content, Scripture says. So that we're not talking about raising standard of living. Because the idea of Deuteronomy 28 in the covenantal curses and blessings is that for God's people When we are living in a right relationship with God, in general, we will be the lenders. That's the whole idea of Psalm 37, Matthew 5. That we are the lenders rather than the borrowers. A person who is in the extreme need within the covenant community is the exception rather than the rule. The person who has to borrow. is the exception. Now it's not saying it's sinful. For instance, in Deuteronomy 28, the blessings are that you are a lender rather than a borrower. The curses are that you're a borrower rather than a lender. Also, it says that generally health will be the inheritance of the blessed. But does that mean all Christians are always healthy? No. There's sickness within the covenant of community. So that's not saying to be in need is sinful. It's simply saying that in general the principle is that God's people will enjoy God's provisions sufficient so they won't have to borrow. Because borrowing is bondage. You see, that's the basic principle that comes back to again in Deuteronomy 18. God has redeemed you to be a free people. And therefore, that includes freedom from the bondage of debt. There are exceptions, there are reversals, there are needs But they're the exceptions, not the rule, and they're not to raise standard of living. The other case where I think it is okay to borrow in Scripture, applying that same principle, is when it is an investment that you can pay off. When you're borrowing for cash flow as an investment that you can pay off. The reason I say that is because of the basic principle of Proverbs 22:7. I didn't write that one down. But Proverbs 22. 7 gives a basic principle in Scripture, and that is that the borrower is servant to the lender. A borrower is in bondage to the lender. When? When he's not able to pay it back, you see. If you are in a situation where you have to borrow and you're not able to pay that back Whether you had to borrow, or whether you just decided to borrow, or whatever the reason was, impulsive buying, or couldn't defer the gratification, or you know, you were feeling depressed, so you had to go out and spend it, or you know, whatever it was. Proverbs says, you have put yourself into the position of being in bondage to the lender. He owns you now until you get out from under him. You feel that, don't you, at times? When you're in debt, I remember the one time when we back in our early married life got really into debt one time and it was a very short-term debt. It was a debt for about four months. I couldn't wait to pay that thing off. I felt in bondage because of knowing that I had no freedom of discretion Of what I could do with my money. I was in bondage till I paid that thing off. Now you see if it's an investment that you can say, at any point, I can liquidate what I have here. And I can be free of this, then I'm not in bondage to that. It's an opportunity that I'm seizing for the kingdom and for what I'm doing for the Lord. And so, you know, I'm doing that as an investment of whatever time. Now I look at what we're doing in our ministry center in those terms. We could wait until we collected all the money, $1. 7 million from Ministry Center. Now, costs would continue to escalate, we'd have other problems with the county and all the rest of that. What would we be losing? Years of opportunity to minister And so what I see us doing is saying, we are going to buy up those opportunities. We're going to buy the time with money. We're going to say it's worth it to us to spend thousands of dollars in interest payments because if we wanted to, if we needed to liquidate, we have the assets there that are more than our debts, and we could get out of that at any Point. It becomes complicated as we move into it with the bonds and all that, but we can get out of it. We can liquidate what we have. And so it's an investment that we are buying as an opportunity for the kingdom. Now you have to decide as you look at scripture what pertains. And I could be raising all kinds of issues here that you might want to debate sometime. Well, you know, you can get into discussion, have seminars, all that. But I think the basic principle is that in general God intends for his people to be free from the bondage of debt And that means that whatever puts us in bondage is what we seek to avoid. Now, then, what is the financial goal of the Christian? Point four. What is it that we're to seek for? Romans 13 8 says, Let no debt remain outstanding. Owe nothing to nobody. So then he goes on. Except the continuing debt to love one another. For he who loves his fellow man has fulfilled the law. I believe the scripture indicates that the financial goal of the Christian is, first of all, point A, the answer, excuse me, the answer to that, is to have enough money to give and to lend. To have enough money to satisfy your basic needs and some of the desires that God gives, prospers us, but basically it's to have enough money to give and to lend. Psalm 37, I already mentioned what characterizes the righteous man, he's able to give and to lend freely. When you take a look at Psalm 112. Psalm 112 describes the blessed or the righteous man. It says, the Lord said, excuse me, Psalm 112, praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who finds great delight in his commands. What characterizes this person? Man's kind of generic there. Verse 3: wealth and riches are in his house, and his righteousness endures forever. What's the result of that? Verse 5. Good will come to him who is generous and lends freely, and who conducts his affairs with justice. So he again is characterized as a person who gives and lends freely. Matthew 5, the idea we talked about there, of being able to give to those who ask. Luke chapter 6, verse 35. Jesus says, Love your enemies and be willing to lend to them. In fact, when you lend to them, Jesus says, don't even expect to get it back. Because if it's not your best friend, you probably won't get it back anyway. But the The point is, you let go of it emotionally. You say, well, if I get it back, that's fine. If I don't, well, I trust the Lord with that. I have gained enough that I can live without it. And I'm trusting God to take care of me. Some time ago, somebody in our congregation lent a large sum of money to someone who was in need. And as they did that, they said, I'll probably never see that again. Sometime later their salary was cut significantly. That very week They received the other person had no idea of their reversal. They received the first payment, repayment on the loan. Totally had written it off, hadn't even thought of it, and money was returned. Now, it wasn't the that was what was going to meet all of their financial needs at that point, but it was a very tender affirmation to them. That their heavenly Father was going to take care of them as he subsequently did. And so you see, as we're involved in finances, we need to see God at work in our lives, showing that He takes care of us. And one of the ways is we practice this idea of being able to put ourselves in a position where we can give and lend freely. Do you remember Ephesians 4. 28 talks about the person who is taking? By theft, he says Stop stealing. And he doesn't just leave it there. Stop stealing, live honestly. He says, no, stop stealing, work with your hands, so that you may be able to give to him in need. And so again and again Scripture speaks to us that this is the point. Now, you see how that bears on Romans 13, 8. You see, he didn't just stop there at the first part of the verse. Let no debt remain outstanding. He could have. Period. That's it. On to the next subject. But if Paul did that, then what we would tend to conclude is: live independent. Hey, don't you owe anything to anybody, and they're not going to owe you anything, and we're going to be self-sufficient. But that's not what God says to his covenant community. He says, Let no debt remain outstanding, owe nothing to nobody except the continuing debt. To love one another. For he who loves his fellow man has fulfilled the law. You see, you and I do have a debt, and it's a debt we can never repay. It's the debt we have to the Lord Jesus Christ, who, when he saw us in our need, saw that we were sinners who had an infinite debt because of our sin to God. It was a debt of righteousness that you and I could never repay. We had gotten so in the hole in our sin that we owed to the law a mountain of debt impossible to calculate. And Jesus Christ came. The Son of God became man. And as man, he took on the responsibility for his people of that death. And Jesus Christ paid your debt for sin and my debt. And because he paid that debt of our sin to God, you and I have a continuing debt. Of gratitude, because we belong not to ourselves anymore, but to him. And the way we work that out, you see, The way we come to the place where we don't say, well now, I've loved you enough. That's it. That's all you get. I move on. Because when I remember, no, Jesus loved me infinitely. He forgave me more than I could ever have possibly repaid. Therefore, I can't ever For give enough in gratitude to Jesus by showing mercy to my brothers and my sisters in giving and lending freely. Giving to his work, giving to kingdom opportunities, giving to the work of the ministries of our church and missions and whatever opportunities God raises up, whether it's in building a ministry center or anything else. The fact is that I am now not my own. And as I demonstrate that through the use of my resources, I am fulfilling the law. See, because I'm simply it's out of my heart. It's not saying how much and then I'm free. How much and then I can simply indulge myself. No, it's I belong to Jesus. And as I give myself by the expression of the use of my resources, I am demonstrating the principle of what it means to fulfill the law. Which is simply my coming into conformity to his law in my life, not that I could ever fulfill it or keep it perfectly And so we do that, you see, by our giving of our first fruits. 2 Corinthians 9:7 says that the Lord loves a cheerful giver. Literally a hilarious giver, one who gives with joy, first beginning with the tithe, and then giving as the Lord prospers. Giving and lending. We'll have a diaconal offering tonight at the Lord's Supper. And so the expression again of my thanksgiving to the Lord is in my being able to be out from under debt so that I'm able to give. And then the continuing debt of simply loving one another as we see needs. Finally, then some practical suggestions for this. First of all Establish a conviction to stay out of debt. Now when I say that, I mean you need to establish your own conviction. You can't simply hear me and say, well, you know, I can't answer that, can't argue with it, so I get No, you need to start with Romans 13. 8, do cross-references, look up Topics, whatever, go through scripture and satisfy yourself about what God says concerning death. So it becomes your own conviction. And you are able to say, under these conditions, I think it's right to borrow, under these conditions, I think it's wrong, I will trust God to take care of me. That's what you need to establish, first of all. Secondly, then you need to develop a workable budget. You need to maybe see our deacons if you can't do that. We have financial counselors. I'm not going to name who they are because they'd be swamped after a message like this. All right. I've got to have some mercy on my brothers. But if you need to have some help in that, contact one of our deacons. And if you don't know who they are, they're listed in the front page of the directory. Pick one up in the back Talk to one of them and say, I need help in working out my finances. Maybe if there's enough of you, we'll get a four-week course on finances going during the middle hour or something. I mean there's opportunities here One of the things I still dream about is in the new ministry center, having periodic financial workshops for the community to stay out of debt and look at finances from a Christian perspective. But if you have a need for that, then get help. Don't just struggle on your own. You may need some accountability and help to get out of the hole you're in. Thirdly, determine to buy then only on a cash basis. Cut up those credit cards if you need to. You may find it's like breaking the shackles of a chain. Now I let me take the honest with you. I use a credit card and I use it several times a month. But here's my practice. Every time I buy something with a credit card, I'm not saying this is, you know, normative, you know, this is my practice, the way I work it out. That's all I'm telling you. When I buy something with a credit card, simply because it's easier than carrying all the cash. I go home and I take that amount of cash and I clip it to the bill. So this is already paid and when it comes due I simply take that out to my account. I already have the cash, in other words, clipped to the bill. sufficient to pay it. So I know when I can run out of cash at home that I'm out of cash and I can't buy anything more with a card. So it becomes a convenience rather than an opportunity to indulge. Now, whatever works for you, you need to decide how you're going to discipline yourself on that. The final thing, Most important then is to decide to put the Lord first in your finances, to give whatever percentage that you determine. Based on Scripture, the Lord would have you to give as He's prospered you, and then to trust Him that as He says in Malachi 3. 10, He will open the windows of heaven. But you will not be able to contain the blessing as you trust him in putting him first in your finances. See, Romans 13:8 is basically a statement of priorities. Owe nothing to nobody. Except the continuing debt to love one another. For he who loves his fellow man has fulfilled the law. Trust me in this, says the Lord, and see if I won't bless. Let's pray. Lord, as we consider our own situations, help us. That we might develop convictions that are based on your word, even though they go against the grain of our whole culture. That you would give to us a people here that would be a free people. We would be out of the bondage that afflicts so many of our friends and neighbors. And we would know your provision for each of our needs. And we would see you prosperous as a congregation, as we are able to live under your provision fully and freely. Help each of us to trust you in what it needs to be for each of our lives now. In Jesus' name. Amen. What? Yeah. Yeah, it's just a good one. Oh, yeah. Oh. To mature them And so the emphasis is always going to be a gravitational pull for us as a church to target Christians, to want to emphasize ministries to Christians. And so I put down there as a goal. Now this one was not something that was discussed by the session. I just stuck this in this week. And so if you guys want to protest, then do it with me later. But anyway, I'm just throwing out as a goal that we think this year as a check for us of at least one out of every three ministries become targeted to the lost a year from now. That if we look into January of ninety-four, we'd be able to say if you had a list of ministries going on in CPC One out of every three is targeted.