The more I thought about this, the more I began to rethink about this and thinking about this this week. The more I prayed about it, the more I thought about it, the more concerned, the more upset, the more with a lack of ease and a lack of peace I got about this whole area If I decided to change the message and I'm going to deal with only the first point this morning. And we're going to deal with the points two and three next week. I feel that this is such an important attitude for us to understand as believers living in 1979 in the news that defends all that is going on within evangelical agents today. So I'm going to deal with just this one point. I'm trying to make this point clear to And I response before we can go on to consider this matter of the abundance and the willingness of grace. So uh hang on to this outline of just for two weeks First then, this matter of the meaning of this word charizomai. The word charizmi is from the root Greek word taus, which means grace. And the word verb paridani means to give something freely or to graciously bestow something. It's a word that's often used in the New Testament to mean forgive. And I've listed a number of references there. You can take a look at those later. It's this word. Uh you can uh do this frequently with the bulletins, use them for future reference. I found out that some people use the bulletins as guides for quiet time if you're not sure what to do that week or as a guide for family worship or as a question. Be creative in how you use it. It's up to you. But uh think about ways that you can make use of the doing it But in particular now, in this word parigomise, what is the connection between giving something freely and forgiveness? Now the connection is an absolute vital one for us to understand. Because what this word is teaching us is that true forgiveness is always an act of grace That leads to the question, what is grace? After all, what is grace? What is suggest the meaning? Grace is not getting what you do deserve and getting what you don't deserve. When you boil it all down, that's what grace is about. Not getting what you do deserve and getting what you don't deserve This leads to now finally, after going through this thing for about eight weeks, a definition of forgiveness. The word for give comes from two parts from the Old English word for which means to not do something, such as in the force wear, it means to not swear something. It's a word which means it is the word for plus the word give. And literally, the word forgive means to not give or to withhold given what a person deserves To forgive someone is to withhold giving them what they deserve Therefore you see you can't earn forgiveness. Forgiveness must always be by grace You see I can detect uh let's tell if I punch you in the middle or I uh I caught on the foot Well I may repent of that and then seek to make restitutions by straight mouth your name or uh help you so But I cannot earn your forgiveness if I've wronged you. I can't make you own forgiveness. Forgiveness is yours to give or to withhold in a relationship where I have wronged you. I can make restitution But I can't make you own the forgiveness for the wrong. The last week we saw that sin is an immense debt against God God that we owe to him to infinite death to be transparent. And therefore you see this word tells us that our only hope is the transformation of that debt by grace, that is, by the three gift. Of God declaring that we have been forgiven. Honored and undeserved. Now we only just look at this first point this morning. In fact, we're only going to cover part of that because part of we're going to cover in the underseparty procedures. So then take a look at that first point to see that forgiveness must always be free forgiveness. Forgiveness is never melted. First of all, it all these costs it could use. It all these costs it could The word charitamize, which means to give freely, points to the cost of forgiveness. Because though forgiveness is freely given It always costs the giver to give it. And oftentimes forgiveness, more often than not, is not a system to give. Our appreciation of grace and our love for the Lord Jesus in a large measure is determined by how much we realize that we can forgive us. Because so many Christians go wrong today. We think that our love for the Lord will be measured in terms of our experience of what he's doing now. But in a large measure Our love for Him and our appreciation of Him will be determined according to how much we realize that we have given us Forgiveness. Take a look at Luke chapter seven, which is our skipping this morning, to see how this is illustrated. Luke chapter seven, verses thirty-six to fifty. Now one of the Pharisees invited Jesus to have dinner with him So I went to the Pharisees' house and he reclined at the table. And when a woman who had lived a sinful life in that town learned that Jesus was eating at the Pharisees' house, he brought an Alabaster's lord for seed. And as she stood behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her teeth. Then she wiped them with her hair, kissed them, poured perfume on them When the Pharisees were invited and partished and said to himself, now if this man was crap, he'd know he's puppy and what kind of woman she is, he's a sinner, he's a crack Jesus answered him, but Simon, I have something to tell you. Tell me, Jesus, he said, two men owes money to a certain money lender. One owed him five hundred dinero and the other fifty. Neither of them had the money to pay him back, and so he canceled the death of both. Now which of them will love him more? Simon replied, Well, I suppose the one who had the bigger vet cancelled. Then he turned toward the woman and he said to Simon, you see this woman? I came into your house. You did not give me any water for my teeth. But she wet my teeth with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You didn't give me a gift. This woman, from the time I entered, has not stopped tipping my feet. You did not put oil on my head But he has poured for free on my feet. Therefore I tell you how many sins have been forgiven. And he who has been forgiven little, loves little. And then Jesus said to us, within our forgiven. The other guests had a family themselves who even did say. Jesus said to the woman, Your face is peaceful. Go in peace. I get the picture here. This Jesus is a very religious fellow, fellow who uh came for loving This woman walks in a very unsavory character. She takes an alabaster box of t. Really awful, very rare, worth a lot of money. He breaks with over his teeth. And then when she criticized, and Jesus particularly criticized for even allowing her to touch him, to be near her like this, because that is a law of authority to never allow a woman like that to touch him. And then he just describes in a parable why he's doing this to help find an understanding. Now uh Ironically, the words in verse 41 and verse 42 and 43, cancel the debt or forgive the debt, is not the word affeam. We talked about last week is this word parisamize. He canceled the debt, means that he dealt graciously. He freely gave them. That's yes. And the words in verses forty-seven to forty-nine, which you might have thought was this word original, is actually the word of feeling So the word appearan in here, uh the word uh parisomize, give freedom or to bestow something is a word used in verse 42 and 43 in reference to personal events. And what's Jesus saying? Verse 42 says, now which one loves more? One who wrote 50 Generae? Or the one who wrote 500? Remember Generae is about a day's wages. He's thinking about And the final says, well the one with forgiveness, because the death hand. Literally The one who had the greatest gifts disposed of forgiveness. And Jesus uh then says, That's right, Simon, you you got it. And then he begins to draw up in contrast, free contrast. In particular here, in verses 44 to 46. He says, first of all, Simon I came in and uh didn't give me any warning for my feet, a common hospitable custom This woman hasn't just given me water for my feet, she slip them to the sea and where they hurt. And the meaning is possible, lavishing itself upon me Because Simon on the second one, you didn't give me a kiss. This woman didn't just give me a kick, she kissed my teeth. She hasn't stopped kicking my teeth, never kicked her came in yet It sees the appropriate for God. And then thirdly he says, uh, you didn't put any oil on my head, anoint me, gesture of fellowship Be corporate teams, much more expensive than life, much more costly. This one has gone beyond the bounds of reason to lavish yourself upon them. Keep going beyond anything exception. Keep going beyond anything that you could think would be appropriate. This woman's wasting herself on you. This woman's just pouring herself out to me What insane reasons can a person have to go to such extremes to just pour himself on beef? Why is he so caught up with me? Putting himself at my feet, playing yourself before me in this way. uh demeaning yourself, humiliating yourself, but not hearing how anything appears, but just wrapped up in mood. Not hearing what you think of it, Simon, or anybody else around you. Just caught up with me. And basically to the fact that the sins have been forgiven. He does not say that because he did this, the sins will be forgiven. It's the perfect tension of week. He's saying here in verse 47, therefore I tell you, this person is promised, he's a person who has raised sin forgiven. He's a person who's realized what her debt was for. And her sins are in the state now of having been forgiven. He's going to say of a forgiven since he's not messed. Because on one hand, first you Has you been forgiven you your loved one? Person thinks that that would be so great. Not gonna have anything of this kind of love Can be more concerned with how you look, more concerned with what things appeal to your own worship of you, to your church obligations. are caught up with loose. He can forgive him much. But even forgives, he can forgive him little, not going to really see that that great of debt can chance. Grace hasn't been all that grace And his love with the appropriately small too. The person says to return to the fluence, not forgiveness, but return for the fluence because of the other three, whose things are in fact forgiven. But God is forgiving her there, he's pronouncing to her by a true what in fact is true of her life. You are a forgiven sinner He goes out to come in a forgiven since in God's name. Now as I've thought about this this week, I've realized more and more But we seem to have very little of this kind of understanding of grace tonight. And I think I've seen a serious shift in evangelicalism in even just the last few years in these times. Thinking about this, I look at magazine after magazine, writing after writing this week, to pick up what are the highlights, what are the things being presented about the gospel in Christianity In the current writing of evangelical. Much of it deals with church growth. How to have a bigger church. Much of it deals with a successful church. We're living a successful Christian life, victorious Christian life, a life of fulfillment and joy and peace in Jesus And so much of what I read almost gives me the impression that Jesus is simply the means to my living the kind of life that is going to be fulfilling for me. With very little preoccupation. Christ, lavishing ourselves upon him, laying ourselves at peace piece in the writings that I see today. Devoting ourselves and being preoccupied with him, but an awful lot, with our experience of the Christian law Why is that? In an excellent, excellent article by Nathan Pack analyzing this kind of thing in the recent Christianity Today magazine, Pat says this. Self-absorbed evangelicals are learned, but those who have been forgiven little also have a desensitized talent. The case, race. We've lost the oneness of grace in our death. There are many reasons for this, reasons that could be traced back at least 150 years to the beginning of revivalism in the Many trends have have been uh going through evangelical music for the last ten, fifteen years. Some of those trends are excellent. God spirit doing an amazing and exciting work in the first year. And I don't diminish that for one moment. God is doing a number of things that we ought to be very, very profoundly thankful for. And there's a lot of ways we could think of being strengthened But my concern is with the mainstream of evangelicalism. I'm not talking about liberals. I'm not talking about those who aren't interested in following the Bible as the Word of God. Those of us who say that the Bible is our final power and concern for the mainstream of the grift in just the last couple of minutes And let me outline three reasons. You won't find anything boring, but just put them together. But uh this one we're gonna discuss some tonight Follow along as closely as you can. Great three things, three reasons to address away from a profound understanding of race. It's the last couple years. One is because of self self-help psychology. The self-help book that has uh just become so abundant in our culture these last few years in particular. The self-help psychology. Has refers to this in his article where he says on page 15 here, we live in a culture dominated by the quest for peace of mind, self-fulfillment and self-sufficiency. In fact, our time for the Smash Best Fellows. I'm okay, you're okay. You're erroneous names, the cell talk top stop. Pulling your own strings and looking out the number one These are all titles of best-selling books. My understanding the message in these books is light years and use in the call of men like Western Who argues that the gospel applied only to mere sinners, inwardly and outwardly self-destroyed, bringing nothing to God but ungodly not only, including nothing to sin and misery And yet what seems to be in the works today is a convenient marriage of evangelical piety and self-help. This is a union, moreover, based on the assumption that it makes little difference if we replace biblical concepts of moral poverty. Salty blindness and spiritual nakedness to the more fashionable psychological notions of fear, frustration, and anxiety. All of course without damaging the gospel one I earned Self-centered society is what we live in. And Christians are baptizing the self-absorption of people today, of our culture, with Christian terms, and calling it a saddle. We receive this in Christian writing. For instance, in this book, Freedom from Guilt, an excellent book, in many ways, has a lot of very insightful and very helpful things to say about guilt and forgiveness. says that basically God has forgiven us so that we a avoid now so that the reason now that we avoid sin is because it's not good for us And he says here, once we have recognized the harmful effects of guilt feeling, we're free to turn to a constructive alternative. The Bible doesn't say we're feeling from guilt so that we can turn it up. Instead it says we're free from built so that we can learn to fulfill our lives and develop inner characters. That's not out of context. That's the concern of a lot of writing today To fulfill our lives and know the peace and joy that Jesus gives to us. And we devaluated grace because we don't have any real sense of what sin is. We don't really have a sense of what it means to stand before God. woman's kid in Jesus' presence. And it was very clear apparent that I have no way to be in your presence. If we fulfill it rather than forgive forgiveness has become the heart of Christianity in our there and it's another gospel. The second thing I would say that is uh lens of this the second reason for the loss of a real thing for grace today Just the popularity of these angelical agents. The popularity of these angelical agents. Evangelicals who were once a ridiculed, despieled minority, are now suddenly recognized as a dominant force in American life. Our president claims to be a born-again person. Charles Colson, Elvis Clever, and many others are interviewed again and again on television to talk about their born-again experience. It is claimed in America right now, according to a recent Gallic poll and some other polls that have been done, that there are between 45 and 50 million Americans who have called themselves evangelicals. One out of every three persons polled in the recent Dallas polls said that they had been born again by the born-again experience. One out of every three Americans Christian books currently on the market account for over six hundred million dollars in sales per year. And everybody's wanting to get in on it. We've gotten into an evangelical speech. It's fashionable to be born again. And it's nice to be popular. We who once knew what it was to be a ridiculed minority are now beginning to feel our strength It might canal the stars and celebrities on television will call themselves Christians. And after having had Jesus Christ dragged in the mud in the dirt for so long to have people say that it's really something to follow Jesus Christ and He has a lot to offer. And we hear people talking on television about this and say, hey, that's us. You know, it's a sense of identity there. I know what he's talking about. It's really great to see that on television. Youth for Christ is going to be putting together a major TV special in April And it's interesting to me how the stars of many of the shows, many stars, have lined up and just waiting to get our own next center. So that they should say a word to Jesus Christ, or at least about the moral good that's being done by those who were born again. The whole shift of the climate has changed And so there's produced such books in Richmond by Richard Tibet Hubert Joe, I hope you pronounce his name, who has done a lot of sense analysis on this, and he's put a book out A few months ago called the World of Evangelical subtitled Has Success Foiled America's Born Again Christians You see, uh, he's dealing with questions like this, the quote on page 79. These evangelicals feel that by their presence and witness, they're transforming the wider society, secular society in its value. But it might be much more accurate to suggest that the wider culture is transforming gender. When you become popular, you see a whole new set of problems who set themselves to it. Just because I left University after ten years of the movement, one of the big questions he was dealing with leaders in University is University of hope with struggling unconsciousness for many years. Is it possible for university to cope with success. Can we as Christians cope with success in our culture without selling out cigar cultures? And Jesus, remember, never put a whole lot of thought into popularity. We read in Luke fourteen that when the crowds were following Jesus, he turned to him and said, Are you able to accuse and reject your mother, father, son, and daughter? And follow after me, and get eating your own life. When the crowds began to get too big, you would give them hard songs, like I am the bread of light, and you must eat of me and drink my blood in order to follow me and knew the crowds couldn't walk in him anymore. And Jesus never welcomed but he strong as some indication of the effectiveness of his ministry Jesus was specific of great superficial popularity. It was the crowd on Palm Sunday that made the palms before him, who was just five days later trying to. And beware what if you would be development, it's gonna stop and popularity. Because that popularity The third reason, I'll describe that in a minute. The third reason I appear is because of decrypting media. The third reason The problem of great issue. Christian media. And the radio is full of system programs. And there are books out that you can not only find in system bookstores now, but even in drug stores. from Christian authors, in magazines all over the place, but especially television. And this was the big wing smell of Christian media. It's built on the popularity, but there are people who will watch these things. Not only Billy Gandalf has his special, but all Roberts and a number of others and fine, fine people A fourth major network is being produced in this country, the Christian broadcasting network. A major network is an alternative to the circular networks that we see around us. That network took in $58 million through Christian contributions last year alone. Christian television's a big thing The 700 Club, the TCL Club, the Telestro, and a whole host of sex movies who now substitute their fellowships with live believers by watching the celebrities on TV And this has had an effect on the gospel. Why? Because you see, the evangelists of our day are the media experts rather than the theologian as interesting. And when a media expert becomes your expert in evangelism, the media expert is interested in sinning. A correct image must be projected to complete with the alternatives that we're watching. And so the image that must be projected is an up the image It's an image of attractiveness, an image of appeal, and success is portrayed to the Christian. And that success must be measured in the criteria of the viewers because he's the continuer. And so you see the effect of this on our doctrine. And that serves again very insightfully in Christianity today One of these passes, recently defined faith, that is a theological statement, as building self-confidence, resisting negative thoughts, and tapping the limitless possibilities within ourselves. In a similar thing, the prominent evangelist explained that what keeps people away from Christ today is not the hardness of their hearts, it's simply a misunderstanding of what he has to offer. The emphasis is all on our experience. What God can do for us in terms of continuing with the rest of the TV mentality I don't know how many of you saw that uh movies network of a couple years back. But it had a very profound message because it immediately diffuse anything Remember there were a group of radicals in there, political radicals, who wanted nothing to do with the establishment. And so uh nobody could change these people. And all you had to do was uh put them on television. After a while we start arguing over their contracts and how much money they're gonna get. And what have you done? He's he's totally defused and emasculated the whole radical movement. Well we can look at that and we can laugh at what's going on in networks for the exact same thing. Christianity is being de-radicalized by its popular image, its immediate image. We've lost the sense of what brains it because we've lost the sense of the profoundness of the problem that we have. It just doesn't guide with the public image. And so because of that, our sense of grace is waning. You can't have a prophetic voice if you're dependent on your supporters to support a huge budget And this is the state of Christianity today. The effects, therefore, are a new view of the gospel and a new view of man, a new view of what humanity is A gospel which is romantic and sentimental as opposed to radical and the intentional sentiment. And let me just quickly give you four characteristics of this gospel, the effects of these three things I've just outlined. One is a weak view of depravity. A weak view of depravity. We measure the doctrine of the church not by the creeds that have been written, but by the preaching that's going on now. And I suggest that the whole concept of human nature is changing in the future. I'm talking about the mainstream, we're talking about everybody. The concept of human nature is came from which we're not dead to sin, but rather we need to live more fulfilling lives. Man is appealed to as a consumer rather than evangelized as a rebel against God. When's the last time you heard a message on the hardness of the human heart outside of Jesus Christ? Or the inability to come to use its place on anything that we can do. In popular evangelical evidence The common themes of revival have become a rare affair in our lives today. So we seek to pump up ourselves in it. Never facing the fact of what we really are. So utterly defrained and helpless and bent against everything of God's nature. But apart from a grace that gives us freedom to forgiveness, there is absolutely no hope. Nothing that we can ask. And so that's the second thing. Not only do we feel depravity, but then therefore, necessarily polishing that a weak feel of grace. A weak feel of race We see ourselves we do not see ourselves as the woman in Luke 7 easy enough to be driven to cast ourselves before the feet of the king or as the servant that we looked at in Matthew 18, last year. The king to whom we owe a hopeless debt. And then simply beg for mercy. And who means? That's the means. I come to Jesus as my friend to help me. But the great for mercy is one who has offended him, who deserves hell. Is one who says I deserve his punishment. No. That's not the kind of thing that we need to do Jesus Christ today is looking for men and women, for boys and girls, to see their absolute moral and spiritual bankruptcy. And say, God, unless I come to you on the basis of grace, I have no hope. Unless I come before you as that woman in Luke seven, realizing that the forgiveness that you have given to me is beyond anything I can concede. Far greater than I can imagine, I have been forgiven an infinite death. He won't love me. And we won't be much accustomed to him. Again from health, his article on Christianity today. He says here concerning our dual three But a real understanding of race is to understand that we can apprehend it as a sailor and march insane to the gallery, only to find a new verdict race, whole pardon and a royal decrease of adoption. So have reloaded over and over the physician spot diagnosis terminal and incurable only to wake up healthy Who have known the anguish of thirst and starvation in the desert only to discover cool milk and rich feed honey. Who have been ostracized as a stranger in the land only to find the welcome embrace of family. This is the glamour of me. Why does the gospel seem gone? Insipid and even trivial today Because we've removed the drama from salvation by underplaying the plight of mankind and overbilling the potential of persons to achieve their own self-filling and income. The promise of self-acceptance, power, and And that is produced the third one, a weak worship. Weak worship meetings How often do we have to think up something to praise God for, rather than to simply car the awful And wonders of grace that God has forgiven me. He who did nothing to earn that or to deserve it, he who deserves only to be cast away from his presence for us. It's the written place. It's not getting what I do deserve. It's getting what I don't deserve. In praising God, loving him, adoring him. Not everything myself on him is the woman and book seven, because I've been forgiven. That works. That works, it must come from a rich sense of grace, which must come it must come from a specific sense of our own dispatch and happiness. And then finally it's the fourth thing to the weak forgiveness of each other. The fourth effect is not only to the weak view of the province A weak view of grace, a weak worship, but also a weak forgiveness of each other. Why so often is the church a festering store of divisions and unhealed relationships and brain spiritual power? You see, because we've lost the sense of the oneness, we have been forgiven. And therefore, forgiveness for others becomes a natural consequence of our life. Paul said, and we'll touch on this again as we get into next week's message. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 31 and 32, get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, drawing, slander. Along with every form of malice, be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving one another. How? Just as God in Christ forgave you The word forgive there is this word parygramise. Deal graciously with one another through forgiveness. According to what standards, by what motivation. Colossus 3. 13 says the same thing, which is forgiven, even as God has forgiven us the same way. So we need to look at what God's forgiveness do. And I would urge you to take a look this afternoon in separations for tonight in the underceptors and version we're in the tree Take a look at Colossians chapter 2, verses 13 and 14. You see it outlined in your bulletin outline there. Take a look and think on what it is that we're described like. In those two verses. And then secondly, what God did for us. Meditate on our conditions and on what God did. The word there forgive in verse 14 is that word charidomized. To heal graciously, to give something graciously. And then we'll pick up one of them and discuss them. To see in fact what the Bible does of our needing and what God has done. Wonderstand again what grace is Come on application. Bring it together. There's two points for this week. The first one's similar to the one on the bulletin. I'll deal with the second and the third one on the bulletin next week. But again, let me please you, if you have not done so, to come to Jesus Christ on the basis of grace alone. No merit, no work, but grace alone. There's no bargain that you have to offer to God, but to test yourself to the teeth is saying it is not grace alone. Unless you withhold from me what I deserve and give me what I don't deserve, I have no hope. Don't care to receive. A number of us have heard of the man who was shot by the police in Hartford a couple weeks ago. A tragic incident. A man who threatened to take the life of his own six-year-old daughter. And his father. We've considered the gospel and the claims of Christ and the apostle apostro in this area I'm going to run it my way now. Do you please stop We dare not refuse the dreams that God has to offer. The alternatives that are often authorities. Grace is offered free and full. And the abundance of it and the willingness of it will take up more next week. Let me simply say now that God offers that The second and final first, us in Jesus Christ. Let us come before God and seek again to root out our self-righteousness. God has impressed me again this week in my own life how subtle self-righteousness is. How we begin to look at ourselves as those who have something to offer to us. How we have covered over the rottenness, the foulness of our own rebellion against God. And looked at that and the end downplace, the evilness of our own human nature. How we seem to pump up our self-image with positive statements about who we are And really don't look at ourselves in a biblical understanding of who many say God apart from you there is no good in me. There is nothing in me that seeks to recommend itself to me. Fowl I to the sound and smile. Watch these things for our God. And we need to return to that. And to not simply look at all of the uh at the doctrine that's raised in the light of the self-help book. And reinterpret them in those language. Say that's too strong, that's too negative, only by coming to that profound sense of our own utter helplessness and evil nature. And you can really understand that this gives you. It's only when I realize that I am so helpless and so found that there's no possibility for giving myself But I realize that grace can only be received. Then I come to God with empty hands, an outstretched arms to receive the grace that we asked to be Let's humble ourselves before. Let's come before him today, before him in our under seventy. We ask our progress of that self-righteousness. It is to him the greatest stumbling block of his working in our lives as individuals and as a coach to make known Jesus Christ in Columbia. But it was the greatest stumbling block to revival from past generations. Why do we think it's an existence to God? Let's humble ourselves at all Indeed, even as we see in Luke, his statement, that he who is forgiven little loves little. But this only he ladders himself on Jesus. Who have been forgiven in love? Oh our God, we pray that the effective our considering again To criticise brothers and sisters in Christ, but to somehow look at ourselves as being better Oh right. The right thing is down there. I decided to see ourselves in the light of evil. In the light of the last we see the causes really good. Because if I knew that I could a situation hopeless apart from the group. Help the father to my so concerned about something With our negative views of our of our size and sequences, we pop that up to negative hard views. And did we never really think that we like the part of the cycle? Happy Father could we have such a realistic view of ourselves and seeing just how very bankrupt we are spiritually And that we realize there were ten wings, and that there is really no way to come except to receive these wings free often on the basis of a simple Jesus Christ. To think that is only what he has done in pain the penalty. We were ignoring the ordinances of the law, the cross God will come before you as sin. We come before you not as those who would offer anything else at the basis of our family presence in coming boldly unto the throne of flood. Except you are free offer of the dictionary. And the fact that you by your grace withhold from us what we deserve and give us what we don't believe. Would you withhold the punishment by allowing it unto you? And he give us his righteousness and about receiving one Lord our God, give us a question, truth, and understand what this means. Help us with this people to lie low before you and humble ourselves in your presence and ignite a few The movie becomes that women of the expression. Allow it for cells of time To see you as the center of our Jesus and the full course of the cloud has been the main thing of our motivation of living the Christian life Adjust our priorities and our purpose so that the cross may become safe to us again. we call this the public as we do that and consider it alone as we do that in our formula. And then our under separate groups would be considered in our family. We might want to go trust understanding. Because we're willing to make it concerned. We see what our use of this really is. Help us follow the people who live in our country to really change cultures and The way of the writing you can see reads, of the magazines, the books, or the messages on television. So that we might see these things in the light of the world and before. Some of people who are constantly seeking to follow you and not simply look along with the current sleeve of God. Practice body to be determined by them, and to grow in our claims, and to cling to the radical nation of the gospel and not sell it to an enemy that is much more powerful All the time. Have to see that whenever we do that, we don't know for that for better. But we make it worse. So we could have never guessed at anything with groups because we have asked. Be used as a positive influence in your truth. We don't know politics about it. With all of our speakers, do I need the grace of Jesus? Father, to happiness. Father, we ask that we work in ask of the church in a denomination. We do violence. Than we pray, Father, for that new television which began in North East, North Carolina. We pray for that. And Father, if you would done through drug talks and others and Well, it's a faithful feeling. The work of the high school students here are the past of that. We pray in our whole massive day. So that many days come to know the trust Jesus Christ. Because of your work to them. Do not have thoughts before you without you. And our father to any of this room who is not for us