If you've closed your Bibles, please open them up again to Jeremiah 2. I want us to look at this passage and to see what it is that God Himself has to say for us. And because you don't have an outline, I want to let you know that there are four main points that I believe we need to see from this passage. Four things that God wants us to grasp. The first of which is that God is speaking. And in speaking, he does two things. He demonstrates relationship with us and he describes his relationship with us. Secondly, God's people reject him. A familiar but a tragic story. Rejection is the what, but we have to ask the why, because God addresses that. Why do his people reject him? It's because they find fault with him. We find fault with God. And then lastly, what hope do we have? When we find ourselves in this horrible place of rejecting Him, is there any hope lost? So let's look first at the point that God speaks to his people. God begins this passage by pointing us to our past. He says, Therefore the word of the Lord came to me, go and proclaim in the hearing of Jerusalem, and here is his word. I remember the devotion of your youth. How as a bride you loved me and followed me through a desert, through a land not sown. You trusted me. Israel is holy to the Lord, the first fruits of his harvest. All who devoured her were held guilty, and disaster overtook them, declares the Lord. Protected. God speaks of an intimate honeymoon kind of a relationship with him. He uses a passionate language. He says, I remember the devotion of your youth. How as a bride you loved me. You trusted me and went through those valleys, those wilderness experiences, through deserts that were uninhabited. You followed me. Then I protected you. I loved you, I cherished you, I I cared for you. He's speaking Of deep, rich, satisfying intimacy. But he goes on, and it's not merely in the beginning of this passage that he speaks of the relationship that we have with him. He speaks later. In verse 11, of his being our glory. In the same way that a groom is the glory of his bride, the focus of her heart. The object of her love. But even more so in verse 13. He is the spring of living water. He is the source of our life He's the source of our safety. He's the source of our hope. I want you to see that what God is describing in these These brief parts of this passage is a deep, rich, safe, intimate relationship that he has with his people. And that's the standard. That's what he longs for with us. He's speaking of Israel, he's speaking of his relationship with Israel, but he's speaking to the people of God. This is not a passage that simply is spoken to those who were facing the onslaught of Babylon. It's spoken to everyone who names the name. It's spoken to all those who belong to God the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. So he's speaking in this passage, brothers and sisters, to you. He's speaking of an intimacy that he longs for with you. This is where he wants us to be. So he describes that relationship with his people, but he also demonstrates it. One of the things that I want you to see here is how frequently he says he talks. In verse 1, the voice of the Lord, the word of the Lord, came to me. In verse 3 He speaks of his protection of Israel and of the disaster that overtakes those who attack her and says, declares the Lord. In verse 4, the next phrase, hear the word of the Lord. In verse 5, this is what the Lord says. In verse 9, therefore I bring charges against you again, declares the Lord, and I will bring charges against your children's children. Verse 12. Be appalled at this O heavens and shudder with great horror, declares the Lord. God is speaking, and in that very speaking, he demonstrates that he's related to these people. He's in relationship because you don't speak to one with whom you have no relationship. But I want you to see something here. God is speaking to people who've rejected him He's giving relationship to those who've chosen to abandon him And demonstrates his love. Now, let me let me unpack that for you because one of the things that I think is typically human and not divine, is that when we're rejected, we in turn reject We'll take a moment here. When you are rejected, how do you respond? How do you respond? Do you remain engaged? Do you continue to give your heart? Do you talk or do you turn and put the walls up? Do you surround your heart with that barrier that's impenetrable because you will not allow yourself to be rejected again? God here is speaking to people who have rejected Him and is demonstrating a quality of relationship that is unhuman. He is engaged with his people. He's not speaking to condemn and to abandon. He's speaking to relate. Yeah, he says things that are hurtful and hard to hear, but he says them with passion and with engagement. He is not casting us away. He's pleading for us to see our rejection. You have an opportunity here. You have an opportunity to respond to the one who stays engaged. You can listen. You can listen to the word as it's written in the book, and you can listen to the word as he preaches it to you today. And that will demonstrate the quality of your relationship with Him. I want you to watch your heart as you hear these truths. Because it will show you your heart for him. Are you a good listener? Or are the walls up? One of the things that's been a characteristic of my relationship with my wife, and I told her this would come up Is that I love to think I'm a good listener. After all, I pay direct attention to everything that she says, and I I can tell you the words that she spoke Most of the time. Except for those times when I'm so distracted by my ability to multitask. Take a hitman That I I get up and do other things. And sometimes I wander away from the conversation and don't know where we left it and don't know what we did. Don't know what we talked about. God has convicted me that that is sin, and He is working in me to give me a heart for my wife. But this week As he again brought that to my mind, as he got that through my thick skull by having my wife say to me, You just left me again. He reminded me that it's not my wife alone that I do that to. It's him. For I will think that I'm listening to the Lord, and be distracted, and pull away, and show him my heart, which is not for him, it's for me. Am I a good listener? Not nearly as much as I need to be. Are you? What is God saying in this passage, and what is he saying to you? First thing he says in the second point of the passage today is that we reject our groom. He's described this wonderful intimate relationship. This place of peace, this place of security, this place of connection. And he moves from the fact that we love him, we are devoted to him, we follow him, we're holy to him, and he protects us, to this in verse 5. What fault did your fathers find with me? He goes on and talks about how they have strayed so far from him and have followed worthless idols. And became worthless themselves. Verse 5, we stray from him. Verse 5 and verse 8, we commit ourselves to worthless idols. Verse 8, we rebel against him. It says, those who deal with the law did not know me. The leaders rebelled against me. Again in verse eight, we follow worthless idols. Verse eleven, we exchange our glory for worthless idols. Verse thirteen. We abandon the fountain, the spring of living waters. Brothers and sisters, in rejecting our groom, in turning from the fountain, and in abandoning our glory, we demonstrate our heart. Now if you're like me, as you hear this, the walls begin to go up. There's conviction. And we want to think about other things. You may be distracted by your child in the seat next to you. You may think, oh, I've got to look at this other passage. There are many things that are going to pull your eyes, your mind, and your heart from this. Brothers and sisters, do not stray. Listen. Hear His word to you. We demonstrate our heart. We turn away. One of the things that I want you to see here is that God comes and says, What fault did they find? Why don't you ask, where is the Lord? Why don't you remember what I've done? I brought you through the wilderness. I gave you a land full of food, full of blessing, full of goodness. I gave you me. I gave you my heart. And you turned from me. I want you to see how horrible this is. I want you to look at verse 12. God's response to this is to call the heavens as a witness and to say, Be appalled at this, O heavens, and shudder with great horror. This is cosmic treason. We have abandoned not simply the groom, not simply the glory, not simply the fountain, we have abandoned our Savior. And it's not simply Israel that does this, it's us. This week we've had a rather incredible week at home. Last weekend our dishwasher died. That's not such an incredible, horrible thing. But we decided we'd have to spend the money to buy another one, which is a little bit more horrible And so we went out and we ordered a dishwasher over the weekend and we arranged to have it installed on Monday because I don't want to have to install it. I installed the last one, I think. My wife says that a a a contractor did. I'd be glad to have a contractor have done it. It was a nice dishwasher. It is a nice dishwasher. We still have it. But when we ran it Monday night, it did a great job on the dishes. It even has a sanitized feature. It's really nice. They did some good work these days. Tuesday morning I wake up and I'm thinking it is so nice to have a new dishwasher. It's so nice not to have installed it. And I start walking downstairs and I hear my son David cry out from the basement, Dad, we've got a problem Words that strike terror in my heart. And sure enough, there was about an 8 by 12 foot area where water was dripping through the floor. of the upstairs into the ceiling of the basement, through the ceiling into the drop panels, down the fluorescent light, and there was about a quarter inch of water in the basement. And I'm thinking, oh my goodness And so I shut off the water and we deal with issues, and it turns out that I think we've got it under control only to find out that water had gotten underneath the flooring in the kitchen and it began to warp. Which is not so bad except that it's only two months old. And I began to panic And so I go through and we're talking with insurance agents and we're talking with repairmen and we're talking with plumbers because now we've got to get a plumber to fix the supply line. And I'm thinking I'm doing okay with this. I'm thinking, this is so much better than I have been in the past. Until I go to sleep Wednesday night And about three o'clock Thursday morning, God woke me up. I think it was God. It may have just been my panic. And I'm struggling with this. The reason I believe it was God is this. He showed me my heart. He showed me my rebellion. He showed me that I rejected him because I wanted everything to be okay. And okay to me meant the floor was fixed, the dishwasher worked, there was no leak, and life was good Anybody here relate? But I wasn't concerned to trust him My mind was on insurance companies, my mind was on rejection of claims, my mind was on how much it would cost to get this fixed, my mind was on all sorts of things, but not on him. And he said to me, Steve Who am I? Chopped liver? Trust. You have the righteousness of Christ You have heaven. You have your glory. You have your groom. You have me. Rest. Like the fathers, I didn't ask where is the Lord Like the fathers, I didn't remember that God has taken such good care of me in the past. I focused on what He could do to abandon me here. And that leads us to the third point. The point is, why in the world would a bride reject her groom? God speaks of an intimacy that's ours. It's a gift. He gives it to us freely. It may be that you've experienced that when you first came to the Lord, and there was that rush of infatuation as you saw how incredibly good God was to rescue you from yourself. There may be times that he brings you to that recognition again in your ongoing life with him. But I want you to think there are times of rich, incredible intimacy he bestows upon you, and yet what happens? Do you reject him? Do you turn from him? He says here, you do. He says here, you do. And he remains engaged. And he says to you, I will not abandon you as you abandon me. But I will hold you, I will speak to you, I will love you. How in the world could we come to the point where we believe that we have to abandon God? So the answer is in verse five. God directs the Jews and says, What fault did your fathers find with me? The idea of the language there in the original is what injustice have I committed? What sin, what iniquity have I committed that gives you the justification to turn from me? The answer is none. Yet somehow we believe that there is a reason. Somehow we believe that he has failed us. I want you to ask yourselves this question. If God is really good, if God is really powerful, and if God really loves me, He would What would he do? What is it you want God to do for you that you believe he wants Because you see, that's why you reject him. We believe it makes sense. We believe it's our only choice. If God hasn't done for me what must be done. I'll look other places. Now God didn't protect my floor. God didn't keep the pipe from leaking. God didn't let us know as soon as it began to leak that it was leaking so we could stop it and fix it. God let my floor get ruined Because he loves me. But if you'd asked me that Monday, I mean Tuesday, or Wednesday, I would have said God failed me Because what I want is a nice floor. How stupid. My well-being is not tied up in having a two-month-old floor look two month old. But I believe that it is. Your well-being is not tied up in whatever you use to answer that question, but you believe that it is. And I want to draw the parallel that we live in a world that makes sense to us, and that's why it's so troubling. Because while it makes sense to us, it is no more tied to reality Than the world of a beautiful mind. I don't know if you've seen the movie. If you haven't and you intend to, I'm about to ruin it for you, so plug your ears. But here is a movie about a brilliant man. And he goes to Princeton. And he studies mathematics. He's got this really oddball roommate Really bizarre kind of a guy. But he spends his career studying and comes up with a unique and original idea that revolutionizes economics. And so he gets a job with with a lab, a very prestigious lab, and during this time somehow he's involved with the world of espionage. Because his mind in seeing patterns is able to discern codes and recognize that they're sending messages from Russia in publications to the US. And it's the way that they communicate to their agents in the United States what they want them to do. So he gets a second job that's sort of secret and hidden of working to break these codes, and he devotes his life to it. And it seems all very exciting and very intriguing until you find out that there is no such agency. He doesn't have that job. There was no roommate. And it all crashes in as you watch his family adjust to the fact that he's been living in a false world. And the rest of the movie is looking at what it means to try and make sense out of the fact that you live in a world that isn't real. Brothers and sisters, you are living in a world that is not real. You are finding fault with the perfect, holy, true God of the universe who has no fault. And you're rejecting him on the basis of those faults that you find that don't exist. And you exchange your glory for a worthless idol that promises to you that it will meet your needs when it can't You have given your heart, you have given your love, you have given your worship, and you have found your safety in something that is unworthy and worthless. So what do we do now? Number one, I want you to ask yourself, do you believe what I said is true? Is that your heart? Do you live and reject your groom Have you wandered from him? Have you chosen to give your love to worthless idols? God says, My people have committed two sins. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters. And have dug their own cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold water. So what do we do? First and foremost, we listen. For you see, God speaks He speaks to you. He speaks to you in his word. He speaks to you by his spirit. He speaks to you by believers who bring the truth to bear on your life. And he says incredibly important things. He says to you, come home. Come back to me. Don't reject me. He says to you, I want you to see your heart. Will you look Do you believe you have the safety of his love to look deeply at your own heart? You do. You do And it's incredible. Because again, he is a God who remains engaged Jesus says, Come to me, you who are weary, and I will give you rest. He says that he will never leave nor forsake you. He says he will not cast you off. Will you listen? As you come to recognize your rebellious heart, will you repent That means to look at it fully. That means to see it in its nuances, not to avert your gaze. Because God wants to deal with it He wants you to see who you are so that he can bring you back to himself, so that you can give your heart to him. So that you can renew again that passionate, intimate relationship that He longs for with you And as you see that rebellious heart to repent, to see its ugliness, and to hate it But most importantly, in listening to believe his promises. Because the God who says, here's who you are, also says this. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and will cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He says to you, He has not dealt with us according to our sins. Psalm 103, 10 through 13, Nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his loving kindness towards those who fear him. As far as the East is from the West, so far has He removed our transgressions from us, just as a Father has compassion on his children. So the Lord has compassion on those who fear him, for he himself knows our frame. He is mindful that we are but dust. There's a situation that the Israelites faced as a northern kingdom was Taken away in exile by the Assyrians, and the southern kingdom was threatened by a mighty, massive Assyrian army. And the Jews had a choice. They had a choice. They could trust in their cities, their walls, their fortresses. They could trust in their army. They could make political alliances and find some way to save themselves, much like I can trust in an insurance company God says to them at that point, Isaiah 30, 15, listen, you are facing a crisis. Of epic proportion. You're about to be taken away into exile. Your cities are about to be destroyed. You're really in trouble. In repentance and rest is your salvation. You want to control. You want to be enough. You want to be safe because you know that the enemy cannot overwhelm you. You want to find some way to be able to trust something concrete to give you security. And so you look to your cities. You look to your armies. You look to political alliances. But I'm telling you, as the God who loves you and as your glory and as the fountain in repentance and rest is your salvation. Turn to me. Recognize I am your only hope Ezekiel 36 is another promise that I want you to think about where God says, I will take away your heart of stone. I will give you a heart of flesh. He says, I will wash you with clean water, and you will be clean. He says, I will put my spirit in you and move you to keep my commands and my decrees. God will redeem. I don't know what crisis you face this morning. I don't know what distractions keep you from focusing upon the grace and the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. Today may be one of those wonderful days where you're already connected and you feel intimate and close, but it may not be. And if you feel close and connected this week, watch out for next week. But God says to you this I love you. God says to you this, I am your hope. Trust me. Listen to me and know me. Look at your heart. Recognize your sin. Repent. And rest. Resting means to believe the promises that God has given, that you have his foreign righteousness, and he has your sin. That your hope is secure, that your future is safe, and that the crisis you face now you face with him. And it isn't your life. He is Let's try to