Series on delighting in God, we are examining the idea that our delights are not too intense, but rather too easily satisfied. That the invitation, delight yourself in the Lord. Fix your delight in Him. And He will give to you. He will be to you. The very desires of your heart, Psalm 37, verse 4, is the result of our being sufficiently in touch with our desires. That we realize that nothing in this life on this earth will ultimately be able to satisfy them. And it's at that point that the good news comes: delight yourself in the Lord. There is one. Who is able to satisfy completely the desires of our heart. And so we've been uh looking at this these last weeks, and I I must mention to you that just this last week or so I had a couple of people came up to me and mentioned as recent visitors that they have noticed how happy a congregation we are. And when I hear that, that really brings me joy because I realize that's the gospel. You're not essentially a happy people. You're a kind of a miserable people, aren't you? I mean, you know, we got the same problems as everybody else But the gospel has come. And that gospel that we looked at, 1 Timothy 1, verse 11, is the good news about the glory of the happy God. And so what we're exploring is the fact that our delight is fixed in the fact that God is a happy God and that his delight in all of who he is and what he does. overflows to be shared with us sinners. And it is this happiness of God in who He is essentially That is the delight that we receive from. It's a contagious delight as we share our lives with Jesus. And you may say, well, isn't that kind of self-centered? That God's chief delight is Himself. That He says, my greatest delight is who I am and what I do. At least that sounds kind of self-centered to me. You're right. It is essentially self-centered. But think about it. What else should God be delighted in? What is better than himself? And so when God delights in himself, he's simply delighting in the most wonderful thing in all of reality. And as you and I learn what that delight is, why it is that he delights in himself so fully. What it is that he finds about what he does and who he is that in his heart of inestimable infinite uh wisdom And understanding finds that that is the cheap thing to delight in. Then when you and I enter into that, we also begin to lift our own delights Beyond our circumstances and anything that rises and falls. In fact, we said last week you remember that God is not a God of moods. Because God is essentially happy. And when we talk about that happiness, that's not the kind of happiness that you have because you're going to a party or you got a new dress or you got a new computer. We're talking about a happiness that is infinitely higher on a plane of bliss. Blessedness. Freedom from care is what the Greek means. We talked about in 1 Timothy 1. 11. And so we're looking at why God is so happy. What is it that he delights in himself about so fully? And last week we looked at the first thing. God delights in all that he does. Everything that God does. Remember 1 Timothy chapter 6, in verse 15, we see that God is the only, He is the blessed, the Happy One, and the only uh ruler, the only sovereign, uh that he is the one who dwells in inapproachable light, that he is the one who is Lord of Lords alone who is immortal, whom no one has seen or can see. So this delight that he has is fixed in the fact that he does that he is the only sovereign. He is the one who does whatever he pleases. Psalm 115 verse 3. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. That doesn't just mean whatever he wants to do, it means what gives him pleasure. A couple of you asked after the message last week. You said, well, you you made that point and you said that you stressed how that that's uh not only that he does those things which are obviously good to us, but that means that even things that are evil, even judgment Even the very worst thing that ever happened in history. The attack upon and the crucifying of the innocent Son of God. Even when you look at that evil, that tragedy, the Bible is very specific to tell us that God Himself had planned that, had ordained that, had handed Jesus over to them in his sovereign pleasure. We can't escape that God is involved in everything that happens. He's in control of it all. And somebody said, well, you know, then you kind of switch to Jonathan Edwards. What scripture says that God delights in all that he does to that extent? Let me just offer you one other text. There's others we could look at, but I'll just mention that because there was a request, and you know, hey, somebody asked for a Bible verse, I'll give you a Bible verse. Ephesians chapter 1, verses eleven and twelve. Ephesians chapter 1, in verse 11, Paul's talking about how in him, Christ, we were chosen. having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will. Everything God says is being worked out in conformity with the purpose of his will in order that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be for the praise of his glory. So all the things he's working out. Are for the praise of his glory. And you and I are part of that. And he finds pleasure in that. And when we understand that, that frees us up to relax and to delight in him. Now the second thing I want to look at this morning, the second reason that God is a happy God, that He is a God of delight, that when you and I think of eternity, we think of spending eternity with a God who is happy. And therefore, the one who is most blessed and glorious in his beauty and radiance and majesty is one that we will enjoy being with. Because he delights in everything that he does. The second thing I want to focus on. There's other things we could look at, but there's three we're going to look at in these three weeks The second one this morning is that he delights in all that he has made. He delights in all of his creation. Look at Psalm 104. Psalm 104, verse 31. Psalm 104, verse 31, that I want to focus on this morning. May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord rejoice in his words. Now first of all, notice that the word works there, rejoice in his works, is not quite the same as he he delights in everything that he has done. Because the context, Psalm 104, if you read it and please take the time to read it later, it'll make more sense to you. Psalm 104 is all about creation. So the works that he's talking about, the psalmist is talking about there, delighting, rejoicing in his works, are the works of creation. Now you see that verse thirty-two goes right on to say, He who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke. The psalm began in uh Verse 1, Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, you who are O my Lord, you are very great, you are clothed with splendor and majesty. He wraps himself in light as with a garment. He stretches out the heavens. And so that's the first thing you see, like a tent. And then go down to verse 5, he said, the earth on its foundations, it can never be moved, and on through he talks about the heavens and the earth and animals and man and all these different things. The whole Psalm is about God's creation. So what God is rejoicing in in verse 31 is His creation, His works of creation. But now also notice that where it says in the beginning of verse 31, may the glory of the Lord endure forever, may the Lord rejoice in his works. should not be understood to mean uh it may not necessarily be the case, but I'm going to pray that it will be the case. That may is an affirmation of reality. That is in fact the case. God is Going to have glory that will endure forever. There's no question about that. There's no question about the fact that God re that the Lord rejoices in his works. This is an affirmation of that. Now, let's think about that for a minute. Why is it that God rejoices in his works? It's clear that he does. We don't need just a verse like this in Genesis chapter 1 You read seven times over that when God made the heavens and the earth, he said it was good, it was good, it was good, it was very good. God delighted. He found pleasure in the things that he had made. That's easy for us to understand on a Maryland day in May, isn't it? And when the dogwoods are out and the lilacs and the azaleas. I mean did you ever look at an azalea blossom close up and see the perfection of all the symmetrical little patterns that spread out? It just Just you know, and you see hundreds and thousands of these blossoms and every single one you can look at. It's all got the five petals and the same kind of spread, you know, different colors. And the lilac blossoms, take a look at one little lilac blossom. And all these things, you could look at that and you say, well, obviously I can see how creation is good and it's delightful when you got a Maryland day in May. I mean it's not too hot usually, it's not too cold, not quite too humid yet, kind of humid last couple days, but it's it's very enjoyable here now, right? I mean isn't this the one time of the year you're glad you live in Maryland, right Creation is bursting with beauty and delight. What a time to preach this message. Just go outside and look at it all. But that's rather superficial in terms of why God delights in his creation. He doesn't simply delight in it because the temperature is right and it's pretty. God's understanding of beauty and his delight far surpasses that. It includes that But I want to suggest to you three reasons why I believe God delights, finds pleasure in his creation. Three reasons. First of all, because his creation declares his power. and his glory. His dec creation declares his power and his glory. Again Look at verse 31. May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord rejoice in his works. Very next verse 32. He looks, he who looks at the earth and it trembles That's power. God just looks at the earth and it trembles. He touches the mountains as Sinai and they smoke because of his power. God is a God of power and glory. What is glory? One good definition, working definition of glory, is that glory is the manifestation of his divine perfections. Glory is the manifestation of God's divine perfections. And those perfections are manifested in a large degree to us through his creation. We see something of those perfections in his power through the creation. Again, look at what he says in the beginning of this psalm. In verse 1, praise the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty. He wraps himself in light as with a garment. He stretches out the heavens like a tent, and lays the beams of his upper chambers in their waters This is the God who established the earth. It talks about his establishing the heavens and goes on to talk about his establishing the earth and the various kinds of animals and how he feeds them and takes care of them. And through this we see his power demonstrated. Think of the different ways we see God's power demonstrated through the creation. It was just three years ago, this next month, that Mount Pinatubo erupted in an explosion of gas and ash that was visible sixty miles away. Sent so much debris up in that one explosion of that one mountain, one tiny mountain on this dot of the earth. that blew its top, that just now, three years later, the dust is finally settling to the earth The dust was so thick around the globe from that one explosion that it reduced, meteorologists tell us, the temperature of the Earth by one degree Fahrenheit over the last couple years So they said we had a reprieve in all the global warning, you know, because we had Mount Pinatuba put a curtain between us and the sun. But the bad news of course is now this year is gone. So things are going to start warming up again, right? But there is a demonstration of power. God just speaks and the mountains tremble. Pinatubo blows its top and all the earth. There was havoc in weather patterns. For the next year or two, because of this one demonstration of power. Well, you think of what Isaiah says in chapter 40. Isaiah chapter 40, verse 26. Lift your eyes and look to the heavens. Who created all these? He who brings out the starry hosts one by one and calls them each by name. Because of his great power and mighty strength. Not one of them is missing. You know what it means when it says that God by his power has created the heavens and the stars and he calls each of them by name? I can't keep track of the kids in our congregation anymore. And God knows each of the stars and calls them by their own personal names. Now think about that. In our own galaxy, here we go. In our own galaxy, there's nearly a hundred billion stars, I understand. I didn't get to check with Doug on all this stuff. You're gonna have to h he'll straighten me out for the second message in the classic service, but get the get at least the gist of this. And remember, a billion is about as many grains of wheat as there are in a boxcar, wall to wall, floor to ceiling. Take out a hundred boxcars Full of grains of wheat. That's how many stars there are in our galaxy. But that's just one galaxy. And astronomers now tell us there are billions of galaxies. Some years ago they discovered what they called the Great Wall of Galaxies. The Great Wall of Galaxies was a mass of a concentration of galaxies that was 100 million light years from end to end. Fifteen million light years thick. That's the wall. Remember, a light year is something a little less than six trillion miles. And this is 15 million light years thick and a hundred million light years across. That's not a galaxy. That is a concentration of millions of galaxies. And ours has a hundred million stars. Now that was a few years ago. More recently, they discovered clumps. of these little intensifications of light. And you look up in the most powerful telescope and you see just this little intensification of light. And what is that? What they're now beginning to see is that there is a pattern and an immensity to the universe that defies any cosmic theories of origins that anyone has been able to come up with. It so boggles the mind because these little blips of light, it appears, are other walls of galaxies. Walls of galaxies of millions and billions of stars spread out through the vastness of the heavens. And Isaiah says he calls every one of those stars by name. By his power, not one of them is missing. And he delights in his work. Because it demonstrates to creatures like you and me the majesty of his power and of his glory. The demonstration of his power and his perfections. But not only is God a God who demonstrates his power to his creation, the second reason that God delights in his creation is because his creation declares his wisdom. His creation declares his wisdom. Verses 19 to 23 of Psalm 104, you have the description of God's wisdom in the things that he does in the creation, particularly with man and the animals. And then verse 24 sums it up. How many are your works, O Lord, in wisdom you made them all. The earth is full of your creatures. If you've ever seen algae in the sea, or you've watched various fish reproduce, you find that the earth is full of God's creatures. And you and I are one, two, here just a couple of hundred of these creatures, uh nearly five billion that populate the earth made in his image. And what are you as just one creature? Think about God's wisdom in making you. You started from one single cell. Now I've got to check with Wayne and others on this one afterwards, but you know, you gotta watch and you preach in this congregation, you know My understanding from what I've read, we started from one single cell, and your total weight in that one single cell was fifteen ten millionths of a gram No weight problem then. 15, 10 millionths of a gram. And everything about you was contained in that one cell. Your genetic code? what you would look like, what attributes from your mother, what attributes from your father, the diseases that you would tend to be immune to, that you would tend to be weak and subject to uh the the tendency of your longevity, uh even aspects of your personality, all these things contained in one cell which weighs fift fifteen, ten millionths of a gram. So that by the time you were born, if you weighed seven pounds at birth, you had multiplied your weight two hundred Excuse me, two billion times, and at that point had about two hundred billion cells. All in nine months And in the division of that one cell, it divided with perfect accuracy into your blood system your brains, your tissues, your muscles, your bones, all of the various organs of your body all subdivided, all out of that one cell. And all those cells began to cluster and they formed a an affinity with other cells that formed up But the division of all those different systems within your body. In wisdom, you have made them all. How many are your works, O Lord? God says my creation is to reflect to you the wisdom of me, your creator. So when you and I look at what God has made and what he has done, when you look at that problem that you have, you say, Well, I wonder if he's able to take care of that. Does he have sufficient power? Does he have sufficient wisdom? Your heart Every day pumps 5,000 gallons of blood. That's enough blood to fill that same boxcar that had those billion of stars sitting in it It pumps that through your circulatory system, which if that circulatory system were laid end on end, lined up in one line instead of all flowing through your body, now how long it would be? 12,000 miles long. That's halfway around the globe. Your circulatory system blood flows every day through that circulatory system In wisdom, God has made you. In power, He has made you. He delights. in his creation. Do you ever stop to think of how many things God has made that you and I and no man has ever seen? How many creatures in the depths of the ocean are just now beginning to be discovered? Do you know they still say that there are thousands upon thousands of insect species that have never even been discovered yet? That's just extrapolating from the ones they just continue to discover. I myself in walking through the woods every once in a while will find some new flower or some di new kind of insect that I've never seen before all these years and never even saw this thing. All the things that no one has ever seen, but only God sees. He delights in seeing those things. His delight is in his creation. I think God finds more pleasure in his creation than sometimes we can appreciate. It was the agnostic or perhaps even atheistic philosopher anthropologist, naturalist Lauren Isley, who once was outside in the wilds, took some shelter under a erect boat And he was under the prow of this boat, fell asleep. A couple of hours later he said he woke up. He woke up, there were a pair of eyes right in front of his. Now I know what that's like. I wake up like that every morning, but I I know who those eyes belong to. It's that furry feline that inhabits our house. But here are a strange pair of eyes, and it was it was a little fox pup that had come up and discovered him under this boat, apparently it was its territory, and it didn't have any fear of man. And so it looked at him and then it went over and picked up a chicken bone and shook it in front of him. And Isley said he jumped up and he grabbed the other end of that bone, and for a few minutes he and that fox froliced in the wilds together over a chicken bone. And the philosopher Lauren Isley wrote later: that was the most meaningful and gravest act I've ever done in my life. For I believe at that moment I understood the true nature of the universe. It's laughing. Unfortunately, I don't think Isley got the point. Rather, he would have been better to say the universe is personal. It isn't always laughing. But it is personal. Because I believe that God created animals with a tremendous sense of humor. He delights in the things that animals do. Many of which you and I never get to see. I remember once going out to pray and it was a time I was burdened with things in ministry and in my own life and I'm praying God, you know Please show me your power and do this and do that. I'm just sort of way down, you know. And it was happening to be along a stream that had this slow but steady current. I was just reminded of this recently. And ducks, you know, have an anchor. They can they can fix themselves in a stream and they just stay there. I don't know how they do it, but they just stay there. Have you ever noticed that? They don't drift. They can just stay right where they're in and you know and the current goes past Well they were all together, there was a group of them, except this one duck. His anchor didn't work. So all these ducks were sitting there, you know, and they're all sitting, yeah, got their heads under their wings and all this, and you see this duck start going downstream, you know. And you know, he goes down a few yards and after, you know, three, four minutes he finally wakes up and realizes he's, you know, out of the pack. So you know how ducks are. I mean they have a droll sense of humor and going, you know, and he goes back up, you know, and flutters and of course this does disturbs all the rest of the ducks. So they all go and everybody fluttering their feathers for a while. He puts his head under his neck and there he goes and everybody settles down finally and all back to sleep And then he starts twisting again. He goes on down. After a few more minutes he goes on that, you know, and he finally wakes up. And this whole thing goes on four or five times. You know, and I thought, now Don't tell me God doesn't have a sense of humor in his creation. This silly thought you know, I love watching seagulls. We watch them when we go to Cape Cod Seagulls live according to very strict rules. Do you know that? Very strict social rules. For instance, a baby seagull will starve to death if it doesn't know rule number one. The way you get food is that you peck that red spot, the button on the bottom of the mom's beak. A fellow once uh rescued a little seagull from the wild. And he uh took it home and he tried to feed it and the little seagull wouldn't eat and he tried everything. He knew it to feed it, but it wouldn't open its beak and nothing would do it. And finally he had this idea, somebody told him, take a a daub of red lipstick and put it under your thumb. And so he put some red lipstick under his thumb, held it over the little seagull, and it attacked that thumb like to take a chunk out of it, and then would take down everything that he gave it because he got the right button. That was rule number one. The seagull had to hit that button before it would eat. Seagulls have territory, about seven square feet per seagull. There's a lot of rules I don't have time to go through about how you live on those territories. But let me just give you one instance of God's delight. Somebody once saw this one seagull and he was transgressing across this other seagull's seven square feet. He knew another rule of seagulls, and that is you never can attack another seagull when it's heads down And so he was crouching along, going across this other seagull's territory, headed for his lady love, which is sitting back there beside this other seagull. And the other seagull was so mad because he couldn't attack him, because he had his head down. Goes right up to the other lady love. And she looks at him and she was really turned on by his bravado. And she gave that sexy seagull call, whoo! And as soon as she did that He puffed himself up and put his head out, and the other seagull knocked him ten feet across the sand because he had trans he finally lifted his head and he did it. God delights in his creation. Think of all the things that he has made, simply for the fact that he is a God who delights in what he has made. But the third thing that he delights in is to receive praise for that creation. Now it's not just praise from us. There's three kinds of praise God receives. First of all, he delights In the praise of us as his conscious creatures, we consciously give him praise. You see that in verse 31. May the glory of the Lord endure forever, may the Lord rejoice in his works, he who looks at the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke, I will sing to the Lord all my life I will sing praise to my God as long as I live. May my meditation be pleasing to him as I rejoice in the Lord. This is the psalmist saying, I've seen his creation, I've looked at his works, I've seen it is a God who delights in what he has made, that his power and his glory and his wisdom are reflected, and I worship and I praise him, and so this weep when you go out. God delights to hear your praise of his dogwoods and his dogs. Those things that you delight in. Praise him for them. He's pleased and delights in the praise of his creatures. Not only of our conscious praise, but secondly of the unconscious praise of creation. The unconscious praise of creation. Verse 31, may the glory of the Lord endure forever, may the Lord rejoice in his works. Verse 24, how many are your works, O Lord? In wisdom you made them all, the earth is full of your creatures. And then he talks about the sea and all the things in the sea and Leviathan in the sea, which you formed to frolic there. Psalm 148 picks up that idea of all these different creatures. And in Psalm 148, you have the three kinds of praise of creation. Very interesting to see. We don't have time to look to look at it now, but let me just call your attention to it because in verse uh three to ten of Psalm 148, you have the praise of all the creatures, Leviathan in the sea and all the sea creatures. Psalm hundred and forty-eight, verse three, praise him, sun and moon, praise him all you shining stars. That's a lot of praise. Praise him, you highest heavens, you waters above the skies. Let them praise the name of the Lord. Praise the Lord from the earth, you great sea creatures, all ocean depths, everything, all these things as unconscious creatures are to praise God. And then in verse 11, he goes to those who are conscious, kings of the earth, all the nations, and the rest of us. So it is not just the conscious praise of us who are made in his image, but it's also all creation. God delights in the praise of creatures simply being his creatures. Seagulls defending their turf. Foxkits playing with chicken bones with one of the creatures in his image. Of all the things that he sees, as creatures act as he made them But then the third kind of praise that God delights in is the praise of the angels This is something I don't think that we often think about because you think of the angels as just around the throne praising him for redemption. But the Bible is also clear that the angels praise God for his creation. In Psalm 148, it begins: Praise the Lord, praise the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights above, praise him all his angels, praise him all his heavenly host, and then the sun and the moon and the rest of it in terms of creation. But particularly in Job chapter 38, you have a description as God speaks to Job about The questions that Job has been asking in the anguish of his soul. And God says, now let me tell you, Job, let me give you some perspective on the questions that you're asking. Now, watch. And so God says, verse 4, where were you when I laid the earth's foundation? Tell me if you understand. Who marked off its dimensions? Surely you know. You're so wise, Job. Who stretched a measuring line across it? On what were its footing set, or who laid this cornerstone while the morning stars sang together, and all the angels shouted for joy. You get the picture God's portraying there? God's portraying the picture that Piper brings out in his book Pleasures of God. The picture that before God created the heavens and the earth, he had created angels. Angels are not material beings, they're spiritual beings. So before God had created the heavens and the earth with all the angels around, there was no such thing as matter, as far as we know. And all of a sudden, God says to all the angels that are gathered all around as his audience, He says, Now watch this, and He makes light. They've never seen light before. Never seen created light. They've never seen colors the way he disp the way he spread before them the color spectrum. And there must have been oohs and ahs and the morning stars are all singing, the angels are shouting with joy, and then God says, now watch this, and he creates rocks And he creates grass and trees and water and all these things that they've never imagined. And God says, watch this. And this, and this. And the angels shout rejoy with praise at the wisdom and the power and the glory of a creator that they have only begun to know in a new dimension. When you and I see the creation, we need to capture again something of that childlike delight in seeing that God has made something here. which is exquisite in its power and its glory and its wisdom. And he delights in it. And so the last things are simply that you and I are to delight with him in that. I don't have time to go over the whom The whom, look up on your own. It's just, you know, God the Father, the Son and the Spirit sharing that delight in their creation together. That's who's carried away in all the wise that, you know, you deal with the whom on your own. But Proverbs twenty-eight talks about the delight that the Father and the Son had together in creation. But you and I are now called then to worship God with Him, delight with Him in His creation. Christianity is physical. And so whether you're enjoying a sandwich or sex, it's something physical that God has made, and delight with him in that. When Dean and I play Badman in the backyard, I delight that our God has made games for us to enjoy together. Don't put that as something apart from your Christian life. Delight with God in his creation. And secondly, then praise God for his creation. Praise him because creation always points beyond itself to the creator Never the intention is for us to simply delight in the creation, but always beyond the creation to the creator. Just as Mount Rushmore doesn't simply call attention to the rocks But to the fact that there was a sculptor who made something out of those rocks that shows that there was a sculptor forming a message. Finally, last thing is as you worship, remember that this creation has fallen. It's fallen into sin because of Adam's sin, because of your sin. And you and I wait for that day when the Lord Jesus who came and kept God's law and suffered the penalty that you and I deserved. Rose from the dead in order to promise us that there will be a new creation. And this creation has fallen and it's polluted and it's been marred. But we look forward to that day when there will be a new creation at the coming of Jesus. And in that creation we will delight with God forever and ever. Do you know Him? Are you delighting in Him? I hope so. Amen.