Those of you who are new with us may not realize that this is Dan Wecker's first time ever leading worship this morning. And we can uh all thank him later on for filling in so graciously when uh Sandy Sharp asked him to. early this week at uh what is basically the uh last moment. And uh Dan has uh uh been a willing servant to us in this. Turn with me to Genesis chapter twelve. Genesis chapter twelve. We're continuing our look at verses one to five of Genesis twelve. And in doing so, let's hear with expectant heart the reading of God's Word. The Lord had said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, and your father's household, and go to the land I will show you. I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you. And I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse, and all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. So Abram left, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was 75 years old when he set out from Haran. He took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot all the possessions they had accumulated, and the people that had they had acquired in Haran, and they set out for the land of Canaan, and they arrived there. Here ends the reading of God's written word. Some people think that missions is a topic found only in Matthew 28 and a couple other texts in the New Testament. And we've been seeing in the last few weeks that that's not the case at all. In fact, missions, God's global purpose for the nations, is so much an integral part of his word that it's found right here in Genesis. Right here in chapter 12 at the very beginning of God's Word to us. And we come this week to our third and final look at these first five verses of Genesis 12, the start of the unfolding of God's purposes for the world. Or what we've been calling the foundation of missions. Now those of you who have been with us for these few weeks, remember that the first week we saw there from the first verse of chapter twelve, the command of God to Abram. The command to go uh to a different culture and leave all that he was familiar with. And we saw last week The second part, the promise, the rich promise of covenant blessing given by God to Abram, the promise with a purpose that Abram would in turn bless the nations And so now this week, in light of the command and the promise given to Abram, we ask the question, what will Abram's response be? How will Abram respond to this? Will Abram, like all too many Christians today, hedge his obedience with some very carefully contrived qualifications on that obedience? Will he make in his heart, if not verbally, statements like, Yes, Lord, but but wait, wait just a little bit longer until such and such happens. Or will he make statements like, uh, if only you'll do such and such, Lord, then I'll be willing to go. Or, will Abram say, As long as such and such doesn't happen, Lord, I'll be willing to go Will Abram put some very carefully crafted conditions on his obedience? Well no, not Abram. In fact, as we look at Genesis twelve, four and five, we see just the opposite. We see that God's call to the nations is responded to by Abram in a very Striking way, a very different way. And we learn here that our response, like Abram's, must be a prompt, a simple, and a daring obedience. First then, a prompt obedience. Look at verse 4 again with me there. The text says that after Abram had received the command to go And after he received the promise of being of being made a blessing and being blessed, the text there says in verse four, so Abram left. That's it. A stark, commonplace kind of saying that's even more so in the original because it's literally, and Abram left. That's it. Just like that. It's an umbel it's um unembellished language. Uh it's often used in the Old Testament, and it has the ring of immediacy to it. We get the impression that this fits in very well with the rest of Abram's life. Abram was constantly responding to God very promptly, very quickly, without hesitation, without postponement. Elsewhere in Abram's life, the scriptures make this clear that this is his pattern of dealing with the Lord, his pattern of response to the Lord. We remember that in Genesis chapter 17, God comes to Abram and he gives him careful instructions concerning circumcision of all those in his household, all males in his household. And we see here that Abram's life is one of prompt obedience grounded in faith. Chapter 17, verse 23 says that on that very day Abram took his son Ishmael, all those born in his household or bought with his money, every male in his household, and circumcised them as the Lord had told him. And then later on in Abram's life we see it again, that he doesn't need to be told a second time by God what to do. In chapter 21, verse 14, God instructs Abram concerning Hagar and Ishmael and sending them off. And that there the text says that early the next morning, Abram sends them off. Early the next morning, Abram's whole life, you see, was characterized by prompt obedience to God. And so when the call of God comes to go to the nations here in chapter twelve, Abram's response again is prompt. And you see, it's such a contrast to the way so many of us respond to the Lord. It's such a contrast with what you might call excuses to postpone. Many Christians today who have heard God's global call to leave their comfort zones and bless the nations. Respond to God with but wait kinds of statements. But wait statements. Those who have been called by God to leave their own culture and go to another culture. Often find themselves responding with something like this. Okay, Lord, but just wait until I get a little more experience here in the U. S. Or just wait until I'm fully recognized in my field, until I have an established track record of achievements. Just wait till I get uh that graduate degree. Just wait till I get my PhD, Lord. Then I'll be ready to go. I'll be willing to go to anywhere you want me to go. And even some of us, um, those of us who are called here to stay, uh and pursue a world Christian lifestyle by becoming full-time fenders of others can find ourselves saying the same kinds of things in our minds. Okay, Lord, but just wait. Wait till my job gets settled down a little bit. Wait till I have a little more time to pray about missions, to write to missionaries, to be involved uh as a full-time sender. Wait till my kids are grown a little bit more. Then I'll have a little more time. It's in contrast to all this, and against such a backdrop, that we see that Abram's obedience is prompt without delay. Moreover, Abram's obedience, we see here in verse four, is really a very simple obedience It's a simple obedience to the Lord. Now, by simple, I don't mean that Abram was uninformed or stupid or ignorant of the facts. I mean that Abram's obedience was childlike. Unquestioning, utter and total obedience to the Lord. He held nothing back. Look again at verse 4 with me. So Abram left, As the Lord had told him and Lot went with him Abram left as the Lord had told him. You see, Abram takes the Lord at his word, and he obeys the Lord's word utterly and completely, just because it is the word of God. In verse 1, God commands Abram simply to leave and go to the land that he will show him. And then in verses two and three, as we've seen in the past weeks, he's given the promise of being blessed by God with the rich covenant blessing. And now Abram's response to all that, this is a simple and straightforward. He leaves as the Lord had told him. He goes. And there in verse five, we see that he takes with him Sarai, his nephew Lot, all the possessions, all the things that he owned, all the material goods, and all the people in his household. Nothing's held back He goes into this thing full force. There's no arguing with God. There's no further questions of God. There's nothing further asked of God. It's a simple obedience to the Lord. And you see, this kind of thing is characteristic of Abram's life. We see it elsewhere in Genesis described in chapter 22. Where Abram is called to make the greatest sacrifice, tested with the greatest test that he will ever face in his life. Flip over with me to Genesis twenty two And we see there that God calls Abram to sacrifice his one and only son Isaac. Chapter twenty-two, verse one. Sometime later God tested Abraham. Remember, Abraham has now had his name changed to Abraham. Sometime later God tested Abraham. He said to him, Abraham, here I am, he replied. Then God said, Take your son, your only son, Isaac. Whom you love, and go to the region of Moriah. Sacrifice in there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains I will tell you about. That's it. God makes this demand of Abram. And I don't know about you, but if God had said that to me I would have wanted to bargain a little bit with him, I think. I would have said something like, Well now hold on here, Lord. Um do you really know what you're talking about here? I mean this is the only son that I have, this guy Abe this guy Isaac. You gave him to me when both my wife and I were well past the childbearing years. I mean that was a miracle in and of itself. And you promised me an inheritance, a great number of descendants. And he's the only one I have He's the promised offspring that you promised me, God. How am I going to be made a great nation if I don't have a son? And he's the only one I see on the horizon. And if you have me offer him up like a crispy critter, like uh all the rest of the uh pagans offer their sons and burnt sacrifices What's gonna happen? We've don't you think we'd better sit down and talk about this a little bit, God? I mean this is uh this is serious stuff. If only you'll provide some other way then I'll be willing to go But no, Abraham doesn't say any of this, does he? Right there in verse 3, right after the command comes from the Lord. It says again those words, early the next morning. Abram got up, saddled his donkey. Took with him his two sons, two of his servants and his son Isaac. And when he had cut enough wood for the burnt offering, he set out for the place God had told him about. You see, early the next morning, Abram obeys. Again that phrase is used. Just like back in chapter 12, verse 4, Abram's obedience is unquestioning. It's a simple, utter obedience to the Lord. And obedience to the Lord's commands. And what a contrast that is with the approach that would seek to bargain with God. As so often um many of us can find ourselves doing. Many Christians, when they hear of God's global call to the nations, To leave their comfort zones and bless the nations, respond with if-only type statements. If-only type statements. God, if only you'll let me be married before I'll go. Before I go, then I'll be willing to go. Lord, if only my parents would become Christians. Then I'd be willing to go. If only they'd understand my concern, my care for the nation, then I'd go. And even some of us who are called to be full-time sinners can find ourselves saying, If only you'd say yes, Lord, to this other prayer that I've had for so many years. I've been praying for this one person for so many years to come to Christ. If only you'll answer that prayer, yes, then I'll be willing to pray regularly for missions. Then I'll be able to be released from that burden. I'll be able to devote myself to fervent prayer for other nations. You see, if only you'll bring this person that I've been praying to to yourself, then I'll beg We can find ourselves responding with those statements. And in striking contrast to all this, we see that Abram's obedience is a prompt and a simple obedience Obedience. And then thirdly, we see that Abram's obedience is really a daring obedience. A daring obedience. Abram, as described in verses four and five, is really bold, quite daring, uh risk-taking if you think about it. Ob The text says there, uh, again, look at the text with me. Says that Abram was seventy-five years old when he sent out from Haran. Seventy five. Now you might think that um Being fifty or sixty years old uh puts you out of the picture in terms of going to another culture. You're too old to adapt, maybe, or uh what have you. But uh Abram at seventy-five, goes, dares to go. He takes Sarai, Lot, all his possessions. Nothing's held back. He takes everything that he's accumulated over the years and goes to the land that God will show him. He doesn't even know where it is. He heads out. And later it's he's shown that it's Canaan that he's good that God is calling him to. Abram's faith is so remarkable that he's recorded in that famous chapter in Hebrews, chapter eleven What's been sometimes called the hall of faith. Hebrews eleven describes Abram this way. And I'll read it for you. By faith, Abraham, when called to go to a place he would later receive as his inheritance. Obeyed and went, even though he did not know where he was going. Even though he didn't know where he was going, Abram heads out, taking God as his at his word, without being told a second time. Abram, by faith, when called to go, went. That's daring, uncompromising obedience. Abram dared to believe God, and the scriptures say in another place that it was credited to him as righteousness. And that's such a contrast with a partial kind of safe commitment that many of us are willing to make. uh a kind of commitment that puts conditions on the obedience that we render to the Lord with as long as type statements As long as statements, well okay, Lord, I'll go. As long as I don't have to raise all my own financial support As long as I don't have to worry about raising all that money, I'm going to go. Or okay, Lord. As long as you don't send me to a place that I can't handle. I mean I'm willing to go to Brussels, but don't send me to Beirut. I really can't handle that. And all the war over there, that's that's really pretty risky, don't you think? I'm willing to go as long as you don't send me to a place like that. Or for those of us who are called to be full-time senders here in the US, we can find ourselves saying, Okay, Lord, I'll obey, I'll pursue a world Christian lifestyle. As long as I can pursue all my other hobbies and interests as well. As long as I don't have to give up too much time to this. As long as praying for missions doesn't uh consume all of my time and I have a little left over to do what I like. You see, we can put those kinds of hedges on our obedience. And in sharp contrast to all this, We see Abram, in Abram a prompt and a simple, and a really a daring obedience. And from our New Testament perspective, we know that Abram's obedience, Abram's daring faith here. Points us toward Jesus Christ. He is the ultimate in obedience. He is the obedient one His obedience was perfect and pure and without any compromise. Abram's faith response points us to Christ. And Christ responds when God called him to come to earth to purchase a people from every tongue and tribe and nation. Jesus did it. And he did it in perfect obedience. Remember how Philippians two describes Christ's obedience? He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even death on the cross. Therefore, God exalted him to the place in the highest heavens, gave him a name that is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow and every tongue confess that he is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Christ is our example of obedience. Hebrews 5 puts it in a fascinating way in Hebrews 5, 8, and 9. The text tells us that Christ learned obedience from what he suffered. And once made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation for all those who obey him. Jesus learned obedience. And once made perfect in his perfect obedience, he is now the source of eternal salvation for all who will obey him, for all who will humble themselves before him. Reformed theology likes to speak of Christ as displaying two different types of obedience, a passive obedience and an active obedience. Christ was passively obedient in his death, in his sacrificial giving up of his life for sinners, in his laying down of all his rights, dying on the cross, then rising again from the dead. Christ was passively obedient in his death. And moreover, Christ was actively obedient in his life. Christ throughout his life fulfilled all of the law's commands. All of the law's mandates in a way that no one else could ever do and has ever done. Christ is perfect obedience. In other words, Christ's response to the Father was a prompt, a simple, and a daring obedience. Christ's response to the Father was prompt. He didn't say, okay, Lord, wait until those undeserving wretches, those undeserving sinners, realize that they have a need for my work. Then I'll go. Christ didn't say that. He gave no excuses to postpone. In the Father's perfect timing, he left the glory of heaven to come to earth to save sinners. And Christ's obedience was really a simple obedience. He didn't say, okay, if only you won't make me suffer too much. If only I don't have to go through the agony of the cross and the humiliation there. Christ didn't say that. Christ faced the worst temptations and the all the rage that Satan could muster in the wilderness and again at the cross. Christ faced all of that in willing, simple, unquestioning obedience to the Father, and out of his great love for sinners. No hedges, no bargaining with God do we see in Jesus. Complete and unquestioning obedience. He says in John 14 that he does exactly What the Father commands him. And Christ's obedience really was a daring obedience. He didn't say, Okay, Lord, as long as I don't have to risk too much. If only I don't have to risk too much. No, Christ dared to face all of Satan's hatred and wrath. Christ in total obedience to the Father, Satan's worst on the cross for sinners. It's not a partial, it's not a safe kind of commitment we see there. We see him willing to give up everything, his very life. Nothing is held back. You see, God called Jesus Christ to be the ultimate missionary. As we look at God's call to Abram to the nations, we know that Jesus is the ultimate missionary. He is the one who left the glory, the infinite riches of heaven, to come to earth, take the form of flesh. Live a humble life and die on the cross, that people from every tongue and tribe and nation might be c might come to Him, might be reconciled to God. Christ, in the face of God's global call, responded in a prompt, a simple, and a really daring obedience. And so if you're here this morning and you have never come to place your faith for salvation in Jesus Christ alone, if you're still trusting in your own efforts, your own obedience, To somehow please God, to somehow make you worthy of heaven, you need to deal with Jesus Christ. Because He alone is the obedient one You need to realize that you can't please God on your own. Matthew 5. 48 makes it clear that God's standard is perfection. It says, be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. And in James 2. 10 we see that he who keeps the whole law and yet stumbles just at one point is guilty of breaking all of it. You can't possibly please God in your own obedience. The harder you try, the more that standard of perfection will elude you. You will ultimately never reach that standard. Only the perfectly obedient one, Jesus Christ, can give that obedience to you. Can transfer his perfect record to your account. And he does so as you put your faith and trust in him. As you cease pleasing him, as you cease pleasing God by your own efforts. Don't fool yourself any longer, my friend. Come to Christ. Ask him for forgiveness. Ask him to take your imperfect obedience. And cleanse you. Ask him to give you his record of perfect obedience instead. That you will be seen as obedient before God because of his perfect work. That's the only way you'll escape the judgment that comes upon the disobedient, as the scripture says. That's the only way you'll escape the wrath of the Holy God. And if you're already a Christian here this morning, if you've already transferred your trust to Christ alone and are trusting in His perfect obedience for you. Then God calls you to a new obedience in blessing the nations. God calls you to obedience as a world Christian We saw there in verses 2 and 3 last week of Genesis 12 that God's promise to bless his people was with the purpose of making them a blessing, so that all peoples on earth will be blessed. through God's own people. And so if you by faith are united to Jesus Christ, God calls you to the nations. And so how can you respond to God's global call in prompt, simple, and daring obedience? Well let me remind us again that uh very few of us are called to actually be goers in a full-time sense, leaving our own culture and going to another culture as career missionaries. Most of us are called to be full-time senders, if you will. People committed to being willed Christians here, sending other people, praying for other people, being partners in the gospel with the others who go. And if you're new at CPC this morning, you need to realize that we are a church that is seeking to be a group of world Christians who have our hearts and our whole lives wrapped around God's global purpose for the nation. And who are actively seeking to obey his command to be a blessing to the nations. And so, as in the past two weeks, let me offer to you some possible opportunities for you to act out that obedience to Christ. Perhaps some that you haven't thought of before. As a goer, consider tent making. Tent making. If that's a new term to you, it comes from the example that Paul gave of making tents to support himself in his ministry to the Gentiles in the New Testament. The idea expresses that of being a self-supporting missionary, someone who supports himself and some other uh with some other skills. And if you have a marketable skill And are either single or have a solid marriage relationship, I'd encourage you to consider taking that, taking that profession to another culture. To another country, perhaps, or to another area in the US, a vastly different culture of your own. You see, many so-called uh two-thirds world countries, many developing countries would love to have you in their midst. As uh a Christian who is uh a physicist or an engineer or in the medical profession. or any number of other things as a manager. You could go and be a established Christian professional in another land and and uh have a tremendous ministry uh being a tent maker, supporting yourself in another culture. Let me know of your interest here if you've never thought about this. I get materials and information regularly on this kind of thing, and I can pass that on to you if I know of uh your interest. Consider tent making. Then there's short-term mission opportunities. And there's a whole host of these kinds of things that you could explore. You could explore what it's like to be a short-term goer, in other words. You could uh take two months or maybe as long as a year and go to another country. uh to serve there. Uh Craig and Ree Colburn have been doing something like this this summer, as many of you know. They get back next week from Japan. They've gone with an excellent organization called SEMA, Servant in Mission Abroad. And uh they'd love to tell you about their experience, I'm sure. They're gonna tell us all when they get back. Consider that thing for kind of thing for yourself. And again, it can be a cross-cultural experience right here in this country as well as abroad. But how about next summer? How about carving out the time now? To consider that for next summer. Let me know if you're interested. Again, I can make materials available to you and info as I receive it. I can pass on to you. Then there's the Perspectives course that Rob Craig told us about in our body life last week. A unique opportunity this fall to be stretched in your understanding of God's global purposes. In an academic kind of setting, but with definite application into your lives. A unique and valuable opportunity that may not come around here for a long time again. Grochers on the back table or talk to myself or Rob for more information on that if you missed last week's Body Life. And as a sender, you can be involved on in supporting our mission work at CPC by making um suggestions for the eighty eight mission budget as it's being processed now and as we're thinking about that on the World Mission Task Force in these days. But lastly and and most significantly perhaps as a sender, you can be involved in prayer. And you've heard it before and you'll hear it again. But that's one of the most strategic ways you can be involved as a world Christian in blessing the nations is through prayer. You've uh heard about the prayer concerts that we have regularly for world missions. You've heard about the uh Columbia area-wide prayer concert that's coming up shortly. Some of you even know of tremendous help tremendously helpful books like Operation World and the Global Prayer Digest that can help you pray for unreached people groups on a regular basis. If you aren't familiar with those tools, talk to me. I can make you familiar with them. Well you've heard about all those types of things. And now you've heard about the prayer box. This is a prayer box. It's not glamorous. It's a plain metal file box with lots of index cards and plenty of missionary prayer letters and uh pictures in it. But um my wife and I have used this for a number of years now and found it very helpful uh to pray regularly for missionaries, people involved in cross-cultural ministry, either in this country or in another country. We set ours up alphabetically and we make it a goal uh to pray at least once a week together. We try it for two times a week uh and we take a card out of the box and when we're done we put it in the back. And I'd encourage you to make up your own kind of box like that. Uh, as you hear about missionaries and you feel God calling you to be involved, you can be involved in prayer for for missionaries on a regular basis with this kind of a tool. Start with a manageable goal. Set one time a week, uh at dinner time perhaps, whenever you have your uh family devotions, set that aside to pray. uh for uh a missionary. Or even if you're an individual and you aren't married, you can set up a box like this and use it um on your own. It's one concrete way to be regularly involved in God's global call, and it's been a tremendous help to us. In all this, I want you not to be burdened with more guilt. Don't go away from here thinking, oh, how could I ever do all those kinds of things? How could I ever um Um give up that time to be involved in a short-term mission opportunity. I've tried in the past, it just has never worked out. I try to pray regularly for missions. I fail all the time Christ knows your failure, brother and sister. Christ knows your weakness. He knows that we are prone to uh trying to bargain and postpone with the Lord. uh in our obedience. He knows that our motives are all so often mixed. He knows that we're so often half hearted in our uh pursuing a world Christian lifestyle. He knows that you're weak. But remember that he died for your sin. Look to the cross. See there Jesus, your perfection. See him again as the end of your struggle. He is your obedience He has done it for you. He's paid the penalty for all your failures, all your sins. And now he offers you his power to live in new obedience. He offers you the power that raised him from the dead. To live a lifestyle wrapped around Christ's global purposes, consumed with the desire to make him known in other nations. Look to the cross and Jesus there and rest in him. Trust in his perfect obedience for you. And call on his power even this week. And as you look to the coming months, call on his strength to pursue obedience to God's global call. What's one step of new obedience as a world Christian that you can make this fall? Think about that. And then act on it. In light of God's command to leave your comfort zones and be a blessing to all the people groups of the earth, what is your response going to be? Let's pray. Lord, we know on our own we become addicted to our comforts and conveniences here. We become Spiritual misers at times, who hoard all our blessings in Christ, who um see ourselves as vaults, not as vessels And Lord, on our own, we respond slowly and with very mixed motives, if at all, to your heart for the nations. But we see that you've given the Lord Jesus to be our perfection, that He is the obedient one, and we look to Him. And for those outside of Him today, Lord, I pray that you would humble them, that you would show them that on their own, their obedience will never Make the grade, that you don't grade on a curve, and that Christ is their only hope for pleasing you. I pray that you wouldn't cause them not to rest until they rest on him alone and his perfect work for them. And Lord, for those of us today here who do know you, Lord, I pray that you would strengthen us with your power. That you would enable us by the strength that raised Christ from the dead to obey you purely and completely. Empower us to follow His example in blessing the nations, pursuing world Christian lifestyles, consumed with his global purpose And responding in new obedience for his glory to the ends of the earth. Amen