Do you really believe that God intends for you to be a person of delight in your walk with Jesus Christ? Or do you believe that as long as you're faithful to your duty, that's enough. And that's all that can really be expected. Let me tell you once again, as we're doing in this series, God not only intends, he commands for you to delight in him. As he says in Psalm 37, verse 4, delight yourself in me, and I will give to you the desires of your heart. He commands us to do that because he is the glorious God of delight, as we have been seeing. He is the God who is the most blessed and happy God. For we read in 1 Timothy 1 and verse 11 that the gospel is the good news about the glory of the happy, the blessed, the carefree, the God who delights in all that He does and all that He is. That's the good news. That's the gospel. We've been looking at the fact that God delights in all that he is because he is not a frustrated God. We've seen first of all that God delights in everything that he does. Now, admittedly, Psalm 115 says verse 3, our God is in heaven, he does whatever pleases him. Admittedly, there are some things that please him more than others. He is slow to anger, but he is abounding and quick to show mercy. But he's never frustrated And so when you think of spending heaven with God, you're spending heaven with someone who is happy, who is never frustrated, who is never cross or irked. Secondly, we've seen that God delights in everything that He has made. He is a God who delights in all of His creation because that creation reveals and demonstrates His power and His glory and His wisdom. And he delights in the praise that he gets from the creation itself, from the angels, from you and from me as we see that creation and delight in it with him. In fact, we've seen that our delight is based on. It's grounded in the foundation of God's delight in Himself as it overflows to us as He shares it with us sinners. And yet, very often, isn't it true that we know this mentally, and yet we go around like foot-dragging sourpusses as Christians. We're anxious. We're anxious because we are concerned about what's going to happen in the future. What's going to happen with our job, our marriage, or our kids, or our singleness. What's going to happen with our health? All the kinds of things that could go wrong this week. And you wonder, does God really care? Is he unconcerned? About your life. He doesn't seem like he's changing things that you would expect that if he was a kind heavenly father, that he would want to change. And so you're anxious Not only are we anxious, but sometimes we feel alienated from him, don't we? We feel alienated because we know there's things that we should not have done that we've done and we feel shame for those things, and we feel alienated from him. There's other things that we know we should have done, and we haven't done them. And we feel alienated because we feel he's angry with us. That he's at least irked with us for the fact that we haven't done those things that we should have done. And we feel alienated. Or maybe we feel awkward. Because we've been so secularized as a people that we're very uncomfortable in the presence of transcendent glory, we feel awkward relating to a God who is transcendent. We feel awkward in his presence. We don't know how quite to relate to him. He's so different from everything else that we know, and we feel somewhat guilty for the fact that we relate only on that secular plane, and every once in a while we remember him. We remember that he should be the center of our attention, and we're awkward even being in his presence. Or maybe sometimes we feel like we're simply anonymous. We feel like we don't really count. We're just one of all the saints that God has redeemed to Himself. And of all those saints and of all those people, we really don't matter a whole lot, do we? I mean, how much are you really accomplishing for the kingdom? How different is the world going to be when you leave? Are you going to be able to say or people write biographies about you and say, you know, this person really made a mark on the kingdom of Jesus Christ? They changed things because they were there and so we feel, ah, you know, good does God even notice me? You know, oh yeah, that's right. You know, number four million six hundred and thirty two back there. Yeah, yeah, sir, I love that one, but you know Who is what was his name again? We kind of feel anonymous to God, don't we? Or are we just part of that vast host of the redeemed that's going to be gathered around the front the throne to sing his praise? Now what I'm getting at is that on the one hand we look at the Psalm 37 that we've been looking at for many weeks. And as we look at that command, delight yourself in the Lord, and He'll give to you the desires of your heart, that it's hard to feel delight When you're feeling anxious, alienated, awkward, and ominous, all those feelings kind of shut out the feeling of delight, don't they? Well, if that's what you're feeling this morning, I want to bring to you that third reason why God delights and hope that this word will be straight as an arrow from God's heart to your heart, from Ephesians chapter 1. If you haven't turned there, please do. Ephesians chapter one The third reason that God delights in all that He is and all that He's done It begins at the end of verse 4, that sentence that begins in love. In love. He predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ. In accordance with his pleasure and will to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. I don't know how many times that you have read that sentence, maybe looked at it. It's one of those polling sentences that after a while you sort of get it all confused and you go, what is it saying? You know, I could read that sentence ten times and what is it really saying? Let me try to break it down to you. There's three things that I see God delighting in in this one sentence. The first thing that God is delighting in is his son. That's the first thing God delights in concerning redemption. He delights in his son, the Redeemer, the Father. Specifically, delights in the Son. Now, in redemption, of course, the Son delights in the Father, the Father delights in the Spirit, the Son delights in the Spirit, the Sp Spirit delights in the sun, but the particular emphasis of Scripture Is the Father delighting in the Son in the work of redemption? Notice three ways that the Father delights in the Son that you see here. Notice how the Son is referred to. In verse 5, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with the pleasure, his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given to us in the one he loves. The one he loves, the one he delights in. Now, first of all, notice that he delights in his supremacy. Behold the supremacy of the Son. We have to always remember when we read the New Testament, we read this name, His Sons through Jesus Christ, that Christ is not Jesus' last name, not Mr. Christ. Is Jesus the Christ? Christ is a title. And the word means Messiah. It is Jesus the Messiah. And every time you read that, sometimes it appears in reverse, like verse 1, Paul the Apostle, of Christ Jesus, of the Messiah Jesus. Or often it is associated as a title of supremacy with the word curios, Lord, as you see it in verse 3. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord, Jesus the Messiah. But every time you see Jesus Christ, it's Jesus the Messiah, a title of supremacy. It is this one who God revealed in Matthew chapter 17. In Matthew chapter 17, you remember Jesus took the disciples up on a mount. After six days, Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, the brother of James, and led them up to a high mountain by themselves, and there he was transfigured before them. And his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became as white as the light. Get that picture. There they are, they've seen Jesus just like any other person walking, doesn't look any distinguished in any particular way, as a carpenter from Nazareth. And then all of a sudden they get just a glimpse of his supremacy, a glimpse of his true nature. His face shone like the sun. And you're reminded of Revelation chapter 1 when Jesus appears again in that glory, and we read in Revelation chapter 1 The description of him in verse 12, I turned around to see the voice that was speaking to me, and when I turned I saw seven golden lampstands, and among the lampstands was someone like the Son of Man Dressed in a robe reaching down to his feet with a golden sash around his chest, and his head and his hair were white like wool, as white as snow, and his eyes were like blazing fire. His feet were like bronze glowing in a furnace, and his voice was like the sound of rushing waters. In his right hand he held seven stars, and out of his mouth came a sharp double-edged sword. And his face was like the sun shining in all its brilliance. Every year, as many of you know, we go to Cape Cod. And one of my favorite times of the day at Cape Cod is the early morning. I get up as early as I can and we'll go out and sometimes sit along the bank there, the high cliffs, looking out in the ocean. One of the things that is most uh impressive there is if you go out before the sun's come up, things are generally if the day is going to be kind of uh you know a decent, nice sunny day, things will be kind of a violet haze with a rose. And there's no sun, you can't see anything, but you just see something of the foretaste. There's just a hint of something of that And it reminds me of the way this life is. There's just this little dim foretaste of the glory of Christ. We read about him, we understand a little this and a little that, but you don't really see it like it is You just see these dim rays, this emanation that shows you that there's a sun there, but you don't know how long it's going to be before it comes up. And things gradually get brighter until just over the waters of the ocean you'll see a pinpoint of light. Just broken the surface. And as it comes up just a little bit brighter, there's always this path of gold. It looks like he could walk right out on the ocean. straight to the sun, shimmering, beautiful, like diamonds all around. And then there's this path of gold right down the center. But then an interesting thing happens As the sun gets higher so that half of it or more is above the horizon of the ocean, it becomes painful to look at it. No longer can you even gaze at it. In fact, if you continue to gaze at it for very long, you'd experience temporary blindness, and if you were so stupid as to continue to gaze at it, you'd experience permanent blindness, a burning of the retina. Because you and I can't look at the sun shining in its full strength. Did it ever occur to you that when God says that you and I cannot see the glory of the face of Jesus Christ, it doesn't simply mean that you're not allowed to. You are incapable of it. If Jesus Christ were to display before us his full glory and come in this room in the splendor of that glory, we would be utterly burned to cinders because we would not be capable of standing in the presence of that glory. If simply the emanation of the sun before us would be damaging to our retinas and the sun In the cooler part of its corona is a million degrees centigrade. That's hot. A million degrees centigrade. The sun is so hot that I once read that if you took just a handful, even a pinpoint of s of a substance that was the heat of the sun, it would kill you from a distance of a hundred miles That's just one created star. What would it be like to be in the presence of the Creator? And so when you read John 17, verse 24, when Jesus says, I long, Father, that my creatures be with me to behold my glory as it is. What that means is that you and I are going to be so transformed that there's going to come a day when you and I will be able to behold the very glory of the supremacy of Jesus, whose face is shining like the sun. And it will not harm us. We will behold that glory and its beauty and its delight, and just as the Father, when he revealed that in Matthew chapter 17, When he showed that glory to the disciples, he says then in verse six, excuse me, verse five, a bright cloud enveloped him, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my son whom I love. With him. I am well pleased. And so Paul says in Ephesians chapter 1 that this predestination has come Through Jesus the Messiah, the one whom He loves. The Father delights in the supremacy of the Son. And he delights for that to be demonstrated so that you and I see it and worship him. But not only does he delight in his supremacy, secondly, he delights in his servanthood. He delights in the servanthood of the Son. You see this also in Matthew in chapter 3 rather than chapter 17, the same phrase, my son in whom I am well pleased, in chapter 3. In verse 17, when Jesus is baptized. At the baptism, there was a voice that came from heaven and said, When Jesus came up out of the waters, This is my son whom I love. With him I am well pleased. What was he pleased with there? He was pleased with the fact that this one who in all his radiance and glory would not even be able to be perceived by creatures as frail as you and me took on flesh. So that he was unrecognizably different from any other man. And this one took the form of a servant. And was obedient, submissive to the Father in everything that he did, obedient even to the death on a cross. The lion had become a lamb. It is that combination of the glory of Christ that you see in Revelation chapter 5. In describing the one, John says in verse five, one of the elders said to me, Don't weep see the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has triumphed, and he's able to open the scroll with its seven seals, and the scroll is the Is the sign of the authority over history. Then I saw not a lion, John says. The elder says, Look, here's the lion who has authority over all history. And John says, but when I looked, I saw a lamb, looking as if it had been slain, standing in the center of the throne, encircled by the four living creatures. The Father delights in the fact that this one in all his supremacy has become a servant for you and for me, the lion, has become a lamb. In order to be identified at his baptism with sinners. That's why Jesus was baptized. So at that point, he was like the Lamb. When before it was sacrificed, you had to put your hands on that lamb so that you identified with that lamb, and it was identified with you and took on your sin So the Bible says that at his moment of Jesus, Jesus became that Lamb, and he was then taking on by his identification our sin, so that he was counted as a sinner. And then thirdly, God delighted in his suffering. Because as a sinner, God ultimately then had to curse him. Curse him in your place and in my place. And you remember we looked at Isaiah chapter 53 back when we had the tenebrae service on Good Friday. And we saw that verse 10 says, yet it was the Lord's will. It was his pleasure to crush him, to bruise him, to cause him to suffer. We saw that that word, he was pleased to bruise him. That same word is Psalm 115, verse 3: Our God is in heaven. Whatever he does, pleases him. And so God was pleased to bruise the Son. Why? Because He liked to see him suffer, certainly infinitely less than I would like to see Dean suffer. Were you to watch your son, any of you fathers, to watch him suffer? How much delight would I get in saying, Pour on some more suffering to Dean, you know? Make him squirm a little more, make him be tortured a little bit more. How as a father could I even entertain such thoughts? Now there's times when I want to make them hurt a little bit. But not to suffer We read in Isaiah 53 that the Lord crushed his son. He was pleased to do that. Why? Because of the suffering, no, but because of the joy that was set before him, because through that suffering Our God accomplished the bringing of a people to himself. That's what Isaiah says. He goes on to say, though the Lord makes his life a guilt offering, he'll see his offspring and prolong his days, and the will of the Lord will prosper in his hand. And after the suffering of his soul, he will see the light of life, the resurrection, and be satisfied by his knowledge, my righteous servant, will justify many and will bear their iniquities. And the Father delights in seeing that accomplished through the suffering of his Son. That brings us to the second main thing that the Father delights in, in redemption, and it is us, the redeemed. It is us, it is you. That's the second blank. Not just us, you see, but it is you as an individual. He delights in us He delights in you, the redeemed. This is the purpose of it all. Now notice how it's stated in Ephesians chapter 1. In Ephesians, he has said that he delights in Jesus, the Messiah, the title of supremacy, the one he loves. He was Jesus, that title given to him as Savior. By which he was became the servant and then, of course, suffered as Savior, the Lamb, for us Now notice what Paul says about us. First of all, notice that it was in love that he predestined us Now see, people sometimes get so hung up on whether or not this predestination means that God predestined the elect and the non-elect, and this means that from all eternity that peoples were chosen and they didn't have A choice under God's sovereignty and all the rest of that. And they miss the fact that this predestination of God's sovereign will is in love. It is not by some external constraint God didn't care what people thought about what he did. It wasn't that he was saying, Well, you know, people think I'm mean if I just let these people all go to hell. God would have been perfectly justified to let us all go to hell in our sin, but in love. In his own love, constrained from within his being, he called out a number of people to himself. And notice how he goes on. He says that he called us to be adopted as sons. John pointed out this matter of adoption. Remember, adoption is not something inevitable. Adoption is by choice. The whole notion of adoption says that freely I have chosen this person to come into my family. And Paul stresses that by saying that in love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons, not only to forgive our sins, but to gather us into his family. Through Jesus Christ, now notice this, in accordance with his pleasure and will Now you see, if he just simply said, He did this, adopted us to be his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his will, we'd say, Yes, that's the sovereign disposition of the God who called out a people to himself. Did you ever stop to think that Jesus Christ, God the Father, through Jesus, didn't simply predestine you, call you to be one of his own, but that he did it in pleasure? That he delighted to do that, that he was not externally constrained to do that in any way, but simply said, Not only do I choose you, but I delight, I find pleasure in doing that. Some people speak of election as if it's arbitrary. The Bible does not present an arbitrary election of the saint. It is an election in pleasure and love and adoption. It is an election of God's people that he called you to himself because he found pleasure in you. That doesn't say that you and I were special, that there was something in us that attracted him. It says that in his nature, there was a pleasure in bringing us to himself that we can't understand. But don't miss that pleasure, because I know that means a lot to me when I read that he didn't just choose me. He found pleasure in bringing me to himself. And then you notice that he finishes which he has freely given us in the one he loves. Again, there is the emphasis over and over and over, Paul strains language to show you that there's no external constraint. God was not compelled in any way. To bring you to himself. He freely gave you the grace of Jesus Christ in forgiving your sin and calling you as a son into his family. See, I think sometimes we view God as a reluctant judge who is somehow compelled by a crafty lawyer or by some turn of the law to have to forgive those that he really personally would rather not spend time with. And those that he really personally sort of despises. And the more you and I are in touch with our sin, the more we understand why God would despise us, don't we? It's not hard to understand why God would find me a despicable character. The more I'm in touch with who I am and how my thoughts and motives and the self-centeredness of my life And all the rest of that, how I violate his glory in every way, it's not hard for me to understand why he wouldn't have anything to do with me. And so when I look at his forgiveness and his salvation, I tend to see that there's perhaps a kind of a reluctance. It's a legal transaction that God's locked into. But he does not describe himself as a reluctant judge who is somehow captured by a legal technicality to make us his people and to forgive us our sins. even though he's irked with the fact that we can't do better afterwards and be a little more grateful and a little more committed to him once we've been redeemed. Rather, the picture the Bible gives us in Isaiah 62 is that he's like a bridegroom delighting in the bride. He delights in us. He's called us out of his pleasure. And I'll tell you when I see a Heather who is engaged to Jim and when Jim calls up to talk to Heather and he's here this weekend to visit with her and I see his eyes as he looks at Heather and he hasn't seen her for a couple of weeks and you know and the guy's kind of can kinda restrain himself with some dignity, you know, not grab her in his arms and, you know, give her this big kiss and You know, he wants to have a little decorum around us, but you know, there's this delight that is so obvious. And that's how God describes his love for you, brother and sister in Christ. It says a bride for the bridegroom. Or as John read from Zechariah chapter 3, excuse me, Zephaniah chapter 3. Verse 17, God describes his love for us. The Lord your God is with you. And he is mighty to save, and he will take great delight in you. He will quiet you with his love. And he will rejoice over you with singing. God sings when he thinks of you. He says the father of the prodigal son running to meet him, putting aside all decorum just because of the love that he feels toward you, because he's in pleasure. Predestined you to be adopted as his child through Jesus Christ, freely giving you the grace of his adoption and delight. The Psalm 147 puts it that John read also. But just to give it to you once more, Psalm 147, verse 11. The Lord delights in those who fear him, and who put their hope in his unfailing love. He delights in us, as those whom he's redeemed at infinite cost to himself. Do you look at God like that? Is delighting in you in that way? Or simply that he puts up with you because of the transaction through Jesus Christ. It gives you the right to be his child, gives you the right to pray. But somehow there's this feeling that God's always irked with you. That you don't give him very much pleasure, that he doesn't delight in you. The Bible would change our thinking on that so that we understand that it is Satan who wants to alienate us from the Father. You see, if you can always be laboring under the sense that if you could only do more, or if you were only different, or if you only were something that you are not, then God would find delight in you. The effect of that is to alienate you from him, to rob you of faith, to rob you of joy, to not enable you to delight yourself in the Lord, for him to give you the desires of your heart. And the result of that is to make you relatively ineffective as a believer. Jesus said, my intention is that your joy may be full. Because it is God's people who relish the delight of his presence, who are people who live out God's intention in their lives. And you see, that's the whole point of this series, brothers and sisters. God has given us an opportunity in this community to make a difference. But that difference will not be made from people who are always feeling somewhat anxious and alienated and awkward and anonymous to God, but rather a people who delight in Him because they know that for some reason far beyond any of our comprehension to grasp. God has set his heart to delight in us. That brings me to the third point, which is that God's delight is in the glory that he receives through the redemption. God's delight is in the glory that He receives from this redemption. Again, look what Ephesians says and how Paul puts it. In love, he says, He predestined us, we sinners, to be adopted as his sons through Jesus the Messiah, in accordance with his pleasure and his will, for what purpose? To the praise of his glorious grace, which he's freely given us in the one he loves. You see the purpose? It's for the praise of his glorious grace. Paul stresses this. Look down again at uh verse eleven In him we were chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will, in order that we who were the first to hope in Christ. might be for the praise of his glory. Then it goes on. And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance. until the redemption of those who are God's possession. For what purpose? To the praise of his glory. Three times Paul says in that first chapter that all of what he has done for his people is for the praise of his glory. That's what God delights in. In all of this. You ever ask yourself, what is the bottom line of my plea to God? When I feel abandoned, when I feel alienated, when I feel like I am distanced from him, what is the bottom line of the plea that I can present to God that will always get his attention? It is his name, which is his glory. For instance, in 1 Samuel chapter 12. Back in the Old Testament. You remember Israel had really blown it. And Israel, on the day that they had demanded that God gave them a king, Samuel says, you demand a king, God will give you a king. God ultimately wanted to give you a king, but not under these kinds of circumstances. And so on the day of Saul's coronation, Samuel the prophet stands up and he speaks to Israel, a coronation sermon. And as he speaks in that sermon, he says to Israel, Everybody wants to rejoice and have a good time. It's a party day, you know? We've got a king. And Samuel, as is his want, he was always very good at spoiling a good occasion. And so Samuel comes and he says to the people in verse 17. He calls attention to their to the evil of these people in choosing a king. He says in verse 17, Is it not the wheat harvest now? And I will call upon the Lord to send thunder and rain. That's the worst thing you could have at a wheat harvest. It bounds the wheat and destroys it. And you will realize what an evil thing that you did in the eyes of the Lord when you asked for a king. And then Samuel called upon the Lord, and that day the Lord sent thunder and rain, and all the people stood in awe of the Lord of Samuel. Because there was no indication of thunder and rain, it doesn't thunder and rain at that season. It's a dry season And so this was an amazing thing that happened. And the people then said to Samuel, verse 19, Pray to the Lord your God for your servants, so that we will not die, for we have added to all our other sins the evil of asking for a king. Do you ever feel like that? Lord, now I'm truly I've added all the other things I've done. This now. And now, you know, surely you will ultimately you're going to lose patience. Finally, you are going to be disgusted with me. I can't come to you one more time to ask for forgiveness, and I've got all these little things. You know you have all these little things, kind of the background sins of your life. You know, it's kind of like noise in the background I do this, I blew that, and I had a bad attitude. But boy, this time I blew it royally. And it makes me realize how bad all the other stuff was. I've added to all these other things And how does Samuel respond? Verse 20. Do not be afraid, Samuel replied. You have done all this evil. He was a good counselor. He didn't minimize the sin. Yeah, you're right. You're pretty wretched. God's done all this evil. I'm not going to tell you he did. No, it's okay. Don't worry about it. No, you did all this. Yet Do not turn away from the Lord. Now you see, what is our tendency when we feel that? Isn't it to become alienated from God? I've blown it, and so I just don't want to have anything to do with you So we don't read our Bible. We try to find immediate gratification, muddle along in our lives with other delights that we can see and feel. We know that they're all out of bounds and that they're all out of whack, but we really don't care because we're already alienated from God, right? Samuel says, no, no, no, no. Don't go that route. Serve the Lord with all your heart. Do not turn away after useless idols as substitutes. They can do you no good, nor can they rescue you, but because they are useless. And then this significant verse 22 For the sake of his great name, the Lord will not reject his people, because the Lord was pleased to make you his own. He cannot reject you because he was pleased to make you his own for the sake of his name. And so you see that the final ground of appeal is always his name. It's for his name's sake that he's chosen us. It's for his name's sake that he brought Israel out of Egypt in Exodus chapter 9 and verse 16. Moses said to Pharaoh, I have raised you up for this very purpose that I might show my power and my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. And Paul says in Romans chapter 9 and verse 17 that that was the purpose of the Exodus, that God might display his name in all the earth. So the final concern in God's redemption is always his name. In Ezekiel chapter 36, when God describes the new covenant, all the blessings of forgiveness and of Pouring out of the new spirit upon his people and all the rest of what God was going to do. Before he states those promises, he says in Ezekiel chapter 36 and verses 22 and 23. Therefore, say to the house of Israel, This is what the sovereign Lord says: it was not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I'm going to do these things. But for the sake of my holy name, which you have profaned among the nations where you have gone. And I will show the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, the name that you have profaned among them. And then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the sovereign Lord, when I show myself holy through you before their eyes. And so the staggering truth, when you say if God's concerned for his name and you and I don't glorify that name, then which is it? Which is God concerned for? Is it his name or for us? Does he find pleasure in us, or does he simply find pleasure in his name? And the staggering answer that the gospel gives is that God has linked his name to us. Ever stop to think of that? God has linked his glory to you. He predestined you, forgave you, adopted you as son for the praise of the glory of his grace. And when you and I come to that final plea and everything else is hopeless, we have one last plea left. Lord, your glory is at stake. And that glory is in your name, and I bear your name. You've set your name upon me, and so you cannot abandon me. The pleasure that you find in your name is linked to my destiny, and the pleasure that you find in me. They are not either or, they are joined together. And so when you and I come in those times of discouragement, our one last plea is: Lord, hallow your name. And hallow it through me. You cannot deny yourself. Let's pray Lord, some of us are wondering how in the world you could delight in us. And how in the world you could delight in your name and your glory. And still find pleasure in us, who seem to do nothing but to drag that name down and to compromise its glory. Lord, help us to believe the amazing truth that you have set your name upon us, and that that glory is demonstrated in your grace to us. We have been adopted as your children to the praise of the glory of your grace demonstrated in us through Jesus. And so, Lord, make us a people who delight in you. If any of us here have not trusted you, give to us, Lord, eyes to see the delight of Jesus. The new life available in Him. And for any of us who have been doubting you and wondering, Lord, how in the world you can delight in us. Give us eyes to believe the gospel, to see it, and to be renewed in our delight in Jesus. Amen