Turn with me to Genesis chapter twelve. Genesis chapter twelve Now I'm going to start reading actually in chapter 11 of Genesis of verse 27 and I'll go through chapter 12 verse 5. But the text, the single text we're going to focus on this morning is actually the first verse of chapter 12 there in Genesis. Let's hear then with expectation the reading of God's Word. This is the account of Terah. Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran became the father of Lot. While his father Terah was still alive, Haran died in Ur of the Chaldees in the land of his birth. Abram and Nahor both married The name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife was Milkah. She was the daughter of Haran, the father of both Milkah and Ishka. Now Sarai was barren, she had no children. Kerah took his son Abram, his grandson Lot, son of Haron, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, wife of his son Abram, and together they set out from Ur of the Chaldees to go to Canaan. But when they came to Haran, they settled there. Kara lived 205 years, and he died in Haran. The Lord had said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, and your father's household, and go to the land that I will show you. I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you. I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse. And all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. So Abram left, as the Lord had told him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he set out from Haran. He took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, all his possessions. that he had accumulated and the people that he'd acquired in Haran. And they set out for the land of Canaan, and they arrived there. Here ends God's written word. Some of you who have been worshiping with us for some months may be wondering why I'm spending three weeks here in July and August. talking about a topic that is usually preached on at CPC every February. The topic of world missions and our place in God's global purpose for his people. Perhaps you're wondering that maybe I'm trying to get you to think cool thoughts in such sultry weather by speaking on a topic that is usually reserved for the snows of February. But actually, I'm preaching from Genesis 12 in this week in these weeks to help us all overcome an all-too common mistake in our thinking, a mistake that I'm just as guilty of as anyone else. I'm afraid that most of us, myself included, fall into a dangerous kind of compartmentalization. in our thinking, where we cordon off a certain topic when we only hear about it once a year, and we say to ourselves, Oh World missions, yeah, that's the stuff that we talk about every February when we have a conference and we have a big international dinner and there's all kinds of luscious uh international food served there. And uh it's a great time. Or, or worse yet, we could fall into the mistake of relegating missions to just a few people in Christ's body. Uh and unfortunately they become uh seen as the lunatic fringe of Christ's body. Um, you know, those wide eyed radicals that uh only eat grape nuts for breakfast and wear funny looking clothing. They're the type that are are world Christians. They're the type that are interested in God's global purposes. Not the rest of us. Well, those kinds of um traps we can all fall into every now and then, and hence I think it's healthy for us to be reminded That God's concern for the nations, that all the nations come to Jesus Christ, is not some peripheral issue in the Christian life. In fact, it's not a peripheral issue in the Bible But it's a very central, a very key theme in the Bible. So much so that the development of that theme begins here in Genesis 12 at what you could call the very start of God's Word. You see, Genesis 1 through 11, those entire first 11 chapters of Genesis, can really be seen as the prelude to the Bible If you think about it, the there's the big picture focused on Naires. The account of creation is given, and then the fall of man. And then the flood that covered the earth with Noah being rescued out of that, and then the spread of the nations to all the corners of the globe after the sin at the Tower of Babel. All that takes place in the first eleven chapters of Genesis And then we come here in chapter twelve to a new type of theme. A particularization is started after the spreading, the outward focus. God starts in by talking out the about this fellow Abram and his family. And so, if the first chapters, eleven chapters of Genesis are all the prelude to the Bible, then God's word begins to us here in the very first chap very first verse of Genesis twelve. And what topic Do you think God's revelation begins by talking about? Well, it's missions. A theme that will be developed in many ways throughout the scriptures. It all begins right here in this text. what you can see is uh the foundation of missions. And so here in Genesis 12, 1 to 5, in these three weeks, we're going to be looking at three different aspects. of this foundation of missions, the command, the promise, and then the response of Abraham, of Abram, and us And this week we look at the command to Abram and to us again, and we'll break that down into three parts. What you could see is the initiative of the command. what I've called the scope of the command, and then thirdly the destination of the command. And then we'll consider some implications for you and I First, then the initiative of the command. Remember the context that all this takes place in. Terah, the father of Abram, was an idolater. Joshua chapter 24, verse 2, reveals that Terah worshipped other gods in the land of Ur, the Chaldees. Now that's what we term uh uh is termed later on Babylon or Babylonia. Um And for whatever reason, Terra heads out from that land of Ur, which is up around the Persian Gulf. Let's say this is the Persian Gulf, and Ur is right here. Terah heads out from there to go to this land of Canaan, for whatever reason, we're not told exactly why. And somehow he ends up stopping and settling about halfway there in this city called Haran Now Terah dies in that city of Haran, as verse 32 of chapter 11 makes clear. He died right there, and then God chooses Abram out of a pagan, idolatrous land and a family. to be his very own. So God is choosing Abram. And it's interesting, I think, if you consider the timing of this command, because it's an intriguing issue. When does this command to Abram come? to go, to leave uh his country and his people. Well, if you look just at the nature of the narrative structure itself, it's um Pretty stark and pretty common. Literally, the text says, and the Lord said to Abram, or as the New International, I'm sorry, the New American Standard Version says, Now the Lord said to Abram. So if we have just this evidence, we'd have to say that this command to leave Haran came after Terah's death and in Haran itself. And yet, interestingly, if you had the New International Version, it's translated, the Lord had said to Abram. The Lord had said to Abram, Now why do you suppose it says that? Well, there's some other evidence in the scriptures. It's specifically in Acts chapter 7, verses 2 and 3, where Stephen speaks to the Sanhedrin. He recounts redemptive history and he says that the God of glory appeared to Abram way back in Ur of the Chaldees, when he was still in Mesopotamia, before he lived in Haran, before he m went to that center. city there. And furthermore, Genesis 15 and Nehemiah 9 both refer to God calling Abram way back in Ur there around the Persian Gulf. called him out of Ur the Chaldees, and not so much Haran. Thus it seems that God appeared to Abram way back in Ur before he ever got to Haran With a hint of what was going to become what was what was going to come. And then he deepened and confirmed and made specific that call after Tara's death. And we had that here right in the very first verse of chapter twelve. But no matter what you decide about the timing of the command, no matter what you decide about when Abram received this command, we see very clearly that the text emphasizes that it's the Lord's idea. It's the Lord's idea that Abram leave and go to this new land of Canaan. Look at that verse, chap uh chapter twelve, verse one. The Lord had said to Abram The Lord had said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, and your father's household. Notice I translate the key verb there, go forth. The original is actually just one verb, whereas the NIV has leave your country and your people and go to the land I will show you. It's actually one verb and it's a reflexive sense. It's something like go from yourself. Go for yourself. Uh I've rendered it go forth. And you see the important thing to realize here is that missions is not Abram's idea. It's not even Tara's idea. It's God's idea. God comes with the command, leave, go forth. You see, settling um is always God's people's idea. Missions is never God's people's idea. It has to come from from the Lord. Settling in Haran is the natural thing to do. It's what we gravitate towards, if you will, like a centripetal fool, a centripetal pull. For you physicists out there, you know well what that means. It's a pull inward, it's an inward uh thrust, an inward focus. You see, that's the kind of pull that operates naturally in our lives. We like to become settled and comfortable in one place. We have that inward focus and that inward pull naturally. But um God is is uh is the one who comes with a command, go forth. Not his people. And I know I've experienced that settling pull, that pull to become comfortable and settled in one place myself, even in just the past year. I've only been here about a year now and yet I've experienced it. Um very distinctly. Linda and I were presented recently with an exciting and challenging uh living opportunity for next year But I at first when I heard about it I dismissed it out of hand because I was comfortable in our apartment right where we were. I've only been there a few months and yet I'm kind of settled in, I feel comfortable there. And this this opportunity would mean moving again So soon, just a year. And so I dismissed it right out of hand at first. And then I got to thinking, well, uh, maybe the Lord wants to teach me some flexibility in this And so I said, okay, Lord, I'm willing to go forth. I'm willing to give up this comfortableness that I've become accustomed to. I'm willing to follow you. And you see, the Jews who became who came to Christ in Jerusalem experienced the same thing. Throughout history, God has been has had to teach this lesson to his people over and over again. Remember in Acts it was the very same way. The Christian Jews in Jerusalem were very content not to go out into that Gentile turf. They were content to stay in Jerusalem and have the Gentiles come to them if uh they were gonna uh come to the Lord. But no, God says through Paul, go forth. And God's command came again, go forth. And so again and again in history, God has had to say this to his people go forth, go forth. But the question comes, go forth from what? And so in this first verse of Genesis 12, we see, secondly, what I call the scope of the command. or what you're leaving when you go forth. And that is talked about here in very in three progressively more intimate ways That I think it's important for us to think about and remember. Look at that verse again with me. Leave your country, your people, and your father's household. Leave those three things. First, your country or your land. God's word comes to Abram and he says, Leave your country. Now let's put this in a little perspective for us here today. Ur isn't exactly a city that we're all naturally familiar with these days. Uh we've heard of uh Baltimore and we've heard of Washington, but we're not too familiar with Ur. Well, Ur was a very refined and very cultured city. In fact, it was the really the center of civilization at the time. It was a very well developed society. It was located along the lush Euphrates River right near the Persian Gulf, as I mentioned before. Now when we think about the Persian Gulf today, all we think about is Iraqis war, the Iraq war with Iran and and all the tankers that are having trouble over in the Gulf, but there was a lot more going for it back then, uh, when Ur was in its heyday. It was a lush city, it was a city famous for its law code. In other words, it had lots of lawyers in the population. Now, now you're starting to get the picture you see. Ur is a major power center, a center with lots of lawyers in it, uh cultural center. Uh what kind of city would you think of today in those terms? Well, we can think of Washington DC in those terms, can't we? Center of one of the um most powerful nations on earth, a power center Uh lots of lawyers in the population. So Abram's hometown is an awful lot like DC. A capital and a power center. But then you see Abram had moved to Haran. Now what's Haran like? Well, history tells us that Haran was very wealthy, very prosperous. It was a caravan city because it was located there along the major trade route between Ur and Mesopotamia. and the rest of the known world at that time. It was a highly mobile population. It was very prosperous from its trade, being right there along the Middle East uh freeway, if you will. So you get the picture. Haran is cosmopolitan, prosperous, highly mobile population. An awful lot like Colombia, isn't it? So God called Abraham to leave all of this, DC and Columbia, if you will. And what else does he call him to leave beyond those two very prosperous areas? Well he says, leave your people. Secondly, leave your people or your kindred or your relatives. Now, uh your extended family, if you will. Family, you have to remember it was much more important Back then than even it is today, uh the extended family structure was very tight. It it formed all of your identity, a basic uh belongingness, a sense of teenness, all these kinds of things uh family gave to you. So it wasn't something that you left lightly, but God's command comes to Abraham, leave your country and your family, your relatives. And then thirdly, he says, leave your country, leave your people, and then, and verse one there, leave your father's household. Now some of you may still be living at home with your parents, and others of you have probably recently moved out on your own, and others of you probably can remember the time when you first left your father's household to go out on your own. Uh perhaps you can think back to when you went away to college or got married and you made that big break, a lot of big changes there that uh had to take place. Remember what was what it was like not to have mom cooked meals for the first time. or not to have central air, or not to have a washer and dryer handy, or not to have a dishwasher at your beck and call, all those kinds of things. Pretty traumatic changes Well, God calls Abraham to leave all those kinds of comforts, to leave all those conveniences of home. In essence, God is saying, give up all the comforts of home. Give them up. Leave them. I want you to leave your country, your people, and your father's household. All that you're familiar with. And throughout history, God has called his people to leave the familiar, to leave the comfortable, to leave the convenient For his sake. In the nineteen fifty fifties, the U. S. was very much like it is today, a prosperous nation inundated with luxuries and conveniences. A materialistic culture enjoying great abundance, great affluence. And yet there was a man named Jim Elliott back then who had just graduated from college in 1950. And Jim was a man who could have had an ex an outstanding career as an eloquent writer or a corporate executive or uh even perhaps a college professor. And yet God called all to him to leave all of that, to leave all the comforts and the familiarities of the U. S. , to go to an unreached people group in South America. And he went. And his response was this, he is no fool to give what he cannot keep, to gain what he cannot lose. And so the command for us to go forth comes again to us here in Colombia in nineteen eighty seven The comforts and conveniences of the Baltimore-Washington corridor are many. Those of you who have just moved to this area will be finding that out if you haven't found that out already. It's attractive and enticing to be near uh enough to just have thirty minutes to go to the Inner Harbor or twice that down to the mall in Washington. And uh Enjoy the Smithsonian and all the uh attractions down there. We're inundated with comforts here in this culture. And we need to beware lest that dull us Lest that make us unwilling to ever leave Howard County, unwilling to ever give up some of those conveniences, to go to an unfamiliar place that isn't quite as comfortable, isn't quite as convenient. And so the question that you and I need to repeatedly ask ourselves over and over again is, is there anything that I am unwilling to give up for Christ's sake? Is there any comfort, any convenience that I hold so dear that I won't give it up if God calls me to? You see, the scope of God's command is all embracing. It's all embracing. So we notice here in Genesis 12, one, that the command comes from the Lord to Abraham. It's the Lord's idea. Leave your country, your people, your father's household, all these three things. And then the question comes, leave all this for what? Well, again, verse 1 answers that question. The third aspect of this verse is what you could call the destination of the command. And it comes again in an interesting way. Look there at the verse. Leave your country, your people, and your father's household, and go to the land that I will show you. You say, that's it? That's all the direction I get? After I've left my country, all my relatives, all the comforts of home, that's all God tells me? Saul God tells Abram, Leave all these familiar things to go to the land that I will show you. You see, there's no definite locale specified here, is there? God just says, go to the land that I will show you. Now Abram knows at some point that it was Canaan that the Lord was taking him to, as verse 5 revealed and as the Lord confirms many times later. But the Lord does not specifically identify the land right here in verse one. Now why is that? Why does God say, just go to the land that I will show you, Abram? Well, I suggest to you that the reason is to highlight the trust that is needed. To highlight the trust that is needed in God. You see, leaving all the comforts and uh and uh familiarities of country and family and and home is easier if at least you know what you're going to. At least you'll know where you end up. And yet the Lord's command does not specify the exact location. In effect, he's saying, Go where I will show you, Abram, and as you show your obedience to me, I will show you more of the destination that I'm leading you to. I will show you more of your eternal rest. I will show you more of your destination as you prove your obedience in this way. And you see, it's the same with us today. And I admit I'm struggling here. I don't yet know where the Lord wants me to go. I don't know where he wants me to serve him long term, and that bugs me sometimes, I'll admit it. But I'm I'm pressing on, saying, wherever you want, Lord, I'm going to go to the land that you will show me. And how about you? Are you willing to go to where the Lord will show you? Even if He doesn't spell out exactly where that is at first? Even if he says, trust me to show you more as you follow me, knowing the exact location you see is not as important as the process of trust that is built as we go, as we go forth. And as the destination of God's command here to Abram makes clear. Now, in all of this, we need to remember Jesus Christ, because Jesus Christ is the ultimate missionary. Perhaps you're here and you're new this morning and you're you've hardly ever heard of Abram, let alone Terra and this city of Ur. And uh you're wondering what this group of people is all about here, Columbia Presbyterian. And that's a good question. I'm glad you have those kinds of questions. Ultimately, the story of Abraham, Abram here, you see, points us to the story of Jesus Christ. You see, it is Jesus that this story is all about. And it is Jesus that we here at Columbia Presbyterian are all about. You see, it's Jesus Christ, who at the Father's request left the infinite glory of heaven to come down to earth It is he who is the ultimate missionary. He left the comfort and infinite convenience of having all the heavenly hosts at his disposal. He left all that glory, all that luxury. To take on the humble appearance of a man, to take on our flesh with all the inconveniences and all the uh discomforts that we know our bodies entail. Jesus came to earth willingly, an obedient servant. He took the nature of a man with all the discomforts and the And the inconveniences of flesh and blood. And only he was without sin, and he was perfectly obedient. And you see, he gave up his life to endure the agony of the cross The excruciating death, all for the love of rebellious sinners like you and I. And more than that, Jesus rose again. To prove that what he said was true, to prove that he had conquered sin and all its power, to prove that he conquered sin and all its penalty. Jesus Rose again and now is glorified and exalted at the Father's right hand. It is this Jesus whom we look to. And now you see that Jesus calls us as his church to follow him in going forth, being willing to leave comforts behind and incon and conveniences behind. And if you've never come to the place of trusting in Jesus Christ alone, I urge you to do so and to not put it off. Because one day his love will be withdrawn from you if you reject him. I urge you to come to him while his love in his love is pleading you, and don't put it off. And if you've already trusted in Christ, If you've already transferred your trust from yourself and what you can do to him alone, then I offer to you several ways that you could be involved. in world missions, pursuing what I've called a world Christian lifestyle. A lifestyle that's wrapped around God's global purposes and realizes that missions is a consuming theme of God's Word and our lives. Firstly, let me say that going force does not necessarily mean that all of us go permanently to another country In fact, they tell us that 99% of us are needed to stay and to be active, fruitful senders to the 1% that will go. To the 1% that will go out like Dan Iverson, like Linda Carner wants to. 99% of us need to be faithful senders here and now. And having said that then, here perhaps are some ideas for practical involvement in world missions. First, I'd encourage you to think and act locally. Colombia is our primary mission field right here. That's what this church is all about. And going for us here in Colombia involves not necessarily leaving geographically what we're familiar with, but giving up Some time, some energy, some convenience, some comfort in those kinds of ways. So going here in Colombia, going forth in outreach to Colombia is where to start John Isaac gave us uh uh one of those opportunities with Christian Service Brigade, and I'll tell you, John, I'm gonna remember your recruiting techniques there with him. Cameron, that's a good idea. But um that battalion ministry is such a strategic ministry, reaching out to teenage guys to middle school guys who have no um parental role model in a father at home oftentimes. An exciting opportunity. I'd encourage you to pray about that. Consider involvement there. The stock aid ministry is similar. Mark Heber, as you heard, is interested in finding more helpers for that ministry. Our Pioneer Girls Ministry has a number of girls in it not involved in our church, and they're looking for a couple um guides yet uh for the fall. And you can talk to Judy Birkus about that. Or the Duke's Delhi Men's Breakfast Outreach, another exper strategic opportunity where you men can bring non-Christian guys with you in a comfortable environment to have a free breakfast and hear a little about the word of God and how it applies to our lives. September nineteenth is when that starts up again this fall. Pray about that. Pray about who you'd invite to that. And our Evangelism Training Ministry is another strategic ministry of our church right here in Columbia. It's a great way to explore your gifts. uh in sharing the gospel, if you're considering missionary service, if you think the Lord may be calling you to cross cultures. We need one or two trainers yet for this fall Another way that you can be involved here in our body in a very strategic way is with our World Mission Task Force. This is a group of people helping the rest of us to be mobilized as senders in Christ's global purpose. And the task force is looking for a new chairman to lead it. Maybe you'd be the one to replace Tito Padilla. We're also looking for a missionary sponsor coordinator to help us be better sponsors in non-financial ways of the missionaries we do have and that we have sent out. That means writing letters and things like that. Perhaps you could be an encourager to other missionary sponsors in that way. Or how's this for a radical idea? How about a global a global vision expanding vacation next year. Now many of us are thinking vacation is now in 87, but now's the time to think and plan about 88 too. Perhaps you and your family could uh explore some cross-cultural ministry either in another country or here in the States. to encourage the workers there to find out more about that ministry and bring that vision back to us here at CPC. Now I know it's all of us don't have the money to go and visit the Stuarts in Paris or the Iversons in Tokyo or um These kinds of things. But we can explore cross-cultural ministries, expose our families and ourselves to those kinds of ministries here in the States. Consider doing that with part of your vacation next year. Fourthly, um Urbana 87 is a unique way to uh get a glimpse of what God is doing around the world. And that's coming up this this um this winter between New Year's and uh between Christmas and New Year's. It's especially uh strategic if you're college age, but it's great for anyone of any age. And it's a very unique opportunity in having 17,000 people gathered in one place to consider God's global purposes and how they're being involved in it. It's an exciting thing. It changed my life in some dramatic ways. And I could tell you more about that. I'd encourage you to consider going to that. And there's more information on the back table if you'd like to explore that. Lastly, Something we all can do to be a part of God's global purpose is to pray. We can all go forth with those who are going forth as we pray, as we're partners with them. Tonight's prayer concert will give you an opportunity to do that at 6. 30. We'll be praying for the specific items in the bulletin there, and you can uh Please bring that with you tonight to help focus our prayer time. But there are three of us who are going on a short-term mission project this summer to Wildwood, New Jersey, a very pagan Lecherous towns will be there and we need you as our prayer partners, each of you in this congregation. We need you to undergird us with prayer as we uh experience this cross-cultural ministry and this evangelism training opportunity. Brothers and sisters, all of this is not to heap more guilt on you. And I want to make that very clear. You s you you see, I can see you saying to yourself out there, oh come on Mark, you gotta be kidding. I mean I can't do half those things that you mentioned. I haven't even kept the commitments I made last February at our missions conference. I mean I just got this thing in the mail. It reminded me of what I told uh made a commitment before the Lord to do, and I haven't even done that. How am I going to uh take on all these other responsibilities? Well, I'm not I'm not desiring to heap more guilt on you this morning. I want you to remember that Jesus Christ knows that you're a sinner, that I'm a sinner. He knows that we're lazy, self-centered, uh addicts to comforts often. He knows how often we're self-occupied. How often we sin in these ways by uh desiring our own conveniences. So I'd encourage you to take your guilt, take your past failures to the cross, and see there that Jesus died there for your sin. See there that he died there for all your love of convenience and comfort. See that he paid the penalty. For your sin. And he broke the power of that sin over you. See that he calls you there to live by grace now, not by guilt. And see there his power available to you to live a life of new obedience, a life wrapped around his global purposes. Trust in his strength to empower you to serve him in this way. to develop a world Christian lifestyle for his glory. Trust Christ for the power to go forth as he commands. Let's pray together. Lord, we need you so much to change our hearts. We, like Abram, need to hear your voice telling us to go forth. And only you can make us willing to leave all the comforts and conveniences we've become accustomed to. Only you can empower us to trust you to lead us to the place you will show us. Thank you, Lord, that we don't need to attempt all this on our own scheme. But that you, Lord Jesus, have made it possible for us in your death and resurrection. And Lord, for any here today who are still really trusting in their own efforts to please you, show them the futility of that, and draw them to the Lord Jesus as their only hope. Lord, work in us for your glory that we would be more faithful by your power, by your strength, to obey you and to pursue going forth as you call us to. In Jesus' name.