Turn with me in your Bibles to Genesis, the twelfth chapter of Genesis As we continue the theme of that hymn, looking at what the Lord of the universe reveals about himself. Genesis chapter 12 We're continuing our look at verses 1 to 5 of Genesis 12. This is our second week for those of you who are new with us. And we're looking especially at verses 2 and 3 this morning, but I'd like to read verses 1 through 5 too. Get the whole flow of things. Here then God's word to us from Genesis 12. The Lord had said to Abram, Leave your country, your people, and your father's house. Household, and go to the land I will show you. I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse. And all peoples on earth will be blessed through you. So Abram left. As the Lord had told him and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he set out from Haran. He took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, all the possessions they had accumulated, and the people they had acquired in Haran, and they set out for the land of Canaan, and they arrived there. Some of the saddest people, the most wretched, the most pathetic people that I've ever heard of are misers. My dictionary defines a miser this way as a greedy, stingy person who hoards money for its own sake even at the expense of his own comfort. Someone like the infamous Hetty Green, Eddie Green is noted in the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's greatest miser. quite a title. And it seems that she deserved it. She was a woman of considerable considerable means, to say the least. When she died in nineteen sixteen She left an estate at some $95 million. $31 million of that in one bank account alone. And yet, sad to say, she lived off of cold oatmeal all her adult days because she was too stingy even to heat it And what's worse than that is that her own son had to have his leg amputated because of delays in finding a free medical clinic How sad to have such immense wealth at your disposal and never use it for yourself. And even sadder, never use it for other people. And yet some Christians fall into the same mentality. You might call them spiritual misers. They are those often who are misers without even realizing it. Sometimes they don't even understand the great riches that they have. They don't know that they have great riches available to them, and so they live a life eking out a meager, joyless existence. But other times they know the spiritual riches they have, and yet they've never heard or they've forgotten the purpose behind those riches. And so they hoard their blessings, never sharing them with other people. And that's a sad sad state of affairs, too. It's just these pitfalls that God guards Abram and you and I against here in Genesis. In verses tw in chapter twelve, verses two and three. And so here in the second of three looks of Genesis 12, 1-5 As we look at the foundation of missions right here at the beginning of God's Word, near the beginning of His revelation to us. We see God's promise of rich blessing to his people has the purpose of their his people being a blessing to others, even to the peoples at the ends of the earth. You see, God promises to bless his people, and he does so, so that his people will bless the nations. Let's look then at the first part of this, and we see that God promises to bless his people. In five of the seven parts of this sevenfold promise here in these verses, God Himself is the actor. The emphasis is clearly on God's sovereign work and all this. And he makes that very clear to Abram. You see, Abram is promised the full covenant of blessing. Covenant blessing of God, and here it's given in capsule form, and it's developed later in Genesis in Genesis chapters 15 and 17. But the first three clauses of this promise here in verse 2 are a parallel that point to the richness of God's blessing to Abram. And he he says it this way. Look at it with me there in verse two. He says to Abram, I will make you into a great nation. And I will bless you. I will make your name great. Now remember, there's no punctuation in the original And so all these three things are really in parallel to each other. And God singles out Abram's line here from all the nations of the earth, and he says Abram, I'm going to make you a great people, a great and vast nation. I'm going to bless you, Abram. And I'm going to make your name great. All three of those promises are synonymous here and talking about the same thing. You see, it's a very unique honor That God is bestowing on Abram of all the peoples that he could have chosen on the earth. He chooses Abram. And he says, I'm going to bless you, Abram. I'm going to make you a great nation. I'm going to make your name great in all the earth. And so God singles Abram out and exalts him for his own glory. And then also God is the actor in the two contrasting clauses there at the beginning of verse 3. He says to Abram, I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse. Look at that Bless those who bless you and curse those who curse you. That's a theme that we find throughout the scriptures, those two contrasting actions of God. In a sense, God is placing a protective hedge around his people. So that they're virtually invincible on a spiritual basis. And God says, I'm going to bless you, Abram, with that kind of blessing. So that everyone who looks upon you in favor, I will show favor too. And whoever rejects and curses you, I will curse. An amazing blessing that God will place his hedge around Abram and all his descendants. So as to abolish all his enemies and to bless all those who treat him favorably. Ultimately, Abram's line will be invincible. And this is the promise of God. And you see, this is all foreshadowed at the very beginning of Genesis and developed here. But in Genesis 1:28, we have an interesting taste of this given. Even in starting in verse 27 of chapter 1, Abram says, or God's word says that God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him Male and female, he created them. Familiar words, God's creation described, but then in the very next verse, verse twenty eight, he says, God blessed them And said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. And so we see that what is sometimes called in Reformed theology the cultural mandate That is the mandate to fill the earth and subdue it, have dominion over the earth. That mandate is rooted in God's blessing. As he says at first uh that he blessed what he created and then said, Okay. Dilvier it, subdue it, rule over all the creatures that move on the ground. And so The blessing mentioned in Genesis 128 is developed here and gives given more specific shape in chapter 12. In verses two and three in a very powerful way as God continues the blessing that he began back there in the garden. Moreover, this promised blessing is echoed time and time again throughout the Old Testament in a beautiful way. We don't have time to look at all the the details of the of this, but I've mentioned some of the text there in your bulletin outline for your perusal later. But in Genesis fifteen, God comes to Abram and he says and he makes his covenant explicit with Abram, saying that Look at the stars, Abraham, for as many as the stars are in the heavens, so shall your offspring be. Making Abram into a great nation is continuing there, you see. Making Abram's name great is continuing there. Again in Genesis 26, God confirms this to Abram's descendant, Isaac, and he says, I will be with you, Isaac, and I will bless you. I will make your descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky, and through your offspring, all the nations on the earth will be blessed. And again in Genesis 28, God says to Jacob, I am the Lord, the God of your father, Abram, and the God of Isaac. Your descendants will be like the dust of the earth. And you will spread out to the west, east, north, and south. All peoples on earth will be blessed through you and your offspring. And so the the covenant blessing is continued there to Jacob. And it continues to unfold throughout the Old Testament in a beautiful way. And you see, we know moreover from our New Testament perspective that Jesus Christ is the blessed one. He is uniquely the blessed one that all of this here in Genesis 12 points towards Jesus is the promised offspring that is spoken of in all these passion in all these passages. He's the one that fulfills ultimately the covenant promise here given to Abraham. Because you see, he is uniquely blessed by God. He is uniquely anointed by God. the Father. And his name was made great by God the Father. Think back to Philippians chapter 2. We have there Jesus' sacrificial death for sinners described. As he's given the name that is above every name. And God says, uh after Christ ex humbled himself and became obedient to death on the cross, Then God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, and every tongue confess that he is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. You see, Jesus Christ is now exalted in glory at the Father's right hand. His name is made so great that there is no other name above it. And indeed, he's made a great nation. Christ's people are made numerous. As numerous as the sand on the seashore, as numerous as the stars of the sky. And God makes sure that those who bless Jesus Christ are blessed Those who praise him are blessed. And at the same time, those who reject the Son are cursed. So God fulfills all of his covenant promise to Abram, ultimately in Jesus Christ, the Exalted One. And so it comes down to you and I, the blessing or the curse. And you see, the choice is really ours on the basis of what we've done with the Blessed One. Jesus Christ, the Blessed One, who was cursed. On our behalf, that we were who were under judgment and under the curse might be blessed. You see, everything hinges on what we do with Him. And if you've never placed your trust in Jesus Christ, you need to be very careful to take these words seriously. You need to remember the words of John 3. 36, where John says, Whoever believes in the Son has eternal. Eternal life. But whoever rejects the Son will not see life, for God's wrath remains on him. And so you need to come to Jesus. Transfer your trust from yourself and anything you can do to please God to Jesus alone. And receive from him freedom from God's wrath. Receive from him the blessing instead of the curse that is due you because of your rebellion against your Creator. And if you have already trusted in Jesus Christ, if you are now trusting in Him, the Blessed One, for your salvation, you need to remember that you are already blessed. You are already blessed as you hang on to Jesus Christ. The blessed one, Jesus, cursed on the cross. That you might be blessed, has fulfilled that blessing to you. Look with me at Ephesians chapter 1, and an amazing statement that Paul makes there. Ephesians chapter chapter one, verse three, Paul says this. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing. in Christ. That I submit to you is one amazing statement. Praise to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. And then Paul goes on to describe those blessings in some detail. We're chosen, we're adopted, taken to be into God's own family. Redeemed, set free from our sin, forgiven, so that we have peace with God, eternal rest. Freedom from the power of sin and the penalty of sin. All those spiritual blessings are ours in Christ. You see, God's promise to Abraham is fulfilled to you as you trust in Christ, as you rest in Him. You receive every spiritual blessing already in Him I'd encourage you to meditate regularly on this section. Mine from it, withdraw from it some of the riches that God has stored up there for you. Because you see, it's just like God has established this huge bank account in your name. an infinite bank account, and it's there at your disposal. He's put it in your name. You need to withdraw from it regularly, to feed on that, to rest in that, to refresh yourself in joy. Remembering the spiritual riches you have in Christ, letting that comfort you and bring you to life again and again You see, God withholds nothing from you as you rest in Christ. There's nothing God could give you that He hasn't already given you in Christ. Every spiritual blessing. Remember that. But of course God goes on here In Genesis chapter twelve to explain the distinct purpose for this great blessing to his people And so look with me again at Genesis twelve. And we see here that God promises his blessing to his people so that his people will bless the nations. All those great riches. That those infinite riches stored up and given to believers are given for a purpose. The purpose of blessing the nations. Abram was told this distinctly in two different ways here in this section. And look again with me at verse 2, at the very end of verse 2. God says, I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you. I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. You will be a blessing, Abraham. I'm giving you this blessing so that you will pass it on to other people. And then look at the climax of this entire section at the very end of verse 3. As God says, I will bless those who bless you, and whoever curses you, I will curse, and all peoples on earth. will be blessed through you. All peoples on earth, blessed through you. Abram, that's the purpose of the blessing I'm giving you, says the Lord. Remember that the word translating here peoples is used elsewhere. And translated with the term nations, but it literally means all families, clans, or tribes. In other words, every distinct people group on earth All the distinct sociological groups of earth will be blessed through you, Abram. That is what God is saying. And so God makes it clear that Abram is not to be a vault For the storage of his blessing, merely, but that Abram is to be a vessel through which the blessing is to flow to the nations. And yet the tendency of God's people, time and time again as we look at history, is to fall into that hoarding mentality, that mentality that sees ourselves as vaults rather than vessels. As all deposit, no withdrawal, if you will. And throughout the Old Testament we see that gut that Israel, God's people, falls into this mistake time and time again. They're afflicted with this tendency. Think of Jonah. as God tells him to take the gospel to the pagan city of Nineveh. What's he do? Well he runs in the other way. He doesn't want to have anything to do with being a vessel of God's blessing to Nineveh. He wants God's blessing to stay with Israel, the chosen people. And so he hoards the riches of God's blessing from this pagan and this hostile city of Nineveh. Many other examples we could look at throughout the Old Testament And yet God's global purpose in blessing his people remains the same. It remains the same. He constantly wants to use his people as vessels, not as vaults. And you see, from our New Testament perspective, we know that Jesus Christ himself is the blesser of nations. He is the supreme vessel through which God blesses the nations, all the peoples of the earth. We see that Jesus Christ is the promised one through whom all people groups on earth will be blessed. Peter in Acts chapter 3 makes it clear that Jesus' identity is the one uh th uh to whom the God of Abram and Isaac and Jacob uh promised. Jesus is that one that that God of Abram glorified, the one offspring through whom all the peoples of the world will be blessed. And he makes that clear in his speech there in Acts chapter 3. And again, Paul in Galatians chapter 3 declares that Abram's spiritual descendants are those that believe in Jesus Christ and include the Gentiles, among whom the gospel has come. They are among the nations that will be blessed. And so Jesus is the chosen vessel. He is the promised one, the blesser of nations. And God's global purpose is really to bless Jesus Christ and through him then to bless all the peoples of the earth. And so we see again that Jesus fulfills the promise given here to Abram in a unique way. And then it comes to you and I. Who are believers in Jesus Christ, those of you who have trusted alone in him. We share his blessing. We share those infinite riches given to Christ, stored up for us in him, in our name. And yet we also share in Jesus' purpose to bless the nations. Yet the church has fallen time and time again into the same old trap, the same tendency that Israel fell into. They failed to latch on to the global purpose of God, and they've fallen back into that vault mentality. Almost a hundred years ago, there was a man named J. Hudson Taylor that Rob alluded to earlier. He was a man who tried to break the church out of their vault mentality. and back to seeing God's global purposes for his people to be a vessel of blessing to the nations. He had an overwhelming burden for China and the hundreds and thousands of unreached people groups. in China in that time. And yet when he went to the leaders of his church back in England, you know what they said to him? Words that must have really stung They said to him, Sit down, young man. If God wants to convert the heathen, he'll do it without your help or mine. That's what they said to him. Kind of the big chill, you know. Uh here's Hudson Taylor willing to go to China, and this is the reception that he gets for trying to bring God's blessing to those people. Such hyper-Calvinism, if you will, really lacks so much of God's purpose in His Word. It fails to see that God blesses his people with this distinct purpose of making them a blessing. And the problem remains with us today, unfortunately, in modified forms. So how can you and I be involved in blessing the nations? As God intends through Christ. Well, if you are new here today in our midst, we want you to know that we are seeking to be a mission-minded church, a church of world Christians, if you will, as Rob said, who have a deep understanding and are working through the implications of God's global purpose in our lives. So I want to offer to you some ways that you can be involved through CPC In blessing the nations. And then of all these ways and the others that were mentioned last week and the ones that we mentioned next week, you need to prayfully decide before the Lord which ones He's calling you to Which ones you can be active in in the upcoming months. The perspectives course is one good way to do that. this fall. It's a unique opportunity. I don't know when it will be back in this area again. Perhaps not for a long time. It's costly. It costs a significant amount. Rob didn't mention the tuition, but like any college level type course, it costs something. And it costs something in terms of time. But it's a unique and outstanding opportunity to be stretched in an academic environment and also challenged practically and personally to consider God's global purposes. And the four perspectives that Rob mentioned, the biblical, the historical, the cultural, and the strategic perspectives on the world mission that we have. You see, we really uh need to become expert senders. Not all of us are going to be goers. Very few of us need to be goers, as I mentioned last week. But we all need to work harder being full-time senders, mobilizing other people to the nations. And so I encourage you to adopt a a CPC missionary family if you haven't done so already. Maybe do this as a small group project. Our World Mission Task Force would love to help you in this to give you ideas uh in writing letters and sending magazine articles and words of encouragement to our missionaries so that they know we're behind them, so that they know that we're full-time senders, supporting them in prayer and with our uh encouragements. And along that line, perhaps you could throw a letter writing party for CPC missionaries. Maybe you've never thought of that, but you could get a bunch of 36 cent air grams, maybe one for each of the different missionary units that our church supports. And invite your friends over for some munchies and spend some time writing some comments and words of encouragement. to those missionaries, letting them know what's going on here in Columbia, letting them know what's going on in your lives and what the Lord is teaching you. Encouraging them to keep on in in their work That can be a tremendous encouragement to people out on the field. You can participate in blessing the nations, moreover, right here in Colombia as well. Because more and more we're having the nations come to our very footstep, right to our very doorstep here in Colombia. You can extend a special welcome to those who are from a different cultural background than your own, as you see them in our body here, as you see them moving into your neighborhoods in these summer months. And remember too that often economic and social barriers are as high, if not higher, than racial barriers. So be sensitive to that, to people of a different economic or social background than yourself. Make a point to greet your new neighbors as they are moving in in these months. There's so many people that move in during these summer weeks, and we need to make them feel welcome. That's one way you can participate really in blessing the nations, is extending yourself that way right here in Colombia. We can also bless the nations in praying for missions. And again, you could make it a point not to miss the World Mission Task Force mission concerts of prayer that we have whenever they're called. Moreover, than that, you can check out the concepts of prayer that the different Columbia evangelical churches are involved in together. uh on a fairly regular basis because there's global prayer for God's purpose throughout the world at each one of those. Rob would be glad to tell you more about that. In fact you'll notice an announcement in the bulletin that says that there's a planning meeting this Tuesday. If you'd like to be involved in that and experience that, I'd encourage you to check that out as a way to be involved in blessing the nations through Jesus Christ in prayer. And in all these things, with all that I've mentioned and and have been mentioning, I want you not to be burdened with more guilt. Perhaps you're saying to yourself, come on Mark, how can I possibly be doing all these things, taking these courses, spending these nights at the prospectus course, praying? Writing letters every week. I failed so many times before. How can I possibly live up to all that you're telling me to do? Well, brothers and sisters, remember that Jesus Christ Died for your sin. He knows your failures and your guilt. He died for those failures and that guilt He knows that you're a weak sinner. He knows that you need his power in order to please him. He knows that you can't do it on your own. And he knows your tendency in mind to fall back into that vault mentality, failing to see that we're to be vessels of blessing to the nation. He knows how you're tempted to that and how I'm tempted to that. And so he calls you to live by grace, not by guilt. He calls you to look to him on the cross and see there the penalty paid for all your failures, all your sin, all your rebellion. And see there the power of God displayed. The power that can be at work in you for new obedience. The power that is available to you as part of your spiritual riches waiting for you. to be claimed and used for your own benefit and for the blessing of other people through you. So look to the cross. Look to him who is there waiting to be your strength. Call on him this week in your weakness. Call on him to be your strength as you seek to bless the nation through Christ. Let's pray together. Lord God, we so desperately need your strength because we are a weak and a needy people. We so easily forget all the spiritual blessings that are ours in Christ. We forget the fact that you have given us every spiritual blessing already in Him. And we even forget sometimes to withdraw some of those riches that we have waiting there, to use in our own lives to bring us joy, to bring us delight. And then to strengthen us to serve others and bless the nations. So, Lord Jesus, we call upon you, the risen one, the one who died and was raised to life. We call on you to be our strength and our power, to serve you as world Christians. We call on you for the discipline. To pursue a lifestyle that is wrapped around your global purposes, your purposes of bringing the gospel to all peoples. Lord, we praise you for the great riches that you've given us. And we pray that you would help us to channel those riches to others. That we might bless the nations as Christ you enable us. We pray these things in your precious and holy name. Amen.