Come now to hear again God's Word from Romans chapter eight, verses fifteen and sixteen. For you did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship, and by him we cry, Allah. Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. We've been looking at these two verses for the past few weeks to understand more about the spirit of sonship. We've seen that we're a people who are in bondage to sin, to fear. Fear of God's displeasure, fear of people, fear of loss of control in our lives, and other kinds of fears. We've seen the bondage that we feel to sin, to habits deep within us, to the way that we react under certain circumstances. We feel helpless to change. But the good news in Jesus Christ comes in verse 15. You did not receive the Spirit That makes you a slave again to those fears. But you have been delivered from those fears because you have received the Spirit of Sonship. By that Spirit, you and I cry Allah, Daddy, Father. So when you're tempted, we saw you are not obligated to sin. You don't have to sin. Because you have been freed from the mastery of sin in your life. Did you experience that a bit more this past week? Talked about that last week. Did you find that there were times that you were able to say, Lord, I don't have to sin in this area any longer. You know that word Abba that's used there in verse fifteen. We cry, Abba Father. That word was forbidden for slave children to use. They could not call their fathers Abba. You had to be the child of a freeman to call that father Amen. You had to be a free child, not a slave child. And so Paul reinforces by the very word that he uses that you and I have been freed from our sin. And free from the bondage to that sin and to fear. So when you're feeling fearful and anxious, remember that you can cry, Daddy. The Father hears you, wants to meet you today. show you that he's with you and able to take care of you, whatever that fear is. Did you experience that a little bit more this week? Did you find that in your temptations and in your fears and insecurities, the Spirit of God enabled you at those times throughout the day to cry up dad. Well you say, well, you know, I'm aware of ways that I didn't. But if there are a few ways that you did, praise God, you grew in your faith by that. Continue. No matter how many times you failed, it continues to remind yourself by the Spirit of God that you can cry Aba when tempted and when fearful. And if you did experience some victories tonight at the Lord's Supper, there'll be a brief time for testimonies. Maybe you can encourage some of the rest of us by something God did in your life this week. And now we move on to verse 16. And in verse 16, which we'll consider for these last two weeks now, the last next week being Pentecost Sunday, the climax of this, in this verse 16, The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. In this verse, we deal with the question of assurance. And what I want to do this morning is to Speak about this matter of assurance and show you how verse 16 is the climax of four ascending steps of assurance. And you see those steps graphically illustrated on your bulletin outline this morning. Okay? We have some articles. in the office and uh so you've got uh something that help you to picture what uh we're talking about in these four ascending steps Let me mention them to you briefly now and then we'll go over them one by one. The foundational step is his promise to me is sure. Now you notice that these four steps, two of them are the Spirit's witness. To me, and two of them are the Spirit's witness in me. The first one then begins with His Word, His promise to me is sure. And then we move on from that foundation to the fruits of the Spirit that give us a Assurance, his work in me is evident. I look at my life and I see the fruit of the Spirit gives me assurance, His work in me is evident. Move on to the third step of going on under the first time. Up in the ascending, deepening assurance, and that's the filial cry, the cry of the son, his cry in me is confident His cry in me is confidence. And then we come up to Romans 8:16, the climax, the peak of assurance in Scripture, that level of profound feeling where we see that his witness to me is overwhelming. His witness to me is overwhelming. I want to explain each of these and I'll repeat them as I go through them again. I want to show you how they build, and my thesis is simply this: that every Christian has experienced at least the first. God's intention for us is to experience all of them, but many of us have. not. I want for us to thirst for deeper levels of assurance that if you have none of these assurances, that you will find Jesus Christ to be your rock and your refuge and find your assurance in him this morning. As we come To those to the fourth to the highest level, I want us to see and to feel that at that point you and I are standing on holy ground, considering something that is so holy, so So mysterious that I tremble to speak of it. And I pray that in hushed and awed silence you and I will tremble to consider what it means for the Spirit of God. To witness to our spirits that we're his children. So let's prepare ourselves in a moment of prayer for God to work in us. Give us that thirst for the deepest assurance that he wants to give us. And we will know that in Jesus Christ, my Spirit, let's pray for God to give us teachable hearts. Take just a moment of silence now and come before Holy Spirit, do that work then I and no other man can do. To witness to our hearts who know you that we are your children To give us a thirst for that assurance. For anyone here who does not have any assurance that they belong to Jesus Christ and are your son or daughter, that you would wrestle with that person. That you would be the victor, bringing them before you, to come to bow at the feet of Jesus to receive him today. Okay. You notice in the bulletin there it says uh hymn number four hundred? We're going to sing that now. One for us to as part of our receiving God's word, turn to hymn four hundred now and Say, Come thou fount of every blessing, tune thy heart to sing thy grace. Streams of mercy never ceasing, call for songs of loudest praise. Teach me some melodious sonnet sung by flaming tongues above. Praise the mount I'm fixed upon. The mount of God's unchanging life. The hymn of assurance, confidence, and the grace of Jesus Christ. Hymn number four hundred, let's stand and see To sing thy praise, screams of mercy, ever ceasing, all four songs of doubtless praise, teach me some melodious one. Some by saving sons above Rais the mouth high, fix the cry, nounce of God's unchanging love. I raise my heaven easier, enter my line, help my coast, and I know why, my good treasure, say we too. Watching from the call seem to rescue me from pain. I great now like a center find my wandering archity Thrown to the water for I believe thrown to the leaves You see them. Now you're ready. Wondered what was going to happen to him 400 there, didn't you? Now let's consider each of these four steps of assurance. The foundational step, as I say, is his promise to me is sure. This is the basic assurance of whether I can trust his word, the promise of scripture. This is relating to the promise that Paul has given earlier in Romans. For instance, in Romans 3, verses 22 to 24, 23 and 24 especially, saying, All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. But our uh but we have redemption by faith through his blood. He has promised that to us. That promise is sure. First John chapter five is a parallel to this, these four steps. And in first John chapter five may one Keep your finger in that because we'll be going back and forth. It's uh good parallel commentary on this section of Romans E. And in 1 John chapter 5, verses 9 to 13, you have the four steps of assurance also. This basic foundational step is the one John speaks of in verses 9 and then the end of 10 through 12. John there says, 1 John 5, beginning in verse 9, we accept man's testimony, but God's testimony testimony is greater because it's the testimony of God. You see, God can't lie. So he said at the end of verse 10, anyone who doesn't believe God's has made him out to be a liar. Why? What what's he said? Because he has not believed the testimony God's given about his son. And what is that? This is the testimony, namely, that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his son. He who has the Son has life. He who does not have the Son of God does not have life. Now that's the simple testimony of God. God says, Here's my son. He's eternal life. He has died for your sins and gained entrance to your life. Into heaven. If you have my son, you have life. If you don't have my son, you have no life, nor any assurance of life. You see, the basic assurance of the Spirit is that every one of us who have given ourselves to Jesus Christ at some point in our life became a That that testimony was true. That we could believe what the Bible said when it said that Jesus Christ is our only provision for sin. Just this week I was talking to a man who said, I don't need the Bible to know God. I'm quite content to know God in my own direct way apart from any necessary revelation from Scripture. That man was calling God a liar. Because God says my testimony through my word is about my son Jesus Christ. That's what you believe. That is found. foundational in our assurance of salvation. Some people have no more assurance than that and are still saved. Because they have believed the gospel and they're assured that God is true. They may doubt themselves and doubt all kinds of other things. But even when you've come to Jesus Christ, you may feel condemned. And how do you then deal with that? Well, Romans 8. 1 says, there is now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. The Spirit has to give you the assurance that that It is true, that there is no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus. No condemnation for you. Because God is setting us. That's the foundation. Assurance that God does not lie, that He keeps His promise. On each of these you see the question there to ask yourself, uh, have you ever experienced this assurance? And you see uh in each of them there's yes, not sure, and no. I'd like you to check one of those so that you see see that and that you are committing yourself to that answer. Yes, I have received that assurance that I can trust the Bible, that God's word is faith and truth. Or I'm not really sure about that. Or no I can't say that. And I would say that that's the most basic question this morning for you to settle. If you have questions about that, I would ask you to speak to me. Here's the way we can do it. It's very simple. You just excuse me, put your name on a piece of paper, rip off a corner of the bolt or something, put your name, your phone number there, And on the way out the back door after the service, just give me that little bit of paper. Slip it into my hand, I'll put it in my pocket, I'll contact you this week. You must be sure of this foundational testimony of the Spirit that the Bible can be believed. That's basic for salvation. Now then, we move on from that to the second step. The second step has to do with the fruits of the Spirit. His work in me is evident. This you see deals with a Question, how can I know if I've been born again? Maybe the Bible's true, but I've never really trusted Jesus. I've been deceiving myself. Maybe the problem is in me. And that's possible. It's good for us to examine ourselves. Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians 13, 5, to examine yourself whether you be in the faith. For don't you know that you uh are that you will pass the test unless uh that Jesus Christ is in you, unless you plump that test, unless you uh don't pass the test. What's the test he's talking about? The test is to look in my life to see if there is evidence that the Spirit of God has changed me. What is true in your life that only the Holy Spirit can account for? John, first John chapter. Chapter 5 puts it this way in verse 13. He says, I write these things to you to believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. Now, what are those these things that he's written so that you might know? Some people say it's the verse. Verse 11 and 12, but that's not the case. He hasn't simply written to you the fact that God has given life in his son, so that you may know. What he has given is this whole book. These things refer to the whole book of 1 John, in which he gives nearly 30 marks of a Christmas. Christian. Thirty evidences of a Christian, so that you might know by these marks in your life that the Holy Spirit has worked in you You see, we need to make here a basic distinction that the New Testament makes. And that is that we are saved by faith. You see the blank there. We're saved by faith. But we're assured not by faith, but by work. We're saved by faith, but assured by works. That's the point of the book of James, you remember, as we look through it. Where James says, how do you know if your faith is alive and vital versus dead and useless? Well, you know by the Change in your life. You know, by the evidence that it's a vital faith, by the fact that the Spirit of God has made you a different person. And that's summed up by Paul in Galatians 5: in the fruits of the Spirit: love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, solidness. control. If those things are evident in your life, you see. And that's only the Spirit of God that does that. Sometimes you need someone else to help you in this level of assurance. Because you and I can get very discouraged and say, there's nothing in my life that I see. It's changed. We need somebody else to come say, Oh, I knew you back when. There's a lot of things in your life that have changed. And you and I may not see them as easily as someone else will see them. We need someone else to preach the gospel to us and to help us with our assurance. So when I ask you the question on this one, have you experienced this level of assurance? The level that Paul talks about in the two verses right before verse 15, where he says, if you live according to the sinful nature, you'll die. But if you See, if you're seeing that the Spirit of God is putting to death the misdeeds of the body in you, then you will live. Because those who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. If you're seeing that happen in your life, then you can say yes. I have that. If you're not sure, put down not sure. If it's no, put down no. But again, don't simply put that down and ignore it. That's a very important question. If you don't have that assurance, maybe you are deceiving yourself. And maybe you will stand before God, like those in Matthew 7, who said, Oh, did we do a lot of things in your name? They'll say, I never knew you. Depart from you. Depart to me you who work iniquity. So that's a very serious question to answer. If you're a member of this church, have your elder go over those with you. Ask that question of assurance. Again, give me a piece of paper with your name and number one. We'll talk about it. But get that question settled. That's a basic level of assurance. Now these two levels are kind of deductive. You look at the evidence, the Bible, your life, and you conclude something. The next two levels Are more internal, immediate, and emotional. The third one is the one that we deal with in verse 15 of Romans 8. The filial cry, that is the cry of a son. His cry in me is confident. This is the one in verse fifteen. You did not receive a spirit that makes you a slave again to fear, but you received the spirit of sonship, you see. And now by him, the spirit, we cry, we're enabled to cry, Allah, Father. Daddy. This is what Jarn's talking about in 1 John 5, 10, where he says, Anyone who believes in the Son of God has this testimony in his heart. The Spirit moving in us to cry. Mother, Daddy. This is that subjective confidence that I, by grace, can call the eternal God Not only your honor as judge, not only your majesty as king, but also daddy as my father. That's my hope in the day of judgment. That day, a multitude that no one can number will stand before that great white throne. And we'll tremble as we recall the record of our lives that's about to be laid open and revealed and judged with absolute. You and I will look with terror upon that holy countenance of his presence. And as we look upon him and tremble with fear, as a king to his five-year-old would say in his throne come so the holy presence will look at you it'll say my son my daughter don't be afraid come That fear will dissipate and you will run into his arms and you will cry, Abba, Daddy My Father, my God. That's the confidence, you see, you and I have of that day of judgment. If there's no condemnation, and the Spirit of God in you enables you to look toward the coming of Jesus Christ without fear or dread. You long for his coming, for the day of judgment will reveal the face of your Father. But it's not only something for then, it's also something for right now. It's a cry of confidence that you and I can have on a daily basis, this week, no matter how deep our deep. As I was preparing this, I couldn't help but notice in my notes that I had originally been meditating on this, among other times. Back in May of 1985. It was in May of 1985 that Dean was six years old and had a very severe attack of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis. Now, juvenile rheumatoid arthritis is the number one crippler of children in America. today, so it's nothing to fool around with. Some of you who of course were with us back at that time remember it was a very severe attack. His he swelled up like a balloon. Couldn't go to school, couldn't walk. After about the third day of the attack he was on it least twelve of dull aspirates a day to try and reduce the swelling. I remember I was out in the backyard with him. And Dean was trying to be brave and he got up and he walked and he said, Dad, see I can walk. He took two steps. He fell flat on his face. And I've been thinking about, dang. My heart was breaking at that moment And I cried out, God, did you say I can call you daddy? Are you daddy to me now? The son may become a cripple? Lord, how am I going to deal with this? Do you care? Do you hear? Many of you joined with us at that time and prayed for Dean's healing. God heard us. The swelling as was anticipated. The attacks never lasted definitely, but the attacks subsided. And he didn't have another attack in any other joint, and he had an attack in that same joint about a year later, much less severe. No great problems. And two years after that he had a tact that the fact was almost negligible, and he said nothing else since. My heart cried batting. At that time I didn't know. What if God had not healed you? Would that mean that I couldn't call him daddy? Does that deny that he's daddy? If you cry for healing in your life and he decides not to heal but to allow you to continue to suffer, what does that mean? It doesn't say anything about whether he's daddy. For whether for the Christian he gives us healing as he did in Dean's life, for which I'm profoundly grateful. Or whether he gives to you or to me a continuous. Continued suffering and affliction, but gives supernatural grace to bear that suffering and affliction with contentment and peace that honors him. That's up to him. But in either case, it's supernatural and in either case it should be a good thing. Shows the love of our daddy. The spirit in us enables us in whatever need to cry. Daddy Daddy, you hear me. I know you care. Have you experienced in your life that level of assurance that you're his child? Speaking of his love then leads us on to the fourth, to the final level of assurance. The one spoken of in verse 16. The level of deepest real. His witness to me is overwhelming. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. This is like again the s the the statement in first John five ten, that he who has anyone who believes in the Son has this testimony in his heart. And what John combines in steps 3 and 4 in that one statement, Paul separates. Because I believe that verse 16 is slightly different from verse 15. They're not saying exactly the same thing. Because you see, verse 15 is speaking about his cry in me. Verse 16 is speaking about his cry to me. His witness to me. His witness, you see, it says, Now, the word spirit, whenever you use it with a small S speaking about man's spirit in the Bible, always refers to his emotional nature, his feelings. Trace that right on through the scripture. He refers to other things, but there's always that idea involved in that of my feelings, my emotional nature, my heart. And so that idea of the spirit, the emotions, I think, is what Paul has in mind here when he says, the spirit himself, he testifies with our spirit, our feelings, our emotions, that we are God's children. It's what I call. The embrace of my heavenly Father. It's that all too rare overwhelming awareness. Of his loving presence. I believe that as Presbyterians, sometimes we almost fear this level of assurance only. Somehow it it threatens to get us out of control. We fear the emotional, overwhelming sense of God's presence and of his love in our lives. And I think we're all the poorer for that. It's not even part of our heritage. For our spiritual ancestors are the Puritans. And the Puritans knew an awful lot about that emotional sense of the overwhelming sense of the loving presence of their heavenly Father. Jonathan Edwards was a very devotional and emotional. That Charles Spurgeon sometimes almost got carried away into a trance when he was preaching about Jesus Christ and spoke of himself being carried into experiences in his love for Jesus that he couldn't even utter. Down closer to our day, Martin Lloyd Jones was a man of deep emotion, passion, and his awareness of the love of Jesus Christ for him. We take one of the greatest Puritans who ever lived, Thomas Goodwin, a man who Wrote and influenced the Church of Jesus Christ, a man of immense intellect and scholarly writing. Thomas Goodwin, in his explanation of the difference between verse 15 and 16 of Romans 8, uses this illustration. He says it's like a man that walks down a road with his son. The two are walking hand in hand. Now the son is absolutely aware that the man next to him is his father. There's no question about that. There's no doubt about it. He knows who he is, he knows the relationship. And he's secure in it. But as they're walking down the road, impulsively, all of a sudden, the father reaches over, he picks up the son, grabs him in his arms, embraces him, maybe bites his cheekies, kisses him, and he says, I love you, son. And after a tight squeeze he puts him down and they continue to walk on the roof. Now Goodwin says, What's the difference? Is the son any more a son? No. Has he gained any more rights? No. Have any more freedom? No. What's the difference? Purely in the level of feelings. He has simply been overwhelmed by that momentary awareness of the love of his father. Brother and sister of Jesus Christ, have you ever experienced a brace of your heavenly father? Have you ever saw in his face with such devotion like bury at the tomb that we considered an Easter? Set your heart on him, that he came to you by his spirit, and he witnessed to your spirit you. Are my child and I love you? Oh, how I long for more of that in my own life. I've had only but the merest glimpses of it. I can remember one time praying out in the woods, struggling to confused in what I was praying about. You know how it goes, you're wandering around, you can't get a handle on anything. And all of a sudden, as an interruption into my prayers, it was almost like a heavenly voice, about claiming something audible. But it was something that was so profound to me, it was as if it were The voice of God came and said, Alan, my son, what do you want me to do for you? And all of a sudden it just stopped everything, you know? Yeah, but you are listening. You do care, Father. What do you want me do I want you to do for me? And there was that testimony of the Spirit to my spirit that I was a child coming to my Father. That he was listening and that he cared. Have you ever had that experience? That experience doesn't only have to come in crisis. Another of the great Puritan leaders was a man by the name of John Flavel. Now, John Flavel was such an intellect, he wrote six volumes of theology, and they weren't small volumes either, big fat things. In fact, this is one of them, but they're all the same size. In the third volume of this, Flavil talks about an experience that he had one time in his life. Which I believe is a beautiful illustration of the testimony of the Spirit to our spirit. Fable, by the way, was known as a man who wrote with some of the greatest warmth of any of the Puritans. Fable talks about this time when he was on a trip. He was riding for a few days, and he decided, in order to pass the time riding alone on a horse, that he would think about heaven. And he would meditate on it, he would concentrate on what life was going to be like with his heavenly. Father. He writes about this in the third person. It was such an awesome experience to him, he couldn't dare to write it in the first person and tried to pretend it was someone that he knew. We know better from history that he was talking about himself. He speaks to this person on this journey and he says as he began to think about heaven, he found that his thoughts were unusually concentrated and focused. And then he says his mind settled, as his mind settled on it, his affections began to rise. So he asked God that he would do him a favor and allow him to be uninterrupted for the rest of the trip so that no one would break in on his thoughts. And he said that he did not meet another person on the road, that whole diarrhea. So Ona began to think, this is what he writes. Thus going on his way, his thoughts began to swell and rise higher and higher like the waters in Ezekiel's vision, till at last they became an overwhelming flood. Such was the intention of his mind, such the ravishing tastes of heavenly joys, and such the full assurance of his interest therein That he utterly lost the sight and sense of this world and all the concerns thereof, and for some hours knew no more where he was than if he had been in a deep sleep upon his bed. At last he kind of woke out of this triumph. trance, uh, with what he calls a joy unspeakable and insupportable. And perceiving a spring of water in his way, with some difficulty he got off his horse, and to his surprise, found himself drenched with blood. tears and sweat and bathed himself in the pool. He then sat by that pool and longed for nothing more in his life than to be taken to heaven at that moment. He said he cared not that much for anything in the world, but only to be with a Savior, whose love at that moment he had the most overwhelming sense. God didn't take him. He let him continue on his journey, so sooner or later he had to get up and get back on his horse. He continued to ride the rest of the day and came to an inn that evening, And at the end he simply asked that his supper be sent up to his room, so as to not interrupt him, for he was still in this heavenly state. He said a supper he couldn't touch And all that night passed without one wink of sleep, though he never had a sweeter night's rest in all his life. Still, still the joy of the Lord overflowed him, and he seemed to be an inhabitant of another world. The next morning he got up, continued on his way, and he said it was like the ending of a tide gradually receding in that sense of a trance-like state until he returned to a normal condition. But looking back, he says, many years have been. He called that day one of the days of heaven, and professed that he understood more of the light of heaven by it than by all the books he ever read Or the discourses he had ever entertained about it. This was indeed an extraordinary foretaste of heaven for degree. But it came in the ordinary way and method of faith and meditation. Nothing supernatural about Plata. It was the witness of the Spirit to his spirit. How do you feel when I read that? How do you feel when you read that Paul says the Spirit Himself testifies with your spirit when you're his child? Have you ever experienced that? Have you ever experienced the embrace of Your Heavenly Father, you've received the Spirit. God intends for you to have that. But it doesn't come with five-minute quiet times. And simply listening to tapes while you're traveling and commuting or in the car at some time. It comes by focusing in quiet and Seeking the face of your Savior, or you can get a hold of you and speak to you. It comes from Sabbath rest It comes from you and I seek to know Jesus. It does not come from our seeking the experiences, saying, that sounds really neat. I hope that this week I'm going to pray that I will get some experience, something like Flavelhead. Boy, that would really set my week, you know. Can't get it that way. You seek the experience, you'll get none. Seek the face of Jesus Christ. Spirit may choose sovereignly in his time and in his way To give to you that testimony to your spirit that you are his child. When that happens, there is nothing more motivating toward our faith, toward our obedience, toward the boldness of our witnesses. For Jesus. That's another Spirit has said, You are my child, and I love you. But seek Him now. Lord, we come to you now, and we want to be honest with you on how much assurance we have ever really gained in our lives about your love, about your reliability and your word about your work in our lives, about that spirit which enables us to cry in our need, Daddy, about that heavenly foretaste. We belong to you. Set our hearts on Jesus, Lord, and may we not fear that we would lose control. Somehow you would do something in us that uh would seem unpresbyterian, but that we would be ravished by the love of Jesus. Our hearts would be lifted up To be able to say, I know the Spirit is witness to my spirit. I am your child. Grant that to us, we pray. Together with the other assurances, in your Way and in your time as we seek the face of Jesus. Amen.