There will be seven sevens and sixty-two sevens. If you committed a sin that was particularly serious, like in Leviticus 7 as an example, it says, that person shall be cut off from his people. Because you see, the he cannot refer to the ruler in verse 26, because the ruler is not the subject of the sentence. He will confirm a covenant with many for one seven in the middle of the seven. Take an oven of pigeon too. Every other year had a weeklong prophecy conference. There's sixteen volumes. And they all get caught up with Jesus into heaven. to witness to the truth of Scripture and to combat the Antichrist. Sometimes known as the Christmas angel, the one that appears in Luke 1 to announce the birth of John the Baptist, and then to Mary to announce the birth of Jesus, here 500 years before Gabriel comes to Daniel. than simply bringing you back out of Babylon to the home of Judea and to rebuild Jerusalem. will be forgiven once for all. That's your longing. And that's a way of just kind of being able to sum up what's happening in verses 25 to 27, but particularly verses 25 and 26. So you see in verse 25, he says, No one understand this from the issuing of the decree to restore and rebuild Jerusalem until the anointed one, the ruler, comes. There's going to be trouble in that building of the city. With these promises that God's going to give him a son and he's going to give him a land. Why? To explain them by answering three questions. Here's what I want to basically establish for you as you come to Christmas. And the covenant is the covenant that he makes with the Jews during the seven-year tribulation. And what that is assuming is that it's saying that Old Testament prophecy really says nothing about the church. However, along until the secret rapture when Jesus comes and whisps away the saints, until then the end of the tribulation. The many, Isaiah 53, says that when he's cut off from the land of the living, that there are many who will believe on him. That's what it's referring to. And even today, there's over 65 million books that look at it as something that's going to happen in the future. And know that Jesus is here as he said he would be. It's still trusting in their own life to make their own way through life, Lord, that you would display yourself before them now before it is too late. So are you interested in biblical prophecy? That's a lot of copies. That these books have impacted the current generation's understanding of Christianity more than any other books besides the Bible. The beast that is spoken of in Daniel chapter 7. Now, one of the key passages for that understanding of the end of world history is Daniel chapter 9, verses 25 to 27. And as he is praying and confessing and claiming God's character, God's name, God's covenant, Lord, it's up to you to for those purposes to be accomplished. Thirdly, to atone for wickedness, to atone for it, to cover it with blood, so that it is totally forgiven. the one who is going to fulfill all prophecy. Bring us home, get us out of exile, let us get back to Judea, rebuild Jerusalem. Those two things that are addressed, Gabriel takes, and he speaks of those things in terms of the city and the messiah, the messiah to accomplish is the one who is described in chapter two as the rock who pulverizes the four human kingdoms. In Daniel 7, he's described as the Son of Man who comes to, again, destroy the human kingdoms of oppression. An ancient Near Eastern custom, and here's how it worked. I want you to dig a little trench between them and lay the bodies, the parts of the bodies, on each side of that gutter. So here you've got a heifer, a ram, and a goat, body parts, their blood flowing down this gutter. And of course, that's the point. He hung there naked. in constant companionship from eternity, turned his back on him. Then the people of the ruler who will come will destroy the city and the sanctuary. And on a wing of the temple he will set up an abomination that causes desolation until the end that is decreed is poured out on him. Uh, you know, just 2,000 years that are in there. It's all about the land, the Jewish nation. That's not talking about down in a tribulation, that's talking about as a result of his death. There will be many. And on a wing of the temple he will set up an abomination that causes desolation until the end that is decreed is poured out on him. And as a result of that, he puts an end to sacrifice and offering. where he um sets himself up and uh that he then uh attacks the temple and destroys it What's Jerusalem going to be like in 2025? He says, you know what? debuted at the number one spot the first week. Who uh becomes the Secretary General of the United Nations. At Christmas time particularly, why we have a correct understanding of that passage? And so he is prompted to pray, not just to presume that, well, you know, just wait till the 70 years are up, but he realizes that God's people must respond to this prophecy. He identifies with God's people the sins that have caused them to bring the exile upon themselves. rescue us in this situation that we've gotten ourselves into. And what he basically says is, Daniel, God has heard your prayer. Seventy-sevens are decreed for your people and your holy city. to uh anoint the most holy one, the Messiah who is to come, who is going to do this, the one who will put away sin, the one who will provide the record of everlasting righteousness. God is not going to simply take away your sin, but He is going to give you a righteousness that you will experience and that will actually in the end bring in a kingdom of everlasting righteousness that you will experience. to then seal up vision and prophecy. But it's going to be a time of turmoil. And what God is saying basically is, Abram, if I do not give you this land and keep my word, may this happen to me And as we all know, down through the history of the Old Testament, there was nothing but disobedience and disloyalty. It means he will be stripped there. He's going to be cut off, the words of Isaiah 53, cut off out of the land of the living, and then he adds, and he will have nothing. And we know that when Jesus went to the cross, his disciples abandoned him. He lives cut off, cursed, nothing, stripped bear, abandoned and forsaken by man and by God. What I want to demonstrate to you in a few minutes is verse 27 has already taken place and is a powerful verification of the gospel. If you think it happened in the past, then verse 27, the he refers not to the Antichrist, but it refers to the anointed one. And I think it's fairly simple to see that that is what Daniel or Gabriel means He will confirm the covenant with many for one seven. covenant breaker who sheds his blood, God come in the flesh to shed his blood, but he is now going to confirm that covenant. So in the end of verse 26, you're still back in the first century, then all of a sudden you leap forward to at least 2,000 years now. What's the end of sacrifice and the abomination that causes desolation referred to? A number of significant things are going to happen. Time of the birth of Jesus, destruction of Jerusalem, it's about 70 years. This is now substituting for Messiah who has come to establish the covenant. To translate that either him or it in the Hebrew, I think it should be translated it, because the decreed desolation is the destruction of the temple. In that siege that occurred during that time, the suffering was beyond what you and I could comprehend. Now I submit to you that is not a market-driven prophecy. Comes his rule and his reign and God's kingdom. For you who come to possess your saints as the bridegroom coming to collect his bride, for those who have bet that you are not coming As Scripture says, will come under the judgment of the one who rules the nations. To live as those who are possessed by that hope, who trust in your word as absolutely reliable, who choose to trust you in confusion. Lord, we think of this day, the year anniversary of the Garvey's accident, one year ago today. At a time when there was nothing to do but trust the faithfulness and the goodness of God, and know that you display yourself to be faithful. Thank you for what you have done in their family and in their lives, and that this day they can look at it and remember it and see even your goodness. And about what it means to have the fullness of life. You celebrate saying, just as he came. And this week live as living sacrifices to the Lord Jesus Christ. But if it happened in the first century, then what it's saying is exactly what was said about Jesus occurred. It establishes that you and I have a hope that He is coming, as He said, and that very soon you and I will possess that kingdom with Him if you belong to Jesus. You will be caught with him into that kingdom forever and ever. More than ten million? Uh they've spawned um spin-offs of movies, video games, all kinds of stuff. negative, that is they they are solving problems, and then three things that are the positive consequences of that, the negatives Are decreed for your people and your holy city to number one, finish transgression. Then he will confirm a covenant with many for one seven. Now, secondly, who are the many? And so this week, even in anticipation of Christmas, the first coming, thinking of the second coming, you look up, you wait to see among the clouds the break. If it's in the future, it's about something curious that will happen. Don't hear as much, it seems to me, about prophecy, about the end times as when um my wife and I were dating in the church that we went to uh driver will eject or something. So, what I want to do is to open up that passage. What prompted it in verses 1 to 3. removed from that paradise because of your disobedience. Your real longing is for the home of God's kingdom. The problem, the hopes, the longings of the people, and the city that's the focus of that. And his people are going to seem at times like they're going to be swept away. You remember back in Genesis 15, Abram, who believes God, and God reckons it to him for righteousness, but Abram's really struggling. May I be dismembered and my blood flow down a gutter. So who is the antecedent of he? But you see, that assumes something. The temple now, rather than being that place which is the very essence of the presence of God, the means of approaching him, has now become a stumbling block. On a wing of the temple he will set up an abomination that causes desolation until the end that is decreed is poured out on it. People turned to cannibalism. One of those three arches is to Titus Vespasianus, who destroyed Jerusalem in 70 AD. What's going to happen to Jerusalem in all the upheaval of what's going on in Israel now Rather than to see this is what Messiah has done in the transformation from law to grace. But Lord, for those who have that hope, may we live by that hope. And Lord, we look in hope for when Jesus will come again, where there will be no more death, no more sickness. To the kingdom that He is establishing. And that displays the truth, the reliability of Scripture, and the glory of Jesus Christ in the gospel. Will have nothing. A sudden secret rapture occurs in which Jesus comes halfway from heaven to earth and brings or raptures up all the saints out of their cars, planes, boats. Now in this pandemonium and chaos, there arises a man who they call Nikolai Carpathia. It goes back to what happened in Genesis 15. Alright, three questions. Crucified, he rises again, he puts an end to sacrifice, he establishes the covenant In the Roman Forum, there are three mighty arches to Rome's great triumphs. Before the birth of Jesus. I would expect him to write that the rock is going to come, he's going to destroy the earthly kingdoms, Israel is going to be restored, and he will set up his kingdom and rule forever. The beasts are going to be destroyed. To see that glory displayed, to see the glory that will be seen from east and west, to listen for the trumpets to sound. That's the hope of Christmas. Lord, we pray there would be none in this room who would go under that condemnation and without that hope of Jesus. And where are you going to rest your life? This word written without error in something so specific, so amazing, that you and I can trust. Lord, who could have ever made up such a story? Because the Left Behind series by Tim Lahaye and Jerry Jenkins has uh sold a lot of books Now, to save you in case you don't have time to read all 16 volumes, let me sum the 16 volumes up for you in two minutes. world peace and order through the one world order that he will lead. I also happen to think that they have almost totally misunderstood Daniel chapter 9, verses 25 to 27. Now it's at that point that Daniel who's focusing on the people and the city This is an abrupt, stunning contrast to what you would expect Gabriel to say. After the sixty-two sevens, he says, the anointed one will be cut off. Is that Messiah is going to come? He then goes on to the strange words of verse 27. If you follow the books, the Left Behind series, and all of the idea of the end times that are associated with that, verse 27 is all to occur in the future. That's an assumption. In the first century, not something that's going to happen at the seven-year tribulation, where it is said that this is referring to where the Antichrist betrays the Jews. That, I believe, clearly refers to Titus Vespasianus, who was the Roman general who came and besieged Jerusalem. The terrible destruction, the conquest of Jerusalem, was so significant that Rome considered it one of its mightiest achievements, and it still stands to this day. Contrary to all expectation, totally counterintuitive, what would you expect Daniel as an exile praying for God's restoration to write? But out of those ashes comes the kingdom of God in the Messiah that rules among the nations. You see, brothers and sisters, the celebration of Christmas is not just to celebrate and remember that Jesus came as he said. But it's also for you and for me the marker of the hope that He will come again, as He has said. You continue to show yourself in some of the deepest, darkest times of our lives to be the God who is faithful to your promises. And I say, think of that. That Messiah, the rock, the Son of Man, the one who will rule and reign in triumph, will first be cut off. Of a God without a body taking on a body to die for his people Sixty eight, sixty-nine to seventy A. And so we believe it's true. Well, if you think it's in the future, you're saying the he is this ruler, this prince of verse 26, who is the Antichrist. Now, this is then something that happened as the fulfillment of the covenant. You are saying with Dawkins and Hitchens and Harris, not me, Sam Harris, all the rest of them, you're saying the Bible is full of empty errors. Cut off is Old Testament language for cursing. To remove transgression, to atone for the sin, to seal it up. What it says is that over the pinnacle of the temple, he's going to bring a desolator, somebody that's going to come to destroy this. No more of the suffering like little Emily Lee. Messiah is going to be cut off, cursed under the covenant stipulations, taking your sin and my sin upon himself. After the 62 sevens, Messiah comes. Now, how would anybody guess that 500 years before the birth of Christ? Daniel predicts something highly unlikely and very specific. We thank you for your word, which is so counterintuitive, that you spoke through Gabriel 500 years before he came to Mary to announce the birth of Jesus. The three things that result from this are, first of all, then to bring in everlasting righteousness. In a stunning reversal of what you think is going to happen, Gabriel says the Messiah is going to be cut off. left behind those kinds of that view of the end time says that the many are the Jews during the seven-year tribulation That's my longing. Because in establishing the covenant with Abraham, Abraham becomes the other partner in the covenant. I mean, seven of them hit the New York Times bestseller list, number one. But take the get the heifer, the goat, and the ram, and I want you to kill them, and I want you to divide their bodies into two halves. The Messiah is going to come, and he's going to be cut off and cursed. This is what Daniel is talking about. Many of the Jews, as well as some more of the Gentiles, will believe in him. Here's uh one of them and here's the rest of them. Our deepest longing is not the home here. He puts an end to sacrifice and offering. In fact, secondly, to put an end to sin, to remove sin by feeling it up forever. And through that, he will establish the blood covenant. You know, so they're all caught up into heaven during a seven-year tribulation in which all hell breaks loose on earth. In fact, it's not going to be simply 70 years we're talking about, but 77s of years, or about 500 years. There was nothing to him. And it's the only way you can establish that is being in the future. Would you believe they've sold over sixty five million copies It's almost near the end of the exile that Daniel and God's people are in. Just one little detail. Then in verse 26, suddenly things shift. First of all, then to answer that, is it in the future or is it in the past? When we were in Rome in September, Sharps are here, remember we walked through the Roman Forum. So all pandemonium and chaos breaks loose because of all the drivers, the cars that are driverless and all you know, you've seen the bumpers, you've seen the little stickers on the dashboard, case of rapture, this It's as easy for me to break my word as it is to dismember me. And we love you. So from the decree to rebuild Jerusalem, it's going to be seven sevens. Are you one of those that likes to know what's going to happen in the future, especially at the end times of the return of Christ? Literally the Hebrew is, and there will be nothing to him. And what is the one seven? Are you going to rest it in the things that make sense to you and articles and self-help books you read, or are you going to trust this word? Look again at verse 26. And that the next thing that we look for him to do is to come again in triumph. Think of a prophecy written over 500 years before the birth of Jesus that got the first 70 years so precisely right. So Daniel, this is really the answer to your deepest longings. It's not going to be a time of peace, as you would hope and expect. There's only one person. God says to Abram, Abram, take a heifer, a goat, and a ram. I mean it you know it doesn't say it, but y that's the secret. To answer those, let's go on to the third question to see what that's referring to, this one seven. There was absolute chaos, confusion, despair. God is going to come in a body, and God will shed his blood and be cut off. And if you haven't given your life to Jesus, you are betting Daniel was wrong. That's like somebody writing in 1492 about what's going to happen in, say, 2025. So that when you celebrate Christmas, you celebrate looking up Now during this seven-year tribulation, four people become Christians, and they form the core of the tribulation force. He's going to seal and conclude all that you have hoped for, all that the human race has hoped for since the fall in the Garden of Eden, when you were expelled. And the Son of Man is going to set up his kingdom and rule in triumph. And the kingdom has come and is established, and you and I, Daniel 7, possess that kingdom and live in it forever and ever. A lot of attention given to what's going to happen at the end times, but apparently there's still a lot of interest in the topic And that is what Messiah is going to come to establish. It's the very essence of covenant language And so what God does is he at that point establishes a covenant with Abraham. You write books, real page turners, great books. The exile will soon come to an end. He will put an end to sacrifice and offering. You and I can't say in 2007, but 500 years before the birth of Messiah. They have been translated into many different languages, including Chinese and Japanese, which are not usually very big on Christian literature. There it is, 16 vibes. To understand that, you have to understand that between verse 26 and verse 27, there's a little gap didn't tell you about. You have one last seventh between zero In whatever the circumstances of our life, whatever the chaos and the confusion, Lord, help us this week. So you see in your bulletin outline, the little chart there, where you see the city and the messiah He's saying that the Messiah will come. And we trust you. In the middle of that time, about 33, 35 years, Jesus is So when he went into heaven, the angel said, Look for him to come just as you've seen him go. The end will come like a flood. Lord, may we see this hope. Who could have ever guessed such a gospel? To understand it, you need to see it in the context. All of a sudden he's interrupted. He is going to seal up the hope of the kingdom of God setting all things right. There was nothing to him But most of the Jews continue to sacrifice and make offerings in the temple. So he is the one who is going to not only die as the See in verse twenty-seven, he will confirm a covenant with many for one seven. It's a deceptive covenant. Sixteen volumes in that series. In the middle of the seven, he will put an end to sacrifice and offering. The church was not anticipated by the prophets. In that besieging No more of those things that cause us to be confused about who you are. What is essential about that verse is to answer the question, is that still to occur in the future or has it already happened? The anointed one. That's what happens as a result of Jesus' death and resurrection. Hallelujah. That's going to be our blessing. To do six things, three of them. That is to put away or to hide your transgressions. His father, with whom he had lived It is the home to be with the Lord where all things are set right. No, no, Daniel. And of course you look at that and you say, well, that's kind of silly. They're going to be totally conquered. After sixty-two sevens, the anointed one will be cut off and will have nothing. Many and those many in the beginning of that time included many Jews And of course Jesus comes back at the end, brings everything to a conclusion, destroys all evil, and sets up his thousand-year kingdom. In Leviticus Those words are so strange and they're so complex that I'm going to try and deal with them in just a few minutes. When he was hung on the cross, he was not hung with even the decency of a loincloth. I think rather, what verse 27 is saying is he the Messiah confirms a covenant with many. You see there You read verse 27, you can't make heads or tails out of it except in hindsight. Let's pray. And we pray, Lord, that whoever here is Because if you do, it really makes the celebration powerful. Now, this is contrary to anything you would expect for Daniel to be prophesying. The anointed one that's cut off. It's always about Jews. You think it happened so bad this time? Who is the he in verse 27? War will continue until the end, and desolations have been decreed And he promises to restore peace and But of course he is actually the Antichrist That's not home. He is not going to allow that to continue. And they don't even like to acknowledge Christian books. But God has come to reveal to you that his purposes, in fact, are much larger. His allegiance, loyalty, and obedience is required. I'm letting you in on it. You read all this stuff, you say, ah, it's really amazing. He's interrupted by Gabriel. Beyond that, there's going to be another sixty-two sevens until the anointed one comes. He reads Jeremiah 25, talks about that that that will only last about 70 years. And therefore it will take much longer In fact it's been said We did that last week looking at And Jerusalem is going to be destroyed again. How would anybody guess that out of this cursed Messiah How many think they've sold? Now this anointed one He's the one that's going to reign forever. And what Daniel says now, beyond all expectation. It says, the people of the ruler will come. And that during that short period of time Now, this, remember, is over 500 years. And so Rick summed that up. There's really two thousand years. But in the end, he's going to win. Amen. Their blood will flow into the gutter I mean, God doesn't even have a body. It's the anointed one that has nothing. And I think it's important That's clear. And what's the covenant that he confirms? Starvation, no water, I mean you think Lord just It's about Israel. That's why it's so important to see that verse 27 is in the past, not the future. An He's going to establish it. It's called the church age, it's the parenthesis You know what? They usually leave them off. That means he's cursed. This is not something new that's never been done before. What does that mean? Just as against all expectation. Our Father But brothers and sisters, the meaning goes far deeper than that. Alright? So what does he do? More than a million. Those things you've confessed. And then the climax What does he say? It's the anointed one who confirms the covenant. Doesn't verify the gospel. How can God be dismembered? It's about Jerusalem. It's going to be leveled again. Now, what in the world is that about? They hit number one. You see at the beginning, he will confirm a covenant with many for one seventh. He makes it effective. More than five million. In fact, book number ten Verse 24. Now So he prays and he confesses. It was a Amen?