It is a privilege to be able to bring a message from God's Word, and uh I want to uh Begin by reminding you of just one verse that John read for us from Galatians chapter 5, verse 1. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Let's pray together. Our Father, we need you to work this truth, the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ, to work it in our hearts. To renew our minds in such a way, Lord, that by the power of your spirit we stand firm. Stand firm, Lord, in what you have provided to us freely in Christ. It's in the powerful and precious name of our Lord we pray. Amen. When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the political bonds which have connected them with another And to assume among the powers of the earth the separate and equal station to which the laws of nature and nature's God entitle them a decent respect to the opinion of mankind. requires that they should declare the causes which impel them to the separation. We hold these truths to be self-evident. That all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed. That whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends, it is the right of the people to alter or to abolish it and to institute new government, laying its foundation on such principles, and organizing its powers in such form as to them shall seem most likely to affect their safety and happiness. No doubt you recognize these words. Two hundred and twenty-nine years ago, tomorrow. Courageous men gathered and put pen to paper to declare their independence from the tyranny of a corrupt king. And it's freedom that we enjoy today that was purchased with the blood of others. That was begun with that declaration. We are gonna have cookouts tomorrow and watch fireworks, and we've come to this place. And we enter into worship in a public expression of our praise and adoration of the living God without fear of someone kicking the door down. And pointing a gun at us and taking us off to jail. We enjoy freedom because it was purchased for us by others And does it not remind you then of the greatest freedom that we enjoy? It is one of the paradoxes of Christianity that when and you can look it up, my when my spell check and my uh thesaurus and in my uh word perfect thing or whatever it's called Independence is synonymous with freedom. And yet in Christianity, when we discuss freedom, true freedom, Freedom from the bondage of sin and death. That freedom is related not to our independence, but to our absolute dependence on God for all things. Rather quite the opposite, isn't it? That in Christianity and In the truth of God's word we find this to be at at work. That we are enslaved, and too many of us are too familiar with this, to the bondage of the flesh and to the bondage and the slavery. of our sinful nature. But that bondage comes when we declare our independence from our Creator. When we say to God, We have no need of you. We will govern ourselves. See you, see the irony here As we celebrate tomorrow the independence of a nation, celebrate and enjoy it, but celebrate it under God. And reflect on true freedom. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. So stand firm. Christians, we should be enjoying freedom that Christ provides. There should be delight in our expression of worship and a celebration when we gather together because Christ has set us free. Amen. So I've got to ask you, are you enjoying your freedom? Not the freedom that says you can do whatever you want, but the freedom that comes from being secure in and under The parameters that God established for you and for me to live. I want to read a quote. I've uh uh the office asked me to do this because I'll read these long things and then Um, they're so good, but I've messed up reading them and you want to take them away and read them again so you can actually understand the quote. It's there in the bulletin. In a book called Free Indeed by Dr. Richard Gantz. He's a nephetic counselor. I uh uh totally uh very much respect his work, but listen to this quote And track of the question, are you enjoying your freedom? There should be no creature on earth more free than a follower of Christ. And yet it is my observation that the church behind its stained glass windows, its creeds and confessions, its testimonies, and what can become cheap cliches, praise the Lord, amen, is a body of conflict-riddled. Burden bearing, guilt sealed, miserable creatures more worthy of pity than emulation Some of these poor creatures have persuaded have been persuaded to believe that they must express joy and freedom in Jesus with pasted-on smiles that look like someone shoved a clothes hanger into their mouths. The tension for them in living a Christian life is enormous. In some Christian circles, to drop the smile is tantamount to admission of defeat. In others, believers are taught to continually experience the miseries of worthlessness as a kind of antidote against pride, which of course it can never accomplish. True humility comes only when we see ourselves accurately, not when we make ourselves miserable or ecstatic, according to some preconceived notion of Christian piety. The good news of the gospel is that you and I are free from the tyranny of sin, free from death and hell because of Christ. Because his blood was shed for the complete and total and free and full forgiveness for our sins. Because of the life of Christ, you and I have the righteousness that God requires us to have. It's a righteousness that is credited to our account and is received by faith, but is a real righteousness nonetheless that God So deals with us that he calls us beloved. He calls us dearly loved children. And a relationship is established based on another's work, and we get the benefit. And Paul is aware that there are those who would bring into captivity again, to bring into bondage again, to enslave again those who have tasted the freedom of the gospel of Christ. And he puts pen to paper and he writes a letter to the church in the southern province of Galatia. And he says, stand firm. It is for freedom that Christ has set you free. Do not let yourself be yoked again and the burden of slavery. Connected with this occasion of this letter, more than likely, is what you we read about in Acts chapter 15. There were some from Judea who had come to the same way. And had claimed, unless you be circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Before the first century was up, there was an attack on the gospel of Jesus Christ. People were coming and saying, You must obey the law in order to be saved. And the pillars of the church, Peter, Paul, and James, they stood and they confronted that because it was for freedom. That Christ died to set us free from the obligation of the law. This mindset that says, I can be good enough And down south we used to say, How good is good enough? You cannot keep God's law in a way that pleases him. And so Paul writes, Would that we had time to just totally cover this entire letter. Tried to take it in the first service. Don't get worried. Paul says the gospel is too precious. Don't let it be usurped. Don't let yourselves come into slavery again to an obligation. And so in chapter one he says, Look, even if I come to you, or an angel from heaven comes, and start to preach something that's other than this gospel that you have received, let him be accursed, an anathema. Don't let it happen. In chapter two he says, Have you not been made aware that these Judaizers among you are like spies? They're spying on your freedom. They're aware that you're enjoying Christ and they want to bring you into slavery again. Stand firm In chapter 3, almost as if raising his hands like this, who has bewitched you? Who has gotten a hold of you and confused you that you can somehow add to the sacrifice of Christ? You having begun by the Spirit, are you going to now be completed by the works of your flesh? In chapter 3, he goes on to communicate that. The works of the law can never bring life In fact, if you obligate yourself to keep the law, you've brought yourself back under the curse of God. And then he says that this one who was born of a woman at just the right time Born of a woman under the law, in order to become a curse for you and me, lived as one under the law perfectly. This is the gospel. This is what Paul will not let go of. That Jesus Christ has accomplished the righteous fulfillment that you and I could never, right? Hey, listen, it's a good thing, boys and girls, young men and women, when your parents whip out their favorite commandment and say, Children, obey your parents, for this is right in the Lord That is good for them to do. Because obedience is good. Obedience is right. But our obedience to the law will never save us. The law, do not be confused on this point. The law is good. The law is not evil. The law is not unjust. The law is not something to be ignored. Oh, well, I'm saved by grace. Need no law. Not the case at all. Because you know this point full well that the law serves us. Paul to the Galatians again, like a tutor, like a pedagogue, like uh Ichabod Crane with a little cane and a stick and a lesson plan in front of him in a one-room schoolhouse. As the law is presented to your heart and to mine, it serves to drive us to the fact that we are lawbreakers. It cannot save, but it points us to the one who kept the law on our behalf. That's what the law does. We don't throw the law out so that when we come to receive the full and free forgiveness of Christ, the law then becomes The way in which we should thou live. And so I want my speech to be edifying to the hearer. And I want not to commit adultery and I want all these things because the law now is not a burden, it's a delight to my soul. Amen. Oh man, Paul is so excited and animated about this point. Don't let this be robbed from you. And so in chapter four, where we pick up the reading, and I've laid out a chart that I found helpful in your bulletin outline, I'm going to assign that as homework. Because Paul says, let me speak allegorically here. You can understand it this way: one man, Abraham, the recipient of the promise, two women, two sons. You see, the promise came to Abraham and Sarah, and Sarah, who was barren and could not bear children, had been given this promise of God that through her and through Abraham, the seed of Abraham would be multiplied. And God would bring a people too numerous, like the sands of the desert floor or the stars in the night sky, too numerous to count. And Abraham, not trusting, went to Hagar. You see the chart there. Two sons, Isaac and Ishmael, products of Sarah, Hagar. And what they represent, the significance that Ishmael is this man's attempt to work it out. To buy the power of the flesh, some kind of bootstrap theology, I'm going to please God in my works. And Paul just lays it out very clearly. That the result of obligating yourself to the law in order to please God results in slavery, true slavery. But Children of the promise are truly free. Be free. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. And that's why any attempt at law-centered faith, as opposed to Christ-centered faith, must and will fail. Because a human standard or an attempt at meeting God's standard, as noble as that may be, set in the place of the freedom of the gospel, will fail. And that's why Paul says in verse 4 some very startling words. You who are obligating yourself to the law are cutting yourself off from grace. You're cutting yourself off from the very life source that is the gospel. Now listen, don't be confused here. Jesus and Paul do not contradict when Jesus said all that the Father has given me. I will in no way lose any of them. I hold them tightly in my grasp. And all that the Father has given to me, my Father also indeed holds them in his grasp. It's that double grasp of God, the security that we have as believers, that we find great comfort in. But Paul says if you attempt to obligate yourself to the law to please God, you're cutting yourself off from the very grace that God provides to you in the cross. There is no sin greater than the grace of God. Don't cut yourself off from God's grace in the way you deal with your own sin, or in the way that you deal with the sin of others. You remember the hymn, right? Grace, Grace, God's grace, grace that will pardon and cleanse within. Grace, grace, God's grace, grace that is greater than all our sin. As far as the curse is found, He came to make His blessings flow. That's why Paul is animated. That's why he is forceful to the Galatians and to you and me in turn. Do not let this gospel be. Watered down so that it becomes of no effect. A law-centered faith is a pseudo-gospel. It becomes this cheap imitation. Effort is in the place of grace. Fear is in the place of mercy. The sting of our failure is something to be polished and coddled and preserved. You know, we like to be m worthless, miserable creatures. It makes us feel somehow more Christian. Instead of when failure occurs, offering to one another the promises of Jesus in the gospel. One of the points that I think is startling in this passage is that the uh son of Hagar, Ishmael, persecuted the son of Sarah. And I think too oftentimes we find in the church Those who are attempting to raise a standard, those who are walking in the flesh, those who are uh piously obligating themselves to the law. Persecuting those who are wanting to stand free. And it's a tough struggle. It's a tough struggle. Listen, I could uh I I I've got the motivational speaker mic on anyway. I could stand here and talk to you about what the source what this freedom entails for us. And we could talk about Freedom from the idolatry of food, or freedom from strong drink, or freedom from abusing the gift of God's Uh, the gift of sexuality that God has blessed us with. I could talk about all those because all of those are contained in the freedom that God gives us freedom in But that would only be to touch this surfacey stuff, because those are simply manifestations of hearts that are enslaved, or hearts that are wanting to be enslaved and go back to the slavery. Because let us not forget that the freedom that Christ has provided is freedom from sin and freedom from death. You see a little Latin lesson there in your um in your uh bulletin outline And I was touched in the heart when I opened up uh the July Table Talk this week and saw in R. C. Sproul's first article and he talks about this same thing. I feel good. Augustine in the fourth century, arguing with Pelagius and on through the centuries, talked about Adam's ability before the fall, Adam's ability after the fall, the ability to sin. The ability not to sin. You see the little lesson there. Is that prior to the fall, Adam had the ability to not sin, and yet he chose to. And then in the fall, Adam and his posterity, us, no longer had the ability To not sin. In fact, the only ability we had was to sin because our hearts were sinful by nature. And in the redemption that Christ provides, you and I are restored and being restored to that state of redemption that is in this time frame right now. We have the ability to sin, yes, and we're aware of that. But we also, beloved, have the ability not to sin But it's not based on anything that you and I have accomplished. It's based on Christ's gracious provision of his life in exchange for ours. And the power that the Spirit of God provides. In fact, that's another theme throughout this letter. Paul to the Galatians is saying, listen, it's between the Spirit and the flesh. You having begun by the Spirit are going to be perfected by the flesh? And in the end of chapter five, he talks about the fruit of the Spirit and the deeds of the flesh. Do not allow the freedom to be a license for your flesh. Chapter five as well And so we come to this glorious truth that at one point, for you and for me, believer, there will be a time when our ability is only That we glorify God. We will no longer in our glorified state with Him have the ability to sin. That is going to be such refreshment that none of us can ever comprehend that or conceive that in this continuum. Because everything is tainted by sin. But that is what He's provided. And that's why in verse 5 Paul says, It is through the Spirit, then, by faith, that we ourselves eagerly await the hope of our righteousness. Always in view for Paul, for the apostles, for you and for me who share the gospel of Jesus with others, always in view is the hope of heaven. We don't want to just clean everything up so we can, you know, stay here forever. Always in view is this foretaste of what will be perfect. And yet Paul tells us that the freedom that Christ has provided brings to you and me an abundant living. Are you enjoying your freedom? Are you? Am I? See the the question I think we've answered is not that the law is good. I mean it's not that the law is bad and so we should obligate ourselves. That question is settled. Romans 6 and Romans 7. Psalm 119, all over the place. The law of God is good. It's where our hope is found, is the question. Is my hope in Christ as the one who has kept the law on my behalf? Is my hope in his finished work, his bloodshed? Or is my hope, foolishly, in keeping the law and hopefully one day being able to Hold up some record of righteousness that I've come by myself that God will be pleased with. Foolishness. So then, standing firm in the freedom that Christ provides Affords us the privilege of knowing him. And your outline, uh the ladies in the office are always um worried when I have the sermon outline thing because It's supposed to get to them by Wednesday or something and then by Thursday afternoon I have changes and then Friday morning I've come in with a new epiphany and Saturday, oh man, it's so different and but that's what happened this week because I'd rather it say Instead of resting in the freedom that Christ provides, I'd say resting in the promises of God, but standing firm in the freedom that Christ provides. So make that notation if you keep notes. Standing firm in the freedom that Christ provides brings us true peace. And I would just reference for you quickly Romans 5. That you and I who were at one point at enmity with God have been reconciled to God through Christ. True peace now. Because of the freedom that he provides. Standing in the freedom that Christ brings brings true passion. Not a pseudo-passion or not a religiously generated smile or some kind of put-on, but true passion. Look at Paul in 1 Corinthians 9. He says, he's free from all men. He is free from all men. First Corinthians 9, 19 to 23. And yet he says he has become a servant to all. To the Jew he's become like a Jew. To those outside the law, he's become like them. Why? Because the gospel is too precious for him. And he's be he wants to enjoy this freedom that he has, and he does so by proclaiming the gospel to himself and to others around him. Look, I may never own a Lexus or whatever the popular car model is right now. That's not what abundant living is. Abundant living is being able to see a husband and wife restored to one another because the gospel is that powerful. Abundant living is being able to enjoy seeing James McCurley or other young people in this church come to the point where they recognize they sin And their sin is justly deserved of God's wrath, and that Jesus Christ is their only hope, and they want to follow him the rest of their life. Now that's abundance. That's true enjoyment of God. We were designed to glorify God, to enjoy him forever, and he's provided us the freedom to do so. Don't lose sight of that. True passion. I want to quote from a song called Love Constraining to Obedience. It's a it's been re-redone tuned, but it's an old song. William Cooper, one of these great saints of old, spent a lot of time in insane asylums, not as a visitor, but as a patient. Suffered from depression, and then the Lord would lift the veil and he'd he'd rejoice again at the grace that was evident to him in the gospel. And he wrote this To see the law by Christ fulfilled, to hear his pardoning voice. It changes a slave into a child, and it changes duty into choice. Now I can serve the Lord my God. Now I can serve him with gladness because the burdens the the uh the the law of God are is no longer burdensome How long beneath the law I lay in bondage and distress. I toiled the precept to obey, but I toiled without success. Then all my servile works were done, a righteousness to raise. Now freely chosen in the Son, I freely choose his ways. See, that's the gospel. That's why Paul was adamant. Don't let it be robbed from you. Standing firm in the freedom of Christ allows us to be true partakers in the life of Christ. Standing freedom, standing free, standing firm in the freedom causes us To come back to that point where we are totally dependent on him for all things. I reference Paul again to the Galatians chapter two. I've been crucified with Christ. I no longer live. But Christ now lives in me, a true partaker of the life of God, Christ living in me. And so the life now that I live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me enough to give himself for me. That's what this table that we come to in a moment is all about. True partakers in the life of Christ is for this table is for those who have said to God I am not independent of you. I am totally dependent upon you for all things. You must save. I am unfit and unable to come to God on my own. We've gotta be careful. I want to close with this illustration. We've got to be careful lest we raise standards and use them. We've got to stand firm in the gospel. Because God will not be mocked. Thursday night our family was watching uh ESPN. channel and uh we like to watch baseball tonight every once in a while and catch up on sports. And my children were watching with me, some of you may have seen this, the video coverage of the veteran uh pitcher for the Texas Rangers, Kenny Rogers, who basically threw a tenter tant tempered tantrum this week. Came out of a dugout Grabbed a camera, threw it down, grabbed another camera, threw it down, guy picked it up, he threw it down again, kicked it. Cursing, all kinds of epitaphs, bad stuff. And my children, and I don't know why they asked some of these questions, but they said, Dad, how old is Kenny Rogers? And I said, Well he's he's been at it a long time and in baseball veteran you he may be late thirties, he may be close to my age. I'm forty. And I thought I'd take the opportunity to teach. You know, as you get older, it's just you know, it's a shame to see that you're not practicing self-control. And it it should you know, as you get older you should have more self-control than that. That's just pathetic. Raise a standard. And it wasn't ten minutes later. I kid you not. Ten minutes later that uh it by this time by the way, just a setting. I wake up early on Thursday morning. Uh no other morning. Five thirty. Okay. For prayer and all that stuff. And then, um, there he is. Um Eleven o'clock this is happening. So I'm tired. And at the same time my kids ask, can we read tonight? Which means can we go through Chronicles of Narnia and have one of you adult people read the chapter out loud At the same time Dana says yes, I say no. And I'm like, Oh man. So I'm in the kitchen and I'm shoving the drawers shut with a bit of intensity. I'm closing the cabinets and I hear, but I don't hear clearly, a three year old in the other room I don't hear what she says, but when I come back in she's crying. My cala is crying. Honey, what's wrong? What why are you crying? Honey, why are you crying? Well you got something in your eye You know, it's really tough having a brute for a father. And Dana says to Cala, You can tell Daddy, go ahead. You do bad things, Daddy. Oh my. At this point I have a choice to make And the freedom that Christ provides me on the cross, I am able to make that choice. Either I'm going to be enslaved again to my heart that is prideful. And would never admit weakness or fault, or that I've raised the standard, or that I don't have self-control. Or the freedom is going to provide me this humility of heart that God so graciously worked in me because in the moment The righteousness that God provides in Christ is mine. And by faith I appropriate it again. And by faith I confess this is wrong. And I can receive now, because I'm free in Christ. The rebuke from the loving hand of a heavenly father delivered to me through a three-year-old messenger because that's the freedom that is precious. I don't want to throw away moments of abundant living. And so in Christ I'm able to say, you know what, Kelly, you're right. Daddy does bad things. And I can hold her and she can cry and I can cry and we can go to bed and not read the book because we're free. Freedom. Freedom to live this life the way God's intended us to live Not obligated to read because that's what good parents do now, you see. Let me pray for us because our time is at hand. Lord God, please work in us. Work in us hearts that are so in love with you that this gospel is what we would live and die for. Make us people that would cry out like Paul, let me be accursed if I start to uh diminish what the truth of this is. Lord, I know that's not me, but yet Christ in me is the only hope I have of glory. And so work that out in us. We pray now in the name of Christ.