Representation in in a piece of music for what we're gonna study. So let me open us in prayer Father, we do. Sing together, hallelujah. All I have is Christ. Jesus, you are our life. And so we come this morning as we worship you to see what you have said to us, to hear your truth. To receive it, Lord, and to have the hope that you will continue your transforming work in us. We are free. We are free to live not for the passions of the flesh, but to live for the will of God. And so we come this morning to ask you to empower us, to teach us. To transform us, that we might be sons and daughters of God most high, who bring you honor and pleasure and delight in your work in us. In your name we pray. Amen. If you have your Bible, please turn to 1 Peter chapter 4. You've already heard it read, but I want to read it again as we begin. I'm going to read verses one through six. Since, therefore, Christ suffered in the flesh Arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions, but For the will of God. The time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do, living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery. And they malign you. But they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead. that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does. We talk a lot here at Columbia Presbyterian Church about idolatries, about addictions, about false worship. We talk about it because the Bible talks about it. We talk about it because the gospel is all about freeing us from those idolatries. And so I want to ask you a question this morning to help you to begin to focus on what this message is going to do. And that question is: what is it that you live for? You've heard the statement, um, I work to live, or I live to work Do you live for something? Or do you just live? And if you live for something, what is that something? Another way to look at it might be to say, I'm okay if Till in the blank. My life is good when? I'm happy when So I want you to think for a moment. I want you to think about those things that drive your life. As Peter says here, the passions of your life. What is it you are passionate about? And I even left you a little bit of space to write it down because I'd really like you to think about it, to concretize it, and have it in mind as we go through this passage. So I'm going to give you ten seconds. I'd love to give you more time, but I don't have more time to give you. And some of you are already looking up this way, so I'm gonna move on. But I want you to think about this. And and God will bring to your conviction whatever those things might be. Yesterday I had been working on the message and I got home And one of my sons came to me and said, Dad, I need your help. Now one of my idolatries is service. And I want you to think about that for a minute because idols can be good things, but they're good things out of balance. And so when somebody comes to me, and please don't do this in mass, when c somebody comes to me and says, Steve, can you help me with I tend to fall into a default mode that says, well of course, I'll try. I may not succeed, but I'll try. And so my son came to me and said, Dad, my computer's messed up Second idolatry of mine is technology. If you really want to get my attention, and Alan knows this well, come to my office or come to me wherever I am at home and say, I need your help with my computer. I love to work on those things. They're wonderful puzzles. They usually make some sense. Usually. Yesterday I I I went and and what my son really needed was to get his antivirus updated. But when I typed it in, and I I'm hesitant to even share this because I know I'm going to get a lot of answers, because a lot of you are going to get lost right here. And you're going to go right where I went and spent several hours doing it yesterday afternoon. I want your attention here. Well we went to try and go to his download updater for his antivirus and it said internet connection failed. We were on the internet. I could get Comcast, I could get Microsoft, I could get all sorts of internet. So I said, well let's go try a different one. We have free McAfee, let's go to McAfee, we'll update McAfee and get to everywhere except when it says download When you push the download button, it says Internet Connection failed. So I'm going along and I happen to have a Mac. So I think, you know, Mac, it has this wonderful reputation. The viruses never get to it. So I go to the Mac and I try and type in MacAP download and it says internet connection fails. So I don't know whether I I got lost and and I spent way too much time working on trying to fix computers and I've lost some of you. You're trying to fix computers in absentia. I want you to come back. Because the reality is, my idolatry really focuses around control. I want to be in control. I want things to work, and if they don't work, I want to be able to fix them. I want to know that my life is good because I can make it good. And Anne, bless her heart. If she was going to do something, looked at me and said, Don't spend too much time on this. I said, No, I won't, but I didn't tell her what too much time was. I think we had a difference of opinion. Some of you, your idols may be simple things. Not easy, but simple. Peter's calling us to be willing to suffer He said last week as we looked at chapter 3, verse 17, it's better to suffer for doing good if that is God's will than for doing evil. In this passage he says, arm yourselves with the same mind that since Christ himself had suffered, be ready to suffer. And so you have a direct problem. If your idolatry is freedom from suffering, Peter is telling you Christ's pattern and Christ's shaping your life to lead you through suffering. For your good. For some of you, you may live for a clean bill of health For some of you, you may live for finances that are back in order again. For some of you, you may live for a good marriage. Or you may live for a good relationship with your kids. There are simple things that we make idols, good things that we make idols. They become an idol when they're out of balance. This passage tells us that we are to live no longer for the human passions. And then it lists several that we're going to run into in our culture today. More and more we'll run into these. But we're free. We are free. Christ, through his death and resurrection, has freed us. This passage says, For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. Now you may want to think that that means that if you suffer, your suffering curges you and gives you power over sin. That's not at all what the passage is saying. The passage is referring back to the suffering that Christ has accomplished, that the righteous has died for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. That's the suffering. Galatians 2. 20 says, I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And so because Christ has suffered for sin and has defeated sin, we have ceased from the power of sin. We're free. And that idea of ceasing is a one-time act with an ongoing result. In other words, Christ has accomplished for you redemption. And you are no longer under the mastery of sin. Colossians gives a great picture of what this looks like in chapter three. Don't don't turn there, I'll read it But this is what Peter says in the same vein. For you have died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. When Christ who is your life appears, then you will also appear with him in glory. Put to death therefore what is earthly in you sexual immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, covetousness, which is idolatry. On account of these the wrath of God is coming. In these you too once walked when you were living in them. But now you must put them all away. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and obscene talk from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices, and have put on the new self which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. We have died with Christ to sin. We are alive in Christ to live to do the will of God. Now the problem is we we may believe that's true And we may be sitting or standing, because I'm standing, thinking, how do I change? God, you've told me that I'm no longer a slave to these desires, to these masters, to these over-desires. to these passions. I'm no longer a slave. And I'm free to live for the will of God. But how? How Well, I think one thing that I want to help you to look at is the language that Peter uses. He says in verse 2, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, in this earthly existence. So as to live this life no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. The time that is past suffices For doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living insensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. The time past is sufficient You spent enough time in this. You don't need it anymore. Well that's an ironic statement. I think Peter, as he writes this, is almost laughing Because if you were to tell a prisoner who's been released from jail that his time served is sufficient, and he really doesn't have to go back to jail, what's his attitude going to be? Does he want to go back to jail? Is it a good thing to have been in jail? Is it something he has to give up and struggle to overcome? And yet we look at our sin, we look at the things that tempt us, we look at those passions, and we say, Do I really have to give them up? Am I really no longer going to Live this way? Jesus, I guess, I guess you're worth that sacrifice The catechism describes the state of sin, the state of slavery to sin, the state of man prior to redemption as a state of misery. One of the things that's necessary for us as we begin to live this new life in Christ is to understand more fully the reality of our experiences. What sin has ever delivered on his promises? Has there ever been a sin in your life where you've committed that sin, and at the end of that process, as you've dealt with all the issues and ramifications related to that sin, that you said that was a really good idea. I think I'll do that again Does sin ever satisfy? If you want to change, you need to understand that sin is a liar. Sin wants to enslave. But we need help We need help. I was looking last night at the story of The Silver Chair, one of the Chronicles of Narnia, written by C. S. Lewis. In the story, there are two children who travel back to Narnia, Eustace Scrubs and Jill Poole. And they're traveling with a marsh wiggle whose name is Puddleglum. Say that four times fast. And they end up at some point in an underground kingdom that's ruled by the Lady of the Green Kurdle. And in that kingdom they find a knight and somehow end up in his apartment having dinner with him when he says, You'll have to excuse me now, because every night I must be bound to that silver chair. Because there is an evil spirit that takes over, and I become violent, and I become dangerous. And if I'm not restrained, I don't know what I would do to the people around me. And so Eustace and Jill and Puddleblum have the option of either going into the other apartment and staying. Or after the gnomes have tied Prince Rillian, the knight, to the chair, coming back and watching. And they decide to come back and watch. And rather than a spirit of madness taking over Prince Rillian, what happens is for one hour every night he becomes himself. And he's tied into this over chair so that the spell can take its effect on him again and he can be continually contained and controlled by the lady. As they're watching him and as they're listening to him, they begin to realize what's taking place and they free him from the silver chair, and the spell is gone. Brothers and sisters, we need Eustace. We need Jill. We need Puddle Glum in our lives because we need people who will help us to see the truth. And will help us to live in that truth. That's what Peter's doing. As Peter's writing to the church, Peter's serving is that counsel, is that friend. Peter's telling them, this is what life is like. Live no longer for these human passions, but live for the will of God. And he's helping to focus the church in Asia Minor on the truth. Now, because Peter is the apostle, it's not only that Peter is helping the church in Asia Minor, but Peter has given us scripture. And brothers and sisters, you have the Word of God to help you. This passage focuses you on the importance for you personally to battle those passions so that you might be the one who lives for the will of God. You have not only the opportunity for fellowship and community to encourage you, you have not only the scripture, but you have the Holy Spirit. If you are in Christ, You have the Holy Spirit to empower you, to convict you, and to shape you. But let's not lose sight of what we studied last week. You have the gospel. You have redemption that has been accomplished by Christ because this passage says Christ suffered in his flesh, in his earthly existence. Arm yourself to suffer in your earthly existence, and in that suffering recognize that you have been given freedom from the slavery to sin. And can't now live for the will of God. So what does it look like now to live for the will of God? Well we studied that briefly last week as we looked at verse thir three seventeen. It is better to suffer for doing what is right, if that is God's will, than for doing what is evil. The will of God is that you, without fear of consequences, live to please Jesus And he tells you what that life is to be. You are to live in obedience to God's call You are to put off those human passions and to put on the will of God. You are to know Him. You are to desire to please Him. And you may think, you may think, that this is just another slavery. Jesus, for the payment of eternal life, I will sacrifice the pleasures of the flesh. I'll give up those things that I really don't want to give up because they promise me things that I really want to have, but I want more to be in heaven. Brothers and sisters, God doesn't love you so little that He will save you for heaven and leave you in sin because Sin is a state of misery. No sin will ever fulfill its promises. No sin will ever satisfy. No sin will ever give you a good life. It will suck you dry. And what God is doing is He's saying, I give you not only heaven, but I give you freedom now. Freedom to live right. Freedom to live well. Freedom to use the gifts that I've given to you in kingdom building. Freedom to serve as the steward I've made you. so that your abilities, your experiences, your possessions are all to be used for the building up of the kingdom which brings you joy. If you want to end well, if you want to be satisfied with life, live for the will of God So how will we live in our freedom? When we live in that freedom, unbelievers will mock us Peter says, with respect to this, they're surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery. They're surprised. They're prisoners in jail calling you back to jail. They're people who are enslaved to sin calling you back to sin because they can't believe That you feel happier living for God than you did living in sin They're surprised. They call you back to the same lifestyle that you've lived with them. They call you back to those things that have enslaved you and you've escaped from. And sometimes they call very enticingly. Sometimes they're almost convincing. And in fact, sometimes they do a really good job and they convince us. But the truth of the matter is. They and we will give an account to God. And we're free. We can give that account to God with joy, with satisfaction, with contentment, because the work the Spirit is doing in us. We'll honor Christ. We'll honor Christ by our behavior. As we live for the will of God, we bring him honor, we bring him glory. And the result as well is that when those who are surprised by your righteousness malign you for your righteousness The promises that they will give an account to God. And in chapter 2, it's clear that that is not merely an account to God for their own sin, but it is an account to God for their error. As they believe you're a fool and that you live for God and for righteousness, they will give an account to God that will honor God because they will tell him what they've seen in you. By their testimony, you will honor God. You'll have a better life. You will no longer be enslaved. 1 Peter 3:17, for it is better to suffer for doing good, if that should be God's will, than for doing evil. We talked last week about the fact that Peter, in his attempts to escape the consequences, damaged his soul And his attempt to be in control and to run his own life and to be able to protect himself from damaging consequences that might come damaged his soul in his rebellion and abandonment of Christ. Brothers and sisters, whatever it is you live for If you allow that to be something that will lead you to abandon Christ, will damage you. There's nothing, absolutely nothing, that can give you what Christ gives you. There is no one who can give you what Christ gives you. And it is better to hold on to, to cling to, and to follow Christ than anything else. Regardless of the consequences. Story after story after story in Scripture demonstrates that. And you, free in Christ, are no longer enslaved. By your choice, by the Spirit's work, by the transformation of the gospel, you Follow Jesus free. And you have a sure and a certain hope for your future. For this reason, for this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead. That they're judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does. Some of you may may look at that and on the face of it think that Jesus again is being referred to going back to preach to people who are dead. We talked last week briefly about the fact that it was the Spirit of Christ in Noah who proclaimed the message to the people of Noah's day. Jesus does not go from the cross Jesus does not go to preach to spirits who are in prison. Jesus does not preach the gospel again to the dead. Hebrews 9, inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes judgment. Once There is no preaching to the dead to give them another opportunity to come to faith, inasmuch as it is appointed for men to die once, and then comes judgment. Jesus preached to those who were alive in Noah's day through Noah as his spirit, the spirit of the prophet that was upon Noah, proclaimed the truth. The gospel, we're told here, was preached to those who are dead, but at the time they heard it were alive. So that when they died in this earthly existence, The way men do, they would live eternally in Christ the way gattas. And that's our hope Our hope is that though we will die in this earthly existence, we will cease to live here. One way or another, whether it's by dying or whether it's by Christ's return, this earthly existence will end But we in Christ will be forever with God because of the gospel. Because Christ suffered to free us from sin, because he's given us new life So, how are you to live? Well, first and foremost, you are to arm yourself with the way of thinking that Christ had, which is that you are not to run from that experience of suffering, and you are not to run from that work of the gospel in your life. You are to believe. And you are to live for the will of God. You're to change. You're to live in the freedom that Christ has purchased for you. But to do that, you need one another. You need people who know you well enough to be able to speak to you as you find yourself falling back into the thinking that says, these temptations are really strong I'm susceptible to desiring these promises and might fall once again into these sin patterns. And you need brothers and sisters who will know you, who will recognize those that you feel safe enough to come to and ask for help, and who know you well enough that even if you don't ask for help will work with you. So that you can live for the will of God. You need to be in the Word. This is God's spoken and written word to you. And Peter, in this passage, encourages you how to live in A way that pursues the will of God, how to battle the temptations and passions that want to master you. Prayer. Recognizing that God listens. We we sang a song, or they sang a song a moment ago, that talked about the fact that God listens to us in spite of our sin You need to believe. And that is a battle. But it is a battle that Jesus calls you to and gives you the resources to win. Let's try. Father, we come to you because you are our hope. You are our Savior. You are the sovereign God who has accomplished everything necessary for life and godliness for us. And Lord Jesus, you have given us that sure and certain hope of heaven that however we follow you, because we follow you, and because you are You are powerful and have accomplished our redemption. We know, we know where you're going to take us. We know that you will hold us close and that we can never be lost. But Lord Jesus, there's a battle that rages around us. There's a battle that rages within us. And we need your grace. We need your grace to see truthfully. The reality of sin and the reality of obedience. We need your grace to be willing to live in ways that will honor you. We need your gifts to build up your kingdom. And so we pray, Lord Jesus, have your way with us. Give us the grace to recognize that we can think like Christ. That we can arm ourselves to endure the suffering that will come because we belong to you. And Lord Jesus, we pray that you would be honored in the battle and in the outcome. Because we live for your name and for your glory. Amen.