I've given a perfect illustration for my sermon this morning in the weather outside. Because the sermon title is Independence and Control. And as Americans and as human beings, we like to think that we in our freedom have access to both. The reality of the matter is we don't have either. Let's go ahead and open in prayer and ask God to open our eyes and our hearts this morning. Lord God, we do know that we are dependent upon you, and yet we so easily fly. It's a believing that we are able to do things on our own. As easily as we slide into the ditch when we don't take into consideration the condition of the road or the baldness of our tires. And Father, this morning we come to you and we ask that you will show us your care for us, how wonderful it is that we are dependent upon you. And that you will continue faithfully and lovingly to exercise the control that we so easily use to. Lord, speak to us this morning through your word. Through your Spirit, change our hearts, that we might be more submissive to you and secure in your life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know if you guys have had to do a whole lot of driving in in the roads outside lately. I had the opportunity to drive into Kensington on Friday morning. I have never seen the beltway around DC as farsely attended or as unusually driven. There were no markings on the street because there were three inches of slush covering everything. And there were the four wheel drive cars that would zip along thinking they had all this wonderful control. They were free of any concerns because there was nobody on the road to stop 'em. There weren't any police out, I'll guarantee you that And and they had vehicles which could give them a safe and secure drive and you know I saw them go off the side of the road. I'm sitting in my four wheel my four wheel car that has front wheel drive. It's a small niece and moss the station like I'm really confused this morning. And I'm graveling along and I'm being passed by all these four-wheel drive cars who'll ultimately go off to the side of the road We as Americans believe that we have a right to expect independence and control to sort of taught to us in our schools. And it lived in our families. I don't know if you guys have kids, but my kids have a wonderful cry for freedom. No more rules. When we try and trade places with them and say, okay, for tonight you're the dad and I'm the kid. As soon as we start pointing out the fact that they have to give us our dinner They have to have the money to buy the stuff that they're going to feed us and they have to clean up after us while we go play. Radically they become very dependable kids. They love to depend upon us. We give them dinner and we clean up their messes and we take care of them and put them to bed. Churches are no different. We're no different. And the lesson that Paul's teaching us in Galatians chapter 5 this morning is that we are no different than them. We want to be independent. We want to have control. We want to be secure because we can do it. And the honest truth that Paul tells us this morning is that that is not the case. And you cannot seek that. Let me read the passage we're going to look at. Galatians chapter 5, verses 1 through 15. It is for freedom that Christ has set us free. Stand firm then and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. Mark my words. I, Paul, tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all. Again, I declare to every man who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to obey the whole law. You who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. But by faith we eagerly await through the Spirit the righteousness for which we hope. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. You were running a good race. Who cut in on you and kept you from obeying the truth? That kind of persuasion does not come from the one who calls you. A little yeast works through the whole batch of dough. I am confident in the Lord that you will take no other view. The one who is throwing you into confusion will pay the penalty, whoever he may be. Brothers, if I am still preaching circumcision, why am I being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been abolished. As for those agitators, I wish they would go the whole way and emasculate themselves. You, my brothers, were called to be free. But do not use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature. Rather, serve one another in love. The entire law is summed up in a single command. Love your neighbor as yourself. If you keep on biting and devouring each other, watch out, or you will be destroyed by each other. I find this to be an incredible passage. And it keeps pointing out to me a truth that I really would like to ignore. As a matter of fact, I in practice ignore it very well and very frequently. The truth is that that I cannot allow my tendency to return to trusting myself. To be the operative principle in how I relate to God. That's very subtle But Paul says in verses 2 and in verse 4, how key that is for our relationship with God. He says, mark my words. I Paul tell you that if you let yourselves be circumcised, Christ will be of no value to you at all There are some points that I want to get to in this passage to help us to see how critical and how subtle this tendency might be. And I think part of our curse, we oftentimes think of how wonderful it is to be Americans and to have freedom, but I think part of our curse as a church is that we are too American in our church. We celebrate freedom above all. And freedom is good. In verse 1, Paul's saying, it is for freedom that Christ has set us free. But we make a very subtle step as we move from freedom to independence. And you see, that permeates our mindset as Americans, because we don't celebrate a Freedom Day on July 4th, we celebrate an Independence Day And I want to tell you this morning that our independence as human beings, human independence is illusionary. It does not exist. And that's the first blank. It is illusionary. You do not have independence. And to prove that, I want to move on real quickly here to show you what your independence would mean to you If you look at having independence, it means that you have to rely on your works. And don't put your there. Independence means I have to rely on my works for my relationship with God. Now if that doesn't frighten you, hopefully what I say coming will. Because you can't be independent Of God. To be independent of God means to be a slave to sin. For you see, Paul is saying here to the Galatian church: you who seek independence, not freedom, independence. Are placing yourself under the law. You're seeking circumcision to show that you can do it What had happened was Paul had established a church in the Galatian province. They'd understood gospel. They'd understood grace. They knew that God had come to save them. But some Jews or some Judaizing believers had followed after Paul had left, and he began to teach the Galatians that they had to obey the law in order to be a Christian. That perennial battle that we face of what is the relationship between grace and law was being battled in the church here, as Paul wrote this epistle. And he's pointing out to them, you began well. You understood grace? What he's saying by being circumcised means to place themselves under the law as a means of sustaining their relationship with God. They had come to be confused, and they were being taught that in order to continue their relationship with God, they had to fulfill the law the way the Jews had fulfilled the law. And they accepted that. And suddenly they lost Christ. For you see, if I have to rely on my own works. To sustain my relationship with God, I have to be perfect. In verse three, he says, I declare to every man who lets himself be circumcised that he is obligated to obey the whole law. Every legal Statement. Paul 613 of the command. The problem is, I can't change my behavior. You can't change your behavior. You have a habit of sin. But you have to battle. And if I were to ask each of you, do you have a pet or besetting sin? I'm sure that if you were to be honest If it's not that you lie too much, you'd say yes. And if I were to ask you, do you have control over that sin, you'd have to say no. Again, unless your besetting sin is telling lies. But even if I could control that, even if you could, you have a whole history You have a debt of sin that cannot be atoned for in your own power. But to be independent you have to claim that you will be your own means of salvation. It is your works. And that's what the law has taught us. You cannot fulfill the law. And Paul tells us as Christians that for us particularly, if we are to fall into this category, we have again taken upon ourselves a yoke. Of slavery that we cannot bear. Paul's forcing us to understand our inadequacy. I am not able to sustain a record of perfect righteousness from this point forward. And that is not what Christ has done in purchasing my my my relationship with God, he's not said, okay, now you have a blank slate. Go, sin no more. I can't do that and neither can you And I can't deal with my past debt of sin, and neither can you. So the last thing that you should want this morning is independence or control. For you see our freedom results from our dependence. That's the blank under Run the Numeral 2. I'm sorry for the small line. Another maxim I learned is not this week is that you don't get what you see. On my computer, those were nice and long lines. And once they got printed they sort of shrunk But the point is that our freedom results from our dependence. You see, Christ has sacrificed himself for us, and by his sacrifice he has made it possible for us, for me and for you. For all who trust in him, he has made it possible for your half dead of sin to be born and removed. You don't have to bear it. He's also made it possible for you to sin no more. Not that I'm preaching a doctrine of perfectionism. I'm not saying that now for you to sustain your relationship with God you must be perfect and obedience. That is contrary to all I'm trying to teach you this morning, but he has transformed you. And he has freed you from your habitual sins. 5-1 it says, it is for freedom that Christ has set us free. It's Christ that's done it. It is my dependence upon him that brings my freedom, and freedom is not independence. How has he done that? He's done that by bearing my sin. By taking my sin away and giving me his record of righteousness God looks at me, and it's like Isaiah 53 says, All we like sheep have gone astray. We've done really well at sinning. We've turned to our own way. But the Lord has caused the iniquity, the sin of us all, to fall on him. And when we're seen by God, we're not seen with our dead of sin, we're seen with Christ's righteousness. It's perfect obedience. We're accepted. But only as we're intertwined with Jesus. Not as an independent being. Now a couple of points that I want to get to that I hope will will demonstrate. More emotionally, that point. Deal with both the necessity of Christ's atonement and his sufficiency. For you see, if there were any other way that we could have come to God, there would be no necessity for Jesus to die. Would there? If there were any other way for peace to come between me and God, Jesus would not have had to die for me For him. He would not have had to die for you. Accepting that, and accepting that God is a loving Father who does what is necessary for the welfare of his children We read, For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever should believe in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That God's word of himself, and it is true. Love motivated the sacrifice that led to our tongue. Therefore, it has to be necessary. There is no other way. For if there were another way, God is not a loving father to send his son to die. He is a monster. For it's no longer a sacrifice of love borne out by the ultimate rewards that it accrues. It is a father sending his son to live and to die in a way that made no sense for a reward that could have been gotten in other ways. There is no other way you can come to Jesus or to God, but by the life and the death of Christ. And yet, as Christians, we sometimes forget that. The sufficiency, as well, I think, is a crucial point to show us that what Paul's saying is true because If Jesus' death is enough, then I don't have to fall into trusting my words And Paul answers that question here. He says that to try and add anything is not only foolish, it's destructive. Christ's death is so sufficient that if you are to add your obedience to the law, to what he has accomplished If you are intending, like Paul says in verse 2, or rather verse 4, you who are trying to be justified by law. If you seek any additional justification by the works that you do, you have separated yourself from Christ. You have fallen from grace. When I first read those words, I went into a depression. Years back as I began to realize what was going on in my own life, and I realized that that what Paul is saying here is that if I trust any part of what I do for my relationship with God, I try It is so important that we understand that grace is the the only factor in our relationship with God Because if you add anything else, you die. You have two feet, one in each boat You have the work of Christ and you have your obedience. I don't know if you've ever stood in two different boats at the same time, but it's a very unstable place, and one thing will happen. You'll crash. You'll either step out of the one and completely rest in the other, or you'll swim. Paul is telling you that you cannot trust your works. You trust Jesus. You trust the Spirit. For he says that the Spirit, verse 5 and 6, for by faith we eagerly await the hope. We eagerly wait through the Spirit, the righteousness for which we hope. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision has any value. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through love. And he says in verse 16, so I say, live by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the sinful nature. What does it mean for us as Christians today that Paul has said what he said? It means two things. First and foremost, it means stand firm in grace. That's Paul's battle cry. He says in verse 1, stand firm then, and do not let yourselves be burdened again by a yoke of slavery. The choice is clear. You can depend upon Jesus or you can depend upon yourself. The outcome of depending upon Jesus is life. The outcome of depending upon yourself is death. What does it mean to depend upon Jesus? What does it mean not to accept that circumcision? Does it mean, like it says in Romans 6, that you're free to do whatever you wish and you have complete independence? No. Paul says in Romans 6, Shall we go on and increase our sinning that grace may abound all the more? And he says, May it never be. This is not a sermon nor a text to excuse independence. You're not free to do whatever pleases you because you have been freed to dependence upon God. And in verse 6, the only thing that counts is faith expressing itself through. You depend upon God. And you depend upon pleasing Him to know freedom. But not because that pleasing God means that you have earned anything. It means that God has given you salvation. He's made you a new creature. He's opened your eyes and your heart. You now see what he's done for you and like one who has been transformed, your greatest desire is to please him. That's what the Spirit Does it make you a new creature and it says to you, I will reorient your heart. You will no longer thrive on selfishness nor sin, but it's not in your power and it's not because of your pleasure that you change. It is me working in you So Paul says to stand firm. He says, live in grace. And one of the remarkable things that grace frees you to do is to root out and recognize. your tendency to retain trust in yourself. Some of you may have thought that I was going to say root out and recognize your tendency to sin. Trusting yourself is him. But what what Paul is pointing out here that's so remarkably liberating Is that your sin isn't the dominating factor in your relationship with God? Let me illustrate some of this from my own life. struggles that I have with retaining independence and control. You see, one of the things that I battle with is my constant sense of justice. I believe that if God recognizes my greater efforts to overcome my sin, he's bound to approve and to appreciate me. The truth is, God does not love me anymore when I'm battling my sin than when I don't For my relationship with him is not bound upon my obedience. It's not contingent upon my obedience. My relationship with him is the force and the focus and the cause of my obedience. It's as I draw closer to him and realize the love that he has for me that I have a greater desire to demonstrate my love for him. But I don't always live that way, for you see, I fall into the pattern of trying to overcome my sins my way. Let me just share three of those sins with you. Show you how you too may be subtly falling into the pattern of rooting out your own sins and obligating God in your mindset. To love you more. See, one of the sins that I have is pride. Boy, do I hate pride And I look at myself and I see my tendencies towards pride, and I puff myself up, and I see how I keep falling into the patterns of thinking I'm really a neat guy And I start saying, oh, look at that sin. It's pretty black. It's pretty ugly. It's pretty reprehensible. I better do something about it. And so I start seeing how ugly and black my sin is. Pretty soon I began to think, boy, isn't it neat that I'm dealing with my sin of pride? Look at that person over there. I bet they're not dealing with their sin of pride nearly as well as I am. And I'm right back in the middle of my sin. Not only can I not deal with it, as I look at my efforts, I begin to think that God is obligated to approve And you know, it may subtly come in that I've got this prayer request that that that I want God to do something on. There's been a number of them lately. And I look back and I think, well, yeah, I'm on pretty good ground I have a reason to ask something and to expect that God is willing to answer, and I am dead. Because God doesn't answer my prayers because I have earned his affection. I am not more useful to God when I am living righteously than I am when I'm living in sin. It is not me who accomplishes what God does through me. It is God. Another one of my besetting sins is anger. Now see I've lived with anger for a long time. I'm one of four boys and I'm number two and I usually got the short end of the deal. And I learned how to be angry very early and very well. And I battled with that all through my middle school years. I ended up doing a lot of things to deal with it. And finally in college, God somehow miraculously lifted the bulk of my battle with anger. So my temper doesn't affect me nearly the way that it used to. And yet I find that I still stuff my anger One of the ways that I've learned to deal with that is not to not to reflect upon my emotions. And I think I'm doing pretty well. I haven't yelled at anybody for a week The four kids, five on the way. That's a pretty major feat. But I begin to become convinced that it's me who's done with my anger. And you know, there's a real tension in trying to keep that going. And I find that in places that I don't even think I'm feeling anger, I explode And the worst part is when I'm doing well, God is obligated to me My third besetting sin, or at least the third that I'm willing to share this morning, is selfishness. And you know, selfishness is really a tough sin to deal with because you recognize that you are selfish, that your world really revolves around you more than you'd like it to. And you say, okay, well what's what's the solution to selfishness? It's service. And so I begin to serve other people and do things for other people and and and refuse to allow them to do things for me, and I begin to exercise independence and control. But you know, there are times when it springs up on me that I've got this secret ledger book. And I know what I've done for people. I know what they owe me. And you know, I know best of all what God owes me. And I'm dead. But Paul is telling us this morning that Jesus has dealt with our sins. He's dealt with my sin of dealing with my own sin. You see, he's given me a motivation to obey him that doesn't come from merit. It's like the parable of the generous landowner is Jesus tells of the landowner who's called people to work for twelve hours, and he calls them to work for nine hours and for six hours. And for three hours and for one hour. And he pays them in reverse order. And so the twelve hour workers are sitting back and they've got a good accounting system and they think Okay, a twelfth of a denaria. And so the steward calls out the people who've worked for an hour and pays them a denaria. The twelve hour workers either begin to think, whoa, what a generous guy. Twelve denarius for working twelve hours, it's an easy system. Three hour workers are called forward and they get a denarius. They get pretty peeved. The six hour workers come forward and get paid a denarius and they're even more peeved. They worked twice as long as the three hour workers and they still didn't get what the one hour workers got. On and on to the twelfth hour workers and they come to the land. and they complain. And they say, this isn't fair. And the landowner says, What's not fair? I told you that you came and you worked for twelve hours, I'd give you a denarium They said, yeah, but you gave the same thing to the guys who worked one hour. They goofed off all day and got paid the same as we got paid. The parable is written to us. The parable is written not to us as twelve-hour workers, which we want to think. See, the reason that parable made no sense to me for the longest time is because I was clearly a twelve-hour worker. I became a Christian in my youth. I've dedicated my life to serving God. Certainly. God's going to reward me more. But there's only one 12-hour worker. And there are no nine, six, or three hour workers. All of us are one hour workers, and we've gotten not what we deserve. And the fairness of that parable is not that we're rewarded evenly The grace in that parable is that we're rewarded at all. For the 12-hour worker is Jesus. He kept the whole obligation. He came and he lived an obedient life. He died a sacrificial death. He didn't have to die. And now the wonder for me is not that I have to obey. It's not that I have to struggle or to sacrifice. The wonder to me is that I have a relationship with God that He's chosen to give me. My sin has been dealt with. And even more wondrously It's not that I don't have to bear the debt of my sin. I don't have to sin. And it's not that I can't sin or I lose a relationship with you. It's not that I must obey to gain an obligation on God's part toward me. It is that God has wondrously liberated me. He has freed me from the debt of my sin and from the practice of my sin. Sin. We need to reorient ourselves away from thinking that sin is a fun thing to do that will allow us to have some fun. And if we only do so much, God will forgive us so we can get away with the most sin we can and still have a relationship with God. Sin is ugly. Sin is deadly. Sin destroy. It is a cancer that we must remove. But not only for our own benefit. For see, it's not just that I begin to realize more clearly what sin is and therefore hate it with a passion, and therefore live in the grace that God has given me to be obedient. To do what I've been created to do, to enjoy the fellowship with Him that I was intended to enjoy from the foundations of the world. I have a privilege I have a privilege to bring pleasure to the one who has created and regenerated me. That's what faith working itself through lots is. My love for God demands that I Please him. It's not that I lose anything from God then if I don't, but I have been given the privilege. By doing what pleases him to enjoy his pleasure in me. My aggressive response to my sin isn't out of fear It's not out of accounting. My aggressive response to my sin is because God has demonstrated to me what my sin is and what my obedience can bring him. But we're not only told to stand firm, we're also told to live in the power of the Spirit. To serve God and to do that by serving others. In verse 16, or 14, I'm sorry, 13. You recalled to freedom. You, my brothers, were called to be free, that do not use your freedom to indulge the sinful nature. Rather serve one another in love. Next week, as we look more at what it means to be free and what it means to be a servant, we're going to look at 1 Corinthians chapter 9, where Paul declares his freedom from all men. But upon declaring that freedom like we have here in Galatians 5, he takes a radical turn. And I think that's a turn that we as a congregation must take. If we're to fulfill the vision that God has given us as we move into our new facility. But what I want you to take from the message is This morning is this and this alone. Stand firm in prayer. Let's pray. Well Jesus, it is an amazing and nearly impossible truth for us to grasp That our standing with you is based completely, solely, and only upon what you have done in our lives And Lord, I do pray that you will ground us in that truth. That we will commit ourselves, not because we seek to obligate you But because Lord, there is no other thing that is worth committing ourselves to. Lord, free us. Continue to free us. Battle the sin which so easily entangles us. So that we might serve you. That we might bring you pleasure. But unlike Isaiah, if he saw his sin, we come to heaven as you draw us there that we will see your pleasure. Lord Jesus we pray in Jesus then