Our text this morning comes from uh Galatians chapter four. I asked that if you have uh the copy of the scriptures with you that you would turn with me. to Galatians chapter four as we consider the Word of God this morning, have an opportunity to reflect and to learn about the God that saves us to the uttermost. I'll be starting at verse 21 in in chapter four and reading through verse 31. But before we read and and reflect and Think upon God's word. Let us go to Him once again in prayer Our Heavenly Father, have mercy upon us. Father, we thank you that you are the living and true God, that you are one God yet triune. Father, I thank you once again for your word that you speak to us, that you are not a God who is a far-off or distant, but yet you speak to us. And you reveal life in Christ to us. Father, I ask that you would be with us today, that you would allow us to feast upon your word. Would you allow the distractions of our heart to be gone at this moment that we might focus to not simply be hearers but also doers of what you command us? That we might embrace true freedom which is found in Jesus Christ our Lord. And it's in the name of Jesus we pray. Amen. Galatians chapter four, verses twenty-one through thirty-one. Let us hear the words of God. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons. One by a slave woman and one by a free woman. But the son of the slave was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise. Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. One is Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar Now Hegar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. For it is written, Rejoice, O barren one, who does not bear, break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor. For the children of the desolate one will be more than those who are one who has a husband. Now you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise But just as at the time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the woman shall not inherit the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. And God bless his word. There's a saying that you might be familiar with that goes like this. There are two kinds of people in the world. Those who divide the world into two ti kinds of people and those who don't. The Apostle Paul obviously falls into the former category in our text, dividing the whole world. into two groups, those who are slaves and those who are free. It being Fourth of July weekend, the topic of fr uh uh freedom I suppose might be on our minds and even in some of our conversations. And according to our text today, Paul tells us that many of you might actually not be free, but actually in slavery. Even some professing Christians may be suffering from religious slavery, going through outward emotions of uh obedience, but the desire of your heart is really somewhere else, somewhere fixed somewhere else, rather than here or on Christ. And some of you think that you are free, but you've never truly experienced the true freedom and delight that is in Christ alone. So Paul here in our text directs us to true freedom. He directs us to eternal freedom, that freedom which is in Christ, a life lived out by faith. And our text directs us to that contrast of a life lived in freedom versus a life lived in slavery. And so Paul's purpose here is to help us, to help those who are slaves in bondage to find that true freedom. The freest people in the world are Christians. So let us consider this morning and with Paul how we may be free, truly free, and how we may even strengthen our stand in the freedom that we have. So as we consider our text, the first thing that we see as we as we consider it is that Paul actually gives us a little bit of a history lesson. He gives us a history lesson about what the law teaches about freedom. If you look at verses 21 through 23, we see a little bit of a history of what the law teaches about freedom. Now keep in mind who who Paul is dealing with here in Galatians. Paul is dealing with a group called the Judaizers. Judaizers were were missionaries who were trying to correct Paul's teaching about the gospel. Uh they preached a legalistic form of Christianity. Uh they wanted men and women to become Jews in order to become good Christians. They were trying to add the law on top of the gospel of Jesus Christ. They thought you had to get circumcised. uh and to celebrate the Passover and and other Jewish uh festivals. But you see, in their effort to prove that they were good Christians Uh they were actually becoming slaves to all kinds of Old Testament rituals. I think we might do a similar thing, similar to the Judaizers that Paul is dealing with. I think we might do a similar thing in our own hearts. I think we can often forget that Christianity is the religion of freedom, of liberty. It's freedom in Christ, not slavery. And we've reduced sometimes our faith to a list of do's and don'ts, a list of rules and regulations and traditions And I think we evaluate our standing by what we have been doing for God lately. I think we we sometimes feel we're closer to God or further away from God that God loves us. more or less depending on how well we've kept the law this week. And our hearts are constantly fighting off putting ourselves back under the law. And I think we see that when we feel that we even deserve God's favor. Or we think in those times, this was a good week. Of course God would want to save me. I serve today at the the homeless shelter. Of course God would want to save me and use me Yet we find ourselves trusting in ourselves and in our obedience to the law and putting ourselves back under bondage. And Paul says that those who are turning back to the law to earn blessing from God should actually listen to what the law says. So Paul writes in verse twenty-one, and he uses a little sarcasm here. He he says in verse twenty-one, Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do not listen to the law. You see what what Paul is saying here, if you really wanted to be under the law, do you have any idea what the law says? Because if you did, you'd realize that the law itself actually tells you not to be under the law. So Paul continues his argument and he turns us back to the book of Genesis to consider Abraham. And Abraham was the hero of the Judaizers. Judaizers would have said something like this about Abraham. They would have had this type of thinking about Abraham. They would have said, um, well God made all of his covenant promises with Abraham. Uh he said that uh They were for Abraham and only for his true children, and we are Abraham's children because we're direct descendants through Isaac. But you can receive promise too. All you have to do is become a child of Abraham like us. You have to become Jewish and you have to become circumcised and You have to obey the Passover and and keep the other festivals, and then and then you too will be a child of Abraham. But you see, Paul has to correct their understanding of of Abraham. And so he has to correct it so they might get the gospel correct. That they might embrace the grace and freedom that is in Christ alone. So then Paul writes again in verse 22 and 23. He says, For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman, and the and the one by a free woman. But the son of the slave woman was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise. So we read a little bit in Genesis chapter 15, but let us go back and consider a little bit of Genesis 15 so we know what Paul is talking about here in our text. Let's remind ourselves what actually happened with Abraham and Sarah. And many of you are familiar with this, but let us refresh our memory. You might recall as as we read that, God promised to make Abraham a great nation. God said Look toward heaven and number the stars. If we're able to number them, so shall your offspring be. Right? We read that. But you might recall, you might remember that Abraham didn't have any children. How was he going to become a great nation? And his wife, Sarah, was barren. She couldn't have children And they were actually both getting older in their years. Abraham was 80 years old when God told him that. God's intention, though, was to give Abraham a son and an heir when it looked humanly impossible, so that Abraham would have to rely and trust solely on God. And I think I think that was especially difficult for Sarah. I think it was especially difficult for his wife, because she prayed year after year for a child, yet she remained childless. And we see in a moment of desperation and a moment of weak faith, you might recall, that she said to her husband, She said, Behold, now the Lord has prevented me from bearing children. Go into my servant, so that I may obtain children by her. And you remember that that servant, an Egyptian woman, was named Hagar. And Abraham went to Hagar and she conceived and gave birth to a son named Ishmael. So when Paul begins to write here in our text in verse 23 that Ishmael was born according to the flesh, It means that he was the product of self-reliance. Abraham ceased to stop see uh Abraham ceased to rely on God And relying on God's power to fulfill his word. And said he relied on himself and his and his own power and his own intuition to get a son. And you might recall how we talked about Moses last week, trying to deliver the people out of his own strength Well we see that here with Abraham, don't we? Uh God had for God hadn't forgotten his promises, but Abraham didn't trust God. Uh he didn't believe that God could do what he said. So Abraham took things under under his own power. He took things into his own hands. But yet God intended to fulfill his promises. God always fulfills his promises. But God intended to fulfill the promise to Abraham in a way that would remove all ground for boasting. God likes to work in such a way that removes all sources of self-reliance that we must trust. and rely on him alone. And it's yet, you might recall again in this story that God comes to Abraham again, 14 years later, and he says, I will give you a son by your wife. And I will bless Sarah, and she will become nations. You see, God is trustworthy, and he keeps his promises. And so Sarah conceived at the age of ninety and gave birth to a son named Isaac. You see, Isaac was not born according to the flesh because his birth was the result of God's supernatural intervention and a fulfillment of the promise that God had made. When Abraham got Hagar pregnant, he was operating under that principle of God helps those who help themselves. He was trying to take and manipulate the blessing from God rather than waiting to receive it. Whereas Isaac was a gift and a promise from God, Ishmael was Um in Abraham was trying to do things his way instead of God's way. And what God was teaching Abraham, and I think what God is is teaching us sometimes, that the only response The God's merciful promise is to trust in faith in that promise, not works. Um that try to be a result, try to manipulate a blessing from God, try to force God's hand to make him do what we want. But that we can simply trust God and trust his promises and receive them by faith. And there's a fundamental spiritual difference. Between the two sons. And that's what Paul's actually setting up here. There's a fundamental difference between the two sons of Ishmael and Isaac. One came by trying to do things on their own. And the other came by promise. One was a slave, and the other one was free. Thus Ishmael and Isaac represent two entirely different approaches to religion. Law versus grace. Slavery versus freedom. So after Paul kind of gives us this history, this background about what the law teaches about freedom Secondly, he turns to this uh allegory of Hagar and Sarah. Um he kind of he takes this historical event that he first gives us in the first couple verses. And now he interprets it allegorically. In verse 24, he tells us that. An allegory is a a story in which specific people and places stand and represent something more than the literal meaning. A very familiar allegory to you, a famous allegory to you, would be Pilgrim's Progress. where you have these people, these characters, but yet they stand for something much more than their literal selves. They we have characters in Pilgrim's Progress such like Christian and faithful and hopeful. And here Paul now takes this historical count of Abraham and Sarah and Hagar, and he interprets them allegorically for us. The story of Abraham's son is is not quite exactly like an allegory of pilgrim's progress because this is a historical account. Isaac and Ishmael were real sons, born to real women. And Ishmael and Isaac, they do stand for something, according to Paul. In the eyes of God, everyone is either an Ishmael or an Isaac. And to understand what Isaac and Ishmael represent, it helps to start with their mothers. That's what Paul does in verses 24 through 26. It reads. These women are two covenants. One is Mount Sinai, bearing children of slavery. She is Hegar. Now Hegar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem. for she is in slavery with her children, but the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. Well this analogy, as we read it, it's kind of complex, isn't it? It's a little It's a little challenging. We see two mothers, we see two sons, we see two covenants, which correspond to two cities. There's a lot going on in those few verses. But first, let's focus on Hagar. She stands for the old covenant, which God gave through Moses on Mount Sinai. And the key question here that we have to ask ourselves is, how is Hagar and her affair with Abraham and their son Ishmael Like the covenant on Mount Sinai, uh, which you might recall is where God gave the law through Moses, right? Where he gave the Ten Commandments through Moses. And y um covenant is a a binding agreement uh with God that he makes with his people. Uh and the old covenant contained all the rituals and and the regulations that that God's people had to keep as well. Um The the old covenant is a lot of thou shalt and thou shalt not, you might recall. And Hegar's a a good fit. uh to represent the old covenant. The old covenant meant slavery to the law. And she herself was a slave, and that's why she's she's a fitting example, a good allegory connection between the law And slavery, because she herself was a slave. And all that Israel produced when they tried to keep the law. on their own and was uh in a legalistic slavery, uh they couldn't produce anything except God's punishment. The the law showed Israel that they themselves couldn't keep it but would continually fail. And show themselves actually be slaves under the law and bondage to the law. And anyone who reduces Christianity to a list of do's and don'ts is also a slave trying to get God's promises by their own strength and depending on their on themselves In verse 25, we read this line. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. See, i in this case when Paul is talking about Jerusalem, he's especially referring to the Jews and to the institution of the Jewish religion. And when Paul said that Jerusalem corresponds to Hagar He was saying that although the Judaizers were Jews, that they were children of Abraham, that they were really Ishmaelites spiritually speaking. That is uh th that would that would have been a shocking statement for them. Because the Judaizers prided themselves on being true sons of Abraham. And Paul admits that they are true sons of Abraham, but he's saying that they're the spiritually illegitimate sons of Abraham. And the reason why Paul is saying this is because they're giving up on the gospel. They're going back under the law. And this meant they were still in spiritual bondage, and thus sons of Hagar, and not sons of Sarah. And anyone who seeks to justify themselves by keeping the law is in spiritual bondage And you can see Paul's point here. He he's he's telling the church and Galatia, don't follow these false teachers. They may show you how to be a son of Abraham, but beware, because you'll be an Ishmael, not an Isaac. You will be a slave and you will not be free. The only way to be free is to believe and have faith in Jesus Christ. So in verse 26, we turn to that other half of that allegory with Sarah. who was never a slave. Abraham's wife was the free woman we're told in our text. And sa Abra and Sarah represents the new covenant. Uh represents a covenant of promise. And the new covenant, God does not say thou shalt, and thou shalt not. Instead, in the new covenant, God says, I will. I will be your God. I will redeem you from your sins. I will give you eternal life. I will save you and I will set you free. The new covenant is the gospel, which gives salvation through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The new covenant does not match with the present city of Jerusalem, but as we're told in verse 26, matches up with the Jerusalem that is above. And that is free. The Jerusalem above is the church of Christ. The Jerusalem above is not just some future place that God will build and or make in the future. The church of Christ is now. They're citizens now of that above and eternal a citizen of Jerusalem, that new Jerusalem, that a that heavenly Jerusalem. And if Jesus is your Lord, you are a son and daughter. Of Sarah, a true child of Abraham. You belong to God's family, and you are a citizen of the new Jerusalem. And so this allegory that we see here in our text shows us the difference between spiritual slavery and freedom. Those who try to justify themselves and earn God's blessing by keeping the law are slaves. They're slave children of Hagar. But those who are justified by faith in Christ are God's free children. And Paul reflects about this and He reflects upon the joy and the freedom of being in Christ, and he blurts out into a song in verse 27. And this verse is actually a quote from Isaiah. It reads, Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear. Break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor. For the children of the desolate will one will be one more than those of of will be those of the one who has a husband. You see, Sarah was barren. Uh she was a barren woman whom God blessed with sons and daughters. But when Isaiah says this, when when Paul is quoting Isaiah, uh Isaiah was referring to the actual city of Jerusalem. Uh the city of Jerusalem was also barren because the people of Israel, the children of Israel, had been carried away into exile. But Isaiah promised that from God That one day God would establish a new and heavenly Jerusalem. And God would fill that heavenly Jerusalem with far more children than the old Jerusalem could ever contain. And those who have faith in Christ are the free children and become citizens of that new heavenly Jerusalem. So now we made it through that allegory, that complicated allegory. And then once Paul gives his allegory, he now actually turns to the practical implications of it. And we see that in verses 28 through 31. We see Paul's application. The question that Paul poses to us now is, which of these two women do you belong to? Are you a son or daughter of Hagar and under the law and in slavery? Or are you a son or daughter of Sarah and free in Jesus Christ? And Paul wants the church in Galatia, and he wants our church to see that by the promise of God, the free sons and daughters of of Sarah are in Christ. And he writes this in verse 28. He says, Now you brothers like Isaac are children of promise. And do you remember what that promise was that that God gave to Abraham? The promise was uh that God first gave to Abraham that all the nations of the world would be blessed through him. That is that it was a promise of the gospel, the promise of the coming Christ, the promise of justification by grace alone, through faith alone. And according to that promise, a child of God is one who believes that Jesus died on the cross for our sins and rose again from the dead. And the ones that truly belong to Abraham are the ones that are in Christ. Anyone who has faith in Jesus Christ is that true child in line of Isaac. Born again, free from the promises, or free by the promises of God. And being a child of God and being free often means that you'll be persecuted. And Paul says that here in in verse twenty and nine he says, But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit. So also it is now. And notice how Paul also interchanges born according to the Spirit with born according to the promise. confirming that the difference between Ishmael types and Isa uh Isaac types is a supernatural work of God's spirit. Ishmael treated Isaac with contempt and disdain. He persecuted Isaac Paul's point was that Christians should expect exactly the same kind of treatment as Isaac received from his brother. So Paul says, so also it is now. And it was happening actually there in Galatia, as Paul's writing this, the sons of Hagar, the Judaizers, were persecuting uh the sons of Sarah, the church. The Judaizers were persecuting Christians because of their faith in Jesus Christ. They wanted to prevent them from living freely in God's grace. So Christians should also be prepared to face persecution. Um if we really want to be liked, uh if our goal in life is to be liked, then we will find ourselves wanting to be back under slavery. And one reason we're we as Christians can be willing to even be disliked and even persecuted for our faith is that we know that God has in store for us a heavenly inheritance, what we can trust God, that we can trust his promises to us in Christ, that he has promised us an eternal inheritance. of infinite delight in Christ. But those who are not God's children don't have that promise Verse thirty says, But what does the scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit the son of the free woman. These are the words of Sarah actually that Paul quotes again. Um and what po and why Paul quotes and when he quotes Sarah here He's saying that the Galatians needed to drive out the Judaizers from amongst their from amongst themselves. They needed to drive out their legalism. uh right out of the church because being under the law is spiritual slavery and has no part in God's inheritance. If salvation is by grace alone, the church cannot tolerate salvation by works. It's legal bondage and spiritual freedom cannot coexist with legal bondage. And we too, uh, just as Paul tells the church in Galatia, we too must stand firm against legalism in the church and against any other false doctrines of salvation. We also must ask God to cast every last trace of legalism out of our own hearts. Salvation and freedom come by grace And not by works. Christianity is not a list of do's and don'ts. It is the good news of salvation for sinners through Jesus Christ. This is why we can't be saved through any other religion but Christianity. Because salvation, the good news, and freedom comes by Christ alone. Other religions such as Judaism or Hinduism, Islam, Mormonism, Roman Catholicism are slave religions. They add works to faith as a basis for salvation They bring bondage because ultimately they are about what we do for God, not about what God has done for us in Jesus Christ. And what God has done in Jesus Christ is promise life and promise his free salvation to everyone who believes in him. And if we're working to gain God's acceptance, we need to realize that we're still in spiritual bondage We're still in spiritual slavery, and if we want to be free, if we want to be out of spiritual bondage, we need to ask God for the gift of his grace. Then we will be able to join with Paul as he says lastly in that verse, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. So let me just close by saying to you, brothers and sisters, we are like Isaac. We are the children of promise in Jesus Christ. We are children born of the promise, born of the Spirit of God. And so let us also hate the remaining tendencies in us to be proud and to trust in ourselves instead of God. But rather let us delight to be in the Lord. Let us even delight in his law, not out of a slavish fear, but because he has set us free from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. But if you're an Ishmael type, turn today from your self-trust and towards Christ. Rest upon Jesus Christ and his accomplished work for you, that he has saved you to the uttermost. That God saves by grace through faith alone. If you want freedom, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for setting captives free. Lord, even as we consider your word And we wrestle with what it means to be sl a slave versus what it means to be free. We ask that you would uh set us free from the law. Um Lord the the law teaches us that we can't keep it. We are falling short constantly. We need a savior. So Father, help us to fully and freely embrace Christ alone. Any tendencies of self-reliance Of trying to manipulate your blessing and somehow trying to add works to our salvation. Lord, rid us of these things that we might embrace your grace fully in Jesus Christ. And it's in Christ's name alone that we pray. Amen.