His classic book on preaching between two worlds, John Scott makes the observation that the purpose of preaching and the job of the preacher is to take God's eternal unchanging word that was given into one particular culture, Take that word and then open it and apply it to the contemporary culture, to your questions, your concerns so that you see how that word applies into your life. And it's because of that that we can come on Sunday morning with a sense of expectation The sense of expectancy that God Himself is going to speak to us, to you, through this word that was given to Isaiah in the 7th century BC. And then in the first century, A. D. in Judah to come to the twenty first century to a group of Americans sitting here. Isn't that amazing? But that's what God does. And so you can expect God's going to speak to me now, not just Al's going to rehearse and rehash some doctrines that we're familiar with, but don't seem like they relate to my particular life. But God is going to speak to us. I don't know if anybody can see this, but this is the little spider that usually comes up here and accompanies us And he has set a record this morning. Uh the web goes all the way from the ceiling down here, and he's hanging on to the mic here. He's quite a clever fellow, but uh if you can ignore him, I'll try now you you would have ignored him, but now that I'm telling you here we go. So long. Okay. This is a particular challenge when you preach in the Old Testament and especially when I preach uh from a book like uh Isaiah. Do you know This is my last message on Isaiah this morning. And uh I've preached 32 messages on Isaiah. I started this um this part of the series on Old Testament prophecies that we do. uh on Advent season coming up to Christmas. Uh and we've spent of the since I started that in 1979. It was a however messy, you know, 22 texts Forget how many messages, thirty-two of them on the book of Isaiah. Twenty-three of those were on Isaiah 53 alone. That's uh thirty-two messages is over a quarter of the whole book of Ephesians. So we spent a lot of time in Isaiah and it's uh you know it it uh it sort of gets me to leave this book. It's been a Great pleasure going through it, but I can only spend one one morning on this rich text with you because uh next week I'm going to be starting a major new series, the book of Matthew. Now I know that some of you are thinking, took him a hundred and twenty five messages to get through six chapters of Ephesians. We're going to be into uh Matthew until long after he's dead and we're into the next century, but y you know, we'll just see how far we get on it, but we begin next week because I figure it makes sense to begin Christmas time. Although Christmas this year will last well into next year as we uh pursue those first couple of chapters of Matthew. What I want to do now is then just take from this world of the 7th century BC in Judea The word that came to Isaiah, and then fast forward to Jesus' use of that passage in the first century A. D. in Judea. and then come to the twenty-first century to see what is that saying to you and to me. Now some people think that this These verses, first couple of verses of Isaiah 61, are actually the fifth song of the servant. We talked about the four songs of the servant we went through And some people think this really should be considered the fifth because it's to Isaiah 53 as the book of Acts is to the Gospels. In Isaiah 53, we looked at Jesus describing his death, substitutionary death for sinners, for you and for me, and then his resurrection. Isaiah 61 speaks about proclaiming that to those who are in bondage by the power of the Spirit, very much like the book of Acts. Uh, whether or not that's true, we do see that he begins by saying that the Spirit of the Lord is on me because he has anointed me to preach good news to the poor. The focus is then on the good news. The good news that Isaiah is going to declare. Now you notice it doesn't prophesy, it doesn't say that a Messiah is going to die, and then the Spirit is going to come, and his disciples are going to proclaim this throughout the world, making disciples of all nations. What it does is it paints a picture in contemporary scenes, structure, in the life and the times of Isaiah Jesus picks up on that idea and he then applies it and fact says that it is a definitive description of his ministry. Now, in order to be able to understand that a little bit, what I've done in your bulletin outline, not on the screen, but you got this to keep, take a look at your bulletin outline, and you see the two passages, Isaiah 61. and Luke 4 side by side in who they're addressing because the nature of the good news is is revealed in who it's for You look at who is for, and it kind of tells you what the nature of that good news is. In Isaiah 64, there are four groups mentioned, and in Luke 4, four groups mentioned. They're just slightly different. They both talk about preaching to the poor. Isaiah then talks about to the brokenhearted. Jesus uses that. He leaves that out. Isaiah talks about preaching to captives. Jesus talks about captives, prisoners. They uh Isaiah speaks of bringing the word to those in bondage. Jesus quotes the Septuagint there and talks about bringing the light to the blind instead of those they both have the idea of being in darkness. And Jesus refers to blindness in that and then adds to those who are oppressed. So basically, there are four groups that are being mentioned here. There are those who are poor, those who are bound, those who are broken-hearted, and those who are blind. Those are the four groups. The poor, the bound, that is those in bondage, the brokenhearted, and the blind. In other words, the gospel is for needy people. That's the bottom line of all of this. The gospel is not for self-sufficient people The gospel is not for those who feel like, I'm free, I can see, I understand, I have sufficient for all that I need. Now, how did that apply in Isaiah's day? Isaiah was speaking prophetically about what was going to happen to Judah. At that time they were not in exile. They were still thinking that they were going to survive this, but uh every day as they read their papers and turn on the news, they were fearful, they were anxious because This great army from Babylon under Nebuchadnezzar, the great terrorist, uh the son of bin Laden of his day, as far as they were concerned, out to to eliminate them, was coming and Isaiah says, your worst fears are going to be realized. He is going to come, and God is not going to protect you. He is going and uh he will destroy Judea, he will utterly destroy Jerusalem and the temple, He's going to drag away your husbands in captivity, your wives will be raped, your children will be made servants, and you will be put into exile in Babylonia Then he comes in chapter forty, comfort, comfort you, my people. The Lord has Raw out your uh the fullness of your uh punishment, and he now brings comfort to you. So prophetically Isaiah says I want to tell you the good news. You are not going to be eliminated in Babylon. You will not be wiped off the face of the earth. Then in Isaiah 61, he's picking up on that theme after he's described Messiah and what he's going to be doing. The Messiah who will come, not just to Israel, Judah, but to the nations, the Messiah who will give his life as a substitute for their sin. He now comes and he says that this one, this Messiah Is going to bring good news. Isaiah is speaking about how God is going to bring Isaiah out of their exile. He is going to bring them back So he says uh you know he's preached good news to the poor, bind up the brokenhearted, proclaimed freedom for the captives, release darkness the prisoners Proclaim the year of the Lord's favor, that's the year of Jubilee, when prisoners were released from their captivity, from their uh servitude. Uh and then the day of vengeance for our God. That's referring to Babylon. He's saying, you know, God's vengeance is going to turn on the enemies now. Babylon is going to experience his wrath To comfort you who mourn, provide for those who grieve in Zion, to bestow on them a crown of beauty instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, a garment of praise instead of a spirit of despair. They're going to build verse 4 the ancient ruins and restore the places long devastated. They're going to renew the ruined cities that have been devastated for generations. Verse 7 Instead of their shame, my people will receive a double portion. Instead of disgrace, they will rejoice in their inheritance. So they will inherit a double portion in their land, and everlasting joy will be theirs. So what's he saying? He's saying basically there's two kingdoms, there's Judah and there's Babylon. And you guys have all thought God's on the side of Judah, Babylon and the Badis, he's never gonna let us be captured by them. He did. But there's hope. In these two kingdoms, what it looks like, in fact, God was weaker than the gods of Babylonia. That in fact he is saying, No, as we see in the book of Daniel, God is saying, I will defeat that kingdom. That kingdom, which is the kingdom of the evil one, is going to in fact fall before God's control, God's wrath. I'm going to restore you You will see that. But that's just a taste, you see. That's just an experience here physically of what's going to happen that day when Messiah comes. So, about 700 years after that, Jesus comes. And Jesus begins after he is baptized by the Spirit Goes into temptation. Jesus now is in the temptation in the wilderness. The new king coming to face the uh corrupt king Satan in his kingdom Satan seeks to tempt him, to distract him. Jesus stands against him. Then he heals, he comes on the offensive to heal those who are bound and those who are sick in Capernaum. And then he comes back to his hometown of Nazareth. And it's kinda like local boy made good. You know, Jesus, uh he just a carpenter's son, went out and boy, you know, he's getting uh a name for himself. You know, we're seeing him in the headlines here this Jesus, son of this carpenter is going around, he's healing, he's speaking, crowds are beginning to gather to hear him. So when he comes back into the synagogue to the with the weekly worship, they say, hey, how about you give Jesus a scroll this morning? You know, we got a celebrity here. So let's give Jesus the scroll. Give him the honor to read. And so Jesus chooses from Isaiah to read Isaiah 61. Needs that same passage, and he says to them, today, this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing And they all speak and say, oh wow, that's great, you know, wonderful words, and boy, doesn't that guy have a way with words? And you know, and he's he's probably says a couple other things, and you know, they're really pawning over him and he says, now you're gonna say to me Physician, heal yourself. Do the things you did in Capernaum. Do them here. You know, we want to see. Come on, show us something spectacular. Let's bring them up. Come on. We want to see what you can do, Jesus And Jesus says, and it's just amazing. This is one of the things I so love about Jesus. He is so unaffectedly honest. So simple. He doesn't yell or rant. Rabbi simply says to him, you know, a prophet's not without honor, except in his own country. I know that uh when I come back to Nazareth But you guys don't understand what I'm about. In fact, you know, when Elijah was ministering and there were all these widows, he wasn't sent to the widows that were in Israel, he was sent to the one that was a Gentile in Sidon. But when Elisha was here, you know, there were a lot of people who had leprosy and he didn't heal any of them in Israel. He healed Naaman, who was a soldier in the army of the enemy, Syria. And you know what? They're not dumb, they get the point. We think God has Israel, Judah, as his favorite people. So, hey Jesus, if if you are if you are God's person, then you're gonna show us the chosen people something special. You know, there's a lot of churches in America that are filled with with people who want to hear interesting stories, preferably with a little humor, and say, you know, let's let's hear something interesting that'll help us this week. But we don't come with need. We don't come as desperate people saying, man, I'm a failure. I know, I don't know how to live my life. I feel like I'm in bondage. I am in captivity. I need release. I need to see. I can't make sense out of my life. I feel like I'm blind. I need somebody to open my eyes. And Jesus basically says, you're not looking for that. You're looking to be entertained. And they get the message. And so they fulfill exactly what he prophesies by trying to take him out to the cliff and throw him over He says, you know, you're not going to accept me. You're not going to accept my message. You're darn right we don't. That message is offensive. Who do you think you are to come back and tell us that we don't know our need and that we want to be entertained and that we are not like these needy Gentiles who see that they need somebody to release them? He Now take that and look at how Luke develops that before we apply it to our own day. What Luke does is he pr he he takes that theme and he expands it through his whole gospel So when Jesus is born in Bethlehem, who is it that first gets the announcement of his birth? The poor. Shepherds, right? It's not the religious leaders. It's not those who are who are looking and who are saying, uh, you know, we figured this out and here's what Messiah's going to be and what he's going to do. He comes to shepherds. who are so despised in that culture that they couldn't even testify in court because it was assumed that a shepherd wouldn't tell the truth They were a poor, disenfranchised group of people. Then Jesus, after the conflict with Satan, goes to Capernaum. He heals some people, comes back, he reads this passage. He walks majestically through their midst, supernaturally escaping their intentions to kill them. And then you read just after that, he comes to a demoniac. The demoniac has no pretense. He has no sense that, you know, hey Jesus, what can you do with demon demoniacs? He's a desperate man. And Luke says he healed him. You see this again and again. You come to Luke 13. In fact, let's see that up there. In Luke 13, it comes to a woman and it says, She was so crippled she couldn't even stand upright. She had been in bondage. You see, what Luke is doing is he is showing how Jesus is giving physical pictures of the spiritual fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy. So he takes a woman who Satan has kept bound. She's in bondage, you see, she's in captivity for 18 years Spiritually and physically, and he comes to her and he says, Woman, you are set free from your infirmity, and he heals her John, who is his uh predecessor, who prepares the way, here comes Messiah, and Messiah is going to do all these wonderful things of mercy and salvation and judgment. He's going to Lay the axe at the root of the tree. The day of vengeance of God is about to come. And Jesus is just going around healing His wrath is against Satan, the demons, and the king their kingdom. And John is saying, well what about the Romans? What about the captivity we're into Rome? Are you really the Messiah? And how does Jesus answer? In Luke chapter 20 and verse, Luke chapter 7 in verse 20, he answers precisely from Isaiah 61. And in Isaiah sixty-one, I mean in uh Luke seven, verse twenty, uh you know, they they came to Jesus, they say, John has asked, uh, are you the one who has come or should we expect someone else? Verse twenty one, that very time Jesus cured many who had Diseases, sicknesses, evil spirits. See, this is the king of the kingdom going on the offensive against the enemy kingdom of God. He gave sight to many who were blind. And so he replied to the messengers, Go back and report to John what you've seen and heard. The blind receive sight, the lame walk, those who have leprosy are cured, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, the good news is preached to the poor. Blessed is the man who does not fall away on account of me. Hang in there, John. John, do you see I'm fulfilling what Isaiah 61 says is what the Messiah is to do You see this all through Jesus' ministry. You come to the in John's account of it, he shows how Jesus takes what is physical as a picture again of the spiritual. And so in John chapter 8, Jesus states what's the true nature of the bondage, of the of the spiritual warfare that's going on. Jesus said, I tell you the truth, anyone who sins is a slave to sin. That's the real bondage. The real bondage is that you say, I know that I am not loving my husband, my wife, my kids the way I wish I could. I can't love my friends the way I wish I could. I seem at times helpless. I seem like I'm in bondage to addictions, to idols in my life. Jesus says, that's the real bondage. Your slavery to sin. And so if the sun sets you free, you will be free indeed And that freedom is a freedom from captivity and bondage and brokenheartedness and blindness. that is of a profound spiritual nature. Now Luke continues to expand this idea. So when you come to the very end of his gospel, what do you have? After his resurrection, here's two disciples, and they're walking to a mass. And Jesus walks alongside them, and they don't know who it is, and they say, Oh, woe is us. Life is hopeless. We don't understand God. We don't we can't make sense out of him what he's doing. We thought he had sent the Messiah And the Messiah was crucified and mocked, and he's dead in a grave, and all hope is lost. Do you ever feel like that? God has let us down. God has let me down. All that made sense has been turned and twisted and distorted in crushing disappointment. Jesus rebukes their faith, and then it says he went along with them and he ate with them. And what did he do? He opened their eyes, their blind eyes. to see not the answers to their questions, but simply who he was This morning, Jesus wants to open the eyes of the blind. He wants you and me to see him who he is. And if you see who Jesus is, He comes to minister to your brokenheartedness, to your captivity, to release you. Paul picks up on the same idea. Remember in in Ephesians in chapter 1, when Paul says, I pray. that the eyes of your heart would be what? Enlightened. Open. To what? To figure out all the reason why there's pain and suffering and Why there's confusion and disappointment in your life? No. He says, I pray that the eyes of your heart will be opened, enlightened, to know, to see. The glorious riches of the hope of the inheritance of the living God, which is for you. to see who he is and what he has as the gospel promises and all their fulfillment of which you are now experiencing simply the first fruits. You see through a glass darkly, but you're seeing something. that you wouldn't see without Jesus. Your heart may be at broken at times, but Jesus comes and he says, I'm here and I'm sufficient. Jesus sees you in your captivity and you say, I still can't love and do the things that I wish I could do. But Jesus comes and he says, I want to give you that taste, the beginning of the victory, the beginning of the freedom that I intend for you. And so Jesus comes to meet us, to open your eyes, to deliver you from the bondage. You know, in that Classic movie Mel Gibson Braveheart. You have that scene where Mel Gibson playing William Wallace He was trying to deliver the Scottish from the tyrants that were ruling. And finally they get him, they capture him They have him laid in a cruciform position on the table there about to draw and quarter him, one of the most exquisite tortures ever devised by the demonic imagination And as he lays there, the enemies are hoping that he is going to whimper or beg for mercy or at least curse them so that they can laugh. And what does he do? He simply lays there and he cries, Freedom! Freedom! And Jesus When he died on the cross, died as the king who had come to defeat the enemy, and to say, It is finished! I have accomplished freedom for you and for me, who are failures, needy people Who see our blindness, who understand I can't see, I can't make sense out of my life, I don't know who God is and what He is like unless Jesus reveals him I don't know my heart and what it's capable of unless the Bible comes and speaks and reveals to you what your heart is like. I don't know what God is up to and what life is about, and I can't even begin to guess that the most peaceful, joyful life is the most radically God-centered life Unless Jesus comes to open your eyes to see that. But he comes today to open your eyes, to open my eyes. To see who he is, and to see what he's come to give us, that freedom from the captivity, from the bondage that you and I are in apart from Jesus Christ. So, you know, we are a culture uh that is so clueless about making sense out of our lives. I think of the an illustration that um John Eldridge uses in his book um uh waking the dead. He talks about a couple that went to Paris. This was uh seemed like a gift from God. They thought they'd never get to Paris They get to Paris as a couple and they think, you know, this is going to be a time to renew our romance and to just really become intimate together as husband and wife and boy have we needed this and looking forward to it and the day they arrive. He comes down with walking ammonia, walking pneumonia, and it goes downhill from there. I mean a rotten week. They come back, John Eldritch said he talked to the wife, and she said, you know, I feel like 90% of life turns out so different from what I hope or expect. He And he said, How can I pray for you? And she said, pray that we'll have eyes to see To understand something of what God is doing. We need eyes to see what is God up to to get the bigger picture We don't see. We go by our feelings. I I saw a billboard on Friday was advertising a new TV show called Diary of an Affair, never heard of it I don't know if it's on yet or just advertising, but the billboard shows this picture of this man and woman in a suggestive position. And then across the billboard it says, how can anything wrong feel so right? And I saw that and I thought, holy cow, that's from the 60s, you know. But it's still what our hearts are like, isn't it? feels so right. How can life be so screwed up when I feel like all I want is and this is the way and and Jesus says I've come to open the eyes of the blind I've come to deliver you out of the captivity. We are a culture that is so filled with knowledge and so impoverished in wisdom Yesterday, I was uh having a couple of goldfish, you know the little crackers. And I saw on the cover of the little bag something that I really needed. It said, you can go to pfgoldfish. com and find out everything you ever wanted to know about goldfish snacks And I'm sure that's true. I'm sure I could find out more than I ever wanted to know about goldfish snacks. But where do you go? What's the website That'll tell me how to love my wife so that she feels loved. What's the website I go to that tells me how to love my kids so that they want to follow Jesus and trust him and serve him with all their hearts. What's the website that I go to that tells me, as a pastor, how to lead Columbia Presbyterian Church? And to guide and to direct you to love and serve and want to follow Jesus, you see. One wag after the first service said, well, you know, there are Bible websites Well that's true. And praise God, you can go to some that will open up things about the scriptures. But you see the point? We are so full of knowledge, so much of which is trivia. When we are desperate for how to live, to escape the generational bondage of dysfunction that we feel we're imprisoned by And Jesus comes to you this morning and he says, I want to open your eyes so that you see me. I want to show you that I have given to you, I have provided for you the release of the captivity. The bondage to addictions and idols in your life so that you are able to say, I don't have to continue in that sin. I am able to look to Jesus, to trust Jesus, and to see Him gradually, sometimes dramatically, sometimes inch by inch. But I look back at my life and I see the radical self-centeredness, the bondage that I have been into, in seeing life only from my perspective And how Jesus gradually releases me from that to see from other people's perspective, to understand what it means to love somebody as I would want to be loved. to get beyond simply myself and my world and my self-centeredness. And as you see that, you thirst and you holder for more, don't you? And Jesus says, I'm here to give that to you. I'm here to bind up your broken heart, to deliver you from that captivity, and to open your eyes to see more of me. Let's pray. How we feel like we come here and our eyes have been dimmed after another week in the world. We have been some of us caught in the crowds of shopping and uh the maniacs who are ready to run us down and trample us to get that last piece of equipment or clothing or TV or something before we can get our hands on it. And we live in a desperate world And it gets more desperate at this time of year. And we come here and we need you. We need you because we're people who are failures. We're people who don't know how to live. We're people whose eyes are blind to what you're about, what life is about. But when we see Jesus, things begin to come into focus Lord Jesus, show us more of yourself. Show us what you're like. Show us who you are, the King who has come to defeat the kingdom of the evil one, to rescue us out of darkness into the kingdom of light. The kingdom of the Son that you love, Father, to give to us a glimpse of eternal glory when our hearts will be fully satisfied in our every desire that we have will be creatively fulfilled in serving you and loving you and living in that place where there is no bondage, no brokenheartedness, no death And we come here needing to hear that word of hope. We come because we know that Isaiah was true, the Israelites were released from bondage. Jesus did come, and Jesus gave that message, and Jesus died, and Jesus rose. So it all is true, even though there's things we can't make sense of. It's true. And we live in the light of the hope of that. Lord, we pray in this one quiet moment help us to bring That longing of our heart to ask you to open our blind eyes and to give us that hope of release from captivity. Hear our cry as we come to you now in this moment.