You may be wondering, whatever happened to Alan? Um he is here, in the back. Prayerfully uh he's supporting prayerfully the second service. He and Kathy were in the first service. Last week you uh if you're visiting, I'm trying to make an explanation here. Uh you You had the pulpit filled uh by our associate pastor Steve Green. And uh Alan, contrary to popular belief, was not on vacation last week. He was filling the pulpit in St. Mary's County at one of our OPC mission works. And so he's looking forward to vacation uh soon in a couple of weeks in August But if you're visiting, please come back next week. Steve last week, Tim this week, and Alan will be back in the pulpit uh next Sunday. So we look forward to that Today, though, I do have the privilege to bring a message to you from God's Word on this Father's Day. Happy Father's Day. We were supposed to let uh Hallmark run our lives for us, right? So we uh at least in passing acknowledge this special significance. That uh fathers are being recognized. And I want to begin this message with an illustration, and for the purposes of this illustration to work Let me start the timer first. Hold on. I didn't do that earlier. That's why the first service was ending as you drove in. Don't get scared. For the purposes of this illustration, however, you must understand something. My wife and I, Dana, we both correct our children as the need arises. There's six children and you can't leave that task to just one parent. But uh for the purposes of this illustration, Dana does correct our children. I wanted to make that clear A couple of weeks ago, I was in the dining room working on my laptop and Dana and a couple of the kids were in the living room where the TV is. And from my vantage point, I kept hearing uh Dana's voice rise in intensity, and one of our children was being addressed, Cala. Our three year old, I'm afraid to use their names because they might, you know, come up here. And Kala has a younger brother, our youngest, Kyle, who we affectionately call Kala's shadow. Kala's three years old, Kyle is two years old. Kyle is her shadow because he does whatever she does. So you have to understand that as well for this illustration. As Dana's voice rose in intensity, I thought, I'll do the old noble husband love my wife and father them children that I haven't seen, you know, all afternoon as I sit here slaving away on my laptop. And get up and go help. Right? So I come around the corner with all of my 200 plus intensity. And I'm gonna reason rationally with my three-year-old. Cala, you've got to understand something, honey, listen, mommy should not have to repeat herself And I notice something, and I've always been accused of wagging this hand, and I always say, no, I don't wag my hand at people when I talk. And they tell me I do And I realize in the midst of this rational discourse with my three-year-old that her eyes have become big, bigger than they normally are, staring at this hand. And with her hand, she's covering her backside and she's backing up in fear. I didn't notice this until Shadow moves in. Figures Cow is doing something, so he's gonna check and see what are you afraid of? Oh okay, that hand? Yeah, me too. And he starts backing up too Which made me stop. The humor of it made me stop. In the midst of that, I realized I should probably turn off Bully Groat Gruff voice Uh, go gentle and kneel and let her know Daddy loves you, honey. And so with the same hand that was just wagging the fear of correction, uh I embraced her with that hand. And it got me to thinking When we're in the parking lot, this is the same hand that grips her small hand tightly to uh negotiate the dangerous asphalt that we're crossing. When they're on the edge of the swimming pool deck, this these hands simply need to be extended for them to launch out and jump into water that is definitely over their head and would drown them if those hands did not catch. It's the same hand that when a jar lid is stuck, they come running to a hand that they have a track record with at least. that there is at least still strength enough to open those jars that are stuck when they realize they cannot accomplish this task. They bring it to the strong hand It's the same hand that they've seen squash bugs and swat at hornets and runaway neighborhood dogs. So that when they encounter bad stuff, they come to the strong hand that they believe will protect them It's this same hand that hides candy and gum and opens it up and offers something for their enjoyment. And so it begged the question even more loudly. Why is why are they afraid of this hand? Why are they backing up afraid of the hand of correction? I knew why Kyle was because Kala was. Well why was Cala? Could it be? Could it be that she had lost sight of the fact that the same trusted hand that she had could rely upon for strength, for protection, for guidance, for comfort, for sustenance. is also that same hand that can be trusted for loving correction. I hope so. Which brings me to the text for the sermon today. Hebrews chapter twelve Would that we could go through the entire chapter and break it out, but I'd like to start reading in verse 3 and then focus our attention from verses 5 to 11. As we uh look to the Word of God for an answer to this dilemma Consider him, Jesus Christ, who endured from sinners such hostility against himself, so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your own blood. Have you forgotten the encouragement, the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when you are reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves. He chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are all illegitimate children, and you're not sons. Besides this, we had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them for it. Shall we not much more be subject to the Spirit, the Father of Spirits, and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as they seem best to them. But He disciplines us for our good, so that we may share in His holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Let me pray for us. Father, I need you to speak through this word. Use me, I pray, God, to show us again. This word of encouragement that comes to us from your timeless truth, promises we can rest in As we face a life that is filled with pain, filled with adversity, and we need you to speak to it We pray that you'd use this word to speak to it. And we pray it all in the name who endured the cross for our sakes, even our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. I think I can get away with this principle, this how much more principle. I believe the writer of Hebrews uh gives me uh a little of that in the in verse nine where he says we had earthly fathers who disciplined us we respected them for it i'll talk about that hopefully in just a sec But then he says, how much more then should we not submit ourselves to the Father of spirits and live? This is the same principle that I've talked about many times in counseling or in in classes that I've taught. The how much more principle. Matthew chapter 7 records Jesus' words. Luke 11, same thing. Where Jesus is saying, You who are sinful fathers, that's the kind of Father's Day message we need, right? Come on. Reality check. You who are sinful fathers, you know how to give good gifts to your children. If your son comes and asks you for bread, you don't give him a stone. If he asks for fish to eat, you don't present him with a serpent. And Jesus says, then how much more will your heavenly Father give to you? All that you ask. In Matthew 7, it's the it's the daily supply of his mercy to meet our every need. In Luke 11, it's one collect connected to that. It's the Holy Spirit given in abundance. For you and for me. How much more? Would that we had time to trace all of the references to the hand of God throughout Scripture. And if you want an exhaustive list or at least a attempt at an exhaustive list, please see me after the message. I'm going to try to highlight a few. In Deuteronomy 4, Deuteronomy 5, Deuteronomy 7, and 11 They all describe, all those passages describe the power of Almighty God to deliver his people from the bondage of Egypt. And Moses records that it was done with a mighty hand and an outstretched arm. That hand that is powerful to protect. In Joshua 4, the same thing. Joshua's talking about how the Jordan dried up, just like the Red Sea dried up, and we passed through. And Joshua says that God did this so that all the peoples of the earth might know that the hand of the Lord is powerful. And so that you might always be made to fear the Lord your God with a reverent respect for his almighty power. In Samuel 5, in 1 Samuel 5 and 6, we see this traced just a little bit more detail of the power of God. when his holiness is trifled with. If you're familiar with that passage, you know that the Philistines have uh gotten a hold of the Ark of the Covenant, the representation of God's holy power, the city of the History, And it's going from town to town to town in 1 Samuel 5 and 6. And the reason it keeps being transported to different towns Samuel records is that the hand of God was heavy upon them, because wherever it ended up, false idols were found the next day with their hands lopped off or with their face buried into the ground Because there is one God, and he is to have no other gods before him. And so these towns would have dead Philistines and Ammonites and others covered with sores because the hand of God was heavy upon them. You know, trace in the hand of God. You're familiar with the prayer, it was a book written, Prayer of Jabaz. First Chronicles. Chapter 4. Now, regardless of our interpretation of this one particular author's view of that prayer, the hand of God is representative of the blessing of God. And that's what Jabaz cries out Oh, that you would bless me and enlarge my territory. Let your hand be with me, Lord. Blessing comes from the hand of God. Ezra and Nehemiah both experience this. Ezra chapter six is given all that King Artaxerx all that he asks of King Artaxerxes. Why Because the scriptures record that the hand of God was upon him, was upon Ezra. And so the blessing and favor came with that hand. On and on we could go. 1 Chronicles 29. In the midst of our capstone campaign and our our quest to build and seek the Lord in that, it's good to remember that it's the hand of the Lord that provides all. 1 Chronicles 29, when the jewels and gold and all of the precious things were brought together. So that the people of God, David and his son Solomon, could build this temple. David stands before the assembly in 1 Chronicles 29. And verse 10 says, Blessed are you, O Lord, the God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever, our Father forever and ever. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty for all that is in the heavens and all that is in the earth is yours. Yours is a kingdom, O Lord, and you are exalted as head above all. Both riches and honor, they come from you, and you rule over all. In Your hand our power and might, and in your hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. And then he goes into this doxology of praise. Now we give you thanks, our God. And that's the the posture that we as a church want to remember to assume in the midst of our deliberations, discussions, and trying to figure out how God's leading with what we have in the capstone. How to fulfill those pledges, the leadership, getting together, praying, seeking the Lord is to always recognize, always recognize that it's the hand of God that provides any blessing as it comes. Amen? The hand of God. We could go on and on. Hand of God seen in Isaiah 41. Here's another one. I just let me read a couple more of these. Isaiah 41. Here's that hand of God. Gripping our feeble, frail hand of clay tightly as we negotiate the asphalt jungle of this world. Isaiah records in chapter 41, verse 10: Fear not, I am with you. Be not dismayed. I am the Lord your God. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. And verse 13, for I the Lord your God, I hold your right hand. It is I who say to you, fear not. Fear not, our Father says to us, for I am the one who helps you. You see the picture coming to clarity, I hope. In Psalm chapter 10, the psalmist refers to the hand of God as that which represents the compassion of a tender, Almighty God who has not forsaken his saints. It's what we read in Psalm 77. God, in your anger, have you shut up your compassion? Is it no longer flowing to me? The psalmist is in turmoil because of the adversity of this life. And did you catch it? I will meditate on the right hand of Almighty God. I will think of his loving Interaction with me. And it brings the psalmist to a place where he can rest again, even in the midst of pain that caused him to cry out, Oh God, where are you? Job chapter nineteen, we see the same kind of thing. The hand of God is presented. And Job uses this hand of God In a way that makes us just a little bit uncomfortable. I think we're comfortable with the blessing of God and the power of God and the strength of God and the guidance of God. And the sustenance that God provides through his hand. But Job says to his friends and supporters In chapter 19, all my intimate friends abhor me, and those whom I have loved have turned against me. My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped by the skin of my teeth. Have mercy on me. Have mercy. Oh you, my friends, for the hand of God has touched me. Which brings us back to our passage today. Why are we uncomfortable with that same usage? Why do Cala and Kyle and why do we back away from the loving corrective hand of our Father in Heaven. Could it be also that just like I assumed My children had lost sight of the fact that the same hand that provides strength and protection and guidance and comfort is also to be trusted when adversity comes my way. This is ultimately a passage about God the Father. But the writer does make an equation here. He uses earthly fathers as an example. What happens to you when you hear Happy Father's Day? Does your mind flood with happy memories of a father who loved Jesus and loved you and sought in the very best way that he could in his frailty to bring you up in the nurture and admonition of God? Or do you cringe at the thought of something that's going to be related to fathers in a message? I believe the writer here is using a generalization. He's presenting a pr there's a presumption in his writing of the model family. And so he says, fathers correct children. And we had earthly fathers who did that, and we respected them for it. But I am well aware that when I say father, some of you never even had a father And so I don't want us to focus on our earthly Father in this message today because the passage begins in verse 5 as a word of encouragement. That's where I want us to be. Because the upbringing that you had and the upbringing that I had, the the upbringing that my children are having with this sinful vessel of clay at the helm of the flora household serves to point us to the fact that none of us on this level can fill the need that we were created with. And so Good, bad, indifferent, somewhere in between, or totally absent, our fathers can be that which points us to the Father. Amen. And so this word of encouragement, the writer of Hebrews says, have you forgotten? Have you forgotten this word of exhortation, this word of encouragement that's come to you? You are facing adversity and trial. And God is bringing it your way. What do you do with that? The um the Beatitudes class that we just uh finished last week was um uh fun to go through together with Steve. And w before we started the class, uh we were trying to find a little Kind of a catchphrase, not really a catchphrase to put on a t-shirt or anything, but just something that we could rehearse and review each week as we began. And Steve came up with this thing. Dependent children of a sovereign father. Dependent children of a sovereign father. And each week we began with a title slide that said to be attitudes. Dependent children of a sovereign father. And one day as we began the class, I I stopped us and I said, can I just ask the class, have you have you had a chance to meditate on the truth of that phrase? That we are dependent children of a sovereign father and sh some hands were raised. And I said, I wonder if to go one step further, if anybody with their hand raised would be willing to just some popcorn testimonies thirty seconds or more or less or of how that affected you to reflect and meditate on that. And one lady raised her hand and I called on her, and this was a lady that I had that week been in the emergency room with Very painful circumstance in her life. And she said just a bit of the detail to the class and she said, you know, this week has been really rough Very rough and maybe more rough than I've remembered in the recent past, but the only thing that helped me through was knowing that nothing came my way this week except that it passed through the hands of my loving Heavenly Father. And I'm humbled by that display of faith because that's the word of encouragement that the scriptures are pointing us to today. Some of your situations, I'm not going to tell tales or anything. I know them intimately. We talk frequently, we're in cell together, or we're uh in ministry together or you come and see me in my office for biblical guidance. And some of your situations I don't really know at all. I'm not familiar with. But the thing I can stand here and say with confidence is, is you're human You're hurting. Or you have hurt, or you will hurt, because the pain of this world brings hurt our way. And the word of encouragement comes to you and to me as children of God when we encounter adversity. Listen, the context of this passage is not to be overlooked. The one who endured the cross is the one who makes that possible for you and I. That cross on which the Prince of Glory died is the place at which we see suffering untold. Because an innocent lamb was slaughtered because of my sin and because of your sin. And so the God that would in his infinite wisdom ordain that that suffering Be the redemption plan for you and me is the same God who does not allow suffering to be meaningless in our lives. That's our hope. Because God never provides pain or allows pain without purpose. And I have a hard time believing that. That's what the writer is calling us to today. That's what God is calling us to in his word. Have you forgotten? Have I forgotten? I forget it frequently. In fact, the writer of Hebrews knows that we are human, and so there's two pitfalls to avoid here. I want to point those out as we move through the text. Two pitfalls, you see them there in your bulletin if you're following along. Do not regard lightly, my son, the discipline of the Lord, nor become weary when you are reproved by him. The two possible fit pitfalls when we face adversity, because you and I both know that adversity can actually come as a direct result of our sin. But also adversity comes in this world. It may come because people hate the church. They hate God. And when we identify ourselves with God, they who persecute the church will persecute us. Adversity comes our way that way, or adversity may simply come by virtue of the fact that we live in a world that is fallen and is affected by sin in every portion. Sickness Trial, suffering. And so what do we do when we encounter suffering? Well how what do we avoid? Make light of it? How? Become weary under it? How? I want to answer those two questions together. I believe that we and I know I do this Make light of the Lord's discipline by forgetting that God is sovereign and He is in control. When I make light or despise what's going on in my life, wish for something else. I've forgotten that God is in God. I've assigned my adversity to some other thing other than God. I make light of the Lord's discipline when I forget he's sovereign. This is from Satan. This is from my spouse. And sometimes we try to equate those two. This is from my upbringing. This is from my job situation. This is from the fact that nobody understands me. This is because I'm just not light in this world, you know, whatever. We forget though when we encounter adversity that God is sovereign. And the week that you and I just came through, whatever it was is a week that God sovereignly ordained for us. That's the truth of the scriptures. We recently went on vacation And the first five days was that same three-year-old with a stomach bug and all that that entails. The Monday of that week off was the third day of a flood in the back of our uh the master bedroom where the kids all sleep, and two plumbers in there to fix it Upon which the night of that day we started feeling a little bit hot and started calling AC men and by Friday they were able to come and fix that I I wouldn't have planned a vacation like that. But as every one of those events kept unfolding, I kept thinking about, right before vacation, Alan and I agreeing that I would preach on the nineteenth, and thinking about this passage. And wondering to myself, Lord, this is the life you've called for me. And I actually was able to testify to Alan to the Glory of God. I felt refreshed when I came back off of that vacation. God can do that. Adversity comes our way. Look, there's a quiz there in your bulletin. I'm going to invite you to take this quiz at home for homework. And review it in your cell or with your family or somebody get alone with some people. What is your first reaction? when adversity comes your way. There's all kinds of choices there, and I'm gonna add an uh add a possibility here. This is a bubble diagram, I mean bubble exam, but for all you just finished school Your last bubble exam for the summer. You can circle all that apply there if you want, because I find myself back and forth with these responses. But how about that last one? How about that last one? Submit. This is what the writer of Hebrews is getting to you and getting to me, I hope Is that the only way to benefit from the adversity in this life, to submit to the discipline of the Lord, is to bring ourselves into submission to his will. To submit. Your other homework assignment is to read that real long and beautiful Puritan John Owen quote there in your bulletin. What does it mean to truly bring my will in line with the will of a loving Heavenly Father? To submit to Him Does it mean uh wishing it away and trying to get through it as quickly as I can? You see those choices there. The pity party. Have you done that one? Sometimes the pity party choice comes up if you have a real caring cell group. This occurs about prayer time, prayer request time. And I'm not saying that prayer request time isn't a chance for you just to unload and say, you know, I'm really having a hard time. Because a lot of times what happens is that's where you get pointed back to the cross, and so do I. But I frequently encounter this thought in myself, and I hear it in others, is I just wish I could wave a magic wand and make all this go away. I wish any Napoleon Dynamite fans out there, like Uncle Rico, that I had a time machine. I could go back in time And I could correct that one thing that keeps me from having true peace and happiness in my life today. You know that time machine theology Is a slap in the face of a sovereign God. And I rebuke myself with that. To wish something away that God has lovingly provided for me after it's passed through the wisdom of his court. Is really a slap in his face. And so my only option is to submit. And you cry out from your from I was going to say pew, from your green padded chair, what about the pain? And I join with you as a fellow weak human, and I say the pain hurts. And I believe that our response to the pain should be to acknowledge that it's painful When we deny that it's painful, I think we do damage again. I think we make light of the Lord's discipline when we deny the pain. The writer of our text today says that it is always painful It's never pleasant to endure the corrective love of God, the discipline of God Painful. And yet there's maybe two responses we can make to that too. To pray for relief. Don't in your pain be masochistic and wish more pain on yourself. Pray for relief and then be willing. And pray God make you willing to submit to your Father in heaven. I didn't come up with that on my own. I take that as great comfort from the one who knelt in the Garden of Gethsemane on my behalf and on your behalf. This one who was innocent of all charges brought against him. Who was preparing for pain and prayed aloud, Father, if it's possible. Let this cup pass from me. Prayed for relief. If it's possible, Lord, take this pain away. Yet, nevertheless, my will be done, but yours. That same Jesus. Who prayed that prayer and who then went to the cross for you and who offers his righteousness and his strength and his peace to you Received by you by faith, nothing you can earn, nothing you deserve. That same Jesus says, I can work in you so that you can pray for relief. Seek relief. Go to medical doctors if there's physical illness. But I can work in you a spirit willing to submit to the loving Heavenly Father that you have. I had a pretty bad injury when we were in Georgia. I'd was throwing a bundle of shingles up on my shoulder. I wasn't even working a job at the time. I was taking them back to the lumber yard. And as I threw him up there, I felt this sharp shooting pain down my right arm, and I heard this. It was, but it was a little bit louder than that. And eventually after about s uh I think it was four and a half months or so, a ruptured disc in my uh vertebrae was taken out, uh bone put in, fused together, there's a titanium thing in there holding it together. All that though, as I was languishing during the summer of the 96 Olympics on my couch with uh muscle relaxers and painkillers as a little country doctor tried to figure out what was wrong with me. Uh one of our friends brought me a little article by Amy Carmichael because they realized that what I was doing was Wishing it away. And there was no way to wish this away. And so they wanted me to hear this thought. Carmichael, writing this, had just been told the news that the splints on her legs would be removed in eight weeks. And she misunderstood that to mean that she would be well in eight weeks. After the splints were removed, there was still much bedtime and then healing time of the illness that had come her way. And she says this, would I merely endure it Would I pray for the grace not to make too much over it, over my poor circumstances? Or would my soul willingly enter into this iron, this fetter of the new and difficult experience? I came across Philippians 1. 13, my bonds in Christ, and I knew that all would be well indeed. So that there could be nothing now but peaceful acceptance. And when one accepts then all that is included in the thing accepted, then that Also, those other things are accepted too. In my case, I could accept now the helplessness, the limitations, the disappointments of hope deferred, the suffering. I know that this is important in keeping my own spiritual atmosphere clear. For even if we let that fugitive wisp of a cloud float across our sky in the form of a wish, A wish that things were different, then the whole sweet blue of our spirit is swiftly overcast. But if we refuse that wisp of a cloud, if we look up and we meet the love of the Lord that shines down on us, and we say to him about that particular detail of the trial, Dear Lord, yes. Then in that one bright moment the sky is returned to blue. I have a hard time with that But that is afforded to me, and that is afforded to you because of Christ. Let us not forget that the goal of our adversity, the goal of whatever you're going through, and I don't know what it is. But the goal of that adversity is so that you may share in the holiness of God. It's not just about making you a mature believer to interact with one another in this plane of existence, but it's bringing about the perfection of you in Christ. The completion of you To conform you and me. Do you believe this? To the likeness of the Lord Jesus Christ, so that we're fit then for heaven. To dwell with him forever. The hope of heaven. Eternity in view. A sure promise of Scripture. The writer of Hebrews makes a definite emphasis on drawing together a father and a child relationship. And I want to close by just reading a passage of scripture from Romans 8, three or four verses. You did not receive a spirit of slavery again to fall back into fear But you have received the Spirit of adoption as sons, by whom that Spirit we cry, Abba, Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then we are heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided that we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified in him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Paul uses a a word picture there that I was familiar with going to visit Grandma Flora's grocery store down in Boonesmill, Virginia growing up. And she had this big set of old scales. And Paul uses a picture of balancing scales, and he said, The sufferings of this life, although they weigh us down, are not to be compared with the weight of glory. when we are completed in him. Let's pray together. Father, we need you, we need you now to apply this word to our particular situation. And Lord, we trust that you will. Lord Jesus, thank you for the provision. That you are the all-sufficient Savior to meet us at the point of our every need, at the point of our greatest need. In your name we pray. Amen.