Which really leads us into the Word this morning. And indeed, we worship a God of redemption who has trampled death. With death, but he has come awake. And it is this one who is seated at the right hand of God the Father. who meets us this morning, and he does so by his spirit, as we turn to his word again. And this morning we are in Ruth chapter 4. We've been in this mini-series on Ruth in this month, and we are now in Ruth chapter 4. So if you have your Bibles with you, you may turn there. If you do not, it is projected for you on the screens. You will hear this morning what is, I believe, not only the great trajectory of this fabulous book, Ruth. It is also the trajectory of all of God's word, and that is from bitterness to joy. Let's hear God's word. Ruth chapter 4, beginning in verse 1. This is God's word. Meanwhile Boaz went up to the town gate and sat there. When the kinsman redeemer he had mentioned came along, Boaz said, Come over here, my friend, and sit down. So he went over and sat down. Boaz took ten of the elders of the town and said, Sit here, and they did so. When he said to the kinsman Redeemer, Naomi. ha who has come back from Moab is selling the piece of land that belonged to our brother Elimelech. I thought I should bring the matter to your attention and suggest that you buy it in the presence of these seated here and in the presence of the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, do so But if you will not, tell me, so I will know, for no one has the right to do it except you, and I am the next in line I will redeem it, he said. Then Boaz said, On the day that you buy the land from Naomi and from Ruth, the Moabitus, you acquire the dead man's widow in order to maintain the name of the dead. with his property. At this the kinsman redeemer said, Then I cannot redeem it, because I might endanger my own estate. You redeem it yourself. I cannot do it. Now, in earlier times in Israel, for the redemption and transfer of property to become final, one party took off his sandal and gave it to the other. This was the method of legalizing transactions in Israel. So the kinsman redeemer said to Boaz, Buy it yourself. And he removed his sandal. Then Boaz announced to the elders and all the people. Today you are witnesses that I have bought from Naomi all the property of Elimelech, Kilion, and Malon. I have also acquired Ruth the Moabitus, Melon's widow, as my wife, in order to maintain the name of the dead with his property. so that his name will not disappear from among his family or from the town records. Today you are witnesses. Then the elders and all those at the gates said, We are witnesses. May the Lord make the woman who is coming into your home like Rachel and Leah. who together built up the house of Israel. May you have standing in Ephrasa and be famous in Bethlehem. Through the offspring the Lord gives you by this young woman, may your family be like that of Peres, whom Tamar bore to Judah. So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife. Then he went to her, and the Lord enabled her to conceive, and she gave birth to a son. The women said to Naomi, Praise be to the Lord, who this day has not left you without a kinsman redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age. For your daughter-in-law, who loves you and who is better to you than seven sons, has given him birth. Then Naomi took the child, laid him in her lap, and cared for him. The women living there said, Naomi has a son, and they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. This then is the family line of Pares. Perez was the father of Hezron, Hezron the father of Ram, Ram the father of Aminadab, Aminadab the father of Nishon, Nashan the father of Salmon. Salmon, the father of Boaz, Boaz the father of Obed, Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. And what I want you to see today. Is that the trajectory and the arc of this story is for us the freshness of God's grace? Because he moves them from bitterness to joy. And he intends the same for us through Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, by your Holy Spirit, open our eyes that we might see wondrous things in your word. That we would see that you are a God who redeems us from the bitterness of sin. And brings us to the joy of salvation. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. Last week, Pastor Flora preached through chapter three of Ruth. He led us to what is, it seems, right at the climax of the story. And so what we have is the beginning of this chapter, which is the leading off of the immediate drama which Pastor Flora led us through last week. Chapter 3 ends with Boaz announcing to Ruth, this woman who is a Moabitus, a daughter of an enemy nation. who's been brought by faith, joined by her pledge to Naomi, now called a daughter, who was simply a poor widow, pledging herself to a poor widow of Naomi. Who came to this man Boaz, who was related to Elimelech, and he was willing to marry her. Except with one small wrinkle. Boaz is not the nearest kinsman redeemer. And he says to Ruth, I will marry you, I will care for you, but notice there is a closer kinsman redeemer. He then gives Naomi, he gives Ruth a whole lot of grain. She takes it back. She reports to Naomi. And Naomi says, Well, this one thing we know, right? We know one thing about Boaz. He will get to the bottom of the matter. And so here we have chapter four, three things. First things first, sacrifice, promise. First things first, sacrifice, and promise. Here is what we learn. What we learn is actually something not incredibly unusual for us as we've come to get to know Boaz. That Boaz is in fact a man who has shown us from the very earliest stages that we got to know him in chapter two. He is a man of great character. He is a man in whom God has worked graceful. And kindness and character. He's a man of great faith. Because the opening A salv of learning who he is, he greets all those who work in his fields. We have learned that he's a man of standing and a man of valor. He greets his workers with a blessing. He then, as he sees this needy woman who is gathering in his field, he seeks to protect her. In fact, he seeks to give her a privileged place that actually is not hers to give, and he then takes care of her needs. And then he learns, of course, that they are related, and of course, Ruth comes to Boaz in chapter 3. puts herself in a very precarious situation, but seeks to do right by Boaz, and Boaz, according to the character which we've learned of him, does right by Ruth Where in chapter 2 he says to his workers, do not embarrass this single woman, who could have easily been taken advantage of by men in the field. He now lives that out. What he announced to his workers, he now lives it out. When he could have taken advantage of Ruth, as they both were in the middle of the night, he had been drinking plenty full of food in the middle of the night with nobody else on the threshing floor. He could have taken advantage of Ruth, but he does not. And Ruth does not take advantage of the situation either. What we see is that they're both people of character, that God has worked. And now we come to this. In this situation, what will Boaz do? What's first things first? In the verses one through four, we learn it quickly. He first goes to the closer kinsman redeemer. But we kind of don't want him to. I mean, in many ways, we we we're sort of like, really? Do you have to do that? I mean, because By the way, commentators have called this guy that that that Boaz goes to, because he doesn't have we don't know his name. So they've sort of given him Mr. No Name. So Boaz calls out Mr. No Name, this closer kinsman redeemer, which up to this point we've never heard about. He clearly has not shown care for his brother's family because He's not helped with respect to their food needs. It's the first time we hear him, we're like Boaz, come on. Nobody's gonna say anything. It's not like this guy was, you know, like knocking at the door going, Hey Boaz, you're moving in on my territory No, Boaz seeks him out, and he does it at the City Gate. The City Gate was like the corporate CEO corporate boardroom where all the major business was done It was the courtroom, the boardroom, and everything room. If you were a man of standing and you wanted things to get done, you go to the city gate. So Boaz goes to Mr. No Name, the closer kinsman redeemer. And he lays out the issue. But surprisingly, he doesn't talk about Ruth yet. Notice what he does. Verse 4. He says, I thought I should bring the matter to you. Well, what is the matter? He first doesn't mention Ruth, he mentions Naomi. Verse 3. Naomi, who has come back from Oab is selling a piece of land that belonged to our brother Elimelech. So what he's doing is he's appealing to the Mosaic Law. The Mosaic Law had provisions that if a man passed away who did not have heirs, that only thing that the widow could do, she could not inherit that land. All she could do is either find a kinsman redeemer or she would sell the land to provide for her needs. So in this case, he can't buy the land. Boaz can't. He has to go to Mr. No Name. But he doesn't mention Ruth yet. Because remember, what he's trying to do is he's talking about kinsman redeemer. Kinsman Redeemer was less about relationship to who you're going to marry. It was about the name of your kin that you're redeeming the name and the land that belonged to him. Promised land. Elimelech, with his family, was given a plot of land in the midst of famine. He ditches the promised land, goes against God's provision and trusting in the Lord, and goes to a foreign land that God said you should never have any dealings with. The land remains in the promised land. It wasn't sold. It wasn't dealt with. It was just there during the famine. Nobody wanted to take it up. But Boaz understands this is the first thing first. We have to deal with the land. And he appeals to this man's bottom line. And he goes to him and he and he simply says. Look, I suggest that you buy it. Now, after what we've just heard from chapter 3, we're not expecting this. If we're being honest. Even if we're familiar with the story, go back and read it as you've as if you've never read it before. It it we're not we're not expecting this wrinkle. Because Mr. No Name and the Land are all tied up together. But what's interesting is Boaz is a man of integrity. It shows us again what is very easy to pass over. He shows himself to be a man who is going to follow the letter of the law He wants to do what is right, even though maybe nobody would have called him on it. He still does what is right. He's the same when he's with his men in the field, he's the same when he's in private, he's the same when he's in public. He's living it out. And what we notice is that he says to this man, look, you've got a win-win situation. He he appeals to this man's bottom line. Why? Well well because here's the deal. All this man has to do and why he says he's going to redeem it is he takes money from his estate, buys the land from Naomi. Takes it as his own, but guess what? He doesn't have to worry about Naomi. Because see, when a kinsman redeemer comes in to buy a plot of land that once belonged to his brethren The normal Mosaic law would call that you would then take on his wife. And then you would build a family. But he doesn't have to worry about that because Naomi is too old to conceive. So he's like, well I don't have to worry about that. This is a win-win situation. I get the land, I get to invest my money, I get the payoff, I don't have to worry about Naomi and worrying about starting another family, and whatever profits I get, I can simply share with my own brothers and my own children. It's a win-win. And Boaz is both a man of integrity, but he's also shrewd. He's laying out the facts of the case. But we kind of don't want him to. But the Lord shows us: look what God is doing in this man's life. Clearly, he loves Ruth. Clearly, he wants to redeem the name of Elimelech and hold on to the land. He wants to follow this, but even he doesn't have to. And yet what we see is his integrity shows us he goes beyond the letter of the law, he goes to the spirit of it, to care for the widow. To care for those who could not care for themselves. He's not a man of just technical integrity. He's a man of wholeness. And you see. This is about what God is doing. God does not simply redeem Boaz, provide him for forgiveness of sins. And then kind of leaves him alone. No, he forgives Boaz of his sins and calls him to himself. He's Boaz's redeemer, the Lord is, but he also means to make Boaz Not just a man who follows the letter of the law, he means to give him a new heart, new integrity, new in character, and that's what we see. This is what I was talking about a couple of weeks ago. And that should be insight to what God means to do in us. God does not mean for us simply to receive forgiveness for sins. And then to give us a moral law by which we can learn how to be technically honest. He means to work out in us not just the letter of the law, but the love and the spirit of the law underneath it. The love, the care. And that's what we where we get the word integrity is from the word integer. Which is a math term meaning a whole number, right? Math people, right? Integer, right? That's what I've been told. I was an English major. Sue me later. But okay. So the reality is He has an integrity, which means a wholeness, a comprehensive character that is shot straight through with God's love and God's transforming power. In other words. Boaz is not a man with just a transformed mind who looks at a situation and just makes decisions based on the bottom line. He is a man who is shot through with a transformed heart. And that's what he wants to do in us. He means to make us a people who are the same with one group as with another, in private or in public. So let me pause for just a second and think about this. We're in church on Palm Sunday, right? Church vote? Christians? How many of us have a church personality versus the rest of the week personality? Is there a church you And then the rest of life you? If the people you work with, that you joke with, that you talk about music and movies with, maybe that you drink a beer with or smoke a cigar or whatever, would they recognize you on Sunday? What about this? What about the old low-hanging fruit illustrations? Let me use it for just a second. So you come into church on Palm Sunday. You've just had an argument with your family the night before, maybe on the way here. Maybe you're really you've been you've been reading out the speech in your head against all those you're really mad at, right? And then you come and if somebody says, How are you today? You go, I'm good. Really? How easy it is for us to come into church and we put on the church self. Right? Why do we do that? It's because we're afraid, sometimes, we're afraid of allowing what's going on the inside maybe seen on the outside. We're afraid of integrity. We're afraid of wholeness because Sometimes what we're concerned about is having people like us or accept us. We're not sure how they're going to respond. But the Lord means to make us a people all seven days, what he wants us to be on this day. A people of integrity, a people of worship, a people of wholeness, a comprehensive, transformed hearts. He doesn't want us to be a people who are technically honest. He wants us to be a people who are whole, shot through with transformed hearts, who care less about the letter of the law, but understand there's a spirit of love underneath it, shot straight through. That calls us beyond technical things. I believe that this is what God allows us to see in Boaz. I believe it's what He wants to see in us. Because he's a God who is at work with first things first, and we see it with Boaz. But Boaz doesn't start with just the land. He moves on to the next thing: the sacrifice. And he goes from first things first to a much deeper sacrifice. Look with me in verses five and following. He says, in chapter four, verse five. He says, now uh the man says, I will redeem it, he's and uh the the the Mr. No Name says. And then Boaz said, Okay, on the day you buy the land from Naomi, And from Ruth, now he mentions the catch. The Moabitus, you acquired the dead man's widow. So now he was thinking, when when Mr. No Name is. Now he's saying, wait a second, Ruth. Oh, okay. And so he says, the Ruth Modesh, you acquire the dead man's widow in order to maintain the name of the dead man with his property. And so now we have the sacrifice that is being presented. The choice is being presented both to Boaz and Mr. Nonaim. Now let's watch what happens. Mr. No Name responds, At this the kinsman redeemer said, Then I cannot redeem it because it might endanger my own estate. You redeem it yourself. I cannot do it. Now technically technically by Mosaic law he doesn't have to He can give this up to Boaz. But it does help us to see what he thinks about sacrifice. Because see, now he recognizes this choice is going to require he's got to put skin in the game. Because here's what happens. If he buys Naomi's land, he doesn't have to worry about Naomi, but now he must acquire Ruth as his wife. Now watch what happens. If he builds a family with Ruth, who is still of childbearing age, then if she has a son, guess what happens to the land he just bought? It goes to them. So therefore, his initial investment to both now a land that was fallow And left alone, he has to take from his estate, invest it into it, raise it up to a profit-making field with the risk Of Ruth conceiving a son, therefore losing his initial investment, they're losing most of the profit he would make if the field turns a profit, and therefore only come away with a fraction for him or his sons. The sacrifice, the payoff, is not good enough. But I maintain to you Both are presented with the exact same choice. Both have to do the same thing But technically speaking, Mr. Nonane doesn't have to. But if he does, this is what he has to do. Now we get to Boaz. Why would Boaz do this? Boaz doesn't have to. In fact, Boaz actually sees before him the same choice. But a far deeper sacrifice. We don't know about this until we get to the genealogy at the end of the book. The genealogy at the end of the book tells us something about Boaz. Boaz had a father and a grandfather. That grandfather was by the name of Nashon. Now that's not a household name, right? Maybe you Bible Bible trivia folks know who Nishon is. Here's who Nishon is. Nishon was in fact one of Israel's greatest military leaders. He was a uh he was during the time of Moses, he commanded as a tribal chief of Judah. Which made him chief of Israel's largest tribe and the commanding general of the largest division of the Israelite army. And not only that, he would be the one who would lead the people out of trouble And in so doing, when the cloud of glory lifted and the Israelites had to escape with Moses, Nishon would have been right there leading the clan of Judah. Behind him. Then when the tabernacle was actually built, it was Nishon, and you can go back and read this in Numbers, was the first one to offer up a dedication and a sacrifice. to God. This is Boaz's grandfather This means that by Israelite lineage, Boaz is an Israelite blue blood. As we learn earlier in the book, he's a man of standing, a man of valor. In other words, Boaz was the man. He had what he needed, and he could lead with it. He has no need for this troubling speed bump on the line of his life. But what happens is this. He looks at the choice and he looks at the bottom line, but what does he do? He makes the choice not based on the bottom line, he looks beyond it, and what does he see? There is a reward that he thinks is greater than any sacrifice that he would have to give up. And here's where we see the heart of God at work in the heart of this man. He desires to redeem a family. Family, a family that now has within it a daughter of an enemy nation who's now been brought by faith into the Israelite people Who is a Gentile, who he will now marry, who then will give birth, he is willing to take that risk Redemption of his family, Elimelech's family, and of their land, and of their name, he puts his name on the line. That is a man who sees before him something that nobody else sees. He sees a reward and a joy set before him. That he says, I will do this. And that is precisely what he does. Which brings us to the promise. After they talk about the situation, they exchange sandals. Then we have the pronouncement of blessing, and we hear the promise. So, three things quickly that we need to see about this promise. First, the promise is about redemption. Notice Verse 11. Then the elders and all those at the gate, after Boazid said, Everybody, you're a witness to what I'm committing myself to do, taking Ruth. I'm going to redeem Naomi. I'm going to redeem the land alimelech's name. I'm going to take Ruth as my wife. Then the elder said, We're witnesses. And then they pronounce a blessing. May the Lord make the women the woman who is coming into your home like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May you have standing in Ephrasa and be famous in Bethlehem. And then we see farther down in verse 14, the women said to Naomi, Praise be to the Lord who this day has not left you. Without a kinsman redeemer, may you become may he become famous, meaning Boaz. May Boaz's name become famous throughout all of Israel. What we see happening is redemption. But here's the key. We don't come to the end of the story as we come to the end of a love story. It's not a love story between Ruth and Boaz. It's a love story between God and the people he redeems. The hero isn't Boaz. The great heroine isn't Ruth. It's God who is redeeming. Notice who He redeems. He first redeems Naomi Right? Right? You you remember? But Naomi was crushed at her loss in chapter one. And she doesn't seem to get what God is doing. She tries to help God along by giving Ruth this crazy bone-headed plan. But yet God is gracious and merciful. She she calls herself bitterness. Because the Lord has dealt with her severely, but here we see that God in His grace works through Boaz, works through Amoabites to say to his daughter, I redeem you, I love you. And likewise, Ruth is redeemed. Ruth, this Moabitus woman who's now come into Israel by faith. She's a Gentile who belonged to this enemy nation. She's now redeemed because she's no longer a widow and she's no longer without child. She is redeemed. And even I think we can say, look at the name of Elimelech. Elimelech. We don't know why he went to Moab to begin with, but we see what happened to him. He lost his life. His sons lost their lives to be thrown out into the dust heap of history. But God even redeems that land and that name. You see what the real story arc, what is the real golden thread tracing through the entire book is this summed up in one word. You ready for it? Write it down. And I can't really say it because I'm not really good at it. I'm going to try. Chesed. H-E-S-E-D is the transliteration. It is the word loving kindness. Now watch. In chapter one, Who gives loving kindness? Ruth gives loving kindness to Naomi. In chapter 2, Boaz gives loving kindness, and we hear it from the lips of Naomi for the first time in chapter 2. Boaz gives loving kindness to Ruth, and Naomi providing for them food. Then in chapter 3, Boaz is blown away that Ruth would call on him to be a kinsman redeemer, and he says, This kindness, this loving kindness, this chesed that you showed to me is greater than that which you showed to Naomi. Then in chapter four, what happens? God uses Boaz through the sacrifice that he gives. He shows chesed through Boaz to this family and to this land and to the name Do you see that shot through from beginning to end is this whole idea of loving kindness? But, ladies and gentlemen, it is not of man's design. It is God who designs it. It. And by his loving kindness, these elders say, May the Lord make the woman. May the Lord bless that womb. May the Lord bless that man, Boaz. May the Lord bless you, Naomi. Because through his loving kindness he brings not only redemption, He brings resurrection. Naomi and Ruth are as good as dead. They are husbandless. They are childless. And Elimelech and his sons dead. And yet, what does God do with his loving kindness? He resurrects. Do you see it? It's right there in the last few verses. Not only Do they say that God's blessing and resurrection is at work in Boaz? He says, through these people giving blessing, that Ruth and Naomi are mothers of kings. You see, Ruth is the mother, right? She gives birth. It tells us that right there in verse 13. But then watch what happens. The women said to Naomi, Praise be to the Lord who this day has not left you without a kinsman redeemer. May he become famous throughout Israel. He will renew your life and sustain you in your old age. For your daughter-in-law who loves you. And who is better to you than seven sons has given him birth. And then watch this. She takes the child, puts him in her lap, and then we hear what the women say. The woman living women living near there said, Naomi has a son, in these great words. And they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. It is not only Ruth who is resurrected to be a mother of kings, so is Naomi. Do you see God's loving kindness is about redemption. It is about resurrection because the real kinsman redeemer. The ultimate kinsman redeemer that this story simply points us to is the king who would come through this, Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the kinsman redeemer. If I can plead with you, I get really excited about this story, so walk with me. Jesus Christ, unlike Boaz, is different, right? Ruth and Naomi go to Boaz and he does what he needs to do, and it is great. And we see God's work in his life. But look at Jesus. No one sitting in Jerusalem on the first Palm Sunday said, give us Jesus as our kinsman redeemer. No one asks God. It is God from beginning to end who announces first, I will redeem you. It is Christ who comes in seated on a donkey into Jerusalem to make a people his family through the cross of Jesus Christ. Why would Jesus do that? Why Well the Bible tells us in Hebrews chapter twelve, verse two Let us fix our eyes on Jesus, the author and perfector of our faith, who for the joy set before Him endured the cross, scorning its shame. And sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Do you see that Jesus is a greater Boaz? Boaz, who would give up of his family money, who would give up and sacrifice, is pale in comparison to Jesus, who would give up his life. Who came into Jerusalem on that Palm Sunday, who had set before him and his face set straight on The joy set before him, the cross, scorning its shame. Boaz had a great name, but who is Jesus' father? God, the Father. You think Boas had a great line? Jesus is the greater And here is what is even more beautiful. Why would Jesus do that? It is because of this. If Boaz would sacrifice, because the joy set before him was the redemption of a family, to take for himself a bride, through whom he would make a blessing to the nation. Jesus Christ then is saying to us through this word, we are his Ruth. We are his Ruth. The joy set before him was the cross through which he would redeem you and me And through that work and the resurrection would make a family. And isn't that what Paul tells us? That the church is the bride of Christ. He has taken for himself a bride to be a blessing to the nations. And it is in that deep reality. Of this greater kinsman redeemer, that he means to take the bitterness of our brokenness and sin and shoot right through it by his power to give us transformed hearts. To make us a people for himself, who are shot through with transformed hearts, who are not technically honest, technically equipped with integrity, but who are comprehensively given. to the foundation that is Jesus Christ alone, who forgives us of our sins, but who means to make us a new people, to give us new hearts. And if he can do that in Boaz, if he can do that in Ruth, if he can take Naomi from bitterness to joy, how much more than through Jesus Christ does he not intend to make us A new people. Amen. So today, Palm Sunday, let us remember that at another city gate A kinsman redeemer came in on a donkey who, for the joy set before him, scorned the shame of the cross. And is now seated at the right hand of God the Father. His loving kindness is on you. Let's pray Father, for those who this morning are feeling the sharpness of the bitterness of sin and wonder, could you love them? May you turn that bitterness to joy. For those who wonder whether they can ever know the love of someone, may they know your love this morning, your loving kindness. Lord, may you make us a people who go from the bitterness of the brokenness of sin to the joy of salvation. But Lord, give us new life Transformed hearts that are given not to just a law, but who are given to the joy of transformed hearts That see the spirit behind the law, which is love and grace only through Jesus Christ. Make us this new people, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.