Mark the second chapter, verses eighteen. Now John's disciples and the Pharisees were fasting. Some people came and asked Jesus How is it that John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees are fasting, but yours are not? Jesus answered, How can the guests of the bridegroom fast when he is with them? They cannot, so long as they have him with them. But the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and on that day they will fast. No one sows a patch of unshrunk cloth on an old garment. If he does, the new piece will pull away from the old, making the tear worse. And no one pours new wine into old wineskins. If he does, the wine will burst the skins, and both the wine and the wineskins will be ruined. No, he pours new wine into new wineskins As you know, we are just now beginning a series of sermons on the parables of Jesus Christ. Last week we talked about the parable of the Great Supper and the need that we have to respond to the invitation that comes to us from Jesus Christ. This week, uh, for some reason, I have found myself uh back in a passage on feasting, back in a passage that talks about a wedding I don't know if that has anything to do with the fact that my wife was singing in a wedding yesterday and that both of us enjoyed it so thoroughly to to be gathering with friends and participating in A time of great joy, a time of great celebration. And it really did give me a bit of a foretaste of what we will all look forward, what we all can look forward to. In the Great Supper, when we will be feasting with the Lamb of God. I don't know if there is any connection there, but uh I just God has just been blessing me in this last week as I've been thinking about that. So I don't apologize in bringing you once again to a parable about feasting. It's a shorter parable this week that we have to consider, and we're going beyond just the call that Jesus makes for us to respond. to that feast. We're going to consider today the nature of the feast to which God calls us. We will be contrasting The way of life of John's disciples and the disciples of the Pharisees in their lives of fasting with the way of life of Jesus and his disciples who in the words of the parallel uh parable in Luke came eating and drinking. They came feasting Now I am not uh interested in criticizing fasting at all. Uh there is there are several examples of fasting in the New Testament which are of course Perfectly appropriate. We think of Jesus himself who fasted for forty days at the beginning of his public ministry. We can also think of a couple of cases in the book of Acts where the church gathered together in prayer. and fasting, to present a request to God in a way that was uh was more urgent perhaps in view of the fact that they were skipping meals and spending that time in fasting. And in prayer. I do want to suggest though that there is a way of fasting that uh is presented in the New Testament that the Pharisees and even the the uh disciples of John. were involved in that was inappropriate in view of the fact that Jesus himself was there and that the kingdom was there in their midst. The reason I want to bring this up is not just to reflect on a pattern of fasting that a couple of groups of people participated in 2,000 years ago. I think there is a parallel between the way we uh sometimes deal with our sin and the way in which the Pharisees, the way in which even the the disciples of John would sometimes deal with theirs. In mourning and in fasting. The question is asked then, why aren't you fasting? Why aren't you fasting? Why aren't your disciples fasting? In the opposite order that is there in your sermon outline, I would like to consider first of all that the disciples of John the Baptist and how it is that they fasted. As you know, John the Baptist was a crusty guy. He was a guy who was used to a hard way of life, a hard diet, honey and locusts. He is also someone that had a very difficult job in life. A job of calling the hard-headed people of Israel to repentance. Now the disciples of John knew of Jesus, of course, and perhaps they were just a little bit resentful of him. A group of them once said to John, This guy, Jesus, whom you are talking about, is going around baptizing people. And he is commanding a great following. Why is that, John? There was just a little bit, a seed of of jealousy, perhaps there. But if that's not bad enough, Jesus and his disciples went around eating and drinking. They went around feasting. And that perhaps certainly got on the nerves of the disciples of John. They would keep on eating and drinking. Now that doesn't seem too unusual or unreasonable to us, does it? But it was awfully hard for the disciples of John to understand. You see, they were coming out of the context of the great Jewish tradition of fasting, required fasting on a frequent basis. I didn't say that the Old Testament required that fasting. If you look in the Old Testament, there is only one place, there is only one time and the whole year that is required, that is re it is required of the people to fast, and that is on the Day of Atonement. Just one day. Fasting literally in that context means afflicting yourself Abstaining from things that are pleasurable in general, and in particular abstaining from food, and spending time in introspection, self-examination, and prayer. But that one day, that one day of fasting soon multiplied, and it became a great host of days that the people were required to fast by the ruler. They would deprive themselves of food in order to gain God's approval, gain his appreciation for their efforts Now that's a good idea. That's a good idea, isn't it? Doesn't that sound good to you? That there you can do things, or in this case you can abstain from doing things, you can abstain from eating And that will please God, and that will help you to become uh in a right relationship with God. That was the idea that was going on in the minds of the people. Helping God to accept you by not eating. Now during the exile in Babylon, there of course were no sacrifices. So this uh the idea the practice of fasting became much more prevalent even than it was before. And it became hardened in the thinking of the people that it was a meritorious act to gain God's approval. It was simply that. A meritorious act To gain God's approval, to be awarded by God. Simply outward, simply a formal thing that people did Zechariah the prophet had had railed against his people for that for this habit. By that time it had gotten to be two months. Out of every year, two months, that people were required to fast. Now that doesn't mean go the whole month, but a time of very little eating and fasting during the day on those two months. Zachariah with great insight says, Was it for the Lord that you fasted, or was it for yourselves? For him, true fasting was renouncing sin. Not renouncing food. Now the Pharisees themselves and the disciples of the Pharisees never caught on to Zechariah's warning, Zachariah's criticism. Of selfishly motivated fasting. By the time of the Pharisees, two days out of each week were to be dedicated to fasting. Every Monday and every Thursday. So the disciples of Jesus were ignoring a very important part of the life of the people in Judea and in Jerusalem. They were ignoring also the massive doses of penance that the people felt they had to go through in order to keep that good relationship with God. Moses said Fast on that one day of the year, the day of the day of atonement. And the people reflected, well, if one day was good, one day a year was good Two days a week has got to really impress God. That's the kind of attitude From which this question is asked, why is it that your disciples are not fasting? Now Jesus responds with a very familiar picture, a picture of a wedding feast. In the 19th verse he says, How can the guests of the bridegroom fast while he is with them? They cannot so long as they have him with them Now the people knew the history of Hosea, that prophet who was told by God to marry a harlot. And the picture of Hosea's relationship with that harlot was then compared to God's relationship with once faithful Israel, but now faithless Israel. They also knew of the prophet Isaiah, who proclaimed, As a bridegroom rejoices over his bride, so will God rejoice over you. They also knew that Song of Solomon, that beautiful love letter depicting the marriage re the sexual act in the marriage relationship. The only way that the the uh the Jewish rabbis could be comfortable with that was by explaining in terms of God's love. for his people. It's with those rich thoughts in mind that Jesus begins talking about this wedding feast. Why don't they fast? They cannot fast because the bridegroom is in their midst. It's a time of celebration, a time of rejoicing. The great wedding feast, which was so long delayed, has now begun in Jesus Christ. The new, the true Israel is joining with its Lord in this meal. In Jesus, whose name is Emmanuel, God with us. The name given by the angel at birth, and all of the Old Testament passages which I've just mentioned are really looking forward to Jesus Christ in his relationship with his people. When he comes as the bridegroom at that time, great fasting. Great delight. Great joy in being united to Jesus Christ. It's senseless to fast. It's highly inappropriate to be fasting when Jesus Christ is with us. I spoke with a fellow just a couple of weeks ago. Who was married very recently, and he described his joyous occasion of his wedding But he was ambiguous in his language because at the very time that he was being married, a very close relative of his was dying in the hospital. And he described to me the inner turmoil that he had, how difficult it was for him to have those two warring emotions. Of joy and celebration and delight on the one hand, and the sorrow, the sadness of a pat of a loved one who is passing away. That's a great tension that Jesus Himself does not want us to have when we contemplate the great feast, the great wedding feast that he gives to us. He says, Don't try it. But put away weeping, put away fasting, and rejoice. Now the disciples of the Pharisees and the disciples of John the Baptist Just didn't recognize Jesus for who he was as Emmanuel as God with us. They didn't recognize him for who he claimed to be. It didn't celebrate in who he was. But he calls us to celebrate from our perspective and knowing that this is Emmanuel, God with us. He calls us to celebrate. He also warns, though, in verse 20, that the time will come when the bridegroom will be taken from them, and on that day they will fast The bridegroom will be taken from them. Now I don't think that the disciples of Jesus understood exactly what he was driving at there. That was a very veiled prophecy of Jesus' violent death, which he would have on the cross for his people. But it was certainly foretold in Isaiah the 53rd chapter. Where the where the prophet says that the suffering Savior will be taken away. And the rest of the chapter, of course, describes The fact that that suffering Savior was taken away on our behalf and carried his our sins for us. That you see at that time, at the time that that the bridegroom is taken away, the people will fast. I wonder, though, if their fasting is the same as the fasting of the Pharisees. I don't think so. As we have said, the Pharisees devoted themselves to fasting partly out of the a desire to make themselves more acceptable to God, to pay for the sin. that they committed. Jesus' disciples were just reflecting and mourning in the fact of his death. Their misunderstood desires, their misunderstood hopes and dreams were crushed when Jesus died on the cross. So they mourned his absence. But I think it's easy to see the fundamental difference in the two types of mourning that we have been talking about. The followers of Jesus learned that his suffering was all that was needed to pay for their sins. So they fasted in mourning until the resurrection. They fasted, contrary to the spirit of the Pharisees, who overlooked the real significance of Jesus' life and death. You know, it's interesting that the history of the church in a way parallels more the fasting of the Pharisees than it does the fasting and then the rejoicing of Jesus' disciples. Not right away, but perhaps 100 to 150 years after the death of Christ, the idea of fasting began to creep back in to the Christian way of life. Around the second century, this fasting began with just one or two days around Easter time. And then just like in the Old Testament, the fasting began to proliferate and it began to accelerate. And before you know it, there was a week of fasting. And then there were two weeks of fasting around Easter time. And then four, and then finally seven weeks around Easter time that people would be uh be fasting With the spread of monasteries as well, people began to have the idea that they must contribute to their salvation. Again, in the tradition of the Pharisees, they had to contribute. I wonder if even today in our churches we see a tendency to glorify Depriving ourselves. There was a big question when I was in when I was in junior high and high school. What did you give up for Lent? And usually the answer was something like liver. Something or some other not so missed item. But you see, that kind of attitude is prevalent today, and I wonder if it's prevalent even in our church here. It's true, certainly, that we don't have a formal uh code of fasting uh placed upon us. But I wonder if sometimes we share the attitude of fasting that the Pharisees had. As I've mentioned, the history of the church has known this type of fasting, this type of attitude. For about 1900 years. The kinds of things that I'm getting at here, perhaps we're not always comfortable with receiving so many good things from God Perhaps sometimes we feel guilty and we feel that we must pay him back. We want to give things up for him. I wonder if sometimes we feel it's necessary to deprive ourselves of something in order to pay for sins that we commit. As I've mentioned, people have been doing that for centuries in the form of penance. Or perhaps you feel the tendency to punish yourself for sins that you commit. Not really believing that God's forgiveness in Jesus Christ is perfectly adequate, perfectly sufficient for all of your sins. I've got to confess, it feels kind of good sometimes to deprive yourself. Speaking of myself, it feels good to deprive myself of some things and think that, yes, God, I am cooperating with you. I'm doing something with you here in securing my salvation. And so often it is bound up in my assurance of God's love for me. But Jesus is saying just the opposite right here. He is saying, rejoice, rejoice, and celebrate in himself, even as the disciples celebrate in his presence. He warned that he would be taken away, as I mentioned. But he says in John 16, In a little while you will see me no more, and then after a little while You will see me. He's speaking, of course, of the resurrection. That their fasting would turn into feasting once again as they saw Jesus Christ. Later on in that chapter he says, you will grieve, but your grief will turn to joy. And then again, I will see you again, and you will rejoice, and no one will take away your joy. That's a promise to us as well. No one can take away our joy We have joy because Jesus Christ is with us too. You know in the Great Commission he says, Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of time. He is with us in the person of the Holy Spirit. Do you have confidence in Jesus? Do you have confidence that He has moved you? From fasting to feasting, move you away from that attitude of self-flagellation that you feel you have to go through in order to accept the grace that God has given. We're called to rejoice. We're called to rejoice in him. I think that's the point of the twin parables that follow the parable that we're looking at this morning in Luke, in Mark, the second chapter. The parable of the unshrunk cloth, and the parable of the new wine being put into old wineskins. Certainly as the new patch does not go with the old garment, and certainly as that new wine does not go in that old wineskin. So the old pattern of Jewish tradition simply does not mesh with the life that we have in Jesus Christ when we participate in the glorious gospel. that he has given to us. There are two opposing realities. The new disrupts the old, and it bursts it wide open. That's why Paul could say, the old is gone. And the new has come. That's the kind of radical break we need in our experience too, isn't it? Do you ever feel that God wants you to suffer along with Jesus Christ in payment for what Christ has done? I think that's one of the most common patterns that people feel today. We can slip in it t so easily. But isn't that based in our pride? Not really, not really humility. If anything, it's false humility. But we are proud because we think that yes, there is something we can contribute to what Jesus has done I have talked to people who have been brought up in Christian homes, who have attended church all of their lives, who have gone to Christian schools. And after years and years, sometimes decades, they still have not been able to grasp the reality of the grace that is available in Jesus Christ. Exactly what that grace means. It's free, unmerited favor I suppose that one reason for that might be because all of the examples of love that we see, or I shouldn't say all, but most of the examples of love that we see In our relationships, really have a conditional element to them, don't they? We feel love from people when we feel that we are living up to their expectations. And when we are our our we are accepted ourselves, when our behavior and our performance is up to snuff. When a child, did you ever feel that your parents' love for you was based on your behavior? Dependent on your action. Or as a parent, do you ever communicate that same feeling to your child? It's so easy to do. Anger at a person can flare up so easily. But how thankful we should be that that's not the way God relates to us. I sometimes think that we still tend to view God Similar to the old lady or the blind lady of justice, who holds in her hands the scales, the things that we do right and the things that we do wrong. And when the things that we do wrong are adding up We need to do something else. We need to do something in order to balance that out. And so we begin to fast. Not so much today, uh, I don't think that uh it takes place in the form of fasting. Our feelings of remorse have taken all different kinds of shape throughout the history of the church. I read of one gentleman who a couple of Several centuries ago, when he felt that he had sinned against God in such a bad way, he would go out and roll himself in a rose bush. I think we're a little more sophisticated than that. But I think also That we have a difficult time accepting the fact that Jesus Christ is all sufficient. We can tend to have a depressed state of mind. We can tend to look so much inward, look so much to ourselves and not to Jesus Christ. I would ask you to consider The all-sufficient grace of Jesus Christ. I had a conversation with a woman several months ago. And I had opportunity to share with her Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace are we saved through faith, and not of yourselves, not a result of works, lest anyone should boast. And she looked at me in disbelief. She saw it with her own eyes. She said she believed the Bible. She said she believed that God was a God of love. But she looked at me and she said, What's the catch? I told her there was no catch. There's no catch at all. The grace is free. She wanted to do something. But she found it so difficult to accept that gift from Jesus Christ. Jesus is saying, your fasting should turn to feasting. Feasting on me, being joyful in what I have done. He is saying, turn from your fasting Turn from your mourning. Turn from your depression because your eyes are looking inward. And turn simply to Jesus Christ. What a blessed message that is. What a blessed word from Jesus Christ. Turn to him. He responds, he hears you, he welcomes you with open arms. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you will accept us as we are. We pray that you will accept us even in our sin. And we thank you that you do that in Jesus Christ. Oh Lord, we we do praise you. We do praise you for what Jesus has done. Pray these things in his name. Amen. We have opportunity now to respond to the Word of God We will I ask the ushers now to come forward for the morning offering. And it's a surprise to me this morning, but we will Listen to Phil Stevens sing, Oh Lord, you're beautiful during the operator. Father, we do thank you that you have given us so much. You ask for much in return. You ask for all of ourselves. You ask for our whole personalities. All of our energies. Father, we take this opportunity to give you just a portion of what you've given us. We pray that you will take it and use it. Pray this in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.