We've been looking at tears these last three weeks, tears in connection with the last week of Jesus right before the cross. For it, he has a spirit of compassion for Jerusalem and for all that revealed to come to him for protection and for deliverance in a heart Jesus' compassion. That last weeks about that The fact that he was not able to keep the word to stand for the things he believed that may have to be true We saw in Jesus forgiveness appear the need to turn our attention from our own ability, to our own love, or lack of it, or faith. Come on, Jesus, love for us. Now the thing is the way because To look at tears of grief. Heartbroken tears when you've lost someone prayed to. Of recently lost loved ones were tears of grief and hopelessness. The situation and the life of it. Life itself, you see, it was like a burden. It's just too heavy to bear. Think of the tears of those refugees imagine. They think the car is of those people. How many of you are wondering realized that for over four months we have to win working these last four months that is observable? A mother who had two sons in a serpent or had the serpent and a serpent or Just over it was to go return to her full and delivery. She was there now. She was worshiping right there with me with me. Don't be situation that she's in general. Why is it all pain? Grief. Sorry. I would like to look with you to the story of Mary Magdalene. No one had ever loved her like Jesus loved her. We know very little about her. Her name was actually Miriam of Magdala. Magdala, a small town on the western coast of the Sea of Galilee. Just a few miles out of praying where Jesus sometimes think. The only references that we have to are in the Bible that shows us why he was attached to Jesus is looking chapter eight, verse two. Chapter eight, verse none we're told about Jesus twelve disciples that followed him. And then in verse two Well that's a very good I think about him and the last thing is the middle of the number of those years. Miriam of Nathalie had come seven in this was one tormented Don't look at Mary or Miriam of Magdalena and some archaic first century curiosity. Think of her rather in terms of being a contemporary related point. It was someone who had begun to dabble in certain occult things that had fascinated her. But she had uh interpreted, you know, with the harmonic convergence. She probably had a crystal hanging from her rearview mirror. She probably had She was someone who would probably lined up with the echo president. She was someone who protected Experientially and mentally, just like Mary at that time. She was up on the owner and animals, as I said. in the cult. But then she got it over her head. She ran the full around in the divine. And she was fascinated with power And we're getting in touch with the powers of the universe. But you missed care. Wanted to back out, but you couldn't. And a second. And a third came. And a fourth. So by the melee for that by seven meetings, the ongoing hostage to seven evil malevolent What are we avoided her? She's been the kind of person who would have seen on the other side of the big thought. And the evangelicals protesting or each other over some No rabbi that is except Jesus Jesus was neither threatened nor put off. Like or break the slope. Jesus saw a woman in misery. Thank God. And you're perfectly. Witnesses to have exercises like that. Then gradually she regained her senses, and for the first time in years, she realized that she was in her right mind. No evil oppressive. Imagine what that meant to her. You were alike and not be To imagine the release that Mary would have felt unless you yourself have experienced some kind of addiction to a certain substance Identify with Mary in the center of release. But the Lord is the good experience of Jesus has come into our lives. Amen. Amen. Follow us again. Mary was utterly devoted to Jesus from that day once that was along with the twelve disciples of Some of them were this group of women who not only ministered to them but also gave to them out of their beings. So they are saying that the Bible forbids women from supporting men The effort devotion to Jesus was was not romantic. That's a modern application of It wasn't Jesus. It was ally. Master. Teacher. Something to hear a woman who followed Jesus and actually that one otherwise that followed him all the way to the cross. That's how deep the water was for him. One of the twelve disciples followed him to the cross. But Mary was one of the three women that followed him to the cross. Mary was dead. And her heart wasn't really broken. What are you going to do without Jesus? Strike it crap forward. But gasping for breath. Why to die? To now not only to die in such a painful way, but to realize But the really cool issues. I can imagine Mary thinking like a little bit satisfied. All her hopes are now cracked. I mean that's how we treat them and that's what he does. Where does that moment? Where does the control? Where does the moment? Where does the care come in? And here we feel God is a bad comparison. God is a God that was In order to embalm Jesus to prepare his body for proper marriage. Theory is that you came to these other women just after sunburns. And if they came to the tomb, they saw that the stone had been playing away from the tomb. So about it until all three right back to the two. Very small witness at this point and soxball. I gotta get to their first because then Peter follows. And after that, Mary catches up. John and Peter can work together and then they take off. But Mary remains cannot be, and that's where the board picks off the Congress. John chapter twenty. She is now back at the tomb. Weeping and sobbing and watching the windows of But that changes realizes how much he can that one last act of devotion is anointing him for burial And her enemies have even robbed her of that. You're in a situation where you have been suppressed and you have lacked until there are no more tears to be And then something else happens, and overwhelming again, and you find more tears to flow that you didn't even know you had life in that That's where Barry is now. It's a top point. John chapter 20. And for some reason, as she wept John says, she bent over to look back again at the two. And there's time that he seems to angel something. Two angels deleted that working spot. It is a person upon our information. But this is one of the few times in all this country. The end disappeared to a human being and did not say what everything is first thing. Heartbroken Great So the first thing to simply get to the point. And I have a response to that. The Arab the rabbi who was an army despised, it was battery, it was beaten, it was not He carry this cross, to crucify him, but he's been reserved for the worst common despicable principles. And Jesus says, That's my Lord Loyalty to him. I don't know where they I'll probably love them on your teachers for my hands. So that I can speak so shamelessly. That's my Lord. I don't care if you think it's ridiculous. But I follow with Jesus like that. Turn around. There it is. Standing before. But she doesn't recognize whether it be cost condition. Disciples of the prayer is hiding himself from his identity. In verse 15, Jesus speaks the first words of the rest of the Now, I put it forth to you that that is a work of the absolute message recipe. If you have any questions about the next recipe, the resurrection. And have his first appearance before weapon in which the first thing that he That's her response. They came to the bar. She said, Hurt you, carry them away. Tell me where you'd put them. And she's saying, tell me where it is. I'll tell you it. And then it draw a sixteen. And I have just spoken words. Those two simple words. Or She recognized the voice that spoke to her little prince. She recognizes the voice, and she know how they say it Communication is just one small part of words. There is the tone. There is the look. The body language. There's everything that we And to that one away, she just said her name. And asked me. We have to thought about how Jesus says your name. When you call your name Take just a moment now. I think picture it generally in exasperation in pointing monotones. Take the best Jesus we can in here and accept him, speaking your name. That word is is a word that that is even more exalted than rabbi. Rabbi means master take. And Mary is now back to Jesus. It's you Can you imagine what that's for? That wasn't the transport. There are ten of the eleven disciples for deep. First person, is this very who was considered the spell of supply? Demon-possessed woman, the most important part of all Saint Jesus Christ's forest, very spiritual thing. In fact, verse seventeen interesting verse, very frustrating verse. That's the way most translations are. I don't think that's the way it was. I mean, if you imagine Mary and he said, Mary Happens, he said, Oh my tree is all and he says, You never want to be tried by this old primary mother. What he said, the the translation, dynamic translation of that was public with a twinkle of his eye on a laugh, and he said, Let's go I mean, some of us never back to Jesus laughing to me. Covenant with brothers, my brothers. That's why I love them, profess him, denied him, Imagine how black you have to kingdom. But take the everything in the world for him. Rather than just a bad presentation Between looking at the Bible and the laws to obey, and seeing this book as the voice of the Christian Savior speaking to you. I'm going to tell you this week when you read the Bible. You read it as the voice of your business speaker. Who is speaking to you Not laws that externally apply, but God working to change your heart in the relationship you established between you You can hear his voice. It makes all the difference. What a big call, what a big horror. Find out what you're looking for. Yes, I think that Jesus is alive. Therefore, nothing can ever be able to be called Christ again. All the deepest unanswered questions. Therefore I've come to Jesus. Said, Jesus, Jesus, my nature. I need you to be But let me offer to be a challenge. Why would you not want to follow? One who has this kind of attitude. Not just to pay him a visit once in a while, but to follow him to ask him to want to And if you're here, this is different and straight for you. Come back. And the word is to explore something of the dimensions of what God's doing To learn more about them. And what it means. I hold my word in Jesus Christ. Let's try. That history tried to act. Are all you claim to be because you have conquered that? But this morning also, Lord, we would see what kind of imprisonment shaker you are. And in all your exalted glory with a kind of a shavery glaredness with a very first appearance because of the corruptness of They are broken is for those who are in binding that you can and are able to release them as they would cry out to you. Or you are altering between should I follow you and interest in you, but I have never really come to follow you. Or show yourself to that person. Show who you really are. The way you work at various life. You are still that same power to resolve this morning here in 1999 as you were that first resurrection Or case.