Well, good morning, church. My name is Bob Bjerkes, and I am privileged and honored to be the pastor of Columbia Presbyterian Church, and I'm just delighted that every one of you are here this morning and a special welcome again to those of you who are visiting with us. Today is what we're calling Elevate Sunday It's a Sunday where we are specifically rejoicing in how God has given us this amazing opportunity to become a part of the lives of hundreds of families in our community. Not just from other churches, but churches from our community that people, families from our community that don't have a church family. And it's an opportunity for us on an Elevate Sunday to invite them to come and be a part of who and what we are. When we do things for others, it's not just an outreach, it's an on-ramp to fellowship. to belonging, to being a part of what God is doing here in Colombia and even around the world. So this Sunday We are taking a break from the series of sermons that I've been preaching from the Gospel of Luke, and we're going to look at a passage in Matthew chapter 9. So if you have your Bibles with you, please turn with me to the Gospel of Matthew chapter 9. And if you don't have a Bible with you, that's okay. The words will be on the screen in front of you. Before I read God's word for us, let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. And Lord, in a in a world that is full of false news and uh slanted narratives and all kinds of bias, Lord, we thank you that we have a word that is true. Lord, that we have your scriptures that are a sure foundation for knowing you, understanding ourselves, learning how we can be in fellowship with you and be reconciled to our Maker. Father, as we come to you this morning, we ask that you would bless the reading of your word. Lord, cause your truths to sink deep into our heads and hearts, that we might be more and more transformed. Lord, from the inside out, becoming like Jesus our Savior. And Father, in the preaching that follows the reading of your word, and as much as it is faithful to who you are and what you've said, we ask your blessing on that as well. And all in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew chapter 9, beginning with verse 9, the Word of God. As Jesus passed on from there, he saw a man called Matthew sitting at the tax booth, and he said to him, Follow me. And he rose and followed him. And as Jesus reclined at table in the house, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples. And when the Pharisees saw this, they said to his disciples, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? But when he heard it, he said, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. Go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice, for I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. This ends the reading of God's Word. So I want to take you on a little journey. First we're going to go back in time. Let's say it's 1976. And we're going to head out the drive here. We're going to turn left on 108. We're going to go down a couple miles, turn left on Harper's Farm. We'll come to Cedar Lane, hang a right, go down a little less than a mile, and on our right we'll see Swansfield Elementary School. And it's lunchtime. You see the kids streaming out the back of the cafeteria running onto the black top and a whole crowd of them go over to the area on the kind of the the southeast end of the black top where there's The baseball fields, usually used by the children to play kickball during recess. And a bunch of kids all get there and huddle around the backstop area. And two of the best athletes in the crew say, okay, we're going to pick teams. All the kids line up. And one of the kids is this uh red-headed kid with big ears and freckles named Bobby Bierkas. And he's eight years old. And he's in the second grade. And he's waiting for his name to be called. And he's waiting for his name to be called And he goes from thinking, well, maybe I'll be one of the first picks to saying, Lord, Lord, please don't let me be the last pick. Have you ever been there? Do you remember that? Do you remember waiting for your name to be called? You know, deep down in every one of us, I believe, there's that little kid that wants to be picked. that is dying to hear their name called. I want you on my team. That was a regular feature of the elementary school life of boys and girls, at least in the world I grew up in, when teams are picked. Pecking orders are established, names are called, and hearts are broken. And it goes on and on, doesn't it? Then it becomes who gets selected for the all-county band or all-state choir or who gets accepted to a college. If you're an athlete, it's who gets to play on varsity, who makes the team, who gets to actually see the field. Who gets picked by the boy or girl that they like? Who gets picked out of a collection of resumes for an interview? Who gets the job? Being picked is so basic. To our lives. Have you been picked? And by whom? This Elevate Sunday, reminded of being on teams and being picked, of draft days, of the uniforms that we wear, the uniforms we'd like to wear, and I have great news for you. Because Jesus picked people. And here in this text, we read something about how he picked folks. Now you might be looking at the clock and thinking, well, I'm sure glad pastor only has two points today. But hey, listen, don't get your hopes up There's a man named Matthew. Matthew has two names. One is Levi, one is Matthew. Both are Semitic or Hebrew names. In that culture, people often had a couple of names. Simon and Peter are both Semitic or Hebrew names. He went by both. And we don't know all the reasons why people went by different names, but we know that Levi or Matthew was probably of the tribe of Levi, thus the name It would have been highly irregular, say, if he was from the tribe of Simeon or Issachar to be named Levi, thus the scholars say. Now what do we know about Levites? We know that they were the priestly tribe. They were the tribe of Israelites that didn't inherit land, but they were called to be ministers of God's word and his law. To all of the Israelites and live in all of their towns. They were supposed to be godly. They were supposed to be paragons of good old-fashioned biblical virtue. They were the good guys. It doesn't surprise me that Matthew went by Matthew, not Levi, because he was not a scribe or a priest. He wasn't a teacher of the law Or a Pharisee. He was a tax collector. I want you to think about tax collectors for a moment. Do any of you like them? Now, now let's go back two thousand years. And remember, Israel was under the dominion of Rome. The taxes that they paid were to Rome, a foreign occupying power. Now, unless there are those of us here this morning who've immigrated from other countries that have experienced this, none of us have grown up. occupied by a foreign nation which imposes a tax on us that we have to pay to that nation. Imagine if good red-blooded or blue-blooded Americans had to pay taxes to Canada That would be distressing probably to many, if not all of us. And imagine that some from among our numbers said, Yeah, that sounds good. I'll tell you what, Canada, I'll collect taxes from my fellows here. It's awesome too because I'm going to be able to charge sort of a a fee for me collecting the tax. And I will get my living after getting taxes from this people to pay those people who have conquered these folks. Starting to get the picture? Tax collectors were despised by Jews in the first century. They were, as it were, sleeping with the enemy. Tax collectors were lumped in the popular imagination of the first century Jew living in Palestine. They were there were tax collectors, thieves, and sinners, all in one breath. Cut from the same cloth. Unwelcome, undesirable, certainly not picked for your team. And Jesus makes it a point among his very first disciples, walking by this tax booth, which probably collected kind of a a tariff type situation because this is in Galilee. This isn't down in Jerusalem. So trade goods coming either across the Sea of Galilee or across the Jordan south of that. Before they could be brought into the markets in the towns, they'd have to pay the Roman tax for the privilege of doing business. This was Matthew's job And he's sitting at his booth, persona non grata, the person nobody would want. And Jesus comes up to him and says to him, while he's sitting at the booth, follow me. And Matthew got up and followed him. Matthew was not somebody that you would want anything to do with if you were a respectable person living at that time. And the people that Matthew had available in his friend group were also the kind of people you would want nothing to do with. In the Gospel of Luke, we read that Matthew then invited Jesus to his house. We don't see that clearly here, but this section as Jesus reclined at his table in the house in verse 10, that's Matthew's house. That's Levi's house. That's the tax collector's house. And what is, behold, many tax collectors and sinners came and were reclining with Jesus and his disciples. And just to put that into today's terms, we don't often recline at tables. They didn't sit in chairs. They reclined at lower tables. So he's having a dinner party with these people. Lots of tax collectors showed up, and they brought lots of their sinner friends because that's just who ran in those circles. Circles from which Jesus makes his all-star selection. Matthew, a man who would go on to write what we call the first gospel Sinners, tax collectors, people utterly unworthy of polite society People who constantly dealt with things that were unclean and were contaminated ritually and couldn't even enter synagogues, let alone the temple. And here is Jesus, the Son of God, the Messiah, resting at a table sharing a meal. A man like Matthew is a man that you would not want on your team. He's a man that you would consider a betrayer, not only of your culture and your faith. But a man even association with could be detrimental to your reputation, to your career, to your societal image And Jesus picks him. He publicly picks him. And then goes to his house and has fellowship at a table. What kind of person does this? What kind of person would pick a man like Matthew? Well, That would be a savior like Jesus. A savior like Jesus, someone who is merciful and mighty. Jesus is criticized by the Pharisees. The Pharisees, who are the theological experts of the day. They see him go into the house of such a notoriously unacceptable person. And they say to the disciples of Jesus, and like James and John, who've already been called, He says, Why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? And Jesus hears this and he says to them, those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. In a sense, those who have their whole life together and think they're perfect, they're not even aware of the fact that they need a doctor to prescribe something. They're in such profound denial of any dysfunction in their body or soul that it's not even entering their mind to seek out a cure or a remedy. He came to heal the sick. And he goes on to say this to them. He says, go and learn what this means. I desire mercy and not sacrifice, quoting from the Old Testament, telling us what God is looking for. For I came, Jesus says, not to call the righteous, those who have their whole life together, but I came to call sinners. That language of calling, picking, choosing, inviting, I came for the sick, the diseased, the unwelcomed, the broken. The wicked. Now that word sinner, there's not a worse word in the Bible than sin. I have many times from this platform shared with you that one of the most profound things I encountered in all my studying was a statement offered to us by a Puritan long ago. There is more evil in a drop of sin than in an ocean of suffering. Sin is all that is opposed to the holiness of a good God. And that is something that colors and taints and poisons us. Every one of us. I can speak for myself and say I'm a sinner saved by grace. I still struggle with sin. But Jesus picks people like me and says, it will be my mission to give you the great cure. To unite you to myself by faith so that God the Father sees you in light of my righteousness, and I am going to help you by my Spirit and my word. Put to death the sins of your flesh. Learn how to have a victory over selfishness, pride, lust. All of the things that are breaking and hurting your families, your marriages, your careers, your communities. He came to set us free not only from the guilt and the shame of sin, but the power of it. He is so merciful that he looks at us at our worst and says, I pick you, Bobby Burkis, who play kickball as if you have two left feet. And neither of your eyes work. I pick you. And Jesus says, I pick you. And I would begin my good work in you, because I'm merciful and I am mighty. I can heal the sick. I can declare the sinner righteous. How many of you got a basketball card when you came in? Lift him up. Let me let me see him. And that's sort of like I'm not gonna actually see him, but let's pretend I could see him. Some of you might know that I'm legally blind, and I gotta tell you something. And this went straight to my head Friday night I was sitting here watching the playoff games and I got to sit on the table. And my godson my godson is Vincent Dudek. Vincent and Rachel are super involved in Elevate and have been for decades. So I don't know most of you probably know who they are. And Vincent said, well, well Bob, you're you're a VIP. I thought, yeah, that's right. That's right, I'm a VIP. He said, visually impaired pastor. I did not see that coming. So pretend I can see. Those of you visiting, I just see a little bit out of this eye. But Look at those cards for a minute. And the cards have two features. It has a picture on the front. It has a player with his name identifying who it is. And then on the back of it, you see their stats year after year. That's not who they are, that's what they're worth. Now imagine for a moment that you are drafting a basketball team and you look and you see, well the guy my guy, man, he's been he's been getting fewer rebounds every year. He's not doing so great on steals. Oh, his free throw percentage is terrible. Maybe you're not going to pick that guy for your team. Maybe you're going to say, well, there's got to be somebody better. If I can only have twelve guys on my team, if I can only have twelve disciples, this is not one of them right here. And you set that one aside. Say, well, let me see what else is in the pile. Now I want you to imagine that there was a basketball player named Jesus of Nazareth. Who does all things well. And it clearly identifies who he is on the front, Son of God. And on the back, imagine this card says rebounds. And the number's ridiculous. It's like a hundred. Like every single time the ball bounced off the rim of the backboard, it ended up in his hands. Steals. Every time he was D'ing up a guy, he managed to get the ball. Free throws, a hundred percent. Field goals, something ridiculous that made Michael Jordan look uncoordinated. Say, whoa, that's a guy. I'm picking him first. Now imagine your God, the holy coach, who is too holy to tolerate sin, who is simply beyond being able to be in the presence of evil and unrighteousness. And imagine your Bobby Birkus saying, pick me, and you're full of sin and frailty and fear and misery. And your stats are awful. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, the Bible teaches us. There's nothing I can do about it. Because I've already committed those fouls. I've already missed those shots. I've already betrayed my coach. I've already been a problem in the locker room, a disappointment on the bench, a disaster on the court. And imagine Jesus coming up to me and saying, hey, let me take a look at your card, Birchis. So ooh, that's not good. But I'll tell you what, repent of your sins and put your faith on me. And we'll trade stats. I'll pay the penalty for all your failure, and I will give you the credit for my perfect obedience. That's what the gospel is. It is this great exchange. It's God coming in the person of Jesus Christ saying, I will live a perfect and sinless life so that I can die not for my sins because I didn't commit any, but so that I can die for the sins of some other person. And because he is the infinite Son of the living God, he can die in the place of as many as put their faith in him and turn from sin. He can die for you. And he can say, let me, let me suffer the pains of being cut. And enduring under the power of the grave for three days, enduring the wrath of a just God for sinners like Bobby Birchis. And let me give you all the blessed benefit. Of a perfect record. That you can be reconciled to the God who made you and sent his Son Jesus to be that sacrifice, that replacement, that substitute for you. Have you ever thought of the gospel that way? That the gospel is God's mechanism for picking you. As a holy God, despite your sinfulness. And God as your faithful Coach, Jesus Christ, the risen and exalted Lord, as your teammate, the Holy Spirit as your constant companion will give you victory after victory as you wrestle with and fight the sin. that tangles you up and me up, even as we live the life of a teammate in the house of God One of my real missions this year, 2026, at Columbia Presbyterian Church is to sign a spotlight and to encourage us in the work of evangelism. So here's what I want to do with these cards. I want you to take it to work with you. And I want you to put this on your cubicle. Or tape it to the window in your office door. And someone's going to come by and say, I didn't know you were a Bulls fan. You can say, well, I'm not Well, why do you have a bulls and that guy hadn't played for 30 years. What's up with that? You could say, well, my pastor. He said that the gospel is like this, and I'm supposed to put this somewhere that I see it every day to remind myself that Jesus took my place and gave me credit for his perfections and his beauty. the nobility of his heart, the integrity of his mind, the loveliness of his conduct And what a tool for talking about the gospel to your neighbor, to your coworker, your colleague. Put it on your desk. If you have a see-through desk protector, put it where you'll see it. And remind yourself that God has drafted you. He called you to be on his team. And let's go out there, dear Christian, and get some rebounds. Get some field goals. Let's not commit any fouls. Let's leave that one out. Let's go out there and live dangerous for the head coach who calls us into a world. to play for him. If you're here this morning and you don't know that Jesus Christ Is offering you the opportunity to join him whenever the gospel is preached. I want to assure you, this gospel is for you You are invited to follow Jesus this very day. Whether you are like Matthew, whether you feel yourself to be unwelcome in places X, Y, and Z, whether you feel feel like you are too far gone to be restored, whether you feel like you have betrayed people or failed, whatever it is. Jesus Christ wants to have a meal with you and invite you to his table. He wants to enter your home and eat at yours. He wants you to wear his jersey. Put this card up somewhere And remember the beauty of the Savior who has called you and invited you. He's picked you A couple of thoughts for you to talk about at your lunch tables with your kids, your friends, your neighbors, whoever you're sharing a meal with this afternoon. Do you know that Jesus is looking for people just like you? And that one of our jobs as his body on this side of heaven is to go forth with this no this news and invite other people to join us at the table of our Lord, to invite other people to put on the jersey that says, I'm a Christian. I've been forgiven by God. I am strong in Jesus. And I belong to Him. Maybe you're here and you have not accepted the invitation to follow Jesus Christ. And I would urge you to be thinking today about whether or not you will accept and receive and rest on this invitation to. Commit yourself to saying, Lord Jesus, I've heard that you died for people like me. Lord, I long to accept that gift. Here and now I acknowledge, I recognize, I admit that I'm a sinner. Forgive me for my sins. I would follow you Your life can be changed quicker than I can say those words. And express this great and glorious hope to others. I don't care so much that this church grows. I do care, but not so much. Not so much as I care that we become salty and bright, amen. That we leave a flavor of grace, and that we leave a glow of truth forever. And I hope that you and I together, as teammates on God's great team, can be salty and bright. Amen. Almighty God, we thank you for this day. Lord, we thank you for the wonderful opportunity that we have had to Lord, celebrate this amazing ministry that has been such a part of this church for 25 years more. Lord, we thank you for the opportunity to talk to kids, over 700 kids of different ages. And through them with their families to talk about the gospel of Jesus Christ, the beauty of our God, the truth of his word. Father, we pray that all of these All of these things would shape us, not only as a church, but the families that we've reached out to that that our kids would have places where they can make friends and experience growth in character and in knowledge of who you are. And Father, we pray that you continue to bless this ministry and those people who are so essential to its ongoing. Father, we pray above all that you would use this ministry and others to constantly remind us of the different ways we can think about the gospel of Jesus Christ by which we are saved and which we have such sure hope. Bless us, we pray in the name of our Savior. Amen.