We have another opportunity to look at the Word of God today together, the letter that James wrote, James, the half-brother of our Lord, say half-brother, because They had the same mother, but Jesus Christ was of the Holy Spirit, so James and Jesus did not have the same father. You know that. We look at the letter of James. It will be in the first chapter and the first seven verses of the second chapter. Let me read from that, and we'll refer to that frequently. So if you have a copy of the scriptures, just leave it there open to uh James chapter 1, beginning in verse 26. God's word for us. If anyone thinks he is religious and does not bridle his tongue but deceives his heart, this person's religion is worthless. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this, to visit orphans and widows in their affliction And to keep oneself unstained from the world. My brothers, show no partiality as you hold the faith in our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, You sit here in a good place, while you say to the poor man, You stand over there, or sit down at my feet Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith? and heirs of the kingdom which he has promised to those who love him. But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you and the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? God's word for us. For close to twelve years now The knowledge of math and science, English and logic have been placed inside the high school senior in our home known as Kevin. Yesterday, as a part of the grueling rite of passage that uh goes from graded school to the life beyond, Kevin was subjected to the dreaded scholastic aptitude test. The SATs. Kevin endured the piercing inspection of the SATs in order to openly evaluate that which was inside. It's one thing to think you have the Pythagorean theorem down. It's yet another thing altogether to apply it correctly to a specific context. A test is beneficial because it takes what is inside and reveals it to the outside. And such it is the text that we have before us. James, the purpose in his writing of this letter, he makes it very clear. He wants the reader to know beyond any doubt The kind of faith that they have. Hardship comes our way, that hardship is a test of the Lord, to test what's inside, what's coming out, where is our hope? Where is our confidence in what And in whom do we place our faith? So that we would know that the faith that we claim to possess is real and is saving faith. Two weeks ago we looked at the first part of chapter one, how true faith responds to adversity. And last week, hopefully, we were able to see what the Lord makes available to his followers in the midst of trials. The special dark time. We're not getting into milk chocolate, dark chocolate this week. It's too much of a firestorm. Too many almond joys left at my threshold of my office door. But we do look at James again today and present that purpose in writing is not only to encourage believers in the midst of trials, but to assist believers. to benefit from the testing that will come our way in this world. To benefit from the testing. That testing of our faith that would produce Steadfastness, he tells us in the first chapter in verse 3 and verse 4, that steadfastness would have its full effect so that Christ's followers would be mature and complete and lacking in nothing. The goal, in other words, is to make it to the end of your days on earth with a genuine, that is to say, saving faith in Christ. This is critical for us to take in today because none of us know the day or the hour that the Lord will call upon us in death. Are you ready to stand before that judgment seat? Saving faith, that is, faith in Christ as Savior and Lord, as your only hope of heaven. Only found in Christ is forgiveness, full and free for your sins. You've heard Eric mention it a number of times this morning in leading us through that portion of worship. Forgiveness found at the cross through the blood of Jesus Christ. There is no forgiveness of sins without the shedding of blood. Righteousness Righteousness found through the cross and through the blood, that perfect and sinless life of Jesus Christ applied to your account and received by all believers. Through faith. That's the saving faith that James wants to try to uncover. When we face trials of various kinds, it reveals where our faith rests. In verse 12, James said, Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, what? He will receive the crown of life which is promised to those who love him. God's purpose in the pain that we experience in this life is always with that focus. That eternal perspective. We just want to get through to the next day. And God wants to recreate in us That steadfast faith that will see us through to the end of our days God's provision for us in the midst of pain, very practical as well. An honest look at God, you remember this from last week, reveals to us, verse 18, that He chose to give us birth. And birth through the word of truth. It's the scriptures that bring to us life. Birth through the word of truth, by God's grace, then. In verse 21, we put away all filthiness and the remains of wickedness. We unstop our ears, James says, and receive the implanted word of truth, which is able to save your soul. You see how important this is? To save our soul, there is nothing more important in life. Nothing. I need to hear this So unstop my ears, Lord. James says, unstop your ears with all the garbage from the world, the filthiness, the moral filth, the remains of wickedness that's yours. Put it away, discard it, and receive that word. The precious promises are contained in the Word of God. At the core of every temptation to sin, at the core of every temptation to sin is a lie that God is not That God is not loving, that God is not faithful, that God is not trustworthy, that God is not powerful, that God is not concerned for you. At the temptation, at the core of every temptation is that lie. that God is not. And the promises of Scripture are resounding, yes and amen, that God in Christ is He is all that we need. Trustworthy, loving, powerful, concerned for your particular situation. He knows the home you were brought up in. He knows the trials that you've experienced to this point. He knows the trials you will experience from this point on. God is aware, and his word speaks to all of that The deceivers come, our hearts deceive, the deceive deception of the of the great enemy The father of lies, to cause us to think somehow that trusting God's word doesn't lead to a life and health and peace, but rather trusting in God's word is a restraint of our freedom. And James says, put that thought to death. Blessed is the one who hears and does. James says, hear the word of truth, but don't just hear it only, live it out. Hear it, receive it, and believe it, act on it Rather than a restraint of our freedom, James says that blessings come to the one who allows the law of liberty to search and to probe and to reveal the heart. Eric, thank you for reading from Psalm 32. And Lord God, please work out in us that heart searching Holy Spirit probing activity that we need God to do in us today It's what the law does. The law of liberty. Interesting. We'll look at that phrase in just a minute. But James says Let God's word have its way and do it. Because then you get to see what's on the inside. Live it out. Live out God's word. Then you get to see where the corruption lies, where all the stuff that needs to be addressed is. Do it. Don't pass over the threefold use of the law too quickly. The law is there to serve as a mirror Held up to us to reveal our need for a Savior. It reveals God's holiness. It reveals our unrighteousness. Looking intently into the mirror reveals that we need a Savior. Paul said to the church in Galatia in chapter 3 and verse 24 that the law of God serves as a schoolmaster, that pedagogue. A tutor to bring us to see our need for a savior. Always pointing to our deficiency, but always pointing to his sufficiency. Always. Always. The word of God serving is that mirror. Paul Tripp says, or said this week in a in a Twitter tweet To be excited with the stunning wisdom of the Word of God, you must first be graced with the ability to face how faulty and limited your wisdom is. To be excited about the wisdom of God found in the Word, you must first be graced by God with the ability to face how faulty and limited your wisdom is. The law of God serves as a mirror revealing God. The law of God also serves to restrain evil in the world. We wouldn't know what right and wrong is except that God has revealed what right and wrong is. And the go and the laws that are worth Being on the books in any land are laws that are derived from the right and wrong of God's law. The law of God also serves thus. As a standard of righteousness that is pleasing to God. How do you know what is pleasing to those around you? They have to tell you. We're not mind readers, wives. You have to tell us what you like and don't like for Christmas. We really thought that table saw would work out. How do you know what is pleasing to God? He clearly lays it out in his law. This is the character of God. This is the righteousness of God. This is what is pleasing to God. Jesus said, if you love me, you will obey my commandments. That's not abrogated, that's not reversed, that's not eliminated by God's grace. That is how we are to live. By the law, by the commandments. This is what's pleasing to God. In First Corinthians 7 and verse 19, Paul says, For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision. But keeping the commandments of God. And listen, in Galatians six fifteen, the same author, Paul, says this, for neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision. Sound familiar? Yes. Listen to the last phrase. But a new creation. You see, Paul's equation there is that we in Christ as new creations live according to the commandments of Almighty God. We don't throw the law away. And James is trying to impress upon his readers: you don't throw the law away because grace has come to stay in your heart. So we have a standard to live by. Sometimes we forget that. And James won't let us forget that. Writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit of God, James knows us better than we know ourselves, and he's concerned that we not Be deceived. Verse 16. Do not be deceived. Verse 22. Anyone who merely hears the word but never puts it to the test of action is deceiving themselves. They are deluded. And they're deluding themselves. In verse 26, we'll see that the one who thinks he is faithful but does not act out of that faith is described as one who deceives his own heart. And so it is that we come to this text where James gives us three gauges to test the faith that we have. The SAT For Christianity, if you will. What's on the inside? James, let me sit under your tutelage and show me The Apostle Paul said this test was a good thing to encounter. May not be a pleasant thing. I hope he didn't come for pleasant things today. But it has got lasting joy and the love of God the Father and the sacrifice of God the Son on your behalf. Paul said to the Corinthian church, Examine yourselves, see whether you are in the faith, test yourself. Or do you not realize this about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you? Unless indeed you fail to meet the test. I hope you will find out that we have not failed the test. First Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, excuse me, 13, 5 and 6. And see what's happening here. James is taking us to a deeper and deeper level of understanding of what true faith looks like. God chooses of his own will and brings us forth by the word of truth. Verse 18. Verse 21, we put away the filthiness and receive the implanted soul-saving word. Verse twenty two, but not to be hearers only of that word, but doers of the word, believers, actors on that word of the received word, and then verse twenty six Not doers only, external activity to be noted, but activity that springs forth, listen, from a changed heart. It's not just about activity for activity's sake. James gives three tests of true faith and he says, you can't do this. Unless God Almighty, by His Holy Spirit, has regenerated your dead spirit and brought you to newness of life to walk in a new way with a regenerated heart. And does not bridle his tongue, but deceives his heart. This person's religion is worthless. Religion that is pure and undefiled before God the Father is this to visit orphans and widows in their affliction and to keep oneself Unstained from the world. A lot of times we hear this word religion and we just turn off. The world turns off, we turn off. Some of the New Testament turns off when the Pharisees are in view. But not James. James says, look, I'm not ashamed of the word religion. I'm going to put it right up there in your face, and I want you to take a good hard look at your religion. New Testament professor and theologian Daniel Doriani commenting on this passage says this. James says, in effect Does the show of religion frighten you? A religion that never shows itself publicly frightens me. Intellectual theology, hidden faith And knowledge that never drives action alarm me. Give me something visible. Prove your faith is real by doing the word. End quote We normally place a high value on integrity being who you say you are, and we place a really low value on hypocrisy, not being who you say you are. We see the outcry of this every two to four years with the electoral process. We saw it this week, I think. We value integrity. We don't like hypocrisy, except sometimes when it comes to ourselves. In which case do we have to really get all up in your face? James, do we Those standards, integrity, that show up in our t-shirts, our bumper sticker slogans. Talk is cheap. Actions speak louder than words. Put your money where your mouth is. This is a big t-shirt. Integrity is when your life service matches your lip service. Don't just say it, just do it For the Christian, we say, be who you are. And so James gives us these three gauges: control over the hard-to-tame tongue. Compassionate care for those in need, and not corrupted by the world, but rather compelled by the love of Christ. Control over the hard to tame tongue, compassionate care for those in need, and not corrupted by the world, but rather compelled by the love of Christ. James writes for all you English majors out there a perfect essay. These two verses, 26 and 27, is is his thesis statement. And for chapter two and chapter three and chapter four and part of chapter five, he develops those three points. Control over the tough to tame tongue. Compassionate care for those in need, and not corrupted by this world, but rather compelled by the love of Christ. Control over the hard-to-tame tongue. James says, listen If you start to live this life of Christ, the fullness of your heart is going to keep speaking. Remember Jesus' words? In chapter 3, James says, bridle the tongue. Picks up the idea of the destructive power of the tongue in chapter 3. A little rod of iron is able to control a huge horse. A little flat piece of wood or steel, steers an entire ship. A little matchstick struck or a little spark struck Can destroy an entire forest of trees and wildlife. Such is our tongue. The tough to tame tongue. And James says if you consider yourself to be a follower of Christ, you need to bridle that tongue of yours. Well this is tough. In chapter 3, James says, every other creature on the planet can be tamed. Every other preacher, every other creature, preacher can't be tamed. Every other creature on the planet can be tamed, and in fact, James says, and has been tamed, with the exception of the tongue of man. That's a bold statement, James. Everything that can be tame has, without the exception of this, this tongue. A restless evil full of deadly poison. Verse 9 in chapter 3, James says, With it we bless our Father in heaven, and with it we curse people made in the likeness of our God. And those words that I learned growing up, my brothers, these things ought not to be. I don't know how many times after I memorized that passage that the Holy Spirit would take that very phrase and remind my mind, my brothers. These things ought not to be. You're driving down the road, you got the praise music on and it's blaring and you're just worshiping the living God with all you've got, top of your lung kind of praise music. Just letting it rip, right? Cruising, you're on that spiritual summit known as the privacy of your own vehicle, and then somebody has the audacity to cut in front of you. And you have to come out of that spiritual high, cap your break, and slow down to let them in. What comes out of your mouth right then? What is right there on the tip of your tongue after all that glorious praise was being lifted to God the Father? Think about it. My brothers, these things ought not to be. And James says, that's how you see where you're at. Do you feel bad about that? Or do you just plow right on through with a string of explicatives that would make Pim blush. And that's a pretty big string, if you know me. And James says, this is not the way it should be. So bridle that tough to tame tongue and feel the weight of the law of God, feel it. This is how God is revealing his character. Listen, these three tests are for us, but they also point us again to the holy righteous God. God speaks. And truth always comes out of his mouth. God promises, and always with integrity, those promises are kept. God says and it will occur. And James says, that's who lives in you. Remember Jesus' words, let your yes be yes and your no be no. Don't don't swear by heaven or earth or by the hair on your head or by the lack of hair on your head. Don't Do that. Let your yes be a yes and your no be a no. Why? Because God is truth. When he speaks, you can count on it He is trustworthy. James says this is the person who has God living inside of him. That word, that tongue, is trustworthy. And where it's not, feel the spirit. Connect you to that wrong and point you to the cross where forgiveness is found, where righteousness can be received by faith again James gives us another test, the compassionate care for those in need. Pure and undefiled religion in the sight of God our Father is this. You just think you couldn't get the standard any higher? Pure and undefiled religion is this in the sight of God our Father in heaven. What? What is it? To visit the widows and the orphans. No, no, no. It's like kind of memorize the Bible, right? It's it's go on a preaching lecture tour with Billy Graham and John Py To visit the widows and the orphans? James says compassionate care for those in need, for those who can't return the favor. For those who are hopeless and helpless unless another acts upon them Sound familiar? Here's the character of God showing up again. Psalm 68. 5 describes God as a father to the fatherless and a protector of widows. Psalm 146, verse 9, The Lord watches over the sojourners, and he upholds the widow and the fatherless, but the way of the wicked he brings to ruin. Okay, so I'll stop by and see some widows and orphans after church. Uh James says all I gotta do is visit with them, right? Hey, how's it going? Good. Alright, good. See ya Can't do it. The word visit here has the root episcopas. That's the word that we get for bishop or overseer for the elders in the church. James says to visit the widow and the orphan is to oversee with compassion their care, is to take special interest in and to oversee. Listen, this is the character of God showing up again. You remember when Zechariah heard that the Messiah was to be born? This prophecy found in Luke chapter 1. Same word for visited, to oversee, to watch over. Listen Zechariah says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us. in the house of his servant David. And in verse seventy-eight of chapter one of Luke he says it again, because of the tender mercy of our God, the tender mercy of our God. whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet in the way of peace. Is the character of God finding itself in our activity? And so James says it's not just a, hey, how are you doing, widow and orphan? Do you need anything this month on my stop? It's to oversee, it's to compassionately care for others the way we were cared for. For were we not all without family before Christ adopted us into his fold? We were orphans, hopeless and helpless, defenseless, powerless to do anything about our condition. We were his enemies And while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. James says, that's what's living in your heart, the realization of who you were. And so compassionate care. For those who can't care for themselves. And then James gives us another test, a third gauge, to examine the faith that we have. We're not corrupted by the world, but rather compelled by the love of Christ. James Gives us this test to evaluate our faith and the verb translated here to keep, to keep oneself undefiled by the word is a verb that carries with it this continuous action. It's an always happening kind of thing. So keeping oneself from the pollution of the world. Keeping oneself from the pollution of the world. I want to read a couple of passages of Scripture. I want to bring in the other apostles. To testify to what James is testifying to. I want to read from Peter on this point 1 Peter 1, verse 14. As obedient children, do not be conform to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. Not Listen, we were ransomed, we were redeemed, we were purchased, but not with perishable things, such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. Like that of a lamb without blemish or spot Raibu, the writer of Hebrews, brings us to the same thought. Chapter ten of Hebrews, beginning in verse twenty-three, let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering. For he who promised is faithful. Let us consider how to stir one another up toward love and good deeds, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another all the more as you see the day drawing near. Why? For if we go on Sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment and a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment do you think will be deserved by the one who has spurned the Son of God and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified and has outraged the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. The Lord will judge his people. In verse 31 of Hebrews 10, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. These warnings in the New Testament weren't just for that first century. They're for people just like you and me who live in the internet saturated Cable News Network World of Constant Barragement from the world. That world used here is not the people of the world that need to hear of a Savior. The world that's used here is that idea, the ideology that is anti-God. Jesus said, remember the world hates me. It'll hate you too if you follow me. And the Apostle John made it very clear in his letter. Of the seriousness of not loving the world or the things in the world. John 1 John 2, do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, and the desires of the eyes, and the pride and possessions, that's not from the Father. That's from the world. And the world is passing away with its desires. But the promise. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. You see, the promise is always there in these warnings. The pointing, the pointing out of our deficiencies is always coupled with the pointing to his sufficiency. I like that That's what I need. Because I see my deficiencies more now than I did ten years ago, and much more now than I did twenty years ago. And it's the word pointing me always to my need for a savior. Let that just sit for a little bit on us. You say that's just too hard of a road to walk. I can't tame the tongue. I don't feel compassionate care welling up inside me for those who can't give me anything in return. And I just love the world. I can't get over it. It's what I do Listen to me. If that's you, I want to invite you to receive Jesus Christ today. Because whatever you've got, it's probably not saving faith. Christ said in the Sermon on the Mount, I didn't come to throw the law away. I didn't come to abolish the law. I came to fulfill the law. That which you cannot do, I have done. And I offer you my perfect record of righteousness. Receive it by faith. I offer you the forgiveness, the canceling out of the debt that your sins deserve. I offer you that. Receive it by faith. That's Jesus to you today. And to those here who are believers. Who have tasted and seen that the Lord is good, who have come to that point where they say, I cannot live this life, Lord. And you've humbly cried out for mercy Jesus extends Himself to you as well. And he says, I know that. I know what this world's all about. I know the struggles that you face. I know that even these three tests of true faith are unsettling. So come to me, all ye who are weary and heavy laden. I will give you rest. I have done all necessary. You see, it's always about Jesus. He is the answer. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust the sweetest frame or anything that I could find on this horizontal plane, but I wholly lean on Jesus' name for salvation. James gives to the church a case study. An elder wagered with me at the beginning of the series and said that he didn't think I'd ever get out of chapter one. I actually think I might not. At least not today. We could look at this uh case study that James gives Just in con in uh in in conclusion, I'm gonna do that. How about that for a test? James Thow's favoritism up as a topic. And he says, Church, this is the way you examine your faith. Do you show favoritism? Because all three gauges are here. The first seven verses of chapter two. The tongue is not tamed. Tell this poor person who came in. Do I want you to sit over there, stand in the corner, or sit at our feet here? To the rich person, the tongue There's no compassionate care for that one. Even see James reminding. I love it when he says, beloved brothers. It's all throughout this letter. With the compassionate care of a senior elder member of God's family, he says, Beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in faith? and heirs of the kingdom. Receive those whom Christ has received, Paul told the Romans And then pure religion is not tainted by the world. The same passage, the case study of favoritism, James says Aren't these the same rich people that are exploiting you and taking you to court? Aren't these the guys that make fun of you for following Christ and you're going to treat them like they're special VIP guests? Sounds like you love the world. That's a test for us as a church as well. We don't have the right to withhold the gospel. For the people that we like. We pick and choose, and we'll share with you, but I only share with you. And we see that I got the homeless ministry going on, but it it's going to play itself out right here in the next six or eight minutes. After the response song and the benediction, and we're going to talk to one another. We're going to go up to people and we're going to say, you know, I haven't talked to you in maybe it's been a decade. How are you doing? We're part of the same family. Or I haven't talked to you because you're a kid and I don't like kids because you're noisy. But you're going to ask them how they're doing. Why? Because that's how the church works its stuff out. That's how we work our faith out. Let me pray for us, pray for myself and all of you. Gracious God in heaven, we pray that you would By your spirit be at work in this um test of true faith. Lord, I pray for the people here that um are hearing this and they and they're they're struggling. I would ask, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would grab a hold and that you would, Lord, give to them that which they need to maybe speak to someone after the service or Ask some questions. Lord, help us to know. The Apostle Peter tells us that we can know with assurance our call and our election. If we do this with all diligence, Lord, I pray that that would be what this church would be about. So that we would be so confident in your love for us that we would be then Joy and and joyfully and gladly sharing your love with those around us with no respecter of persons. And we will give you the praise for the answers that come from this request. In Christ we pray. Amen.