It is so good to be here this morning, to be able to share with you from God's Word. It was good to be here two months ago, but Tom Brode only gave me four minutes, one minute for each year. A couple weeks ago, Carol and I went to a debriefing that NTW had for its missionaries coming back from overseas, and one of the uh the men who spoke to us for a whole day about re-entry to American culture was an expert on the subject. He actually does it for the State Department as well, for those coming back from overseas for five from after five years, ten years. And he said the the diplomats tell him this. Lots of uh they come back, they have four years, ten years of experiences overseas, they've poured their life into their work in another country, and they come back. And they have this whole dunk truck full of experiences and joys and hurts. And they come back and nobody cares. And they tell him, but the missionaries are different. They come back and they have their churches who pretend to care. Well, we don't believe that. We believe you really do care. Uh you have stood behind us so faithfully in so many ways. And we're just excited to be here and help you to care more by being a part of you and seeing you often and sharing with you and being in your home and many of you being in our homes, our home over the next nine months. It's also really exciting to preach in English this morning. Oh, that language has been so hard on me. I understand we have some Japanese friends here this morning. Where are you? No? Okay. Yoku Irashema Stat. So glad to have our Japanese friends here this morning as well. You know, usually Japanese people when I preach it and they laugh at me with me, I'm not sure. You know, my my goal I told you before I left. was to pun in Japanese. Well they laugh a lot anyway. Uh I told one friend who asked me, uh, what did you have for supper last night? I wanted to say Ningin Tabemashta, but I said Ningan Tabemashta, which means I had people for supper last night. Another one of my friends supposedly Told the uh the taxi cab driver to he wanted to say let me out right here. He said, kill me right here. Taxi no intention e We make lots of mistakes, but I think one of the best was Diana Patton on our team. The Jehovah's Witness came to her door. And she was just been there less than a year and she really wanted to say something and she told him, or her, I forget which, we believe the whole dictionary And her her husband told the prayer meeting, that uh her husband told the prayer meeting after a team retreat where we had intimate, wonderful fellowship And the prayer meeting was uh asked how it was and and he told them, instead of we had a very spiritual time, we had a very sexual time. So we make lots of mistakes, and it is really wonderful to share God's word with you in English this morning, and I trust you'll understand I brought my whole dump truck this morning, no, I did. I brought God's words, First Thessalonians chapter 2. Let's read verses 1 through 8, 1 through 9. And you do have an outline that I made and brought with me there. You ought to have that in your bulletin. They put it in at the last minute. Let's hear God's word. As verse 13 tells us here, that those who believe this is God's word, it does its work in them. Verse 13 of chapter 2 tells us that. Let's read. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 1 through 9. You know, brothers, that our visit to you was not a failure. We had previously suffered and been insulted in Philippi, as you know But with the help of our God, we dared to tell you the gospel, his gospel, in spite of strong opposition. For the appeal we make does not spring from error or impure motives. Nor are we trying to trick you. On the contrary, we speak as men approved by God to be entrusted with the gospel. We are not trying to please men, but God, who tests our hearts. You know we never used flattery, nor did we put on a mask to cover up greed. God is our witness. We were not looking for praise from men. Not from you or anyone else. As apostles of Christ, we could have been a burden to you, but we were gentle among you, like a mother caring for her little children. We loved you so much that we were delighted to share with you not only the gospel of God, but our lives as well, because you had become so dear to us. Surely you remember, brothers, our toil and hardship. We work night and day in order not to be a burden to anyone, while we preach the gospel of God to you. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you so much for your word. We pray, in spite of our weakness, our hardness of hearts, the weakness of the preacher, and all the other things that might distract us, that this morning we would hear you speak to us. Come, Holy Spirit, help us. In Jesus' name, Amen. There was a little boy who came to our Sunday school camp last summer. His name is Makoto. After three days of hearing us, sing, talk, read about Jesus. He came up to me as we're getting ready to go to bed and he says he's a third grader. He said, Dan Sensei, this Jesus that we've been reading from your book about and singing about And everyone is talking about, he must really be wonderful. Have you met him before? And I realized how little Makoto understood. He thought maybe Jesus was American or something, and a friend of mine from the States. And I explained a little further quickly. I thought he he understood more than he did. He had never been to church before, never been to our English program. A friend in our English program had brought him to Sunday school camp. And I explained a little further and he said he kind of had a look like, oh, I understand. And he said, oh, so Jesus is the man and God is the woman. He'd been hearing about Mary and all these stories. He just didn't understand. I'd been in Japan three and a half years and I was beginning to understand. What distant people, people distant to the gospel, what just what that meant. If you look at that chart on that outline that I that hopefully is in your bulletin, those two lines that are there. The top line is understanding. All Makoto was all the way to the left. He did he didn't know anything. I'm sorry, that's a low quality outline. We've been traveling all week. We got to Columbia this morning. Tried to I couldn't do it on my Macintosh, the Holy Spirit there to show his work in this process, so I had to use my felt tip. Does everybody have an outline? If you don't, raise your hand and maybe the ushers could get you. Okay, there's one over here. Uh maybe somebody could give her one or just share with her. That'd be great. Paul gives us categories like that short in uh in other places and in in Acts chapter 17 you don't need to look there, but it's the passage where Paul came to preach to the Thessalonians and to start the church there. And Paul there he speaks about the different categories of people, much more distant to the gospel than those that we're used to. There were the the Jews. Now they're pretty close to the gospel. They believed in a true and living God. They knew about him. They believed in absolutes. They believed in the Old Testament scriptures. And then a group a little further away, towards the left side on that top line, there were those uh who were God-fearing Gentiles or God-fearing pagans, God-fearing Greeks. Those were the ones in uh Acts. chapter 17 verse 4 that he also preached to and some of them believe. And then in in our in 1 Thessalonians here, chapter 1 verse 9, you see he mentions those who turned to God from idols, those all the way to the left. Very, very distant from the gospel. And yet some believe. You know, all around the world we have different combinations of these two lines. The top line is understanding, the bottom line there is openness. In China we have people all the way to the left on understanding. They they really don't know much and it may take them a while to come to Christ, but boy they come faster than in Japan. Because on the openness line, they are way to the right. They are so open because of 30 years of oppression under communism. and are open, ready to learn something else. And in Eastern Europe right now we're seeing the same thing. So they're different combinations of this line. Mr. Iwamoto was a man all the way to the left on both. Mr. I, as I'll call him, uh had no interest in Christianity. He couldn't care less. He he was a pantheist, pantheism Uh everything is God. The mountains, you know, they see Mount Fuji and get the creation mixed up with the Creator. And you could see how without the revelation of God's word. It is so splendid and beautiful. He was uh a post-Shinto Buddhist, not really believing it, but very difficult to be anything else, much like uh a Jew who doesn't really believe it, would be very different for him to be anything else. He has no he had no interest in Christianity. Why would he? No more than you would have at going to some uh radical Buddhist gathering. No interest at all. His openness line, he was relatively happy as he looked at his culture. He's rich, 50 years old, uh insurance executive doing very well Pretty hard to reach someone like that. Another fella, his name was Philip, he was completely different. He was way to the right. He was from the Philippines. He came to stay with us for three days because he needed a place. And it was right at the time of the earthquake. And his hometown, I forget how to say it there, was the center of the earthquake. He couldn't get through to his parents. We let him use our phone over and over to call the Philippines. He couldn't get through. He was with us for three days. We're sharing our lives with him, sharing the gospel with him. And Philip believed in Christ the third day at our house. And I was thinking, what's so different about this? Philip was from a Catholic background. He knew about God. He believed in one God who made the heavens and earth. He believed in Jesus Christ. He just didn't understand forgiveness and grace. Philip was way to the right, both on openness and on uh his understanding of things. He had he had heard John 3. 16 before, this guy. I had never met somebody in Japan that I shared with who had heard John 3. 16 before. Another lady, Mrs. T, Mrs. Take Muda. She was somewhere in between. Jehovah's Witnesses had met her ten years ago, and she came to believe in a true and living God. Now to you, you might not be very excited about Jehovah's Witnesses talking to someone. I was very excited. She came to us believing in a true and living God. knowing that someone made the world. She was in she was like a God-fearing Gentile in Paul's words. You have an increasingly similar situation in America, don't you? People that are not so much to the right, they're to the left. They may not they may have heard much more than little Makoto had heard But they don't understand absolutes. They don't believe it. On their openness line, they may be way to the left because they've been hardened by turned off by church or whatever. That's the situation that we have And unfortunately, in our churches in the United States, we're not doing a very good job at reaching those people that are way to the left. How do we do it? Is it the way the young man that I saw outside Yokota Air Force Base in Japan was doing it? He had a loudspeaker on the top of his car. And he was driving around the area, around the base in the Japanese community Reading Bible verses in English. No one could understand him. No one knew him. Yes, we believe Jesus words, my sheep hear my voice, I call them by name, and they come. But my question is, could they hear his voice? Even if it was in Japanese, with him reading those Versus, would that be an effective way to reach those people way to the left? Not that God couldn't do that, but in our course of in your experience and mine we don't see that very often. In the Bible, I don't think we see that very often. So how do we do it? How do we help his sheep to hear that voice so that they come? Well, if you look on your outline there, our method, giving the gospel in ourselves, is the way Paul talks about it here. In our text, 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 8, not only did we give you the gospel, but our very lives as well. The gospel, it is so powerful. It is dynamite. We believe that. Romans 1. 16, it is the dynamite of God to salvation to those who believe first and also to the to those who believe and also to the Greek. And we must sow it boldly Uh as Paul did, we see in chapter one of 1 Thessalonians there, look at verse 5, where Paul says, Because our gospel came to you not simply with words, but also with power and with the Holy Spirit. And in Acts 17, we're Where it's re where Luke recounts Paul's coming to the Thessalonican church. It talks about how boldly he preached the gospel. Yes, we must do that. We must sow it broadly. to lots of people because God is at work out there in people's lives. Had a very encouraging experience just two weeks ago at Reformed Theological Seminary. I was preaching there and a student came up to me. And he said, are you Lieutenant Iverson? I said, well, no, I'm Reverend Iverson. He said, you were in 1st Battalion, 9th Marines in Okinawa, Japan, 16 years ago, weren't you? I said, yes. He said, I was a legal clerk in the battalion. And me, a friend of mine, and I were going out to raise Cain one night And you picked us up and you talked to us about Christ. The guy is a seminar seminary. He came to Christ a year later. He's a seminary student at Reform Seminary of all places. Isn't that exciting? Boy, that's enough to keep me going for a while, you know. Sowing the seed broadly. Only heaven will know what what God how God has blessed our efforts. It's at sowing the seed broadly. We have to believe that he is at work as we do that. But this is only half of the equation. And we really limit our effectiveness is if all that we do is share the gospel. As powerful as that is. It's a one-two powerful combination that Paul's talking about here. Sowing the gospel broadly and with boldness is only part of it. It's giving ourselves as well. Now notice Paul says, not only, now that only does not mean the gospel is only not very much. It's not the only of uh my daddy only gave me a book for Christmas. It's the only of my daddy not only gave me ten million dollars, the gospel But he also gave me his mansion on the Riviera and his Rolls-Royce and all that. That's the only that Paul's talking about here. God has given us the gospel and and we are to give it to people, but it's more than that. We give ourselves as well. See it's the combination of the two that there's a synergism effect that make it even more powerful. Back to verse five of chapter one again. After saying how he he s he spoke not simply with words, he says, but also with power in the Holy Spirit and with deep conviction. See Now go on in the end of verse five of chapter one. You know how we lived among you for your sake. Do you see that? It's how Paul lived among them. I gave you not only the gospel, but my very life as well. That's the powerful combination, like I mentioned Mrs. Takemura before. Okay, Mrs. T came to us, she saw it, uh a sign for English class on the at the supermarket. We put it up there, she came. And she started meeting Christians. She started being in Christians' homes. She started getting around the gospel, and people started giving their lives to her. Now she believed in a true and living God. But as as the soil was plowed, one day one of our short-term English teachers said, Mrs. T, would you like to come to church? And she said, What do you do there? And uh and and she said and she said, what do you do there? He said, Well we sing and we pray. And he didn't speak English and she got pray and play mixed up because of the LR. And she said She said, sound like fun. So she came. But what she found there was people giving her the gospel and their very lives as well She was baptized Christmas. Isn't that exciting to see how God uses that combination of both? It's a powerful combination. Mr. I, Mr. that I mentioned a few minutes ago, the insurance executive. He was uninterested. He knew nothing. He sent his rebellious daughter to California to go to um How do you say it in English? Tanki Dai Gaku. School like this. Junior college. Oh, I wish I had that problem more. He sent his rebellious daughter to California, and guess who she met? Christians. Guess what they gave her? The gospel. Not only the gospel, they gave her their very lives as well. You can probably guess what happened. She came to believe in Christ. Didn't happen fast. She was way to the left. But boy, as they gave their lives to her, she changed. And she came back to Japan. And guess what she did? She gave Mr. I the gospel and her very life as well And what do you think happened to him? He wanted to know why his daughter changed. Why wasn't she rebellious anymore? Why was she a wonderful daughter who loved him and his wife? Well, she went back to America about that time, in another part of God's providential scheme of things, on a Thursday, I found out that we needed a house by Monday. We had to have a house by Monday. We had two families, eight in our family, six in another family, would be living together. Okay, we could do it, but you know, that's tough in the little houses of Japan. Well, went into an area looking for a house in God's providence. He provided a house incredibly it's a whole nother story. The guy was a Christian, it turned out. God provided the house. I I went back. I made the phone call to the fellow, found out he was a Christian. He told me we could rent the house. He had been led to the Lord in America by a formerly Presbyterian missionary to Japan. Oh God's providence is so marvelous. I went back front of the house and it was nine o'clock at night and prayed and thanked the Lord. and uh because the house was much better than the other one we were gonna have anyway. And was leaving that house and at the corner, as I'm turning the corner, fifty yards from that house, I would have never gone into that neighborhood if we hadn't lost the other house that day. And guess who I met? Take a guess. Mr. No, Mrs. Tatib, no, Mr. Ayur. There he was. I'm turning left And he's walking with a foreigner in God's providence. And because he was with a foreigner, it's night. I'm tired. It's been a long day. But those of you who know me know I'm a kind of outgoing person And so I stopped the car. Now again, God's providence. In Japan, they drive on the left hand side. Now see if I therefore my seat is on the right hand side. Okay, now if I had been in an American car and my car's kind of wide, it would have been too hard to stop and roll down the window. But you know I'm on the right hand side. See Calvinist sees God's hand in everything, right? Now I'm sitting on the right hand side, I There are no cars behind me. I rolled down the window. I asked the foreigner, what are you doing in this area? There are no foreigners that live around here. And he just was visiting Mr. Iwamata. And he tells me, what are you doing around here? Say, I'm a pastor starting a church. A church? A Christian church? I didn't know the rest of the story that I just told you. He says, oh, I want to find out about Christianity. In fact, my wife and I last week, a new area, brand new town, like Columbia, just like Columbia. They patterned it. after Columbia. No not no churches at all. They don't even have interfaith centers. And uh and he says, I want to know about Christianity. Will you come to my house and teach me about it? So well if I get time Oh went back to his house, heard all about his daughter. He We gave him the gospel and our very lives as well. He started seeing our team, interacting with each other. It is so exciting to see how God began working in his life. You know, one day. See, part of giving our lives to people is not just being so concerned with pouring the truth down their throats, you know, the combination of boldness and gentleness, you know, that the Bible speaks of. that one day when he was finally coming to faith in God, we were meeting at 6 30 on Wednesday mornings. His wife and he and my Celsius, we moved in that house fifty yards away, didn't that neat God's providence. so good. Walked down there at 6 30 in the morning and uh and we and one morning his cat had been killed and he said uh He told me we were praying to God that we would find out how our cat well what happened to our cat. We we thought it had been killed, but we didn't know. And he said, and God answered our prayers. The first time I'd heard him say that. God, the true and living God he's talking about now, the true and living God who made the world answered our prayer We found out from a neighbor that the cat had been killed in the city came and took it away. And it was like, isn't God good to answer our prayer? To tell us that? They said, in the cat, we'll see the cat when the soul goes to heaven. When we're in heaven. Now, when I graduated from seminary, I would have jumped in right there and said, Cats don't go to heaven. Because I was much more concerned with making sure that we had all our truth right, you know? But as the last few years, Jesus Has really been teaching me the way he dealt with his disciples. There are many other things I want to tell you, but I you can't bear them now. It was much more important in giving the truth and giving myself to him to help him rejoice in the fact that he had come to believe in one God, the true and living God, who made the world. You know, and he kept moving down, moving across those two And about three months ago, he said one morning, one Wednesday morning, when I told him that Mrs. T was going to be baptized Christmas, he said, Well, you know, we believe now too. Can we be baptized? Isn't it exciting to give ourselves as well as the gospel? You notice it's just uh in verse 7 there, I think that's a good point. that the the the the milk of the word, the way we feed people the word is not just the sword of the word, but the milk, like in verse 7. Look at that there where he says We were gentle among you, like a mother caring for her little children. That's the way we need to do it as we give the word. Notice also I mentioned there the weak connection. Quiz time. Let's see. Steve Green. Who wrote First Thessalonians? Don't look. No! Boy, this guy went to Westminster Seminary. He should have gone. Okay, what does verse 1 of chapter 1 say? Who wrote 1 Thessalonians? Paul, who else? Silas and Timothy. Boy, Westminster. Don't they believe the Bible? To the Church of the Thessalonians Notice the we, the teen that they had there. Because notice in the first part of of uh chapter 2 verse 8, what does Paul say? He I misquoted it before, nobody corrected me. I said, I gave you the gospel and my very life. It says, we gave you not only the gospel, but our very lives as well. There's something about the synergism of the two becomes even more powerful when it's we who are doing it together. See, it wasn't only uh the rest of our team that was meeting Mr. I and Mrs. T And the witnesses confirmed as they see the lifestyle sinful and weak and imperfect though it may be of different people, they see. Men I hear the same things, I see the same things. I see these husband wife relationships. They're not perfect, but boy they're different than mine. I see these kids. One day Mr. I says this uh at family devo it was after he was at our house and he saw us having family devotions. Men And he said, you know, the things you've told me are really good, Dan, but when I heard those kids pray at family devotions I knew somebody had to be there to listen. You know, the we of it all is powerful. And don't we see that in John 17, 21 to 23, when Jesus tells us that the world will know. That the Father sent the Son when it sees our unity. Another place he says love. But there he says, when it sees our unity, the world will believe in verse 21. The world will know in verse 23. When it sees the unity of the body. It's powerful. It knocks down those barriers of unbelief, those barriers of hardness of heart. The Holy Spirit takes those things and he uses them. Oh, it's such a powerful combination. And it's true here too. Some of you remember John Bond, who was our first name tag person out here. John lived around the corner from us over here. He wasn't all the way to the left, but he was in the middle there somewhere on both of those. Bad experience with church as a kid. Would you like to come to church, John? Nope. His kid, his son came to uh a five-day club. He came to some of us, Dick Stummon, some of us, I forget who we went, tubing with our kids over on the river here, had a great time. He went with us with his son on the way home. says oh Dan all those kids all those guys from your church well most of them hmm interesting then next week he came to Duke's Delhi breakfast He wouldn't come to church, but he'd go to Dukes Dilly. And uh and John on the way home again, hearing people give themselves to each other Love each other, share about our struggles, and helping each other be good fathers was what we're talking about. He says, Dan, those guys are from your church. What's the name of your church? Columbia Presbyterian Church. When does it meet? A little early, 9. 30 Sunday morning. He came. He came to our first he came to our last group first. You know the rest of the story. Same thing. He saw the unity. Actually they came to Christ while we were gone itinerating. Al told me on the phone. And I'd shared lots with them. But boy, the body kept knocking down those barriers. As they were giving he and his him and his wife not just the gospel but their very lives as well. And when we got back the first night we went to the mall here in his pickup truck and we're talking, I say, John, what finally convinced you? To believe in Christ. He had all these intellectual barriers before that and hardness of heart barriers. He said it was the congregational meeting. The congregational meeting? I said, yes. The unity of Columbia Presbyterian Church was so powerful I knew it had to be true. Oh, there were disagreements. He told me about the meeting and But boy there was something there. Do y'all still have meeting congregate evangelistic congregational meetings? Do you? It's powerful. That and I took out my New Testament and showed him John 17, 21 and 23. He said, That's it. That's what happened to me. Folks, the WE connection is powerful and we need to use it. Who are our models of this on your outline number three? We have lots of good models, don't we? Of giving the gospel and giving ourselves. My parents are a great model not too long ago. They had 62 refugees spend the night with them in their house. Well, half were outside in the yard. They live in Miami and the other half were uh were around the house. The women and the kids were in the house all around My parents, I thank the Lord so much for the model they have been to me growing up of giving not only the gospel, but giving their lives to people hospitality, no wonder it's a mark of an elder. Because as we open our homes to people, that's one of the best places that we can do this is giving our lives to people. We can do it as a family. The kids can participate. as they see our homes. Imperfect as they are, they can see us giving our lives and giving the gospel to people. I've seen some good models this last four years. I've seen a lot all my life. Oh by the way, we d we can't all do the kinds of things that like my parents can do. My wife could never do what my par what my parents can do, but nonetheless, uh For you maybe to have just some people over once a week might be more sacrifice and giving of yourself than for my parents to have 62 refugees. Depending on how God made you and what gifts He's given you. Another another couple, I really appreciate this last year, they came to Japan. He's a carpenter. He builds buildings. He's built he's building our church building and outreach center which will be finished in about three weeks. He works two years making money in the States, then he gives half a year to give himself to the gospel, give himself for the sake of the gospel. And he and his wife there, they can't speak Japanese. And at our Sunday evening service, he just shared real simple how you know I don't have much to give. All I have is these. And I thought some of those people were going to cry. As they see that you know, what about your work? What about money? You know, he says, Well the Lord's given me so much, you know, I just I can't preach, I can't teach, but I can build houses and I can build churches. The the it's powerful presence is powerful. And all of us can do that. So I can't give the gospel like you can or he can. We all have different gifts. We can all do some. And we can all give ourselves. We can. Building Ken and Patton are in Japan on our team right now. He's 76, she's 72. They're there for a year. In some ways I think they're giving more of themselves than I am with a 15-year commitment. Because it's hard for them. Not just crawling off the phone every morning at their age. That's a little hard, they say. They want to bed badly. But it there's it's just tough on them in many ways, but boy, they are having an effect just by their presence. People at church they talk You say you you gave up a year of retirement to come here to give yourself to us? These are some Christians who who felt that way particularly. I remember the pastor of the church that where I worked with this pastor, Japanese pastor, for our third year, and he says, uh, our going-away party, he's praying for us. And as he prayed, he started crying. As he talked about us coming to Japan And giving up so much, giving up our country, coming to Japan, losing a baby in Japan. Having a baby buried there in Japan. Giving ourselves to Japan And I was kind of wondering, why is he crying? We love it here. The great secret is that being a missionary is the most fun thing in the world. I couldn't see myself anywhere else doing anything else. But it's just so of when people see you giving yourselves to them, sometimes it doesn't seem like it's that much, but boy people notice it And he is so appreciative of the little we've been able to do. Just coming and being there and being a part of what they're doing. There are lots of examples. I heard of a doctor. He said, I can't go, but my doctor friend going to Africa, I'll give you half my salary. It'll still be more than you make. And that's what he does. He gives himself. For the sake of the gospel. There's a lady that wrote us after two years of praying for us and we didn't even know. She said, I pray for you every day. This lady, she has all the mission to the world missionaries on her computer, all their requests on her computer, twelve pages a day. She prays through them. Now that's high-tech praying, you know, page down. You know this lady is, you know Back to Mr. Iwamoto's story. Isn't it exciting how God works all the prayers of the saints? She was praying first the day I that Thursday I met him. And I didn't even know it. I just found out about this recently. God weaves all that together in his tapestry of his providence as we pray. But uh this lady, she's giving herself. She can't go for a number of reasons. But what she's doing is powerful. Or one of the best examples I've ever heard is the Moravians. Have you heard about them? The group? They sold themselves into slavery. In order to go reach the slaves. Now that's giving not only the gospel, but your very life, isn't it? And we might say, Oh, that's too much. That Isn't that a little radical? Is that a little radical? I know someone who did more than that. He did infinitely more than that. And I think you know him also. He's both our model and our motive. I should this no one called me on the outline. It shouldn't say who are our models. It should say who is our model There's really only one. All these others pale into insignificance when we think of the one model who really, really did this. Have you noticed how John 3. 16 fits perfectly with our text? Have you noticed that? We loved you so much, Paul says. But God says, for God so loved the world that what did he do? That he sent the prophets? That he gave truth? That he gave it with theological reformed precision? No. He loved the world so much that he gave not only all those good things, the truth, the law, the absolutes, the how to live as a family, how to raise my kids. He gave me all of that. But he gave himself. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. See, the incarnation is our model for what we're talking about today. That's the way God has reached us, a very, very distant people, more distant than any that I've spoken about before. Hardened. unknowledgeable, not knowing other than in some bro abstract way who God is, but in Christ we see who he is and we can be moved all the way to the right on that shore, as he breaks down those barriers because that's what Jesus did for us. Isn't it amazing what he did? It all the stones, the the patents, all the people I've mentioned, the Moravians. Sure they help us see a little bit. But the dirt and the filth, you know, I thought about that. Would I sell myself into slavery like the Moravians? The dirt, the filth, the losing of your status. Think of what Christ did. It can't compare. The King of heaven, John 1. 3, the creator of the world. He who made everything, without him, nothing has been made that has been made. He lowered himself to become a baby. And to struggle with sin, not for two weeks short term, not for 15 years, but for 33 years. He conflicted fully with sin, with temptation, tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. For us, friends, that's giving yourself To speak any about any other examples almost seems like we shouldn't even do it When we think of what Christ has done for us, there's no commitment that is out of bounds. Those Moravians, why did they do it? Because they knew about what Christ had done for them. There's nothing out of bounds when we think of what Jesus has done for us. Nothing. Isn't the gospel good? Isn't it incredible when you think of what Jesus did for us? Maybe there's someone here today that hasn't come to know that Jesus yet. And you need to bow before him and say, Lord Jesus, forgive me of my sins. I see, I understand that you have given me yourself. I believe in you, I trust you. Or how about those of you who know this Jesus? As Al always preaches grace and preaches our motive. For why we do what we do is out of thanks, isn't it? That's why nothing is out of bounds. Nothing can be out of bounds to those who know this gospel. That that we've been talking about. What Jesus has done for us. It's like the lady in Kuwait I read about, you know, she she's so she's so thankful for her country being liberated. She'll do anything. She don't know what to do, so she names her baby George Bush. You know, that you just see that exuberant excitement of one who has been liberated Now isn't that the way we are? Or isn't that the way we should be? Lord Jesus, what can I do? I give you myself, my money, my time. I'll do anything And I mean it. I'm willing to do anything. Lord, you've had a mission conference for several weeks here. Ongoing missions, emphasis time. What's your response? What's your response? Because you're one who has received the gospel? Is it Lord, here I am? I'm ready, whatever you want, my money, my time, my neighbors, my home, make it a place to give myself, to give my family. Oh, there's so many opportunities right here. You've heard lots of them. I don't need to listen. They are all over the place. What can I do, Lord? I hope you make one application at least, write it on your bulletin outline or make a note of it in your mind. What's one thing I can do on the foundation of a total commitment to Christ on the basis of what He has done for you? Lord, what can I do? I know uh I thought I had given everything to Christ, but when I went to seminary and I started hearing all about missions in the world, and seeing that taking the gospel to the nations was not something peripheral to the Bible And I got scared. My heels dug in. Someone said in chapel, if you're not willing to go, you're not qualified to stay. And I said, uh-oh. Am I willing? And I thought about that. That's right. Doesn't say everyone's supposed to go, everyone's not. We all have different gifts. God's leading and his call are different for each one's each each one uh each one of us. But I said, am I really willing? I wrestled with that for two years. And to me, when I write something down, that's when I really make a commitment, you know And I knew I should, but I never would. Lord I'm willing. And finally, at a missions conference like this, my second year seminar, third year seminar, I guess it was. I wrote down next to Matthew 28, 19 in my Bible, Lord, I'm willing to do anything for the cause of the gospel because of what you have done for me. Lord, I do not want to go overseas. Please don't send me. I wrote that too. But Lord, I'm willing if you do. And what a joy it has been. To do what he ended up sending me, sending us to do. The greatest joy is at the center of God's will. You know that. You've experienced it Maybe some of you need to do that today. Maybe a young person wants to write something like that in you. Maybe it's another area of your life. Something specific, something general. What is God speaking to you about from this missions conference? Not only young people, maybe an older person. I got a call from someone just that this past week. He tracked me down on the road because of a mission conference where I was two weeks ago I wasn't there the last night. He went forward. They had an altar call at this mission conference. And he went forward and gave, he's 51, business executive. Said, I'm quitting. I want to go to the mission field. Where can God use me? Isn't that something? Maybe God's calling some of you to that. Or maybe it's a more simple commitment. Maybe it's just to tithe, if that's something new. Will you think what would God have you to do? And will you do it? Not out of guilt. As you've heard from Al Harris innumerable times, but out of grace. You know, there are 2,000 Mormon missionaries in Japan, so-called missionaries in Japan. 2,000. And you know why they're there? They're there out of guilt, out of duty, out of obligation. And it makes me angry when I think that they're there out of duty and obligation. And we Christians. Who have grace, which my theology and the Bible tells me is more powerful than duty and obligation. Sometimes it No, I have to believe that grace, what we have received, is more powerful than duty, obligation, all of those motives of why those men, those young men, are in Japan. Let's pray. Lord, thank you for your grace to us. It is truly an unspeakable gift what Christ has done for us. Lord, we can't repay you. We can't begin. To do anything but give you ourselves. Lord, help us to give not only the gospel but our very lives as well for the world that you gave your very life as well for. Your cross demands our life, it demands our all. In Jesus' name. Amen.