We're going to talk about today in a way with us who stay. So if you have your Bibles turned to Gospel of John. Going to be looking at chapter one. As you're turning there, I just want to um mention that we will be having a congregational meeting right after the service. And so I have been told that the kids will be back up in the lobby ready to go. So once the the meetings or once the worship service is over, we're going to move rather quickly into the congregational meeting with just a very short break. But as you're in John chapter 1, we are beginning a short series looking at the Christian belief of the incarnation. It is technically this short break from our longer series looking at the attributes of God. However, when you think about the incarnation, The story of Christ's birth, the story of this mystery of our faith, it really is a way to properly align our understanding of God's being That series of the attributes we're looking at, behold your God. And this time of Reflection upon Christ's birth, we get to see that in much fuller detail. Behold your God. Because the incarnation explains how in the mystery of our faith that Jesus is fully God and fully human. So our text this morning is an incredibly significant passage from the Gospel of John, and it is an important passage from the entire Bible. So hear now from God's Word, John chapter 1, verse 14. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. This is the word of the Lord. Let us pray. Father in heaven, we pray for our time as we contemplate your word. As your word points us to the word. Our Savior Christ. In this season, prepare our minds and our hearts to land upon the hope that we have in Him and Him alone. Be with us in our understanding, be with us in our awe and worship of you, Christ our King. We pray this in your name. Amen. Everyone has to come face to face with what they believe about Jesus. My own spiritual journey has had to investigate the claims of Jesus. And even though I grew up in a Christian home, I myself needed to explore what makes Jesus true. What makes Jesus unique? And in a very broad sense, or in a short generalized way of my own story, when I was a younger person, Christianity to me really was moralism. It was just a way to navigate the world. And a way of a philosophy that tries to make sense of everything, and a way to give words to how I'm trying to blindly go about the world seeking to understand God. I had to come to a place of honesty, though, that I neither could approach God by myself, nor did I deserve his grace. As something I could earn by being moral, by being good, of my own standards So my own spiritual journey had to come face to face with what came to me personally in Paul's letter to the Corinthians and his second letter. Chapter five verse seventeen Therefore if anyone is in Christ he is a new creation. The old has passed away, behold, the new has come And in verse 21, we see this beautiful truth of the gospel, that for our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. So as we light our candles, as we maybe put up our trees, as we wrap our presents. There is nothing exceptional about this holiday. There's nothing exceptional about Christmas in of itself. We do not experience more of God. He is not somehow more accessible now than he is at other seasons. But to be sure, our songs Are recounting the story of Jesus' birth, they align our hearts to remember the glory of God's salvation. It is a season to remember. A season to remember the saving work of Jesus Christ. And so there, even as we hope, if we're kind of on the other side of the cross, not knowing how this is going to work out, We have anticipation, we have hope, we have sorrow that things are not the way they're supposed to be. And yet there's this hope that drives you forward in what God is going to do. And so we're on this side of the cross. This side of the empty tomb. And so we can have joy. We can celebrate this season of God's birth. But we can't forget how jarring this story is. What do I mean? The Christian understanding of the incarnation challenges our notion of both divinity and humanity. This morning we will look more at this verse and some of the other surrounding context of what John teaches about the incarnation. And simply put, this incarnation, this belief that Christians hold is that the Son The Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, is fully God. And he is present in the person of Jesus who was born fully human. Fully God and fully man. This is astonishing So let us not let nostalgia and commercialism shape our understanding of Christmas. Christmas is the story of Jesus foretold by God's messengers to Joseph and Mary. It's foretold by the prophets that a Messiah is to be anticipated by a people for the hope of their salvation. And so we're wrestling with the one true and living God who makes himself known, and then all of a sudden there is this birth of a baby. And divine attributes are conveyed to him. And we see him grow up to live a life in a way that he performs divine actions And so you're wrestling with who is this Jesus? And how do I make sense of him? And while he possesses divine attributes and he performs divine actions, he embodies flesh and bone. This passage is holding out to us that the person of Jesus is the glorious word. Now what does that mean? Now, I can't say everything this morning. It is just so rich. You could spend this entire month on this one verse. And you'd only be scratching the surface. But if anything, I want us to meditate on the depth of each part. The word. The word became the word became flesh The word became flesh and And what? The Word became flesh and dwelt. So we're going to look at verse 14 in this way. The word became flesh and dwells among us. So the the first thing as we begin looking at the incarnation We see that the incarnation teaches that Jesus is the word. Now the word here in the original language, I don't normally do this, but it's important, is logos. It's in Greek. On one hand, the word is generic. It appears some 300 plus times throughout the New Testament. And on another hand, though, it is used in very technical ways. So in general, logos can refer simply to the words we speak. Language is amazing, is it not? The creativity of our thoughts, imaginations, and emotion that can be formed into sounds that convey meaning to others. Logos can be described as a person's utterances, their sayings, their giving of speeches. So for example, just in the New Testament, just a couple examples. Jesus in John chapter 5, verse 24 says, Truly, truly I say to you, whoever hears my word My logos, and believes him who sent me has eternal life. Later on, he says in chapter 8, verse 31: if you abide in my word, You are truly my disciples. Paul in 1 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 4, Paul says, my speech My logos and my message were not in plausible words, logos, of wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. Now, we we use this way of speaking in our everyday lives. You might say, do you hear the words that are coming out of my mouth? It's implying with some sarcasm, do you understand what I'm trying to say? We might say, go spread the word. Just, which simply means go share share the message with others, whatever that might be. Logos is used in the scriptures, both in the Greek Old Testament, the translation in the Greek, but we see in the New Testament, it's a shorthand for the Word of God. The very revelation of God's creative power, his self-disclosure of who he is. And it's punctuated throughout the Old Testament, for example, with the prophets when they are recounting and proclaiming the message given to them by the Lord when they say, Thus says the Lord. Both the Old Testament and the New Testament acknowledge the words of the Scripture as the Word of God. Now technically also logos can be used in various ways that would have made sense in the Greek world. For example, It can be used in contexts associated with computation, in accounting, dealing with measuring a total sum of expense, for example. Logos can be used in mathematics to discuss ratios and proportions. It can be used in rhetoric to formulate the logic of an argument and give shape to its reasoning. And specifically, Greek philosophers interacted with the idea of the logos as they sought to describe the regulative and the formative forces. That rationally and principally order the universe. So what John is saying here in the opening paragraphs of this gospel Is quite astonishing. He begins in chapter 1, verse 1, by echoing Genesis. In the beginning. What was in the beginning? The Logos, the Word was in the beginning. And the Word was with God. And the Word was God. And by associating the Word with the beginning And associating the word with deity, John attributes the logos with creational power when he says in verse 3, all things were made through him. And verse 4, in the word, in the logos was life, and the life was the light of men. This is astonishing as the gospel accounts are giving an account of Jesus' life, they tell of his death, and they proclaim his resurrection. They're giving an eyewitness account of their experience of Jesus and who he was, who he said he was, how he taught, how he lived, and what he did. And they're giving key theological interpretations and providing the fuller meaning of these historical facts. So, to the ancient Israelite, this logos would be associated with the revealed word of the Lord. And to the Greeks, they would associate with the rational principle that orders all things. And John is claiming the Logos is Jesus. The implication of this claim is that Jesus is something altogether different than anyone before him and anyone after him. So this Christmas season, I I invite us to be certainly caught up in the festivities, but let us not lose sight of how we are to meditate on this astonishing fact that Jesus Is the word. Let us contemplate the very message of God to the world. That God in his glory speaks forth his word and by the word of his power brings life. And so for us as we're reading these opening paragraphs, as we read the Gospel of John and the rest of Scripture's testimony. Let us receive by faith that Jesus is this glorious word. Not only is Christianity claiming that Jesus is somehow divinely pre-existent, But Christianity claims that Jesus is humanly, humanly incarnate. And so we've got to ask the question: well, what did the word become? And so we look at verse 14 and it teaches us that Jesus became flesh. Now Jesus The man was divine. This would be offensive to an ancient Israelite. And it would be laughable to the Greek saying that the divine logos became human. The word we translate here for flesh is used in various ways, in a basic, neutral way Flesh can simply refer to the fleshly material of a human body, of an animal. It's the skin, the bones, the muscles, the tendons. Both the Old Testament and New Testament can use the word to describe our creaturely nature and even to describe our sinfulness. Greek philosophers would sometimes make distinctions between the flesh and the soul, and thus creating a duality, where the flesh is the seat of pleasures and desires. Which is attributed to our vices and our corruptibility. It was regarded by many as as one writer characterized that the flesh was the cravings of the body as the means whereby the soul was bewitched, stained, and polluted. This separation, this duality in the Greek mind makes this passage astonishing. To ascribe Jesus as being the divine word. It is scandalous to convey that divinity somehow joins together with humanity. If you're able to read even in the Greek, the original language, even if you can't read it, I can point you to the words, but in the in the text it's even more astonishing. Because in it Side by side, the Greek word for logos is right beside the Greek word for flesh. And so it's uh woodenly can be translated as the word. Flesh became. The ancient Israelite could easily frame the ordered rationality of the cosmos as being personal. They had a concept of the one true and living Lord who delivered them from bondage out of Egypt, set them apart for his purposes. It was their God who made covenant with them through Moses and later with David to be his people. And although they were longing for a Messiah, no human could be equated with their Creator and God. Now, the Greeks could easily grasp the ordered rationality of the cosmos being impersonal. Some might have talked about this as even the gods, but no such divine principle could be personal, much less the divine becoming human. This passage challenges the assumption of the world at the time, both to the ancient Israelite and both to the Greek. challenging the assumptions about who is God. A beautiful word conceptualizing the logic that the universe should not seemingly cannot come together with the physicality and the corruptibility of the flesh. The infinite cannot become finite And yet John is claiming this. He is associating the light of the Word with the glory of the Son and the Father because he had personally witnessed this glory and he had to make sense of it. John is describing divine attributes and human embodiment in a single person, and that person is Jesus. The reality of this incarnation challenges our sensibilities today as well. Perhaps where non-Christians disbelieve that a man Whether Jesus existed or not, a man could never become God. But we, as Christians who believe this and maybe are wrestling through this, for example, we certainly don't understand fully how it works. Although we can disbelieve from the other point of view. An infinite, omniscient, omnipotent, omnipresent, holy, righteous, transcendent deity. Can it become a human? Can it become like one of us? Early on, Christianity has grappled with this mystery. There have been theological misunderstandings and errors that teach that, on one hand, Jesus is divine, but but not fully human. Some said he merely appeared as a human. Some accepted Jesus had a human body, but could not possibly have a human mind and a rational soul. Again, the separation, the duality between that which is spiritual and that which is flesh. Others acknowledged Jesus to be human, but not fully divine. He merely taught us to know God by living a life in order to show us the way of love. But it as John is claiming here, and what is held out to us every year as we recount the story of Christ's birth. Christianity embraces both, that Jesus is fully God and fully human. This is incredibly important. In his book, Salvation Accomplished by the Son, theologian Robert Peterson identifies nine saving events And six major pictures that give meaning to the work of Christ. And we're only going to be talking about one of those this month, the incarnation. Now, certainly, our faith to what is central to it is Jesus' death and resurrection as the hinge of history and the very culmination of God's salvation. But Jesus' birth and his sinless life are the prerequisites for his atoning sacrifice. And likewise, what flows from what is accomplished at the cross and the empty tomb, we see Jesus ascending, we see Jesus being seated on his glorious throne, we see Jesus and the Father sending the Holy Spirit. We see Jesus continually interceding on our behalf, and we await another of Jesus' coming. That's the other aspect of Advent. We are remembering his first coming and we are still waiting with hope of his second coming. These things flow from what God has accomplished in Christ. Without them, Peterson writes, the salvation that he accomplished would not have been delivered to us. It would not have touched our lives now and in the future. Starting with incarnation. It was necessary for Jesus to be the glorious word embodied in flesh. Peterson goes on to write, he had to be both God and man to save sinners. He had to be God because only God can save us. He had to become man because the work of salvation had to be performed by a human being for human beings. And so this Christmas, let us meditate upon Jesus being the word made flesh. Let us contemplate the very embodiment of God in the world. God in his glory speaks forth his very word and by the word of his power through the Holy Spirit was born of Mary. The glorious word became like one of us. Let us receive by faith that Jesus is fully human Not only is Christianity claiming that Jesus is somehow humanly embodied, but Christianity claims that the incarnation is God with us. This is the next point of in becoming flesh. What did the word do? Well, the incarnation teaches us that God dwells among us. The word here means to take up residence, to live, to make one's habitation. It has the Old Testament parallel of the tabernacle in the wilderness of Sinai. You could say, in a manner of speaking, that in the incarnation God is Pitching his tent, and he's camping among us. We can read more of the details of this tabernacle in Exodus chapter 33 through 40. The tabernacle was to be the place where the glory of the Lord, the very presence of the Lord, would reside. It would become the tent of meeting for the people of God to gather to worship. To make sacrifices. It was the place that via Moses, their covenant mediator, would relate to God on their behalf. When Moses, we learn this from Exodus 33, when Moses would enter the tent, the pillar of cloud. Would descend and stand at the entrance of the tent, and the Lord would speak with Moses. He would speak face to face as a man speaks to his friend. Exodus 33, verse 9, and verse 11. The tabernacle would go on to be the blueprint for the temple in Jerusalem, and there the glory of the Lord would reside in the Holy of Holies. And throughout the word of God, throughout the law and the prophets, the hope of the people was upon the presence of God in their midst. He was tabernacling. He was tenting with them. He took their sins. He gave them his holiness. The Lord took their iniquities and gave them his righteousness. And as the story goes on, we learn of their idolatry, we learn of their rebellions, we learn about how they Worship, other things that they place in their midst, and forgetting and neglecting the very glory that is already in their midst. Now, when they returned in exile, we learn that they rebuilt the temple. But one thing that is very powerful in God's word is that the glory of the Lord did not descend upon the rebuilt second temple. And so the people of God awaited a Messiah. They awaited a Savior. Now, this is made richer and fuller in the person of Jesus. He is the fulfillment of Isaiah's word foretelling about Emmanuel. God with us. And as we've mentioned briefly, just these John chapter 1, verses 14 through 18. closely parallels with with the passages in Exodus 33 through 40. We see the glorious word tinted Among his disciples. The disciples saw his glory and ascribed divine attributes of grace, and in this context, meaning the attribute of his loving kindness. And his attribute of truth. The disciples received grace upon grace, whereas the law was given through Moses, it is now Better given through a better mediator of grace between God and humanity. And likewise, no one has seen God No one has seen the light. No one has seen the full glory. And yet here we see, as John sees, The glory of the Lord. He is the Christ. He is the Savior. He is Jesus, the one who will forgive our sins and reconcile us to God. This Christmas, let us meditate on this word, this word made flesh, this word dwelling among us. May we know well the Lord. Does not sit on high looking down on us, requiring our works, in order to maybe earn his favor. The gospel of Jesus and the beauty of the incarnation is that God condescends. He comes down. He dwells on low with us, accomplishing his work to bestow his grace with a loving smile as he looks upon us face to face through the person of Jesus. The fullness of glory that we still await. But it is, it shines brighter in Christ than it ever did in the tabernacle. Brothers and sisters, language is amazing. Our words communicate with creativity. We can think of something to say, and we can form intentions behind that and speak it in a way that shares something of ourselves. And similarly to God, with our speech, we disclose to others who we are. And in so doing, we draw near to each other. With better understanding in the message conveyed through our words The incarnation teaches us that our God speaks to disclose himself and to communicate his love for us through his only Son, Jesus, the glorious word. When you walk away from this passage, whatever your belief is, you have to wrestle with who is this word? Who is this God that reveals himself as Father and Son? The one and true living God? Who is deserving of all of our worship? How am I supposed to give that to a man? We see in the testimony of Scripture how people attributed divine Character and divine actions upon Jesus. This is the investigation that we all must have of who do we say Jesus is. Jesus asks his own disciples that. Who Are the people saying I am? And then he gets even more personal. Who do you say that I am? That is the key question that we all must ask ourselves, and we must all see the conclusion that is offered in Jesus. He is who he says he is. He is the glorious word that was in the beginning. He was the word that was with God and was God. He is the very light. It penetrates the darkness of creation and the darkness of our very souls. And in the revealing of his glory, we come to know face to face who our Creator and Redeemer is. So as we look at this brief series on the incarnation. We are very blessed and excited to be hosting one of our mission partners, Dan Iverson. He was unable to come in October when we had a missions month. But he is a longstanding friend and known to us at CPC in supporting his ministry in Japan. He will be with us next week. And he is going to be exploring the incarnation in terms of why. Why did Jesus come? John here is talking about how the word became flesh. So there's something about his identity, his essence, his being of who he is. But Dan will be looking at why Jesus came. Throughout the month, too, we'll be looking at various passages in the book of Hebrews that are unpacking this mystery of God. and man together in the person of Jesus. And looking at the implications of what it means for him to be like one of us. Let us not be given over to nostalgia and sentimentality. There is plenty of that I love Christmas movies. I love Christmas music. We've been listening and watching a lot already. Um much to my personal chagrin. We've done that before Thanksgiving, but that's a whole nother matter. But there is something in our celebrations of what we are saying when we profess with our mouth and believe in our heart that Jesus Lord. We are saying that Jesus is the Savior of the world, that He is the Christ, the anointed one, the Messiah who was to come. And we are saying We're believing. I don't know how, but I believe that Jesus is unique. He is fully God and He is fully human. And that has huge implications for my salvation and yours. Has huge implications of how I live my life, how I struggle with my sin, how I lean upon Christ. Independence and faith each and every day. As Jesus is the glorious word, the incarnation brings our attention to Jesus being a faithful priest. And we come to rejoice that he is the victorious king. So this Christmas, let's meditate with fresh eyes. That we might see the glory as John sees it, to see Christ's glory and celebrate his great salvation. That he is the word. He is the glorious word that speaks so that you might hear and you might come to faith and know God. Let us pray Our Father in heaven, we rejoice and give thanks in this mystery. May we take great delight in the promises of your word and how they are fulfilled in Jesus. We pray for your spirit's understanding that you might teach us into the depths and the riches of this mystery, but but may we also grow in faith. Grow in confidence that you are fully God to be our Savior and you are fully man to fulfill what was lost in our first parent, Adam. That in Christ we receive all that was lost. Everything. That became corruptible in this world through the sin of Adam and Eve has been made right and is being restored and made new in your Son, Jesus. Father, draw near to us, tent among us. Draw near to our sorrows. Come close to us in our sins. Comfort us and encourage us. Give us the conviction and the faith to repent. That we might be made clean, that we might rejoice in trust and dependence. And may we stand and live with hope. The hope that we have that our Messiah has come and he will come again. We praise this. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.