So this morning we come to the final portion of this sermon series on reconciliation. And this morning I want to just quickly recap the four G's of the gospel. And the four Gs of the Gospel message of reconciliation as developed by the Peacemaker Ministries. As we've looked at the last four weeks, they are as follows. It is that the purpose of reconciliation is to glorify God. That when we not only receive forgiveness and reconciliation with our Heavenly Father, as we've already sung this morning, but we experience Extend that forgiveness and seek reconciliation with those that we are are in relationship with and those relationships are broken. The ultimate purpose for our seeking reconciliation is to glorify God But the process of seeking reconciliation begins not only with knowing its goal, that is to glorify God, it is also to understand the process. The second G is to get the log out of your own eye. That it begins by a humble self-evaluation in light of the gospel. That it is not only where the other person has sinned against you, but how and in what ways have you sinned against them, or how and in what ways Does their sin also mirror the sin in your life? So getting the log out of your own eye. And last week, Pastor Tim let us through the third G, gently restore. That once you've sought to, by God's grace, to confess your own sin, you go to someone with whom you're in a broken relationship with to expose the sin that has caused the brokenness in relationship. With much humility, prayer, but the desire that this person be gently restored to the Lord and in relationship with you Recognizing all the while that you can only do as far as it depends on you to live at peace with others. But as you go, go to gently restore. And the final G is to go and be reconciled, which is the title of my sermon this morning. And we will look together at the direct instruction from Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount. Matthew five, verses twenty-one through twenty-six. Hear now the word of God. You have heard that it was said to the people long ago, do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. Again, anyone who says to his brother, Rakah, is answerable to the Sanhedrin. But anyone who says, You fool, will be in danger of the fire of hell. Therefore If you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to your brother, then come and offer your gift. Settle matters quickly with your adversary who is taking you to court. Do it while you are still with him on the way, or he may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer, and you may be thrown into prison. I tell you the truth, you will not get out until you have paid the last penny. Pray with me Father, we have heard your word declare the comfort of the gospel. That Jesus Christ has died that we might be reconciled to you. Because of his perfect work, his perfect person, his innocence, yet dying for sinners. Lord, we thank you for the comfort that the gospel gives, the declaration that we can be reconciled with our Creator, our Heavenly Father. Through your Son Jesus. But Lord, we pray that the comfort of the gospel does not come without the challenge of the gospel. So, Father, help us to hear this word. That we might not just be comforted, that we might be challenged to reconcile. Help us, O Lord. And help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. Going way back in the history of great popular music That great ambassador of reconciliation, Peter Sotera, of the group Chicago. Of that song that I long remember in the shadows of Friday night skate night. The Boy's Choice. This song would play. Everybody needs a little time away, I've heard her say, from each other. Even lovers need a holiday. Ooh, far away from each other. Hold me now. It's hard to say I'm sorry. I just want to stay. And after all that you've been through, my goodness, that that The voice just comes right back in your memory, doesn't it? And after all that you've been through, I'll make it up to you. I promise you, baby. And after all that's been said and done, you just can't, you're just that part of me I can't let go. Ooh, bup, bup, bup, bup. Couldn't stand to be kept away, not for a day. Wouldn't want to be swept away, far away from the one that I love. It's hard to say. I'm sorry. Really profound, isn't it? It meant so much though, right? But it illustrates something that popular music, though it's so easily trite and hollow, but in honesty it does give reflection of what we know is true, right? It is incredibly hard to say, I'm sorry Remove the sentimentalism. It is a whole nother order. To go to someone with whom you were once in a close friendship, relationship, and to say. I need to confess to you that I have sinned against you. It is equally hard To go to someone that you are in a close or once were in a close relationship with that has sinned against you, but they have not acknowledged it. And you must say. You have deeply offended me. And I miss what we once had. Do you know what you have done? But Jesus will not allow us to look at the difficulty and say, well, that's just a part of being human. We're all faulty. We're all broken. Broken relationships are just a part of the recipe of life. Jesus will not allow us out of that loophole. While the prevalence of brokenness in relationships are a part of our everyday lives. He comes and he teaches in his first sermon. For those who claim faith in Jesus Christ. That while brokenness in relationship might be a part of our everyday lives, we ought not to accept it and simply say, Well, there's nothing I can do. We must hear Jesus and understand that while brokenness in relationship is real and prevalent, it's not the way it's supposed to be. And so he now turns to his disciples and all those who are gathering around those disciples because crowds love crowds. This is what Jesus would say. And he will teach us the anger continuum. Worship implications and an urgent matter. Anger continuum, worship implications, and an urgent matter. Let's look first at the anger continuum. Look back at verses 21 through 22. What Jesus first sets up for us are his own categories. You hear it in these words when he says this. You have heard it said to the people long ago, do not murder, and anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you. What is embedded in that phrase are the categories that Jesus wants to use over and over again throughout the Sermon on the Mount and in fact in much of his teaching. It is this. He's challenging what had become the oral tradition. You see, the Pharisees had developed a a long idea of not just the written testimony of the Old Testament law, but a oral tradition of interpreting that law and applying it to everyday life. So Jesus says here, there are two categories. You have heard it said, Acknowledging the oral tradition, but then on its face, turning and challenging how the oral tradition, while it might interpret the written scriptures It does not have the same authority, and in fact, he points out here, doesn't go down deep enough. You have heard it said that anyone who murders and do not murder, and you will be subject to judgment Jesus then turns to the category of the good news, the difficult news that he brings. That if you are to be a follower of Jesus Christ Simply stopping at what you've heard said is not enough. Now you need to hear the word of God, the logos, as John would say, the word become flesh. Jesus say himself, these words But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. So Jesus acknowledges the oral tradition, which is based on the interpretation of the written law, do not murder, but he then takes that and he goes beyond it and he says, I'm going to take it deeper. Because you need to understand murder is simply The outward example of something that starts far, far, far down deep. And it begins at anger. And what Jesus does by setting up these two categories, recognizing the one, but then taking it and going down deeper, what is he saying to those who would follow Jesus? Get ready. I'm taking you deeper. And what he does is he takes us to the soil of murder. Listen to these words again. Again, anyone who says to his brother Rakah is answerable to the Sanhedrin, but anyone who says you fool will be in danger of the fire of hell. What Jesus does, he gives us three examples that make up the soil of what can then blossom and take root and become murder. It is this, anger, and he just uses it gener uses it generally. Then he uses this Aramaic word rakha, which literally means empty, but used as a as an insult, it means you blockhead. That's about as close as we can get. You know, you just you've got plenty of real estate between two ears, but there's not much there. And so he says, if you use that kind of word, it is on the same level as anger, but it turns from anger and it turns to contempt. That's how that word would be used. But then he goes further and he says, you fool. Now I want to be careful here. There isn't this isn't three different kinds of anger. This is the way that anger is often finds itself working out. It can find itself in just these just anger, emotions, of frustration, but it can turn to contempt Where you go from being simply angry at someone's actions to then tearing down their character. To them saying, You're useless. You're simply a fool. Now what Jesus does is, he says, now You've heard it said that do not murder, for anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. Jesus finishes this off. He says, you'll be in danger of the fire of hell. What was that referring to? Well, Jesus, accustomed to using very visible language, understood that the the fire, the fire of hell, was oftentimes used as a A short phrase to actually refer to a particular place. South of Jerusalem, there was the place, the Valley of Henam. It was a ravine that was used as a place to burn trash. The stench, the fire, the heat. He's saying That the anger continuum needs to be understood by all those who will follow me It is not just the actual taking the life of another human being which you will be judged for. You must understand the soil of that murder begins in the soil that is made up. Of anger. And that anger can look like contempt. It can look like carrying someone's character down. And in so doing, we invite judgment on ourselves. If you're familiar at all with the scriptures, you might ask the question, but didn't Jesus get angry? He did. This isn't to say that all anger is wrong We ought to be angry at injustice and evil. But we must be careful in using Jesus as the example. Because Jesus was innocent and without sin. Jesus, when he became angry, was never angry out of a self-defensiveness. Jesus was not angry to simply establish his perspective. He was angry at sin. And the brokenness that it caused, and the dishonor on his father in heaven. That is what made him angry. He didn't like the the temple where worship was to take place, particularly the outer court of the temple which was meant to be a place to invite all the nations to come and to worship God. He didn't like that being turned into a marketplace. Because it kept the people who ought to hear the good news from hearing and worshiping the one true God. Jesus got angry not at him being offended But it's the righteousness of God being offended. And there is a vast difference between the anger of Jesus and our anger. You see, D. A. Carson has a very interesting quote on this. He says, Our problem is that we burn with indignation and anger. Not at sin and injustice, but at offense to ourselves. He goes further when he writes these words He says, Let us admit it. By and large, we are quick to be angry when we are personally affronted and offended, and slow to be angry when sin and injustice multiply in other areas. In these cases, we are more prone to philosophize. In fact, the problem is even more complicated than that. Sometimes we get involved in a legitimate issue and discern, perhaps with accuracy, the right and the wrong of a particular matter. However, in pushing the right side, our own egos get so bound up with the issue that in our view, opponents are not only in the wrong, but attacking us. When we react with anger, we may deceive ourselves into thinking that we are defending the truth and the right when deep down we are more concerned with defending ourselves. The anger continuum that Jesus lays out here from having an epithet in your mind and saying those words against someone else all the way to full-blown murder is worthy of judgment. And when I consider D. A. Carson's words, the reminder, I am so cut to the heart, it scares me to death. Because I see how easy it is to get angry even at righteous things. But the challenge of the gospel calls the follower of Jesus to say, am I really offended at injustice? Against uh on the part of someone else, am I simply angry at the fact that they stepped on my toes? But Jesus says that we ought to be aware of this reality. And the anger continuum, if we're not aware of it. Will have worship implications. In fact, he means for the way in which we deal with this anger continuum to be dealt with. Having in view exactly what we're doing here this morning. We're sitting in seats. We sung songs of our reconciliation from a gracious God through the blood and death of Jesus Christ. who's been raised from the dead on the third day and now sits at the right hand of God the Father Almighty. Amen and amen. And it is Jesus' blood and righteousness. It is his offering of his life for my sin that I can finally know my true value, and that is to be a son and for you to be a son or daughter of Jesus Christ. And of the Heavenly Father, and to receive the Holy Spirit. Yes, and amen. And what comfort that brings, but it has implications. Hear these words from Jesus again, verses twenty-five, rather twenty-three through twenty-four. He says, Therefore, if you're offering your gift at the altar, now here he was referring to the Old Testament practice of offering sacrifices as a part of worship. But Jesus is applying it in the here and now. We're not bringing goats and doves and so forth. But what you are bringing, as we've talked about, as we've sung about, is you're offering a sacrifice of praise. Of thanksgiving. Giving God the glory and the honor And he says, If you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you Leave your gift in front of the altar and go and be reconciled What Jesus is getting at and reminding us of and what he's calling us to is the warning of what dangerous ceremony. The dangerous ceremony is up underneath this is the reality it is so easy to worship God while condoning a known gospel gap. between what we say we believe and how we live. In it he recognizes that there it is so easy for human beings simply to come and to s to put these things out of our minds as we walk in these doors and to offer our praise To pray, to ask things from God, to celebrate the salvation that is offered through Jesus Christ, and shutting out of our minds that somebody might have something against us He says that you need to be aware that if you say You are performing a dangerous ceremony. Now, if you're not aware of it, that if somebody has not told you that they are angry with you, that you've offended them, if if somebody hasn't told you that What you don't know, you don't know, but if you're aware of it, regardless of how you're aware of it, maybe they told you personally, maybe you heard about it. I don't know. An email, a text, somebody told you. You need to take responsibility for that. If you're aware that you your brother has something against you, go and deal with it. For Jesus does not like fake ceremony. What he delights is the integrity of worship. And the integrity of worship is this: go first and be reconciled to your brother. Then come and offer your gift. Now he extends the metaphor. He extends the metaphor by then going into the legal situation. Look at verses 25 through 26. He says, Settle matters quickly with your adversary who is taking you to court. Do it while you are still with him on the way, or he will hand you over to the judge. And he says, you know, basically if you don't if you don't take care of this You're going to be thrown into prison and you will not get out until you pay the last penny. What in the wor why does he bring this in? Okay. First, he's a he's trying to understand how important and urgent the message is But here's what he's drawing into. It was not uncommon in that day that if you were indebted to someone else and were not able to pay your debts, the one who was the one lending you the money could sue you in court. And so the image is, you're you're you're you're going to the judge. You're walking to court. And while you're walking to court, you see them walking from the other side of the other side of the you know the square and they're walking towards the judge and he says there Go and deal with the debt that you have. Seek a way to make amends Because in just a few moments you're going to be found guilty of being in debt to someone that you haven't repaid. And then the problem is you're going to be thrown into jail, but guess what? When you're in jail, you can't earn money And if you can't earn money, you can't pay it back. And the only way to pay it back is if family or friends come and pay the debt for you. But now that's the image. But then what is Jesus talking about? He's not talking about legal debts. He's not talking about financial debts. He's talking about personal relationships. And do you know what he's saying? He's saying, we don't know, picking up on the other words of Scripture, we don't know the day and time which Jesus will return. But he's coming. And before the day of judgment comes, you ought to see it as an urgent matter to go and to make peace with your brother or sister in Christ. Christ. And that's a debt, that's a reality that somebody else can't go and do for you. Unlike debts, they can be paid by someone else. But this cannot be paid. You must go and deal with it as far as it depends on you But the third point here is that he brings up all of this in the pace of trying to say, this is an urgent matter. What is Jesus moving us towards? He's wanting us from the anger continuum to the reality of the implications for worship. He's trying to take us on a journey from what? Exclusion to embrace. And the journey toward embrace, I must tell you, is a difficult journey. I know that some of you here this morning may be thinking in your minds, Well that's a great idea, but you have no idea how difficult what your what the application of this is for my life, and I'm confused. I I don't know what to do But here's the comfort. The journey towards embrace does not look exactly alike in every person's life. For some, it can be a simple calling up someone and dealing with it, but for others the journey has to be a very long process. A difficult process. But the journey towards embracing in reconciliation is a journey that Jesus calls us to as far as it depends on you. And what he's what I want to draw our attention to here is that forgiveness, as we've talked about over the last number of weeks, which reconciliation infers and involves, is simply the first step. Forgiveness is the first step in what ought to be the journey full way to reconciliation. I have known dear friends who've walked in the faith for many years who I am inspired by. And yet I've been so reminded of the reality that we can hold such great truths, if you are a Christian, such great announcement of reconciliation, and yet to simply say, forgiveness is where I stop. But I'm still going to hold on to this Cold War. Okay, yes, I've forgiven, they've forgiven me, but you barely acknowledge one another. You don't talk. You don't share a meal together. I'm challenging the Christian here this morning. That that should not be the goal. The goal ought to be working towards reconciliation. And the work and the journey towards embrace has many faltering steps in it. It is not easy. Because opposition comes from within us. The anger boils up again. The frustration is there again because of the brokenness, because of how someone has offended you. Or how you have offended someone else because you want to say in your mind, Yes, I've done wrong, but and we begin to play the zero-sum game. I'm wrong, but guess what? So are they? We must begin this journey towards embrace, recognizing that opposition will come from within and without. However, What Jesus, I believe, is calling us to in this text is an urgent matter that calls us to a journey down deep. And if there's anything I want to say, it is this. What Jesus is saying, if you want to come and follow me, know that all you can do for your salvation All that you can do for your salvation is simply to contribute the sin which called forth the need for your salvation. We cannot contribute one wit. To what Jesus did on the cross. And we must embrace the reality that it did not require Jesus to stay on the cross one more second for me than it did for a person like Jeffrey Dahmer. If the grace of Jesus Christ does not accomplish salvation for the worst Then who am I to say it is good enough to accomplish my salvation? But while as comforting as the gospel and as free as the gospel is, it is not Free in the sense that it won't cost me anything. In fact, the gospel calls everyone to, in fact, die to self and to self-interest And that requires that we go and we dig down deep into the soil, into the parts of our hearts, and the relationships which maybe nobody else in this room knows about. But in that soil of that relationship, in that conflict, we are going to find that as we pick up the soil in our hands and we allow it to run through our fingers and learn the soil, what we're going to see is in there, or perhaps. Little parts that left alone will sprout up into bitterness to the murder of character. And Lord forbid, real murder. He's telling us to go down deep. But the terrain of reconciliation. Is a hard thing. And the terrain of reconciliation for one person over here is going to be very different for the terrain of reconciliation over there. And what do I mean? It's this. A few weeks ago we had a A small group of eight of us went on a mountain bike group ride. It was on a Sunday afternoon. It's my first time into Patapsco State Park I couldn't wait. We got there. It was threatening storms, but it was still dry. We met just over in Elk Ridge and we got into a mile into this ride. It was kinda sandy and was new terrain for me, but it was interesting and cool. But then the bottom fell out of the sky. And there was a tornado warning. We didn't know that. But um it I don't know how much it rained that day, but it was the most rain I've ever personally experienced while being outside. And it was like somebody literally just turned on the faucet and didn't turn it off. And that turned that terrain, which is hilly and difficult, into a running river. I still don't know how Dan Rao got it out, got out of that, because he had slick tires on his bike, but he did it. I we got to the end of that ride and we were so full of dirt and sand. It was glorious. It was great. It was a bonding moment. But two days later When it wasn't raining, that terrain was very different. For some of you, the terrain of reconciliation is going to be very difficult. It's going to mean the bringing up of old hurts and difficulties if that's what is necessary. Sins to confess. And I may say this, while you may seek reconciliation with someone that you've offended or has offended you, it's not going to mean at the end of that that everything is going to be nicely tied up in a nice little package with a nice little bow on top. But work towards it we must. And I finish with this. Father Ivo Markovic was a Catholic priest, who's a monk in the Franciscan order. Born in Yugoslavia. In 1993 in Sarajevo, many of you may remember the war in Yugoslavia. The war itself was an ethnic religious war. It was between three religions: Orthodox Christianity, Catholicism, and Islam. The Croats, the Serbs, and the Bosnians. And in nineteen ninety-three, the small town which Father Markovic was born, twenty-one people in this very small town were killed, massacred. because of their faith. Nine of those twenty-one were part of his immediate family. But they were all senior citizens. The youngest of which was a seventy-one-year-old grandfather who was Father Markovic's father. He went into a three-year search and challenge of the gospel to deep grief, to deep questioning, and to deep doubts. But what challenged him was what Jesus Christ had done for him, and it led him to go back to his village that he grew up in. And in that village, in his father's home, were the Muslim families who had three years previous killed his family and then s overtook their homes. And when they saw him coming, they feared that he was a part of a police force and they started announcing out that this was a part of the police force and people ran to the door and they didn't know what to do and he didn't know what to do, but he simply asked, I'm going to my brother's house. Is that okay? And they warned him not to go. Because he would be killed if he went. But he knew he must go. And when he went to his brother's house, an elderly grandmother met him at the doorstep with a loaded shotgun. And she said the following words: Do not come in, or I will shoot you. But he looked at this grandmother and he said, Grandmother, you will not shoot me. You will make a cup of coffee for me. She turned and she made that cup of coffee. We don't know all that they exchanged during that cup of coffee What we do have recorded for us would be these words from that grandmother. She said, I rejoice at seeing you, Father Markovic, come. As much as if my son had returned home. It required this man to stare at a very angry person with a loaded shotgun. That is a terrain of reconciliation that I do not wish on any of us. But he took deeply not just the comfort of the reconciliation that is ours through Jesus, he took the challenge of the gospel. Jesus said And here I finish, this is my last point, my last point that I want to leave you with, and I want to leave you with an uninterpreted, unpreached upon text. That God may use it to be not only our comfort, but our challenge to go and be reconciled It is from the author, Paul, the book of Romans, chapter 5, verse 1. I recognize that it is not on the overhead. If you have your Bibles, you may turn there, or simply just listen. Therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Not only so, but we also rejoice in our sufferings, because we know that suffering produces perseverance, perseverance character, and character hope. And hope does not disappoint us, because God has poured out his love into our hearts by the Holy Spirit, whom he has given us. You see, just at the right time when we were still powerless, Christ died for the ungodly. Very rarely will anyone die for a righteous man. Though for a good man someone might possibly dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love for us in this. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since we have now been justified by his blood, how much more shall we be saved from God's wrath through him? For if when we were God's enemies we were reconciled to him through the death of his son, how much more, having been reconciled, shall we be saved through his life? Not only this, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. The comfort of the gospel, the challenge of the gospel Is to follow our Savior. Go and be reconciled. Let us pray. Thank you, Father, for the gospel of our salvation. We thank you for the work of Jesus Christ. But we thank you for the outpouring of your Holy Spirit, who is our power and who gives us the grace to follow Jesus. We confess that following you, Lord Jesus, is far more difficult than we really realize. But in opening your word to us, may we, enabled by your grace, hear the invitation of the gospel to be reconciled to you But also to hear the challenge of the gospel to go and be reconciled. So, Lord, help us we pray. In Jesus' name.