Let me read the passage from Exodus thirteen. When Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them by way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near. For God said, Lest the people change their minds when they see war and return to Egypt. But God led the people around by the way of the wilderness toward the Red Sea. And the people of Israel went up out of the land of Egypt, equipped for battle. Moses took the bones of Joseph with him, for Joseph had made the sons of Israel solemnly swear, saying God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones with you from here. And they moved on from Succa and encamped at Ephon. on the edge of the wilderness. And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, that they might travel by day and by night The pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night did not depart from before the people. Let's pray. Father, we long to know you. We long to see you clearly. We've just song that we need you every hour. And it's true. But Lord, we oftentimes forget. We are so like the Hebrews. And so we pray that you would open our minds, our hearts, and our ears, and our eyes. That we might hear your truth, that we might understand, and that we might be transformed. Lord Jesus, we pray that you would have your way with us. through this time and that we would be changed. In your name we pray. Amen Last week we went through this passage and we looked at four particular points, how God had delivered the sons of Israel, and that was the children of the man Israel, who'd been renamed from Jacob. God delivered them from four things. And if you look at Exodus chapter 2, you see the people in slavery in Egypt, and they're crying out to God for deliverance. And what they cry out for deliverance from is slavery. And it says that God heard their cry. So the first thing that we talked about is that God honestly did deliver them from slavery to the Egyptians. And we talked about how God, in delivering them from slavery, also delivered them from being strangers in the land. They were brought out of Egypt. They were free. Freed from the confines of Egypt, both in terms of slavery and geographically, they were on their way to their land. But we spent a lot of time talking about how God in taking them through the wilderness was taking them from dependence upon their circumstances into a dependence upon him and his character. And we talked as well about the fact that in in God being present with them and leading them physically in the pillar of cloud and in the pillar of fire, that he also He also gave them himself. And we looked at in Exodus six, where it says, You will be my people and I will be your God. So he closed that distance. He gave them a greater experience of intimacy with him. But today, I want to look at it both from the perspective of Exodus 13, particularly in verse 17, but I also want to look at it from the end of the journeys. How God speaks and gives commentary on what he had done as he brought them through the 40 years. I want you to look again at the passage and see verse 17. And I want you to see something that is not extremely clear from verse 17, but as clear as we see the wanderings, and as clear certainly in the commentary God gives. God did not lead them by way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near. For God said, Lest the people change their minds when they see war and return to Egypt. And that opens up a panorama for us because what it says is God is accomplishing his purposes. In the wanderings. We talked about the fact that it's a one, maybe a two-week journey from Egypt to the land that God had promised to the Hebrews. But God took them for 40 years. He didn't bring them into the land immediately because they had small goals. They saw their needs as small needs. And consequently they were looking for small solutions. And you see that as you follow the story. You see that in Egypt they see that the issue for them is slavery. What they want is freedom. As they go out into the land, they want to survive the attack of the Egyptians and God delivers them. They go out into the wilderness and they want water. They want food. All of which are legitimate needs, all of which are real needs, but they're not our deep needs. I want you to take a moment and I want you to take out a pencil or a pen or something and I want you to get your your sermon outlined. Somewhere on that I want you to write the answer to this. The second half of the sentence. And I really do honestly want you to write it. So those of you who are still looking at me and aren't fumbling for a pencil, look for a pencil. If you don't have a pencil, find some way to mark this. I want you to answer the rest of the sentence. Life would be good if Life would be good if you may even be thinking in your mind, if only But I want you to take a moment and think about that and come with a concrete answer. I'm gonna assume you have an answer. We're going to come back to this later in the message. The Hebrews were in slavery. We talked about that last week. We talked about the implications of that And they cried out, Life would be good if we were free. God give us freedom. You're our only hope. And God answered. What happened next? Was life good? They were free What happened next was life would be good if we didn't have the Egyptians on our backs. And God took them to the Red Sea. And he gave them deliverance from the Egyptians. They got into the wilderness, and life would be good if, and life can only continue if we have water. This water's bitter, we can't drink it. Wha w w give us something to drink. Life would be good if we had food. As a matter of fact, life isn't going to continue if we don't have food, so God give us something to eat. And he gave manna. And then life would be good if we had meat. We remember the fish that we had in Egypt at no cost. Life would be good if we had meat. God, we demand that you give us meat. The Hebrews had small needs. The Hebrews had a need for comfort. John Rockefeller was asked at one point. At that point he was the richest man in the world. He was asked, how much is enough? And his answer was a little bit more. Brothers and sisters How much is enough for life to be good? How much God was discipling the Hebrews, and God wanted to teach them how much is enough. And so he took them into the wilderness. They had real needs. If they did not drink, they would die If they did not eat, they would die, unless God suspended the laws of nature. As he did in giving them water. There's no reason to expect you'll find enough water coming from a rock to water the flocks And to satisfy the thirst of a million people. And he did it. There's no way to expect that the dew would bring food enough for a million people. And daily it did God intervened in creation to protect his people, but he did it. He did it Deuteronomy 8 tells us, after he led them into the wilderness. I want you to look at Deuteronomy 8, verses 2 through 5 Listen to this. And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you. Testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. And he humbled you, and let you hunger And fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know. I want to stop there for a moment because I want you to understand something about this. God is speaking through Moses to the very people whose lives have depended upon manna virtually all their life Because these are the children of those who left Egypt and they're about to enter into the promised land. Moses is preparing them. Deuteronomy is an account leading up to a reaffirmation of the covenant. Where the covenant that was first ratified at Mount Sinai when God gave it is now at the end of their forty years about to be ratified again as the people enter into the promised land. And God is speaking to the people who have all their lives eaten mammoth. And he's speaking to them of God's provision. Let me pick it back up. And he humbled you and let you hunger, and fed you with manna which you did not know, nor did your fathers know. That he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. He's telling them there, their needs are bigger than bread. Their needs are bigger than water. Their need is for God. Man does not live by bread alone. Man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. He then talks about God's provision and care. Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your foot did not swell these forty years. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you. God was disciplining the Hebrews for forty years, taking them to places where they needed Him, or they would die. Where if God didn't give them water in a supernatural, miraculous way, they would die of thirst. Where if God did not give them food in a supernatural, miraculous way, they would die of hunger, even to the detail of their clothes not wearing out Forty years. The same clothes. Once you get past the hygiene issues and once you get past the issues of style, that's a remarkable thing It is a detailed example of God's loving care for them. He met their needs. He satisfied their needs. God had taken them time again to a place where if they did not trust him to deliver them, and if he did not deliver them, they would die. And they lived. Time and again God brought them to a point of incredible need and met the need in ways they couldn't anticipate As a matter of fact, when God brought them meat, the comment in the camp was: how in the world could we find enough meat anywhere around to feed all of us? And God's response was, you're going to eat it for so long that it'll feel like it's coming out at your nostrils, and you'll detest it I'm not only going to give you meat to eat one meal or even a week. I'm going to give you meat for a month. And you'll get tired of it. Because I am God. God had protected them from the natural effects of life in the desert. God had demonstrated his power And his sufficiency in the midst of real needs. And he taught the Hebrews who he was But it goes on. Even as they renew the covenant in Deuteronomy twenty nine Verses 2 through 6. God gives commentary through Moses. And he says this. Moses summoned all Israel and said to them, You have seen all that the Lord did before your eyes in the land of Egypt. To Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land. The great trials that your eyes saw, the signs, and those great wonders. But To this day the Lord has not given you a heart to understand, or eyes to see, or ears to hear. What he's saying is You saw the ten plagues, you saw the deliverance at the Red Sea, you saw the water that you drank, the manna that you ate, and you have not comprehended yet what you need to know to enter the land. Because I'm God. And man does not live by bread alone. Man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of God. I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandals have not worn off your feet You have not eaten bread, and you have not drunk wine or strong drink, that you may know that I am the Lord your God. God is saying again and again that your need is great Your need is not just for water. Your need is not just for food. Your need is not just for a home. It is not just for satisfaction, for affirmation, for approval. Your need is great. And the only solution that will satisfy that need is me. You will know that I am the Lord your God. As a result, they had learned to follow where he led. They followed for 40 years in the wilderness. In Numbers, it says In Numbers nine, if you want to look at it later, it talks about how at the command of the Lord they moved, and at the command of the Lord they stayed. God led them for 40 years, and when he moved, they moved, and when he stayed, they stayed. God led them into the land And he said, in the same way that I led you through the Red Sea, I will lead you through the Jordan River. You will follow the Ark of the Covenant on dry ground. And you'll enter the land. Now, if it had been me, if I had been there and I had been Joshua, because by this point Moses has died and Joshua has assumed the lead, if I were Joshua, I would have been looking at how to build a bridge. I would have looked at natural ways to get across that river. And I probably would have complained about the task. But God said, Send the ark, and the people will follow. And they walked across the Jordan River on dry ground. They get into the land, and Joshua is beginning to contemplate the immense task before him. What in the world are they going to do to conquer this territory? And you know what God says to them? It's a very familiar story to us, and we look at it with a difficulty in understanding a freshness Of what it is that God says through the angel to Joshua. He says something remarkably silly. He says to Joshua with an army of a million people But what Joshua is to do is to take six days and walk around the city once each day. And on the seventh day he's to walk around it seven times, and at the seventh time blow their trumpets and watch. Now, the best way I can capture how silly I would feel walking around a city that was fortified and couldn't be taken is really summed up in the veggie tales. About about Joshua in the Battle of Jericho. And you have these vegetables sitting on top of the walls of Jericho. The first day you just crossed a river on dry ground and they may be a little bit stunned. They might be thinking, what in the world is going on? But the second day, after you've just walked around, they're beginning to think these people have lost it. The third day, they're laughing at you. The fourth, the fifth, and the sixth are thinking you're absolutely bonkers. You have humiliated yourself for six days. Because God is going to do something different. And on the seventh day, the seventh time you walk around the city, And you blow your trumpets, the walls fall down. And the victory is God's Because you have bigger needs than to take the city. You need to know that God is your God, that He will take care of you, and you can trust Him. Did the Hebrews trust him? Yes. They entered the land. They followed where he led. Did they trust him completely? No. But they followed. And when they entered the land, God continued to train. God continued to disciple. The same way that he continues to disciple us. I want you to hear Proverbs chapter 3, verses 11 and 12. This is written hundreds of years after Joshua conquered the land. And God is still speaking to his people. about God's discipline. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline or be wary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves. As a father, the Son, in whom he delights. God is saying to His people, I will discipline you. I will show you your big needs, and I will give you the big solution you need. Hebrews 12, God speaks in the New Testament the same message. He speaks it to us, the church, to those who belong to Jesus. And have received that redemptive work Jesus has accomplished in his life, his death, and his resurrection. Those who have received the right to be sons of God by believing in Jesus, he says to you. Have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father will not discipline? God has much larger concerns for you than your comfort. God has much larger concerns than your comfort. I want you to go back to the answer to that sentence. Life would be good if I want you to think about that for a moment. Would life be good if what you wrote down became true? How many times have you prayed prayers regarding life being good? And God has answered those prayers. And shortly thereafter you come to recognize that, well, it was good, but Now that that issue is dealt with, I have this issue that I need to deal with. And life would be really good if God would give me this, or if God would do this, or if God would not do this, or if God would take this away. Brothers and sisters, are you like the Hebrews? I am. Life would be good if I constantly get more And the more is my defined more Because I have not yet reached enough. God wants to teach us that our problems are much bigger than we realize Our problems are not having enough food. Our problems are not having enough affirmation. Our problems are not having enough respect from our children, obedience from our children, love from our parents, approval from our spouses, recognition from our bosses. None of that is enough. None of that is our real need God will take you through the wilderness to teach you that truth I want to read a quote from Dan Alander in his book, The Healing Path. Early on in the book, he's talking about what the Healing Path looks like, and he says The healing path must pass through the desert, or else our healing would be the byproduct of our own will and wisdom. The healing path must pass through the desert, or else our healing will be the product of our own will and wisdom. We'll fix ourselves. And aren't we constantly trying to do that? It is in the silence of the desert that we come to hear our dependence upon noise. It is in the poverty of the desert that we see clearly our attachments to the trinkets and baubles we cling to for security and pleasure. We recognize what we demand for comfort The desert shatters the soul's arrogance and leaves body and soul crying out in thirst and hunger. God focuses us. In that desert experience. God shows us life, and it really is Allerd concludes by saying, In the desert we trust God, or we die. The Hebrews needed water. The Hebrews needed food, but much more than food and water, they needed God. Because God could suspend the laws of nature to bring enough water out of a rock to quench their thirst. God could suspend the laws of nature to create manna. And feed them daily. But God could just as easily have given them freedom from the need for moisture. God could just as easily have given them freedom from the need for food. God was what they need. Brothers and sisters, as you look at your life, you have honest needs. Some of you have a need for healing. Some of you have a need for more money than you can make. That's a legitimate, honest need. You just don't have enough. You've lost your job, you're losing your job, your job is insufficient. Those are honest real needs You may have a need for God to heal your marriage. You may even have a need for God to show you that your marriage needs to be healed. God may need to do something in the lives of your children and bring them to faith. God may need to work in their lives to bring them to obedience. Those are legitimate real needs. But they're not your real need. They're not your deep need. Because even if God were to answer those needs, there'll be another Jesus says, if you eat my flesh and drink my blood, you have eternal life. He's not talking about consuming him physically, he's talking about being his. What are our real problems? Sin. We commit sin and we love to sin. Powerlessness. We cannot fix our lives. Isolation. Certainly from God in many cases, and from one another in most cases. How many people know your needs as you know them? We live in a false reality We believe that what we see is all that's there, and God is at work to try and show us that there is so much more. What solves our problems? God in his work of redemption. To deal with the reality of our sin. To deal with the reality of a sinful heart that even as a believer continues to hunger for sin We battle our old nature daily. And we need God's redemption. Adoption, you are not alone You who belong to Jesus have never been alone. You belong to his family. And the very thing that may frustrate you with God in terms of his discipline is the example and the testimony to you that you belong to him. God disciplines us as sons and daughters and shapes us sanctification God does not leave you in love with sin. God gives you a growing hatred for sin, and that's why that battle rages between the old and the new you. God does not love you so little that He will save you for heaven and leave you in sin. God loves you enough that He will save you for heaven and from sin. And that's His Spirit at work in your life daily, revealing to you more and more of the sin that exists. And if you're like me, you want to battle that more and more because you don't want to see it. If you see it, you have to come to recognize that you can't deal with it And that God has to cleanse you. And brothers and sisters, that points you to the answer of what you need. What you need is Jesus. What you need is to know that he's there and that he saves and that he loves and as you hurt, he cares. That's who he is. That's his love for you. And that's what he wants you to know. You are not alone, and you are not hopeless, and it is not over yet. And that glorifies him John Piper says that God is most glorified when we are most satisfied with him. And I want you to leave with this sentence. Life as a believer is good. Let's pray Jesus, that sentence is so true. But it is not frequently our experience. And so we pray that you would bring our experience into conformity with reality. Open our eyes to see you. Give our minds and our hearts understanding to be able to know That our need is for you, and that you have satisfied that need. Lord, heal us, cleanse us, redeem us. With your love, with your holiness, with your majesty We pray this Jesus in your most precious name. Amen