God who was our deliverer. And you've already had the passage read for you this morning. The mechanics of this morning in terms of scripture passages is there's going to be an awful lot of them. Keep this passage in the back of the bulletin in front of you because it's what we're going to refer to on and off. But the other passages that I'm going to refer to will be shown on the screen. So all you have to do is just look as we read. We're using the ESV, which is why we're going ahead and broadcasting, so you all have the scripture in front of you from the same words. Let me start the timer again. Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for your love. We thank you for your tender care. And how rich and deep it is beyond even our circumstances and our comfort. Teach us more of you this morning, we pray. In your name. Amen. The story of the Exodus is not merely an analogy. It is not merely something that we can go to and say, God delivered the Jews from Egypt, therefore he will deliver me. We can't look at that passage and simply claim that what God is trying to do is give us a carte blanche to claim any deliverance we want. But what it is. Is an incredible intervention in history. It is an act where God delivered his people from oppression out of concern and compassion for them, and it really shows his character. It demonstrates that he is a God of deliverance. And because he is that God of deliverance, and because he continues to give us promises of deliverance, we can claim those promises intelligently. But today I want to look at that act of history. And I want us to see four things that come clear from this passage that point us to the character of God. And it show us his love in technicolor. Those four things are in your outline. He saves the Hebrews from slavery He saves the Hebrews from living as foreigners in a strange land. He saves them from depending upon their circumstances. And he saved them from distance from him. God begins the story of the Exodus in chapter one by saying Now there arose a new king over Egypt who did not know Joseph. And he said to his people, Behold, the people of Israel are too many and too mighty for us. Come Let us deal shrewdly with them, lest they multiply, and if war breaks out, join our enemies and fight against us and escape from the land. Therefore they sent taskmasters over them to afflict them with heavy burdens. They built for Pharaoh store cities of Pitham and Ramses. But the more they were oppressed, the more they multiplied, and the more they spread abroad. And the Egyptians were in dread of the people of Israel, so they ruthlessly made the people of Israel work as slaves. and made their lives bitter with hard service in mortar and brick and in all kinds of work in the field, and in all their work they ruthlessly made them work as slaves So the Hebrews are miserable. And they call out to God. They cry out to Him for deliverance. And you have to keep that picture of their life in Egypt in mind, because they don't have to make them God responds. And in Exodus three, verses seven through nine, God says Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings And I have come down to deliver them out of the land of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey. To the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And now behold The cry of the people of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. So God comes down. God meets with his people and he speaks to Moses and He arranges deliverance. And this is what we're typically familiar with as we look at the story of Exodus. We think of the ten plagues. And kids, you guys have have the kids at church bulletin, and it's got all sorts of stuff that tells you all about those ten plagues. And talks about the power of God in bringing the Hebrews out of Egypt. But the story doesn't end when they leave. And our story today is only going to begin with their departure. Because our passage says, when Pharaoh let them go When Pharaoh let the people go, God did not lead them by way of the land of Philistines, and it carries on. It goes on What God does is He brings them freedom. He brings them deliverance from slavery. I don't want to spend a lot of time on that because we're familiar with it. He does a second thing. Look again at Exodus 3, verse 8. Listen to what he says. He says this, I have come down to deliver them out of the hands of the Egyptians and to bring them out of that land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey. To the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. The Hebrews have been promised a land Five hundred years before, when Abraham was called out of his father's home, he was promised a land. He was promised a home. And he lived the rest of his life as a stranger in tents, traveling through the land. So did his son Isaac. And so did Isaac's son Jacob until Jacob was taken by famine into Egypt. And for 430 years. The Hebrews lived in Egypt, sometimes in comfort and prosperity, but mostly under oppression. And they'd never had a home. And so God says to them, I'm going to bring you home I'm going to bring you out of this land. I'm going to bring you to a good and a broad land. A land flowing with milk and honey. A land that I promised to you long ago. This is a quote of Genesis 50, verse 24, where Joseph at the end of his life says to his brothers, I am about to die. But God will visit you and bring you up out of this land to the land that he swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. So God is doing a couple of really remarkable things that are really, really exciting. He's freeing the Israelites from slavery. He's taking them from a land they do not belong in, and he's gonna take them back to the land that he has promised five hundred years before to them But it gets a little interesting here. Because if you look at the passage, look again at the bulletin. Second half of verse seventeen, it says, God did not lead them by way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near. Now I don't know if you're like me and what you think of when you think of the Exodus is automatically 40 years. But do you know how long God could have taken to walk The Hebrews into the land he had promised? About a week. About a week. It's not that far. And we read in this passage that God intentionally did not give them that land in a week. I want you to think for a minute. What's God's goal? Because if I were God and my goal were to fulfill my promise, I would fulfill my promise And do you realize that in a week he could have fulfilled his promise and brought them into the land? But he didn't He didn't. I believe that's because his goal was much bigger than simply fulfilling a promise that he made to the patriarchs. Much bigger. For you see, I believe that God's goal was to take for Himself a people. And his goal wasn't simply to claim them and to put his name on them and let them be as they were. His goal was to shape them. His goal was to fit them to him. His goal was for connection, possession. Let's look at some passages that talk about this because what God does is he moves from Allowing the Hebrews to trust in their circumstances to move them into trusting his character. Exodus 5, verses 15 through 23. The setting for this is that Moses has come, he's spoken with the leaders of Israel, he's spoken with Pharaoh, and the foremen of Israel are now meeting with Pharaoh, and this is the result of the conversation. Then the foreman of the people of Israel came and cried to Pharaoh, Why do you treat your servants like this? No straw is given to your servants, yet they say to us, Make bricks. Behold, your servants are beaten, but the fault is in your own people. But he said, You're idle. You are idle, and that is why you say, Let us go and sacrifice to the Lord. Go now and work. No straw will be given you, but you must still deliver the same number of bricks. The foremen of the people of Israel saw that they were in trouble when they said, You shall by no means reduce your number of bricks and your daily task. They met Moses and Aaron, who were waiting for them as they came out from Pharaoh, and they said to them, The Lord look on you and judge. Because you have made us a stink in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants, and have put a sword in their hands to kill us. Then Moses turned to the Lord and said, Oh Lord, why have you done evil to this people? Why did you ever send me? For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people. And you have not delivered your people at all. Exodus fifteen, verses twenty-three and twenty-four. When they came to Mara, they could not drink the water of Mara because it was bitter. Therefore it was named Mara, which from the Hebrew means bitter. And the people grumbled against Moses, saying, What shall we drink? Thus far, so good. You see, what they've done is they've found themselves in a difficult place and they have asked for what they need. But let's see how it continues in Exodus sixteen, verse three. And the people of Israel said to them Would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the meatpox and ate bread to the full, for you have brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. Now they've moved from a plea for what they need to an accusation, a judgment, a condemnation. A condemnation of Moses and of God. They're in a difficult place and their r their their response is to tell God, you simply want to kill us Exodus 17, 1 through 3. All of the congregation of the people of Israel moved on from the wilderness of sin by stages according to the commandment of the Lord, and camped at Rephidim. But there was no water for the people to drink. Therefore, the people quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. Moses said to them, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test the Lord? But the people thirsted there for water. And the people grumbled against Moses and said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt? To kill us and our children and our livestock with thirst? To continue an accusation. They continue in rebellion and brothers and sisters, my heart goes there regularly. Numbers eleven four through six Now the rabble that was among them had a strong craving. And the people of Israel also wept again and said, Oh, that we had meat to eat! We remember the fish that we ate in Egypt that cost nothing. And the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlic. But now our strength is dried up. And there's nothing at all but this manna to look at. Condemnation. And the Lord responds. The Lord responds in Numbers eighteen, eleven, eighteen through twenty He speaks to Moses and he says this And say to the people, Consecrate yourselves for tomorrow and you shall eat meat. For you have wept in the hearing of the Lord, saying, Who will give us meat to eat? For it was better for us in Egypt. Therefore the Lord will give you meat and you shall eat. You shall not eat just one day or two days Or five days, or ten days, or twenty days, but a whole month, until it comes out at your nostrils and becomes loathsome to you Because you have rejected the Lord who is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why did we leave Egypt? Let me ask a question here There's a progression in these in these passages. There's a progression in the story. And I want you to think for a minute about yourself. Do you take your sorrows to the Lord? I know you I know you have sorrows. I know you have wounds. I know you have pain Do you take them to the Lord? And if you do, if you do, do you feel like he's silent for five hundred years Do you feel like you're speaking to the ceiling? Or worse Do you feel like he's going to be vindictive and that he's going to augment your pain because you spoke? How can we see God from these verses I want you to see something clearly. Because God is doing something incredibly good This is not a place to look at God and say, with the Israelites, we've weighed you and we find you wanting. Because it's just not true. It's just not true. I want you to see the heart of the Israelites. And I want you to see the heart of God. The Israelites have come and they have wept with their oppression. They have pled with God for deliverance and they have seen God act in ten plagues. Leading to the Passover and their deliverance. They they at this point, as we're hearing this passage read about God planning and strategizing, They have seen God deliver them to the very borders of Egypt, and they're about to see him deliver them on dry ground through the Red Sea And they complain. Every time circumstances come up that are difficult or trying, their first response is either to plea or to complain. And rapidly complaint moves to condemnation. God is teaching them a lesson, and that lesson is simply this do not trust your circumstances. Trust my character. What would it look like? What would it look like for the Jews to have done that? The first step is to say it hurts. I'm in a place I don't want to be Lord, you've led me out of Egypt to a desert where there's no water to drink. If you don't give me water, I'll die. It means looking. Looking at where you are. I don't know if you're like me, but frequently I find myself in those sorts of places, the first thing that I want to do is something different than look. What I want to do is defend God. Have you ever found yourself in a difficult place saying it's not that bad? If I look at it this way, and I recognize that there are these other things going on, really I should be very grateful for this in spite of the fact that it hurts terribly. And God, you're really you're really doing a good thing, and it's okay. Do you ever do that? Do you ever have to defend God To yourself? You don't need to do that. You don't need to do that. The Israelites needed to come to God and say, there's no water They didn't need to say, well, you know, if we walk three more days we can find water. Or if we wait for the dew, we may find enough to wet our tongue. They needed to say, Lord You have led us here. You've led us by the cloud and by the fire. You brought us to this place, and there is no water. Please love us. Give us water. You've let us into the wilderness and there's no food. And if we don't eat in a matter of days, maybe weeks, we'll die of starvation. Please Please give us food. It is a matter of trusting Him. Not to make life easy But to take care of us. And you don't need to defend him, and you don't need to deny reality Because that doesn't honor him. If he saves you from something that's insignificant, he's not significant. What he did in feeding the Jews was significant. And he did it. It is to come to Him with your needs. It is to believe that whate my God ordains is right. It is to have a heart that says this. I want you to step back for just a moment and think about how we sang that song We started with, we will assemble at the mountain. The end of that song is, we will sing the song of the redeemed. Brothers and sisters, whatever my God ordains is right, is the song of the redeemed. Do you think you could sing this without God's sovereign work in your life? Listen to it. Whatever my God ordains is right, holy his will abideth. I will be still whatever he does, and follow where he guideth He is my God, though dark my road, he holds me that I shall not fall. Wherefore to him I leave it all. Only the redeemed can say that with meaning. It goes on. He leads me by the proper path, I know he will not leave me. I take content what he hath sent. And then this, his hand can turn my griefs away, and patiently I wait his day. Do you hear that heart? Do you trust God's character to be able to say that with meaning? It continues. Though now this cup and drinking may bitter seem to my faint heart, I take it all unshrinking. My God is true. Here shall my stand be taken, though sorrow, need, or death be mine, yet I am not forsaken. My father's care is round me there. He holds me that I shall not fall. Wherefore to him I give it all. The Hebrews should have sung this. When you find yourself in those difficult circumstances, and you don't deny that they're real And you don't minimize them so that you don't have to feel the pain. But you come and you say these truths and you cling to him You are singing the song of the redeemed. And brothers and sisters, that's what God had in mind when he took forty years to shape the Hebrews. God's goal is not so small to simply be the deliverance of his people to the land that he promised. He wants more. Let me take you to some other passages. Because the issue is there's a fourth thing that God does. Remember, He delivers them from slavery, He delivers them from being in a foreign land, He delivers them from requiring circumstances to be good. Good instead of him being with them, and he delivers them from distance from him. Look at this The beginning of the picture with Moses is that the Jews are in the wilderness, Moses is in Midian, and God speaks to Moses from a burning bush. And so in Exodus 3, verses 13 through 15 I want you to realize something here. In the beginning of this conversation, Moses doesn't even know God's name. Listen to the conversation. Then Moses said to God, If I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What's his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am And he said, Say this to the house of Israel. I am has sent me to you. God said also to Moses Say this to the people of Israel The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered through all generations. So God gives Moses his name. In Exodus 13, our passage, there's something spectacular that takes place, and God gives them his presence. Listen to this. And the Lord went before them by day in a pillar of cloud to lead them along the way, and by night in a pillar of fire to give them light, that they might travel by day and by night. The pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night did not depart from before the people. This is not just a map quest map. This is the very presence of God with his people. And to make it clear in chapter 14, he says this And the angel of God who was going before the host of Israel moved and went behind them. And a pillar of cloud moved from before them and stood behind them, coming between the host of Egypt and the host of Israel. And there was the cloud and the darkness, and it lit up the night, without one coming near the other all night. He gave them his presence to save. God redeemed them from slavery. God redeemed them from Egypt. God redeemed them to trust him, and then he gave himself to them. Exodus forty, verses thirty-four through thirty-eight. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting. This is the dedication of the tabernacle. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the clouds settled on it. And the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle Throughout all their journeys, whenever the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the people of Israel would set out. But if the cloud was not taken up, then they did not set out till the day that it was taken up For the cloud of the Lord was on a tabernacle by day, and fire was in it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all their journeys. God gave them Himself. He led them physically. He cared for them Why? He reveals that to Moses in chapter 6. I will take you to be my people. I will take you to be my people. And I will be your God. And you shall know that I am the Lord your God who has brought you out of out from under the burdens of the Egyptians I will bring you into the land that I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. I will give it to you for a possession. For I am the Lord. God gave himself to his people. I want you to turn your outline over. Because the question for you this morning then is, so what? If this is not something analogical, that's that's a free carte wash card for me to be able to claim whatever I want in terms of deliverance, then I have to ask some questions. Does God deliver after Exodus? Yes. Most definitely. But you know why he does it in that same infuriating way that he delivers in the Exodus? He's not more concerned about your comfort than he is about your well-being. If you want to see whether or not Jesus and God and the Spirit continue to deliver, let's look at the cross. Now you're one of Jesus' disciples. You followed him for three years. You've seen him do miraculous things, and you're beginning to think the kingdom has come. Jesus, Emperor. Twelve rulers. It's going to be good. It's going to be wonderful. Power. And then Jesus is arrested. And Jesus is tried. And Jesus is condemned. And now you see him on the cross. And your world is falling down around you because everything you dreamed of, everything you dreamed of, like Peter when he hears that Jesus says, I must die, and he says, Never! Jesus says, get thee behind me, Satan, because Jesus has a plan that is bigger, a plan that is grander And he's revealing it. Because if Jesus doesn't die on the cross, he can't rise from the dead. And if Jesus doesn't rise, neither do we And everything is a miraculous show of God's power without hope. A really important question beyond whether or not God does deliver is will God deliver me? Will God deliver me? I have my pain. I have my wounds. I have my sorrow. I have my hurt. I have my desires It may be in marriage, it may be in parenting, it may be in health, it might be in career. Every one of you here has a need. Every one of you. Every one of you here has something you want Jesus to do. And the question that you're asking is, will Jesus do that for me? Well, to answer that question, we have to ask another. And the first question we have to ask in that is, Do you belong to Jesus? For you see that marks it all. If you belong to Jesus, the answer is one thing. If you do not belong to Jesus, you have no deliverance at all. You face an eternity in your own strength. You face an eternity of condemnation and wrath and judgment because you have not been delivered at all How do I belong to Jesus? John 1 says, as many as believed in him, to them he gave the right to become sons of living God. The issue is believe in Jesus, who is God that saves. And if you have any questions about that, talk to me, talk to an elder, talk to somebody here that you know knows Jesus, but talk. If your answer is yes, I belong to Jesus, then the answer for will he deliver me is yes. But he may not deliver you the way you want to be delivered. He'll deliver you the way you need to be delivered. He still delivers in that same infuriating way. Because he sees your needs better than you do. And he knows that what you need is him. And he'll answer that need I want to close by reading Romans nine, verses twenty three through twenty six. Because this is really God's promise to us. He's talking in this chapter about vessels of wrath and vessels of mercy. Those who belong to him are vessels of mercy. And this is what he tells of us. In order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy. Which he prepared beforehand for glory, even us, whom he has called not from the Jews only, but also from among the Gentiles, as indeed he says in Hosea. Those who are not my people, I will call my people. And her who was not beloved, I will call beloved And in the very place where it was said to them, You are not my people, there they will be called sons of the living God. Brothers and sisters, God delivers. God delivers remarkably. He delivers better than we can imagine. But he delivers differently than we frequently desire. He wants you. He wants you to know him. And if he takes you to those deep places, those difficult valleys, where what you cry for is circumstances. And what you get is his presence. He will shape you because he loves you. Enough to give you more than circumstances. He gives you himself. Let's pray. Jesus, you are our bridegroom. You are God. And you save to the uttermost. Lord, help us to see you Help us to believe you. Cause us to see and to believe you. Free us from our slavish dependence upon circumstances. Free us to rest in Jesus. We pray in your most precious name, Lord Jesus