Well, two weeks ago, there was no air conditioning on here. Things were a little stuffy. Noticed some of you nodding off here and there. Fighting all that stale air. Man, no such problem this morning. I see a shivering goose pumps rising on your arms If you want to rub your arms a little bit and keep warm, that's okay. Snuggle up next to the person next to you if you know them. And make sure that you're good and alert, ready for it. I feel a bit overwhelmed by what I'm doing this morning because I'm beginning a major series now, as you hear, from Ken on the names of God. And I feel that because uh I've thought about this series for years. In fact, I could say that I've probably thought about this series as far back As the time that I heard our pastor, Kathy and I didn't even know each other when we heard the pastor that we both had in 1961 do a series on the names of God. I was just a brand new Christian. Kathy might not have even been a Christian at that point. We didn't know each other. But that series had uh quite an impact on the two of us. The pastor who preached that series was William Alan Dean, after whom Dean's name, Alan Dean Harris, is named. And uh I don't do this series out of sentimental reasons, however, because it meant a lot in my own life. I pray, however, God will cause it to mean as much perhaps in your life. But rather because I do have some specific purposes and hopes out of this series. And so I thought as I begin it, I would state to you why it is that I want to do this series. I think in my own life I find myself too preoccupied with myself, my own problems, and with other people and what they think of me. I sense that my eyes are too much on people, not enough on the Lord. I introspect too much. I worry too much. I feel guilt without enough relief oftentimes. I feel self-pity without hope There's times when I feel overwhelmed by my problems and my inadequacy. Did you identify with any of that? Maybe you say, uh, you ought to go see a counselor. And maybe that's true, and I have in times past, and that's been of great help to me. But I also believe that in our man-centered here and now culture, there's times when we need to get our minds off of ourselves and lift them up to get a fresh vision of who God is. To turn our minds from what we see here and now and what other people think of us and what my problems are, in order to get a perspective on those problems, To get a different understanding of who God is. I believe that as a church We're on a new threshold of things that God's going to do through us and in us, and that would be perhaps difficult for us to guess at now. And the outreach of the gospel and some of the things I believe the Spirit is preparing to do in Howard County as we as churches are joining together with great expectations of what God is doing. And I believe That the time is right now for us to build our faith. And so I want to do for you, if you identify with my problems, what I want to do for myself, what I want to do for all of us. is to give us a new vision of God. That we might build our faith and we might build our sense of worship because we have seen our God in a new way. I want for us to be able to get a bigger vision, a bigger view of God, so that our God becomes big enough for us to give our lives to. So that our God is one who is big enough for us to put our toys away for and to make sacrifices as we see him use us. sacrifices, for instance, as with that special offering coming up on June the fourth, so that all obligations and Any remaining debt for the Potter's house can be totally eliminated. We can go on to build for ministry beyond what we have done before. But a God who's big enough that we can trust Him in all circumstances. That He's sufficient for all of our needs. A God who's big enough to direct us away from shallow, man-centered Christianity into the deeper waters of biblical Christianity. I want for us to begin to grow in faith so that you and I can understand a little bit of what it means to have the faith of the apostles. The faith of the martyrs, the faith of the reformers, the faith of the Puritans, the faith of the pioneer missionaries. What was it that made them different? Not that they were made of any different stuff from us. They had a view of God that was sufficient for all of their needs. Brothers and sisters, I believe that you and I need to recapture a bigger view of our God in these days. You remember that the first purpose of our church is what? That we would, let's hear it, know him better. Right? Let's do that again. That was a little wimpy there, yeah. The first purpose of our church is that we would know better. All right And when Moses was going into the land and he sensed his inadequacy, And he said, Oh God, if you're not going to go with us, then don't lead us up. In Exodus chapter 33, Moses says, God, I need to have a new vision of who you are. In order for me to go forward with these people. And what did God do for Moses at that time? You read in Exodus 33 and 34 that God revealed his name to Moses. And so I believe that for you and for me, one of the best ways, I know of no better way, for us to grow in our faith and to grow in our view of who our God is that He's sufficient for all of our needs. Than for us to know his name better. That by knowing his name we will come to know him better. And so what I want for us to do over the next several weeks, in fact, over the next several months This is for us to look at the names of God, the names by which He has revealed Himself to us, so that we would know Him better. By doing that, we would find out how sufficient he is for our every need. And I want to begin this morning. Two weeks we will spend just in introduction to this and looking at the idea of the name of God And so this morning I want to begin by looking at a verse from Psalm 9. If you don't have it already open, please turn in your Bibles to Psalm 9. And I want to look with you at just one verse there, verse 10 of Psalm 9. And let me uh set the stage by reading verses 1, 2, 9, and 10. Just focus on those verses. Psalm 9, verses 1, 2, 9, and 10. I will praise you, O Lord, with all my heart. I will tell of all your wonders. I will be glad and rejoice in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. The Lord is a refuge for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. Those who know your name will trust in you. For you, Lord, have never forsaken those who seek you. I want to begin this topic of the names of God then by observing three remarkable things from this one verse. Three amazing observations in Psalm 9, verse 10. The first concerns the revelation of his name. So that's the first link you have there. The revelation of his name. Notice that verse 10 says, those who know your name will trust in you. He says, those who know your name will trust in you. Well, that's no big deal, it seems to you. You know, what what's the big deal about knowing God's name? Isn't a name just a label? I mean, can you imagine somebody saying, if you knew Alan Harris's name, you'd trust him. It sounds kind of silly, wouldn't it? And why is it? Because we have an American or Western idea of names. To us a name is simply a label to identify something A label that's given because maybe it sounds nice. Or at the most, maybe because we have a better chance of getting into somebody's will if the kid's named after them, you know. Uh when we named Heather, it was simply because Heather had a nice ring, you know. It wasn't that popular a name back then, and we thought that Heather Lee Harris sort of had a role to it, you know. Kind of sounded very nice, feminine and pretty as we knew she'd be and all that, you know. And uh, you know, nothing greatly significant to it, just sounded nice Julie, for instance, was uh Jennifer for the first twenty four hours of her life. Uh we kept debating back and forth, Julie, Jennifer, Jennifer, Julie, you know, and first certificate said Jennifer and then twenty four hours, no, no, no, no, let's let's stick with Julie, you know. Why? Nothing particularly significant. It just Julie sounded pretty to us. And, you know, we knew she'd be pretty, so we'd call her Julie too, you know. You know, Dean's the only one has any significance to his name, and I told you before he's named after the fellow that preached the series on the names of God, William Alan Dean, and so he's Alan Dean Harris, after a man who had a tremendous impact in Cathy's life and my life. But names to us don't generally mean a whole lot. Hebrew names are utterly different. A Hebrew name doesn't only label or identify someone, but it also describes and discloses the inner nature of that person. Let me say that again. It's very important. A Hebrew name does not only identify the person, it also describes and discloses the inner nature of that person. Let me try to show that to you in three ways. First of all, do you remember in Genesis chapter 2, in verses 19 and 20, Adam was asked to name the animals. And when Adam named the animals, he wasn't simply calling them whatever syllables came to his mind. You know, well, I'll call it an elephant, because it looks like an elephant, you know. But rather, Adam was engaged there in a scientific enterprise of classification and description of those animals. The Hebrew names given to the animals were names that were descriptive of their natures, and it showed how certain kinds of animals were related to one another. And so God says the names that Adam gave to the animals were the names by which they were called. First scientific enterprise. A second example of how Hebrew names are significant are the fact that if you read the Hebrew names in the Old Testament, very often you will find reasons appended to the name. For instance, in Genesis chapter 3, in verse 20, we're told that Eve was given the name Eve. Eve means living. She was given that name because she would be the mother of all living. She wasn't called Eve arbitrarily. She was called Eve because she was the mother of all living. Or in Genesis 4. 1, you have Cain born in the first person born And he's called Cain, which sounds like the word brought forth in Hebrew. Why? Genesis 4. 1 says, Because Eve said, I have brought forth a man. And you see this again and again in Seth and Ishmael and on and on through the Hebrew names in the Old Testament, Noah, Jacob. On and on and on. Moses, he's called Moses because he's drawn out. Moses means drawn out. He's drawn out of the bull rushes, you see. The names are given reasons because they're significant. They describe and they disclose the inner nature of the person or the circumstances about them or something. And the third clue to this is the fact that you find often in the Bible that names are changed when the person changes, or something about their circumstances changes. Do you remember Abram? Abram means exalted father. Had his name changed to Abraham, which means father of multitudes. When God wanted to emphasize that that would be his distinctive nature in the fulfillment of his promise. Or do you remember Jacob? The name means a heel grabber because he came out of the womb grabbing onto his brother's heel, and that was indicative of the kind of person Jacob would be, a deceitful, grasping person. But when he met God and God changed his character, his name was changed to Israel, which means a prince with God. His name was changed because his character was changed. You have a number of examples of this kind of thing. Daniel, when he's taken into Babylon, can't keep the name Daniel. They say you can't have a name like Daniel around here because it has L in it. signifying that he is your God. So they name changed his name to Beltashazzar, a heathen name. You remember that uh Simon was changed to Peter, the rock. Saul was changed to Paul. And so you have again and again and again in the scripture names changed because they're so significant in describing the inner nature of the person. And so you see, when God names himself to us, when Psalm 910 says, those who know your name, it's saying something very significant. It's saying that God has named himself to his people. God has given to you and to me his name. And when you sum it all up, the name of God, as you see there in your outline, the name of God means that that is God as He is known and revealed to man. The name of God is God as He is known and revealed to you and to me. That's what the name of God means. God as He is known. God as he's revealed himself, and God has graciously revealed himself to you and to me. In a world that is struggling for any sense of meaning and absolutes and any answers to the why questions of life. Brother and sister in Jesus Christ, never, never, never lose the marble. Of the fact that God has named Himself to us. The inscrutable God, whom you and I could never know Except he has revealed himself to us, has given us his name. Those who know your name. What a precious privilege. We know God's name. And therefore we can trust Him. Now that's the first thing then. God has revealed himself to us, the revelation of his name. And I want us to recapture the awesome privilege of knowing his name. The second thing is also then this hints this psalm at the fullness of his name. That's the second point. The fullness of his name. Those who know your name will trust in you, for you, Lord, have never forsaken those who seek you. Now you need to understand that there is the name singular of God, and there are the names plural of God. Verse 10 says, those who know your name, singular, and then it goes on to say, for you, Lord, giving God's name. Wherever you see that word Lord in the Bible, a large L with small capitals, O R D, that is the definitive covenant name of God. That is his name, par excellence. That is the unique name by which God revealed himself to his people. We don't know how to pronounce that name in the Hebrew. It's um made up of the four letters which are comparable to our YHWH We don't know how the Hebrews pronounced them because it was so sacred to them that they long since ceased ever pronouncing it. And always said something else in its place. Since um perhaps the Middle Ages, people have used the name Jehovah to refer to that name. That's probably not how it was originally pronounced, and we'll get into that later when we take up the study of that name. But that is God's definitive name, and it's spoken of particularly in Exodus 3, 6, and 33 and 34. And so if you want to look at that sometime later today, that is God's name. He reveals himself through that name in the bringing out of his people from Egypt. The name is defined by an event, the Bible says. You want to know what Lord means? Well, then the Bible says read the book of Exodus. See how God, in fulfillment of his covenant, remembered his people. And brought them out from their bondage and slavery and made them his own people and gave them a land in which he would rule over them. If you want to know the meaning of that name, then learn what it means that Jesus Christ has come and has taken your sin. Taken my sin on the cross so that through that action he would deliver you and me from the bondage of our sin, its guilt, and its uh enslavement of us So that he would make us his children and bring us into a land where he will rule over us as our God, our King, and our Father. For that's the meaning of his name, Jehovah Jesus. That's the name of God. Those who know your name will trust in you for you, Lord, Jehovah. As it's often said, have never forsaken those who seek you. Jesus has never forsaken anyone who has seeking him. But there's also his names. His name's plural. For instance, in this Psalm you see in verse 1 it says, I will praise you, O Lord. There it is again, that covenant name of God, small Caps, O-R-D. Lord, I will praise you with all my heart, and I will tell of all your wonders. And then verse 2, I will be glad and rejoice in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. Now that's a totally different name of God. That's the name El Elyon, the Most High God. And we'll look at that name in just a few weeks to see what that means. But then you see down in verse 17 it says the wicked return to the grave, all the nations that forget God. That's a totally different name. That's the name Elohim. And so you have right in this one psalm three different names for God. And sometimes the Bible compounds them all together in order to make an effect, for instance, in Psalm 91. We have four names of God in two verses. Psalm 91 says, He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High, El Elion. will rest in the shadow of the Almighty, El Shaddai. I will say of the Lord, the Jehovah, the covenant name, He is my refuge and my fortress, my God, my Elohim, in whom I trust. Four names in two verses. Some scholars have assembled as many as 70 different names of God given to us in the pages of Scripture. Now you can relax. We're not going to cover over 70. We're going to cover something over 20, but that's enough. And that'll keep us busy for some time. Because I believe in our being able to know some more of God's names, we will know more of the fullness of his revelation, of his character to us. And I believe that's so important to us as we build our faith and as we learn how to pray. Because as we learn how to pray, the more we know about God's distinctive nature as it pertains to our own particular need. The more we will learn in the fullness of his revelation to love him and to trust him. Because we'll remember those names when we need to plead and to call upon him by that name. And we won't do it arbitrarily. But we'll learn to call them as the psalmist does in every case with a reason for that name. And so there are the names because of the fullness of the name. And then the third thing that I want for us to notice from this psalm and from this verse is the purpose of his name. The purpose of his name. You see that on the back of your bulletin. The purpose of his name. What is the purpose? Well, it's quite simply that we would have a relationship with him. That we would have a relationship with him. Do you see verse 10? Those who know your name will trust in you. For you, Lord, have never forsaken those who seek you. You see, uh, God wants us to be able to say with a psalmist in Psalm 63, verse 1 O God, Elohim, you are my Elohim. Earnestly I seek you, my soul thirsts for you. My body longs for you in a dry and weary land where there is no water. God wants us to know his name. Because he wants us to seek him. He wants us to know him. He wants us to trust him. There's two clues to the kind of relationship. That God wants us to have with him given to us right in this Psalm. The first you see there in verse 10. Those who know your name will trust in you. God's name is Himself as He's revealed to us. And when we know His name, we learn to trust in Him. And God's purpose for us knowing his name is that we will trust him more completely, that we will rest in him because we will see that he's faithful and sufficient, that he's a God who's never forsaken those who seek him. And so the psalmist sometimes talks about trusting in your name. Sometimes it talks about trusting in you, as we have here in verse 10. But in any case, it's the same thing. It's God as He's revealed Himself to us, as He's shown that He is the God who has sent His own Son to live in your place a perfect life. To die in your place, a substitutionary death, so that you would be acquitted of all of your sin and guilt That he would be a God who has risen again, victorious over the grave, so that in Jesus the King, you and I have a kingdom and a place reserved for us in heaven for eternity. That we're his children, as Ken read to you, not slaves again to fear, but children who can call our God the new covenant name, Daddy. Are you trusting him this morning? Say, I know his name. If you know his name, Are you trusting this person? Are you trusting that that name is true? That that name in fact really reveals what God is like? Let me suggest that you take some time. Go through a concordance, topical Bible, or whatever you can have. And uh take a look at the names of God. You notice uh I didn't give you any list this morning of the names we're going to cover. What I'd like you to do, if you'd find it helpful between now and next Sunday, is write down as many names as you can think of. By which God has revealed Himself to us in Scripture. And then think to yourself, if I were to describe God, what names would I use? What have I experienced of His character in my own life? For the names of God are to be experienced, not simply to be known cognitively. They're to be known by trusting Him in the way that that name reveals Him. Are you trusting him completely this morning? Or do you think his names are a lie? And somehow he can't really be trusted in the way that he's shown himself. Come to Jesus to trust him as the faithful one who has never forsaken those who seek him. And then the final thing, the final clue given to the kind of relationship that he wants us to have is the one given to us in verse 2. For after saying in verse 1, he says, I will praise you, O Lord, with all my heart. I will tell of all your wonders. Verse 2 says, I will be glad and rejoice in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. See, God wants you and me to get outside of ourselves, to worship Him by learning and using His name. Did you ever hear some Christians when they pray use the same name for God? The only name they know, you know. Maybe you find that you yourself, you're in a rut Whenever you pray to God, there's only one or two names that ever come to mind. And those are the names you use again and again and again. The psalmist here says, I will sing praise to your name. And he uses three of them in the song right here. How many different names of God do you use in your prayer life and in your worship? Let me challenge and encourage you this week, in your own worship, in your own praise, in your own praying. To think of as many different names of God as you can and expand your worship vocabulary If you use those names to think that this is what my God is like, meditate on his name. Write down more and more of them. Praise him for his names. Expand your understanding of how he's revealed himself to you. Because learning his names will always lead you to Jesus. And it will always give you a fuller understanding of what he has done for you. You know how I know that? Because the night on which he was betrayed, just before Jesus went to the cross, in his high priestly prayer in John 17. Jesus described definitively his work that he had come to do. In John 17, Jesus says Now this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work that you, Father, gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your presence with the glories that I had with you before the world began. And then Jesus describes the work that he came to do. And do you know how he sums it up? He sums up his work by saying it was to reveal your name Jesus says, the thing that I came to do, if you want to get right down to the heart of it, it was simply to reveal the fullness of the names of God. For verse 6 says, I have revealed you to those you gave me out of this world. Now, if you have an NIV Bible, you'll notice next to that little word you, there is a bold-faced letter showing you that there's a clue to what that really means. And what does it mean? Where it says I have revealed you, the Greek actually says, I have revealed your name. To those who he gave me. And then down in verse 25, Jesus says, Righteous Father, though the world doesn't know you, I know you, and they know you They know that you have sent me. Again, notice, I have made your name known. To them. And I will continue to make your name known in order that the love that you have for me may be in them. And that I myself may be in them. Jesus is the fullness of the name of God. What is your need this morning? How are you going about trying to meet that need? I suggest to you that the best thing you can do, in whatever struggle, fretting, worrying, or whatever the concern is that's deepest on your heart this morning. That you find the name of God that is most appropriate to that need. That you trace that name to see how Jesus has revealed that name And that you take that need to him and have him show you what he can do in your life this week. Those who know his name learn to trust him. They expand their vocabulary of praise because they've learned to see that Jesus has revealed that name in all that he has done. My prayer is that through this series, you and I are going to learn more about his name. Through that, we're going to learn more about him, and we're going to learn more about how to trust him and how to worship him. And by that you and I are going to grow as people, as his disciples. Do you want that? Will you pray that with me? Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, how we feel that we're in the kindergarten of praise. We're in the kindergarten of trust. Because when anything comes along and shakes us, Lord, we find ourselves retreating. We find how shallow is our faith. We find how insufficient you seem to be for us. Lord, we're appalled at our praise and our worship. We go day after day, barely thanking you for the things that you've given to us. barely uttering to you any creative word of praise and adoration. No Lord, we know that this grieves you because you've told us that you have never forsaken those who trust you and seek you. Lord, we need to learn to seek you, to trust you, and to praise your name. Holy Spirit, we pray that you will do that work in us as a congregation of your people. And that if there's anyone here who doesn't know that name, who's never known you, to whom to know is eternal life, you will reveal yourself to them as Savior. They might come to know you as Lord. Lord, we pray that you will reveal yourself to us afresh and new, whether we've walked with you for weeks or months or for years. Show us your name. Show us yourself, O Lord, that we might love you more. That we might serve you more faithfully. Meet us in our deepest need. In Jesus' name. Amen.