Thank you, Wayne. So today we come to the final words of Second Timothy four. Uh and and uh I just want to thank uh the family of Columbia Presbyterian Church for the honor and the privilege for Stan and I to be able to come and and uh take you through first and second Timothy. It's been a real joy and a delight to be the Balm Teaching Team here at CPC and that we will continue to serve and support CPC and pray for you as you come to this season of pastoral search, anticipation and confirmation. Let's pray. Holy Father, we uh we prayed uh from Psalm 90 that you would help us to number our days, that we would have a heart of wisdom Time is so precious. Indeed, we are like a breath, a fleeting shadow, a flower quickly fading, and yet we live as though we live life forever on this present earth. We do so much to hold on to this world. Would you, Holy Spirit, less lessen our grip on fleeting things in this world? Would you reveal to us more clearly our callings? that we might more faithfully be fixed on seeking your eternal kingdom. And Holy Spirit, would you captivate our minds? our imaginations and hearts on the enduring city you are preparing for us, your beloved bride, that we might run with a band in after you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Last words. Last words can reveal a lot about the spiritual state and the sense of peace of a person as well as inform us of eternal and ultimate things. Here are some last words of some famous people who publicly denounced Christ, Thomas Paine. 1809, English American political writer. He wrote the pamphlet uh Common Sense that called for the American independence. He also wrote The Age of Reason, a defense of deism. and a rejection of the world's major monotheistic religions, including Christianity. On his deathbed, these are words that were noted. I would give words if I had them that the age of reason had never been published. Oh Lord, help me. Christ help me. Oh God, what have I done to suffer so much? But there is no God. But if there should be, what will become of me here hereafter? Stay with me, for God's sake, send even a child to stay with me, for it is hell to be alone. If ever the devil had an agent, I have been that one. Thomas Payne. David Frederick Strauss. 1874 was the German liberal Protestant theologian writer who influenced Christian uh Christianity in Europe. uh with his portrayal of the historical Jesus whose divine nature uh he denied. Uh after spending years trying to dispense with his belief in God, he wrote at the end of his life My philosophy leaves me utterly forlorn. I feel like one caught in the merciless jaws of an automatic machine, not knowing at what time one of its great hammers may crush me. Well, here are some of the words of believers in Christ. Margaret Pryor, 1842, she was an urban missionary. serving orphan asylums and the poor in New York, a moral reformer, worker, and a writer who established a school and soup kitchen. She says, eternity rose up before me like a sea of glory. David, Sir David Brewster 1868 was a Scottish scientist, the inventor of the kaleidoscope, author of the acad and academic administrator. I will see Jesus. I will see him as he is. I have had the light for many years. Oh, how bright it is. I feel so safe and satisfied. Charles Wesley, of course, the great famous English hymn writer, he said, I shall be satisfied with thy likeness, satisfied John Quincy Adams, 1848, served as the sixth president of the United States. When he was 80 years old, at age 80, a friend came to him and asked him, Well, how is John Quincy Adams? And he said, Thank you. John Quincy Adams is quite well, but though but the house where he lives is becoming dilapidated. It is tottering. Time and the seasons have nearly destroyed it, and it is becoming quite uninhabitable. I shall have to move out soon. But John Quincy Adams is quite well, thank you. At his death he said, this is the last of earth. I am content. John Calvin. Thou Lord bruising me, but I am abundantly satisfied, since it is from your hand. Adarayam Judson, uh fame uh 1850, the first American missionary to go overseas in Burma. who translated the Bible into Burmese. He says, I go with the gladness of a boy bounding from school. I feel so strong in Christ. Samuel Rutherford, a Scottish Presbyterian pastor, theologian who was one of the commissioners on the Westminster Confession of Faith. When he was dying, he said, I am in the happy happiest task to which man ever came. Christ is mine, I and I am his, and there is nothing now between me and the resurrection. Except paradise. Now more contemporary and recent last words of Tim Keller, who the Lord took home this past May. Church Playing Pastor New York City, author, apologist, co-founder of City of the City Global Church Playing Network. His son Michael Keller said his father had prayed during his final hours I am thankful for all the people who've prayed for me over the years. I am thankful for my family that loves me. I am thankful for the time God has given me, but I am ready to see Jesus. I can't wait to see Jesus send me home In some of Tim's last words, he said, there is no downside for me leaving, not in the slightest. Last words. Ultimate things, am I still uh on here? Okay Here in 2 Timothy 4, we find the last recorded words of the Apostle Paul as he literally hands off the leadership baton of his ministry to his young lieutenant. Timothy, his spiritual son in the faith. These words, they carry a similar solemnity as the words of Jacob on his deathbed to his twelve sons. Or of Moses to Joshua, or of David to Solomon, and they have a ring of Jesus Final words to his disciples in the Great Commission. But here it is Paul near the end as he is speaking to his one disciple Timothy. We're just considering the first eight verses. I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is the to judge the living and the dead. And by his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching. For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers. to suit their own passions and will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths. As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist. Fulfill your ministry. For I am already being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness. which the Lord the righteous judge will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearance. It's a good moment here. Okay, we won. Well we face money forces uh that work to distract or to deter or to defeat us from following Christ and to fulfill our own callings uh in the world. You know, and Paul, he knew Timothy's voices. He knew his weaknesses, his temptations, his vulnerabilities. And we've talked about these before. Thank you. Timothy's tendency was to pull back and to let uh his fears dominate him. Uh his tendency was to be timid and not assert himself uh or his convictions, particularly among older people. His tendency was to acquiesce and uh of people who needed correction And he felt the pressures and the stress of leadership and it appears that it went to his stomach, frequent illnesses, and how he was uh tempted uh to quit and just fall back into the recesses in the safe places to get out of the heat of being the lightning rod in gospel ministry. And so here Paul, uh weeks, maybe days, maybe hours before he was beheaded under Roman Emperor Nero. gives these last sobering solemn words to his young Timothy. Maybe you, believer, feel some of those same fears. some of those same doubts, some of those same temptations to avoid leadership responsibilities. Well, uh these words uh I believe uh can be spoken to us as well. And so God gives these words through uh through Paul and He charges Timothy, he charges all of us. to fulfill our mission. And I believe that cat verse 5 captures this central exhortation. As for you Always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill, complete your ministry I like Amplified's version on this verse. As for you, be calm, cool, and steady. Accept and suffer unflinchingly every hardship. Do the work of an evangelist. fully perform all the duties of your ministry. Believer, do you have a sense of your mission in the world? Do you know what your calling is that God would have you personally to complete? You know, Jesus could come to the end of his life in John 17, 4 and said, I have brought you glory on earth by completing the work you gave me to do. Now we might say, well, you know, that was Jesus, you know. But here Paul comes to the end of his life, and he says, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. And he has come to the end fully believing that he completed the work that God had given him to do. Now he is talking to Timothy. Now Timothy's not an apostle. He's a delegate. He's a young man who was ordained and commissioned to carry on this gospel work. But do you know. And do you not think that God has a special purpose and calling and commission on you as well? None of us here might be apostles, but we like all of those who have come down through the generations of believers are called to take up the same great commission. that Jesus gave to the disciples in Matthew 28 to go and make disciples of all nations. God has specifically created you for specific good works which Ephesians 2 reminds us that He prepared for us to do in advance. The Lord has given each one of you a unique DNA, a spiritual DNA. He's given you a unique history. uh a unique culture, a unique personality and spiritual gifting that only you have, and you have a specific calling in the kingdom. You know, 1 Peter 4 says Each of you should use whatever gift you have received to serve others faithful as faithful stewards of God's grace in its various forms. And he says, if anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. Now while there are some unique aspects to Timothy, And Paul's charge to him, each of us have been given these words as part of God's holy scripture, and we too uh are called to fulfill the special charges in our own lives, in our own time, in our context. And to help us understand this, I think that it's helpful to look at this passage from four particular aspects of to capture this calling. The audience of our charge. The calling in our charge, the nature and the motivation of our charge or Timothy's charge here in these last words. The audience of our charge. Verse 1, I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing in his kingdom. This is a very sobering uh charge here. Paul is seeking to focus, if not jolt, Timothy to the eternal spiritual realities. This charge, this commission is not about Paul. It's about God. It's about Christ Himself. Paul is merely a conduit. This charge is from God directly. It is not just in the presence of God the Father alone, but God the Son of Christ Jesus. who is coming as judge of the living and the dead. You know, this is a solemn, it's uh there's a legal tone here, a solemn emphatic utterance. It's uh uh has a legal connotation, but it's applicable to every man, to every woman called uh as an evangelist or in to gospel ministry and it's applicable to all all believers We often fall into uh a tame and domesticated image of Jesus who is only meek and mild. The Jesus of Ricky Bobby, that NASCAR driver played by Will Farrell in the movie Talladega Knights When he's praying grace before his family and he prays, dear Lord, baby Jesus, tiny Dear tiny infant Jesus, just a little infant and so cuddly, but still omnipotent. Now that is a free you know, that was the prayer. And for many people, they keep Jesus as the little cuddly baby Jesus. We forget the returning, reigning Jesus In Revelation 6, the kings of the earth and the great men and the rich men and the chief captains and the mighty men and every bondman and every free man hid themselves in the dens and the rocks of the mountains. And said to the mountains and the rocks, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come, and who shall be able to stand? And then we think of John uh of uh John's uh words in Revelation nineteen, he has this vision. And before me there was a white horse whose rider Is called faithful and true with justice he judges and makes wars. His eyes are like a blazing fire on his head are many crowns. He has a name written on him that no one knows, but he himself. He is dressed in a robe dipped in blood, and his name is the word of God. The armies of the heavens are were following him, riding on the white horses, and dressed in fine linen, white, and clean, and out of his mouth comes a sharp sword. with which to strike down the nations. He will rule them with an iron scepter. He treads on the wine press of the fury of the wrath of God Almighty, on his robe and on his thigh. He has his name written, King of Kings. and Lord of Lords. When Christ comes again and history is completed, all humans of all ages will be raised for judgment and will take their place before. The Christ's judgment seat. The event is unimaginable. At the judgment, all will give an account to of themselves to God and through Christ. It says that we will give, Christ will give to each person according to what he has done. Now, not by works of the law, but works throwing, flowing through faith in Christ. Those who believe, who have repented and embrace the gift of righteousness of Christ by faith alone, who love Christ, will be acknowledged, and on the basis of Christ's atonement merit on on their behalf, they will be awarded that which they seek, eternal life. And those who have rejected his free gift, who refuse God's offer of salvation, will be judged by their own works and will be condemned for the crimes against God. But it will be Jesus who condemns. You know, Paul on Mars Hill before the philosophers in Acts 17. He said, He has fixed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness through a man whom he has appointed, having furnished proof to all men by raising him from the dead. He's talking about Jesus. Jesus said in John 5, for as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself, and he has given him authority to judge things. because he is the Son of God. And so here Paul is focusing Timothy. He is jolting him back. really tearing the heavens open to help Timothy not to lose perspective of the big picture of these eternal realities. He bids Timothy to look first at Jesus Christ, the coming judge and king. And Paul is not issuing his charge in his own name uh or in his own authority, but in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus. If Timothy can only be assured that he is a servant of the Most High, that he is an ambassador called by Jesus Christ, That Paul's challenge to him is God's challenge, then nothing will deflect him from that task. When I was uh I graduated from Virginia Tech and uh College of Architecture, Building Construction. I was working as a sales engineer for Montague Betts that put the core steel in the World Trade Center and it was during that period of time that I I was sensing that God was calling me to the ministry. But I did not want to like change the course of my life and my career on my own personal whimps. And so I submitted myself to the elders, the session of Liberty Church. to ask them what their sense was of my calling. And I was confirmed by this session that, yes, Craig, we believe that you are called to the gospel ministry. And so I resigned and I moved to St. Louis and went to Covenant Seminary. But I can tell you, I can't tell you how many times I wanted to quit. And I was always plagued with the idea. Am I really caught? And one of the assurances for me was that I always came back to, I did not call myself to this. I've been called by God, and I can't tell you how many times that, just knowing that I did not call myself, that God had called me, and because God had called me, God will equip me and God will provide and sustain me. And I can say that in these 43 years since that calling, God has been more than faithful. But believer God is calling each one of you in his kingdom. Every one of you is gifted and given a sacred calling. you this sacred throng as believers and are now in Christ part of this royal priesthood as 1 Peter 2 talks about. So please do not diminish or doubt or get distracted from fulfilling and knowing your precious calling. But then we see the calling in the charge. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching. And the essence of the charge we see is in those three words, preach the word. Caroso ho logos. Uh this is a word that, you know, to proclaim the word, to uh to to declare, to talk about it, to tell about it. uh to proclaim uh pastor theologian jott uh which i am dead to with this message said we observe at once that the message Timothy is to communicate is called a word, a spoken utterance. Rather, it is the word, God's word, which God has spoken. And Paul does not need to specify it further for Timothy. We will know at once that it is the body of doctrine which he has heard from Paul and which Paul has now committed to pass on to others. It is the identical to these other words, the deposit, the good deposit. or the sound teaching, the truth, the faith. It consists of the Old Testament scriptures that God breathed and profitable words which Timothy had known since his childhood. together with the teaching that Paul gave to Timothy to follow. These, the same charge is laid upon the church, upon you. We have no liberty to invent our message, but only to communicate the word which God has spoken and has now committed to the church as a sacred trust. Timothy is to preach this word, not just to hear it and to believe and obey it. what he hears not just to guard it from every falsification or just to suffer for it and to continue in it. but now to preach it, to declare it to others. It is good news of salvation to sinners. He is to proclaim it like a herald. in the marketplace. He is to lift up his voice without fear or favor and boldly make it known. And he gives four Four characterizations of this proclamation. It's an urgent proclamation. Never lose the sense of urgency. All true preaching conveys a sense of urgent importance of what is being preached. The herald knows that it is these The things he's talking about are matters of life and death. And so he is announcing the sinner's plight under the judgment of God. and the saving action of God through the death and resurrection of Christ. Pastor Richard Baxter, English Pastor Richard Baxter, said this. Let the people see that you are in good earnest. You cannot break men's heart by jesting with them or telling them a smooth tale or patching up a gaudy oration. Men will not cast away their dearest pleasures upon a drowsy request of one that seemeth not to mean as he speaks, or to care much whether his request be granted. Such urgent preaching, Paul adds, must continue in season and out of season. Press it home On all occasions. Now, this is not an injunction to or to take an excuse for insensitive brashness. We have no liberty to barge uh into people's lives and promise and lives uh to tread clumsily. On those occasions Paul has in mind, his occasions are to preach the word to be to uh to means to welcome and unwelcome times. To be times of conveniency and inconvenience time. And he's talking about the convenient and inconvenient time of the preachers. What we are given here is not a biblical warrant for rudeness, but a biblical appeal against laziness. The first time that I was asked to preach, I was 18 years old. Uh I had been a Christian for, you know, I gave my life to Christ through the ministry of young life when at 15, and I was leading some youth ministry at the church that I attended, and they were without a pastor. Uh and the preacher uh didn't uh come uh this particular Sunday and I got these elders that came up to me and they said, Craig, can you s can you say a word? You know, I said it shows you how desperate the church was. And uh well I had been actually uh you know in my quiet times uh memorizing and meditating on Romans twelve, you know, about about being living sacrifices and And so I, you know, I I I said uh a few words. Um but that was, you know, an inconvenient time. And you have to be ready. When the Lord calls you, you've got to be ready. But probably more recently, I would say that my best preaching uh of the gospel this week uh was at a Burger King on the Eastern Shore. As we were driving, uh I need I desperately needed a bathroom stop. And so we go into this Burger King and I go to, you know, try to find get the restroom and have one of those combination locks. Uh but besides that it had a little sign on the door, uh, this is only for paying customers. Uh and so I was kind of like uh I wanted to like go to the bathroom first before I ordered my food. There was a woman with a bucket that was cleaning the floor and she gave me the combination and I was very gracious and I And so this same woman then I see is multitasking because now she's at the counter taking people's orders. Uh and then one of the uh you know customers dropped uh you know a Coke or something on the floor and then she goes gets her bucket and she's cleaning. And I could just look at her face and it's like She's in a state of forlorn drudgery. I mean she was her countenance was totally uh was sad. And then uh as I'm waiting for my order, uh I see her taking picking up trash and and uh and I felt the nudge of the Holy Spirit. Craig, bless this young lady. And uh I just took some cash out of my pocket and I just handed it to her and I said, Jesus loves you. That was it And her countenance went from this forlorn, sorrowful state to the biggest smile I have ever seen. And it was priceless. You know, each one of us have opportunities to be seeing lives of lonely, discouraged, broken people. uh who are caught up into uh all kinds of discouragements. But you have the good news. And God wants to use you to speak good news into the hearts and the lives of people. Well, this word is not only an urgent proclamation It also is to be a relevant proclamation. And so we see a contextual statement here. The Herald is to announce the word convince, rebuke, exhort. God's word is profitable in the in a variety of contexts And the gospel witness uh goes to address people's minds, uses arguments It goes to address people's moral or the you know their particular moral state and God uses reproof. And God also goes to the emotional state and he uses appeal. Uh and and Stas says again, for some people are tormented by doubts and need to be convinced by arguments. Others have fallen into sin and need to be rebuked. Others, again, are haunted by fears and need to be encouraged. God's word does all of this and more. We are to apply it relevantly. And so we see here that God's word is to be given to people in the context of their needs. And it's also to be given with patience, proclamation. And so Paul's charge to Timothy is to preach the word. as he announces this God-given message to be urgent in its approach, relevant in its application, and patient in his manner, intelligent in its presentation. And he's to be kind. This Lord's servant must be kind to everyone, forbearing and correcting his opponents with gentleness. So there's no justification for a brusque or impatient manner. But then we see the nature of our charge. And Paul says, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. And this calling is a fight. And we've talked about how the calling to make disciples is the gospel fight. And Paul describes this fight, the context, and the forces. He says, for the time is coming, people will not endure sound teaching. Itching ears they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions. And so Paul is giving uh Timothy a sober reality of why he needs to preach the word. And for for many, it might seem like, well, people aren't really interested in hearing the word. You know, they're they're seeking uh teachers to uh speak to them according to their own novelties of their own uh desires, but not really true to the word. But for Paul, he is not saying, this is not the time to back off, Timothy. This is the time to engage. This is the time to continue to be the gospel minister God has called you to be. Because the people are unstable in mind and conduct. Timothy is uh above this and he's to be steady. And so he gives the five staccato or four staccato commands. He says, Pastor you Always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. It's like four staccato commands in verse 5. You know, because people are unstable in mind and conduct. Timothy, you're to be above this. You're to be steady. You're to be sober. You're to be free from every form of mental and spiritual drunkenness. And so when men and women get intoxicated with heady heresies and sparkling novelties, the ministers must keep calm and sane. And though people will not listen to sound teaching, Timothy must persist. You must persist. And so be prepared to endure suffering on the account of truth. And he says, whenever the biblical faith becomes unpopular, ministers are sorely tempted to mute those elements which give most offense. You know, they say that, you know, like forty-three, forty-two percent of pastors in the last, I guess, uh Barnab report, if they could find another job, they would. It's becoming harder and harder for gospel ministers in this world. And so pray for the man of God that God is calling you. Support him. Because the people are worthfully ignorant of the true evangel, Timothy is to do the work of an evangelist, to make the preaching of good news his life's work. And even as people forsake Timothy's minister ministry in favor of teachers who tickle their fancy, Timothy is to fulfill and to complete, to persevere until the task is accomplished. And so Paul gives these four word commands to Timothy to reinforce him. Calvin says this, the more determined men become to despise the teaching of Christ, the more zealous should godly ministers be to assert it. and the more strenuous their efforts to persevere it in entirety, and the more than that by their diligence to ward off Satan's attacks. The Christian life is not a walk in the park. It is the fight of our lives. Yes, every day we wake up to God's mercies and compassions and goodness. His mercies are new every morning, as Jeremiah says. But every day we wake up to war. Every day we wake up to war. We have an enemy who seeks our destruction and disablement. I remember. uh the movie uh we were soldiers uh starring Mel Gibson as the Army Officer Lieutenant Colonel Hal Moore uh who led 395 troop units uh to attack 4,000 well-equipped North Vietnamese enemy soldiers And there was this scene uh when Officers Moore's divisions were and truth were being overwhelmed on numerous fronts and the enemy was firing all around, and here he was found standing on this mound. Walking around erect with an intense focus of mental deliberation to sort out a strategic plan. And I think the NIV uses the words of verse 5, be sober-minded. The words are keep your head in all situations. And there are many times because of the the intensity of attacks against the gospel ministry. That those gospel ministers feel overwhelmed. And we have to like keep our heads. We have to be sober-minded. We have to seek the face of Jesus and his voice among all the other voices. Years ago, Tim Keller spoke at an urban church planning conference in New York, but Marie and I attended. He spoke about the state of the shifting culture within cities and urban trends, and he said this. Every day in North America, these five things are becoming true. More people are moving to the metroplexus. These areas are more multi-ethnic. More hostile to the faith, more divided socioeconomically, more full of lonely people, and more polarized and partisan than ever before That was about ten years ago. And he said, we need churches to address these things. He talked about the decline of the church. uh and uh and the growth of the population. He says great there is a great need for more disciple-making churches who will live out the gospel in the cities. And of course you're here in Colombia and you know all of these realities. And then finally we see the motivation of our charge. Henceforth, Paul says, is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord the righteous judge will award on me to me on that day, not only to me, but also to all those who loved his appearing. And so here's Paul, and he talks about his life that he's being poured out like a drink offering. You know, it is a, he's recognizing that he is at the end. Uh and then he talks about for my departure is near. And the word that is used here is a word that uh is really kind of describing uh the the departure of a boat that has taken up its anchor and he is now, you know, m in in the process of his journey. Nothing remains for Paul except the prize, of which he uh talks about the crown, the crown of righteousness laid up for him. Of course it is not you know, a crown of his own personal righteousness, but of the righteousness of Christ through faith. The same vindication by Christ, he says, also awaits for all of those who loved love his appearing. So here it is, Paul the Agent. He's described himself As this one who has fought this fight, he's finished the race, he's kept the the faith, and so he spurs Timothy on. He is passing the baton off to Timothy. You know, God is continually passing the baton off from older leaders to younger leaders. And we heard that today in the in the Christian service brigade. There's a need for leaders, for younger leaders to take up the mantle. Our God is the God of history. God is working out his purposes. Each year. He buries his workmen, but he carries on the work. The torch of the gospel is handed down. to each generation as leaders of the former generations more urgent for those of the next generations to step bravely into their place. And so Timothy's heart must have been profoundly moved by this exhortation as he is feeling the full weight of his calling before Christ, the calling that Christ has given him. And so in view of the coming of Christ's judgment, we must engage and preach the word. The last words of that I heard about my pastor that mentored me, Mark Pett. Mark Pett was the pastor of Liberty Church. It was a uh a remarkable time. Uh uh during his period, uh the church planted five churches in three years. And during that period of time, Mark was asked to be the president of both Covenant Seminary and Westminster Seminary. Uh he was extremely gifted, extremely bright, and just uh people wanted to hear what he had to say. Uh the Lord he he he uh contracted multiple myeluma Cancer. But on his deathbed, with his loved ones surrounding him, he said these words Can you hear them? Can you hear them clapping? And it's like Mark was experiencing this this time where he was like entering this great celebration in heaven. And is that not what we find in Revelation? And 19. It says, after this I heard what sounded like the roar of a great multitude in heaven shouting, hallelujah, salvation and glory and power belong to our God, for true and just are his judgments. And he says, then I heard what sound like a great multitude, like the roar of rushing waters, like the loud peals of thunder shouting, hallelujah! For our Lord, our God and mighty reigns, let us rejoice and be glad and give him glory, for the wedding of the Lamb has come, and her bride, his bride, has made herself ready. And so, uh, Columbia Presbyterian Church, family of God, I charge you, Paul. Through his word says, I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, correct, instruct, exhort with complete patience and careful teaching. And as for you, be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill, complete your ministry. Let's pray Lord God, we are grateful for these words that you gave us of Paul, these last words to Timothy, the last words that we have in your revelation. God, we are thankful for the power and the sobriety of these words. Lord, help us to take them to heart. Lord, each person here has in Christ been given callings, specific callings, specific giftings. Lord, you work through your spirit to encourage their hearts, not to diminish them, but to develop them, to use them, to serve your kingdom, that you would be glorified, that you would be praised. And so Lord, we commit this to you in Jesus' name. Amen.