Time that I ever heard Harvey Kahn speak, I was a student at Westminster It was in the mid nineteen sixties, around nineteen sixty-five, I believe. He was a missionary from Korea on furlough and he was speaking at our day of prayer. I had never heard of him, uh very few had ever heard of Harvey Khan at that time. He came right back from the mission field. He was uh and still is a a large man. At that time he was a little different. Didn't have any beard His hair was carrot red and looked like it didn't get along with combs very well. His teeth hadn't been properly cared for. And I must say that when I saw him, I was reminded of that uh poem that you hear around Christmas, I laughed when I saw him in spite of myself. Such a congenial fellow, very ready to laugh at himself and to enjoy everything. But I must say that I soon stopped laughing or smiling as I began to hear him open up Luke's theology of prayer. As began to hear him talk about the power of Jesus Christ as is revealed in the Kingdom Age. I had never quite heard anything like that before. I remember him talking about God's transforming power among prostitutes and beggars in Seoul, Korea, and his ministry there. He talked about a Korean elder who kept a prayer book and called it the Book of the Kingdom of God, a custom which I immediately adopted after that conference. Through the years I have grown in my admiration and my respect for Harvey Kahn. Most of the world knows Harvey Kahn as one of the world's foremost missiologists. I think of him rather as a man who loves Jesus Christ more than anything else in this life, who also has a very contagious love for Jesus Christ. And a man who is devoted to the cities, because God loves the cities, and beware, because his love for the cities is also contagious. So let's hear God as he speaks through his servant, Harvey Khan, in this part of our missions conference. The blank paper is not a mistake in your bulletin. That's for you to be able to take notes if you desire. Let's hear from God to his servant heart. Let's take our Bibles and turn please to the Old Testament and the Book of Isaiah. And we're reading the first three verses of Isaiah chapter fifty-four. There's a fellow back that looks just like me. I didn't know there were two of me in the world. Oh where were we? Uh Isaiah fifty four, verses one through three Sing, O barren woman, you who never bore a child, and burst into song, shout for joy, you who were never in labor. Because more are the children of a desolate woman than of her who has a husband. says the Lord. Enlarge the place of your tent, stretch your tent curtains wide, do not hold back. Lengthen your cords, strengthen your stakes. For you will spread out to the right and to the left. Your descendants will dispossess nations and settle in their desolate cities. May the Lord bless that word. Glad to be here, and I'm glad that yesterday I got a haircut. I'm the uh here. Listening to introductions about yourself are always interesting, no boy. I went back to Korea two years ago and We did a as uh Al mentioned, we were very active in doing evangelist work with prostitutes. And uh I was uh while I was we're just there for a month, but a pastor who knew of our ministry asked me to come for a couple of days to one of his congregations. which is located uh near an American army base where they have lots of brothels. So I went to the meetings and one of the uh uh one of the uh there were several members of the church whom I'd known from several years back uh all former prostitutes and one of them introduced me. Boy. That's sort of an X-rated introduction. Um The uh I'm drawing your attention this morning uh for our text uh to the Gospel of Luke. Uh that's my text The whole gospel. And I have thirty minutes. Uh I can I can really do it if I cut out all the funny stuff. The uh most of us I think have got certain images or pictures about what foreign missions are is are, missionaries are, missions is And they're usually created if you've been around missionary conferences like this one long enough, uh, you have uh you or you've heard stories from your Sunday school teachers, or you know, you or you've taking time to color those little pictures in the back. Uh the uh you know that missionaries wear wear short pants and pith helmets. And you know, deep down in your heart they wear those pith helmets to cover their pith heads. Uh they uh you know, you've got it all down pat. They drink boiled water, uh they're very lonely and they have nothing to do except read out of date time magazines. Uh the uh They fight off snakes and headhunters and people, tourists who come around to want to take pictures for the album back home. They live with tribes, uh they live in the bush, uh they uh and they give up things for the sake of Jesus. Uh important things like Coca Cola and uh Kentucky fried chicken and use Michael Jackson The uh well uh that picture is still true in certain parts of the world, but it's changing and changing very, very rapidly Because your missionary does not live in what has been called in the past a global village. He lives now She lives now in a global city. At the beginning of this century, about 15% of the world's population lived in cities of over 10,000 people. The world was rural. By 1950, that was changing, and already 28% of the world were living in cities. By 1975, it was 48%. And by the year 2000, if the Lord carries, over 55% of the world's population will be living in cities. Cities are growing three times faster in those areas that you traditionally called the mission field than they are in the United States, Canada, and Europe. In 1965, the world population was a little bit over 3 billion people. Right now, that many people live in cities alone. Uh there were about ten cities, uh s uh Ken cities at the beginning of this century with a population of over uh one million. Right now there are 240, and within 15 years there will be at least 500 At the beginning of this century, there were only two cities, excuse me, by 1950, there were only two cities in the world with a population of over 10 million people. Those cities were London and Paris. As of 1980, there are 10 cities like that. And again, by the year 2000, there will probably be at least 25 cities with a population of over 10 million people. None of those cities will be in countries that are traditionally called Christian. That's the world that your missionary goes to. We live in an urban world doing an urban job. Uh I'm when we left for the mission field, uh they were they had those Trinity Hymnal things and uh the uh there's uh and they sang uh there was a there's a hymn which is still there unfortunately um and they uh uh the the mi I hope they'll immediately correct the mission section of the Trinity Hymnole, but uh uh the hymns I've learned to hate. Uh there's one in there about uh that they always used to sing when we left. It was called Speed Thy Servants You know, you never figure it out why is it every time we're getting ready to go over there they always turn to that hymn book and saying, you know, send them out, Lord, quickly It's uh it's a hymn that's very appropriate of course for commissioning missionaries and folks like that. Uh and it but it's not the most encouraging him in the world. Uh as I remember it, it the second line begins something like friends at home and all forsaking. You know, you're saying goodbye to these missionaries. The third verse is begins with a line something like, When the way seems dark and dreary. Now they're rewriting that one. The fourth verse will have to do with terrorism. But it gives a a mental picture about foreign missionaries, you know, that's uh I think most of us still continue to live with and is still quite inaccurate. Anyway, we heard this song and we, you know, leaped on board the airplane. It was one of the last prop planes that flew the uh Atlantic. And uh we arrived in uh the place where we were going to call home for the next twelve years the city of Seoul, Korea, friends and home and all forsaking. The city was already up to ten million people. Uh the uh the if you wanted a vacation you would go down to the sticks uh to Pusan, the second largest city in Korea, which had only two million people. And very soon you began to see uh that uh what you thought of back there as the mission field was very different from reality. You found cities, as missionaries have now all over the world, that are exploding with growth. You found that for most peoples in the cities, cities today represent new dreams. They represent uh the new ways to go. The city represents hope, excitement, uh it represents schools for children, represents uh doctors uh for those in the country who rarely see doctors. It represents cash, it represents change, represents excitement. And then those people pour into the cities. And they pour into the cities at tremendous rates. City of Mexico City, for example, right now is growing at the rate of 8,000 migrants per day and will hit 31 million within 15 years. And there are many cities like that. And they come to the city with all the excitement and all the dreams. And then in the cities, the dreams shatter and they dry up and people die. And on the edges of the city, they build their version of the suburbs. Uh they're built out of abandoned drainage ditches, uh as in Seoul, Korea. They're built uh out of uh they're built out of garbage pits in the capital city of Kampala in Uganda They build them out of cardboard uh uh boxes uh left over from Toshiba and uh and Nissan in Tokyo, and uh and they die there without hearing about Jesus Christ. And for the most part, one of the reasons they do is because the mission work, by and large, has focused in its past history on rural areas. And so the mission boards, not used to thinking in terms of cities, continue to send their laborers and plant their churches in rural areas. And the city dies without Jesus. Why aren't missionaries interested in cities? We are in the business of trying to prepare people for urban ministry at Westminster Seminary. About last year, one of the students I think spoke very honestly to me. and uh I think summarized some of the problems. He turned to me and he said after about a week's exposure in inner city Philadelphia, he said, I guess I just don't like cities. He was heading for urban ministry. In December 1983, Intervarsity Christian Fellowship held a seminar in San Francisco on Ministry of the Cities. Several of us were there and gave a workshop in a room about this size on spiritual values in an urban setting. And to get things started, my partner, Dr. Roger Greenway, big blackboard here, and And uh Roger asked people who were assembled in the room, uh I said, I'm gonna play a word game with you. I'll give you the name, I'll give you a word, you tell me the first thing that comes in your mind. Uh the word that he gave them, of course, was city And he asked them through one-word definitions to define how they felt about cities. He started putting the words and groupings on the blackboard. I started making notes. When he was done, he had about eleven categories of words. Three of the categories were positive, eight were negative. This was a conference on the city Uh how did the students who were at that conference think about cities? They saw them as centers of crime, they saw them as places of fear, they saw them as ghettos, they saw them as uh places of poverty. Loneliness, uh loss of meaning, loss of individuality, rapid change, uh loss of personhood. That was what cities were to them Uh about six years ago now our family moved into inner city Philadelphia and uh we went down to the local uh Morg uh uh bank uh this is a sort of l slightly larger telephone booth. uh to sign the mortgage. And uh we walked in and and uh double lock the door behind you and then you walk up and there's this great big thick plate glass between you and the manager of the bank who also happens to be the teller and in the evening serves as the janitor. And there was one guy in this line, I was behind him, and he was the j the bank manager and teller was talking to him. And The last word I heard was when the bank manager said to the man in front of me only fools and idiots move into the city. And uh and he turned to me about ready to sign my mortgage and said now what can I do? I do for you, sir? And I said nothing walked out. I didn't have many choices. Now I think that Luke doesn't agree with that philosophy, and that's why I bring him to your attention this morning. Luke's gospel, as we all very well know, has, as do all the other gospels, a central theme. And this central theme is Jesus. And the message is Jesus' love for the world. But Luke puts a little bit of a different twist on it to make it a little bit different. And the theme of Luke's gospel is that Jesus loves the city. And that's an especial concern in this particular gospel. Now uh at this point you're probably all taking notes and wondering when I'm going to get to the outline. Boy oh boy. Well it's I never give outlines. Uh this is to keep your interest so you wonder when I'm getting to point one. Uh my wife puts it m more bluntly, your sermons have no point to them at all. I don't think she's talking about my skills outlining. Anyway. It is a large picture that I think you can see in the Gospel of Luke. Constantly before the face of Jesus in the Gospel of Luke is the great city. uh the city of the king, as it's called in the Bible, Jerusalem. It seems as if the gospel begins and ends with the necessity of Jesus having to be at Jerusalem. So, for example, as we all know from our Christmas sermons, the gospel begins with Jesus on his way to the city, doesn't it? in the womb of the Virgin Mary. Even before the ministry of Jesus begins, he's on the road to the city. Now Matthew doesn't tell that story, and Mark doesn't tell that story. Only Luke. And when Jesus is born, Luke tells us again, and only Luke, about Jesus' journey to the city at the age of twelve. where he affirms before his mother and Joseph and the group there that he must be in his father's house in the city. In the middle of the Gospel of Luke is one of those big chunks of sections that Sunday school teachers will tell you is called the Great Travel Section. Now they tell you this because some professor in seminary has told them to say this. And uh and that's probably true. Uh but there is a great big interesting piece of the Gospel of Luke that's quite unique. It tells a story, begins in chapter 19, goes all the way to chapter 19, which is about chapter from 9 to 19, about 40% of the gospel story. And uh it begins in the north, in the area of Galilee, tells the story of the journey of Jesus to Jerusalem in the South. It begins with Jesus on the mountain with uh Moses and Elijah uh speaking of his Exodus, which he was about to accomplish at Jerusalem, talking about his death on the cross. And then it follows in a flow as Jesus makes his way to the city. Now, that's a long section. In Matthew's Gospel, for example, it covers only two chapters, chapters 19 and 20. Mark's Gospel, only one chapter. And but suddenly you're in Luke's gospel, boy, it's almost half of the ch of the book. Why? What's the significance of it all? Well, Luke, I think, is trying to teach us a little theology by teaching us a little geography. What's the geography? Why it's Jesus on his way to the city? What's the theology? Why it's Jesus demonstrating his love for the city. Jesus is to fulfill his ministry. He doesn't do it by riding to Galilee in the suburbs. The city is going to be the place where he will fulfill his task. In the city and outside its gates, he'll lay down his life for sinners. That's the place where the world will begin to see the greatest change that will ever come. Now that's the big picture. However, there are also some small little ways in which Luke underlines this, sort of like embroidery, little, you know, where you do the little stitches. And I want to draw your attention this morning to a few of those little stitches in the Gospel of Luke that are kind of special, underlying subtle reflections of this same concern for the city. For example, most of us, if I mentioned the word, if I if I threw at you the word Philadelphia, probably most of you would not think of some country in Europe. The uh you wouldn't even think of some new developing country in Africa. Uh you would think of a city somewhere a little bit further north where they have bells and and mayors and you wish you didn't have to go there. Uh the uh but Philadelphia is a fairly easy name to identify. So's Boston, so's New York, uh so's San Francisco. Why, I've even heard of Chicago. The uh now you don't have to be told those are cities, right? You don't go around talking about the city of Baltimore uh or the uh you know the city of Washington. Washington, that's good enough. And for the most part, in your Bible and in the Gospels of Matthew and Mark, that's usually how it's handled. When the name of a city is given, it's just the city's name that you come across. But In the Gospel of Luke, there's a little bit of a different twist. Why? Almost, I submit, to underline the significance of cities When Luke uses the proper names of cities like Boston or Philadelphia or Capernaum or Nain or Bethany Luke has the habit of adding in front of these proper names the designation city of Sometimes our New International Version doesn't catch this because they have a habit of playing with the original word of the Bible and sometimes they translate it town, sometimes village, sometimes city, but it's always the same. It's always city. For example, the angel Gabriel comes to visit Nazareth in Luke chapter 1, a message for Mary. Verse 26 describes that Nazareth as a city of Galilee. Now I think the New International Version there reads town or village of Galilee. And that's too bad because it's really just city. And yet Nazareth, interesting enough, if we're defining cities in terms of people, even Nazareth doesn't quite fit, does it? It's hardly a city, uh almost not even a town, just practically a village. And yet here's Luke looking at this thing that we would call a village and calling it city of Nazareth, the the the city of Nazareth. What's going on here? Why does he do that? Second chapter. Luke describes the journey of Joseph and Mary to Bethlehem. As a visit to the city of David. You remember that language from Christmas songs and sermons? Maybe you don't remember Christmas sermons. There's a lot I wish I could forget. Anyway, Luke 2 talks about the city of David. Now in the that's interesting language. In the Old Testament, the phrase city of David Is a phrase that is used to refer to the hill of Zion in Jerusalem. It's used that way, for example, in 2 Samuel chapter 5. But suddenly in Luke's gospel This phrase is used not to describe Jerusalem, but to describe a small, little, unwalled, abandoned, dinky little suburb called Bethlehem. Why? Why does Luke do that? In Luke chapter 7, Jesus comes to the house of Simon the Pharisee. And there's a woman there. The Gospels call her a sinner, which in the Gospels I think was a euphemism for prostitute. She comes and she comes to anoint Jesus, and she anoints him with this costly gift. Praising God for what Jesus has come to do. It's interesting, and that story is found in so many of the other gospel stories, but Luke alone, in verse 37 of that chapter, calls her. a woman in the city. Why does he do that? In chapter 8, we're introduced to Luke's version of the parable of the sower sowing the seed. You remember that story from Matthew's gospel. And you remember the stories begin, Matthew, Mark, Luke, with all the crowds of people coming to the scene to listen to Jesus preach. That's the way it reads in Matthew and Mark's Gospel, but in Luke's gospel there's a little bit of an extra twist. In Luke chapter 8 verse 4, we're told that the crowds come to the sea from various cities. Now why does Luke put that little touch in? In the same chapter, chapter 8, Luke describes the healing of a man possessed with demons. And you remember he lived in the tombs, cut his body with the rocks. the uh sort of Sylvester Stallone of the first century. Anyway, uh in verse 27, uh only Luke tells us, and the story is found in all the gospels, but Only Luke tells us that this man came from the city. And when he's healed, only Luke puts it this way in verse 39. He goes away proclaiming throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for it. Chapter 10. Jesus sends out the seventy. To announce that God's harvest time has come. And where does he send them? Why, the Bible says, Luke says, he sent them to every city and place where he was going to come. It's interesting. Luke doesn't talk about sending to the proverb provinces. He doesn't talk about the Roman districts. He could have used that kind of language. He's talking about cities where they're going to come. Interesting language. Jesus tells a bank us story, parable, about a great banquet And when the invited guests don't show up, says Matthew's gospel, the servants are sent out into the main highways to invite in the passers-by. Luke's description is even more particular. They're sent out with these words: Go out at once into the streets and lanes of the city and compel them to come in. Luke adds that touch. Matthew 25, the parable of the talents, you know, the ten, the five, the one. And those with ten talents use their gifts. Those with five use theirs. The number one hides is in the basement of a local Orthodox Presbyterian church. Now, what is the reward for those who use their ten talents? According to Matthew's gospel, the owner of the ten says, Enter into the joy of the Lord. Now when you read that story, in Luke's Gospel chapter 19, it's a little different. The ten talents are still there, the five talents are still there, and that one is still buried, you know, where But the what does the Lord say to those who've used their talents well? He doesn't say, Enter into the joy of the Lord. To the one with ten talents, he says, I will make you master over ten cities. To the one with five talents, he says, I'll make you master over five cities. Imagine. The joy of the Lord becoming a mayor of ten cities like Chicago. Obviously, this fellow has not seen Chicago. The now I think that's enough to at least give you a flavor of what's going on here. Why? What is Luke trying to say to us? And I think we just go back to what we said before. Luke's intention is not just simply to present the ministry of Jesus. It is to present the redeeming ministry of Jesus for the city. So Luke deliberately gives the teaching of Jesus an urban touch wherever history allows him to do that. Yeah, he's he's turning, he wants us to see the vision of Jesus turned towards cities, and of course, he wants our vision with Jesus to be turned towards the cities. Now why does he do that anyway? Well he was an urban evangelist, remember. He traveled with Paul all over the place And they touched city after city. Cities were on his heart. Urban churches were uh very much at the center of his thinking. But I think there's another reason as well And it's sort of a theological reason. I'm a professor at teaching in seminar. I've got to give you something theological. The uh I'll lose my pay. Anyway, the I think there's a heavier reason for it. And that reason is Luke sort of keep looking back to his Old Testament, seeing as he's seen so many times Jesus as the one who's come to keep God's promises. Now, what promises do we have from God in the Old Testament about cities? Well, you remember this morning we read Isaiah chapter 54. There's one right there. That passage was used by a very famous shoemaker named William Carey to begin the great missionary movement over well over a hundred years ago. William Carey preached this sermon, a sermon from Isaiah chapter 54, that started the whole missionary movement going. It was a great sermon, had two points. They still show up in Christian literature. Attempt great things for God, expect great things from God. And uh uh the passage is you remember we read it this morning, here's this a g uh the Lord is picturing his people as uh a woman, and this woman has never had children. And the Lord says, don't worry, you're going to have children. Boy, you're going to have children. And he says, of course, people lived in tents. So the Lord says, now you've been thinking about adding a little room, you know, a little room on for a nursery, right? And the Lord says, forget that. I want you to go down to the local hardware store and buy about eight miles of canvas. Pick up all the yards you can, get those heavy steel pipes, stay from those plastic things that always break when you drive them in the ground. And I want you to buy everything you can, then I want you to come back and rebuild your tent. Because you're going to have children. You're gonna have so many children you will spread abroad to the right and the left. I don't think he was talking about uh but anyway he was describing in very vivid terms just how many children this barren woman was to have. And of course, the whole point of the passage is that God is going to include in his household now, not just Jews But his tent the tent door is going to be opened uh to Arabs, it's going to be opened uh uh to Greeks, it's gonna be opened uh to uh North Americans, to Koreans, to Venezuelans. Uh the Lord's house Is going to be full, and the Lord's going to do that. A powerful passage. Now, what William Carey forgot was a little small part of this at the end of verse 3, which I remind you of now. You will spread abroad to the right. and of the left, your descendants will dispossess nations and settle in their desolate cities. And suddenly this great prophecy about the ingathering of all the nations of the earth is redefined by the prophet in terms of cities And the picture, of course, as it flows to the book of Isaiah, is cities that have been devastated by the hand of God in judgment And the only things sitting in those cities are pelicans and owls and old men sitting in the shade of the buildings, says Isaiah. But now don't worry, there's going to be a population explosion. And these cities which have been swept clean by the hand of the Lord are now going to be filled again. And this time they'll be filled by the men and women who serve God and who adore the Messiah. Jesus. And what Luke is doing in his gospel story is saying to us, yes, that word is coming true. Psalm 69, verse 35, says that God will save Zion and he will build the cities of Judah. He will build the cities of Judah. When will God do that? Isaiah chapter 40. Remember this at Christmas from Handel's Messiah. The great chorus. O Jerusalem, bearer of good news, lift up your voice, do not be afraid. Say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God. And the verse from Isaiah isn't just say to Judah, behold your God. The verse says, Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Well, what Luke is doing in his gospel is now saying, as it were, Amen, cities of Judah, behold your God, and he points to Jesus So he puts a special emphasis on cities to point out that all those great prophecies are being swept into the front door and are bec and are no longer our prophecies, they are fulfilments because God has come in the person of Jesus to keep his word. Now isn't that exciting? And if that doesn't get you stirred up, then Luke has chapter 2 to go at us. And chapter two, of course, is the book that we call the Book of Acts, also written by Luke. And in this second book, Luke underlines it by reminding us That not only does Jesus love the city, but Jesus' people are called to love the city. And so the Gospel of Luke sort of parallels the life and ministry of Jesus. Jesus' ministry, the ministry of Jesus' people. Jesus begins his ministry baptized by the Jordan, the Holy Spirit coming down on him. Jesus' people begin their ministry in the upper room, baptized in the Holy Spirit. Jesus, filled with his Spirit, goes out to face temptation and struggle. Jesus' people filled with the Spirit lead the upper room to face trouble and temptation and persecution. Jesus raises the dead. Jesus' people raise the dead. Jesus announces the coming of the kingdom of God. Jesus' people announced the coming of the kingdom in the coming of Jesus the King. Jesus proclaims forgiveness of sins. Jesus' people proclaim forgiveness of sins. Jesus goes to the city. Jesus' people go to the city. So the book of Acts is sort of a people-oriented ministry, just as Jesus marched in and out of Jerusalem, sort of always touching base with Jerusalem. Now in the book of Acts, Jesus' people do the same thing. Each of these so-called missionary journeys, sort of like a great circle, The circle always begins at Jerusalem, the apostle moves out, and then it comes back to Jerusalem. Out and back. Out and back. The city always at the center of the planet. Paul, the great urban missionary. Interesting. Wherever Paul goes, he goes to cities. One Bible scholar has commented that there's kind of a difference here between the vocabulary used by Paul in his letters. And the vocabulary of the book of Acts. Now they're all telling the same story, but what's interesting is that when Luke writes in the book of Acts about Paul's journeys, he emphasizes the fact that Paul goes to cities. He talks about Ephesus, he talks about Athens, he talks about Rome. You know, it's all the cities. Uh it's Derby, Lystra, all those things you couldn't pronounce. Uh when you read Paul's letters, by contrast, Paul talks about the same areas, only he doesn't use the city language. Paul talks about provinces. Again, this unusual emphasis of Luke comes across. And what's all of that saying? Why it's saying we have a great calling to reach the cities of the world. And it's saying, I think, that in the plan of God The conclusion of the ministry of the work of God's people is going to be an urban conclusion. The Bible begins in a garden, it will end in a city. Uh in the history of the world, there have been sort of four great urban ways. Uh the uh if you watch public television long enough you get these things. I watch SCTV regularly. Uh uh things you pick up there. Uh anyway The first great urban wave uh came with what the scholars call Hellenization. That was when you have this fellow, Alexander the Great. And uh he had conquered the world, you remember by the time he was twenty-one And he sat down and started crying because he had no more worlds to conquer and there was no McDonald's anywhere in sight. Uh the uh so he had to figure out a way how to keep his conquered world together, since there was no McDonald's anywhere, not even a Wendy's. The uh what could he do? His answer was to build cities. So he entered into the world's first great urban building wave. Humble man that he was, planting cities like Alexandria all over the place. Now that urban growth took place for several centuries Isn't it interesting that in the middle of the first great urban wave, God sent his son? Is there any significance to the fact that in the middle of the first great urban wave uh Jesus Christ came and planted his church and it started growing. Then the world and cities died out. Things called the Black Death and other problems slowed people down. They headed for the villages and not the cities. Then things began to shift around once more, and uh oh about the 12th or 13th century, people decided it wasn't too bad in cities. They could read books there. Uh so they moved back uh and the cities became the centers of new life. Uh the walls offered protection. Once more we embarked on our second great urban building program. But there were problems. The churches had died, there was no Gospel being heard anywhere, a life was cold and dead in the cities. Isn't it interesting that in the middle of the second great urban wave God brought the greatest revival that the church has ever known throughout human history. In the 16th century, he took people like Martin Luther and John Calvin, Menno Simons. And these men became great urban reformers. And the Reformation and the messages of the Reformation, salvation by grace, by Christ alone, all those messages were urban messages. The third great urban wave started in the 19th century. People invented machines. And then in the West they started looking for people to man the machines. And the world, the Western world began to explode into cities. And the needs were tremendous. Thousands of immigrants from Europe poured into the United States. New York City, for example, uh literally hundreds of thousands of people within a period of ten years by the end of the century flocked into Lower Manhattan. They spoke Czechoslovakian, they spoke Yugoslav, all kinds of languages, Italian. And what was the response of the church? Within three years, 200 churches closed down in Lower Manhattan and headed for the suburbs where it was safe the Bronx and the Queens. The uh it was safe there. Uh the uh church turned its back And that picture happened all over the world, England. Into the cities came people, problems, poverty, desperate, hunger, uh, new waves of immigrants, injustice, child abuse. Um the uh there were the mines in those days in England, for example, uh were not the kinds of things we're used to were huge shafts. The mine shafts were about this long, this wide. Uh only children could go into the mineshafts. And uh so the children went into the mineshafts in the nineteenth century England Children's life expectancy in a mine, no more than eighteen or nineteen years at the most. No child labor laws. You work twenty hours a day in the mine. to seven days a week. Life expectancy of chimney sweeps, little kids who used to climb straight up the chimneys. Average time of death, 14 years of age. Children were were their bodies put into brine pits so their bodies or the skin could be toughened as they went up and down the chimneys. No laws to stop it. Then in the 19th century things began to change And they changed because God touched people who are interested in cities and committed to the poor, and they began to reach out to change the laws. The first child labor laws created by evangelical believers. The first uh the first mind uh the first laws to regulate the use of children in the mines. made by evangelical believers. The first organization nationwide and sweeping around the world created to help people in need, the Red Cross, the idea of an evangelical believer from France. And suddenly people were becoming aware of the fact that there were cities and that God spoke to cities. He picked up a shoe salesman in Chicago. And he gave him an idea. Revival meetings in cities. And suddenly a new idea dawned, and the man that brought it was Dwidel Moody. Reach the city, said Moody. and you reach the world. In England they were talking about the slave trade in Africa. And uh actions by some of the Christians in Parliament to abolish the slave trade finally succeeded. They talked about darkest Africa. There was a man there in London who worked in the slums, some of the worst slums of the city. impressed as well by the terrible situations in England. So he wrote a book and he called it In Darkest London and the Way Out And he called for the building of an army to reach the cities of the world and the cities of London. An army to bring the gospel to the cities. His name was William Booth, and the Army was the Salvation Army. The theme of the army, soup, soap, and salvation. Still the same message, and still doing the same job At the end of World War II, the last great urban wave. And now industrialization sweeps around the world, and the needs are tremendous. Uh in the Philippines, uh 18-hour work days for 17-year-olds. Average salary, $1. 50 U. S. per day. In Mexico City, you can stop your car by one of the large plazas, walk across to the supermarket. 13, 14-year-old boy or girl will carry your groceries to the car and then for an extra dollar go sleep with you. The uh too many children. too many problems, too many needs in Calcutta, India. Over one million people who are said uh who uh of which of whom it's said they will uh be born, live and die without ever once in their entire life ever sleeping under a roof. Child abuse, leprosy, hunger, people dying without a knowledge of Jesus Christ. The Casilaris are here, we're interested in the Muslim world. In North Africa, three-fifths of North Africa since the 7th century have been living in cities of 20,000 people or more. To talk about Islam is to talk about the city. Because for Islam, the city is the system. What do we do? We go to the cities again. And we call them to Christ. We go to Baltimore. We go to Washington, D. C. We go to Kinshasa, we go to Seoul, Korea, we go to Dar es Salaam, and we invite the world and its cities to bring their gifts and their treasures to the feet of Jesus. And we invite you to join us in that quest. Let's pray. Lord, a great calling set before us by your servant Luke, a great task. And a great God who measures that task, not by our strength, but by the strength of his Son. We come rejoicing in our calling to serve you in the cities. We come rejoicing in the strength of Jesus, who enables, and in the power of the Holy Spirit, who sends. Make us faithful. Make us faithful in the cities. Make us faithful in our commitment to the poor. Faithful in our commitment to the broken and to the hungry. And O Lord, to you in all these things. For Jesus' sake, amen