As we engage with our ongoing series, we are looking at various attributes of God, and of this series that we entitle, Behold Your God. You can turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 3. We'll be looking at verses 21 through 26 this morning. Now, last week Matt Bowling discussed God's justice. This week we look at God's grace. And at first glance, those concepts, justice and grace, seem opposed to one another. But our text this morning shows how they come together at the cross. Wayne even said it a minute ago. Justice and mercy kiss at the cross. It's a vivid picture of what God is doing on our behalf. So hear now God's word from Romans chapter 3, verses 21 through 26. Paul writes, but now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood. To be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Father, for all those that this might be crucial to their faith that they have held on to for years. For those of us who maybe have never heard this before in our lives, I pray for your help. I pray that your spirit would minister to us, that we grasp with our minds and believe in our heart. The beauty of this gospel. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Way back in college, a mere twenty years ago, Uh I was working with some friends on a project and we were using some power tools and uh a friend of mine was using a drill and uh The drill bit just snapped right off, clean off. She was very surprised that it happened in the first place, but then she didn't know what to do because it wasn't her drill. She was kind of starting to panic a little bit. She was very apologetic, and I was there with her holding the board and I said, there's grace for that. I watched her countenance shift when she heard those words, and first you could see the disbelief, like, yeah, right. But then A reminder of that. What does that look like to apply that to our situation as you see then her face lift with relief? Grace is central to the Christian faith. We sing amazing grace. How sweet the sound. We stand firm upon the words from Paul in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8. For by grace you have been saved through faith. We even put it on the front of our bulletin to capture the hope that even we might be a community that experiences and extends the grace of our Lord Jesus. Today's passage brings into focus who God is and what he does We learn about his character, we are confronted with our debt, and we are transformed by his very character in action. So this passage really is the heartbeat of the gospel and the heartbeat of our God. And so as we think about who he is and how we relate to him, how we approach God. We're brought to this attribute this morning. We must be reminded, and we must know that our God is gracious. And as we look at this text, we explore God's graciousness, I want to frame it in just three simple movements, three simple questions. What is grace? Which could be a shorter question, shorter answer because Wayne did such a great job earlier. The second question, what does grace do? And the third question, how does grace affect how we relate to God? So first, what is grace? So one of the tools that you can use when you study any passage of Scripture is to just ask questions, to make observations. And we can observe that the word grace is only mentioned once in this passage. But in the short paragraph, the Apostle Paul packs in a lot of rich theology about God's righteousness. Justification and atonement and speaks about faith. And importantly, here in verse 24 Paul is tying together those themes, declaring that those who believe are being justified by his grace as a gift. So central to this justification, central to this salvation is God's gift, his graciousness. So we need to start there by asking, what is it? So in a general way, uh grace, the word, um, both if it's in the original uh New Testament language or if it's in the original Hebrew language carries similar connotations. In a general way, it's just a sense of favor. Wayne said it earlier, unmerited favor, even. It's a kindness, it's a goodwill. It's used to describe one who possesses those qualities, someone who is kind, someone who shows favor. We might describe a person's disposition as being gracious. Additionally, though, it can be used to describe an action. A person who is receiving the benefits from such a gracious action. And when they receive that gracious action, they're deeply impacted. by experiencing the kindness from the hand of another person So if you're thinking about the one who is extending the graciousness, it is a sense of goodwill felt toward someone. And if it's on the receiving end of such favor, it wells up a sense of powerful thankfulness and a deep gratitude. It really is a connection, a hand in glove to receive kindness is to be shown kindness. And there is a mutual connecting that's happening even between the parties involved. So in a general way, it's just kindness and favor. But in a specific way, the scriptures often are applying it to God's Attribute, his kindness, his favor that is bestowed upon his people. And it's often engaged in scriptures where he is providing. When he is delivering, when he is saving. So there is a specific understanding of God's grace. It's sometimes we call it salvific. It is saving grace. And we learn of the Lord's character, who exhibits this kindness all the way back. from the the first books of the Bible. We see the the longing of God's people to look for graciousness, to seek the favor of the Lord. But we see this important disclosure of God's character in Exodus 34, verse 6. The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. Does that ring a bell? We heard it just earlier from Psalm, the psalm reading. This phrase Merciful and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness is a phrase that is repeated over and over again throughout the Old Testament to highlight God's covenantal relationship with his people. This is bound up with who he is and what he relates and gives and bestows upon his people. We learn just one chapter earlier in Exodus 33, verse 19, that God's independent sovereignty is also involved with this graciousness. He says to Moses, I will make all my goodness pass before you and will proclaim before you my name, the Lord. And I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will show mercy on whom I will show mercy. This character of God is woven throughout the fabric of Scripture of what we know to be true of Him. We learn from Numbers chapter 6 the connection between the very experience of a face The very face of the Lord with our desire to experience the Lord's kindness and favor, for the Lord to be gracious to you. The psalmists cry out for the Lord to be gracious in hearing our cries, seeing our afflictions. The Gospel of John tells us of how glory and grace and truth come through Jesus. We learn that God's grace is sufficient. God's grace abounds. His grace is the power to save, and it's the very power that makes us alive together with Christ. It is a gift that is poured out and given to you Several years ago I was at a luncheon and I heard uh a teacher and uh and a theologian and pastor Sinclair Ferguson say I can't I'm not going to mimic the Scottish accent, but he he he says there's no such thing as grace. And I was thinking what maybe you might be thinking. Surely there's something more he's about to say He says there is no such thing as grace apart from the person and work of Jesus Christ. As Matt preached last week, he mentioned that God's justice is not something outside of God Himself. as if it's something independent, as a criteria or sensibility that God must conform to. But rather it's something that's true to himself. True justice is only just because it's coming from God who is perfectly just. And similarly, grace is not something that exists on its own. It's not a force, it's not a substance. It is a kindness that is experienced in relationship to another person And we can do that in a human way. We can experience it with one another, but the source of kindness comes from the one true living God who embodies the grace that He gives. Do you long for this grace? Do you experience glimpses of such kindness? But the reminder, as we sometimes use slogans and catchphrases, the reminder to us is to not pursue grace as if it's something separate from God. Rather, draw near to him and receive his favor. Receive his goodwill to you in Christ. Because God is gracious, he pours out his grace. And this leads us to the next question. Knowing maybe a little bit more about what grace is, what does grace do? Verse 24 highlights two important things here. Paul says we are justified by grace, and number two, it is a gift of God. This justification is an important word in Christian theology. It's an act of God's free grace giving. This act of grace pardons all the guilt of our sins. It declares the guilty person righteous. This is the point we often say. If you've heard this before, maybe we forget to ask, but if you've never heard this before, you might say, excuse me, how does that work? Surely you said the righteous who uh are the ones that get this. No Paul is directing our attention to something more profound. He's saying, the unrighteous, me, you, the guilty, receive this. Verse 23, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And another way of saying this is that everyone lacks what is needed to relate to God. All is lost. It's not that some people are wicked and they, of course, fall short of the glory of God. It's not that some people are good and they attempt to live a good life and maybe they barely make it. It's not that some people are good and they are just the lucky few that deserve to make it No, this passage is explaining that the worst of us and the best of us fall short of the glory of God. It's as if we are all standing on the edge of the Grand Canyon. Some people may jump farther than others, but we all share the same result. We all fall into the canyon. What we lack is needed to jump across But the gospel is this message of hope, this truth and reality that God provides what is needed to bridge the divide. This is so important to understanding the gospel as it's applied to our lives. Justification deals with our standing before a holy and righteous God. And so when we discuss justification by faith, on the surface that seems contradictory. What do I mean? This passage is also embedded with another key attribute of God is righteousness. God's righteousness is his rightness. It deals with his just and right relationship within himself and with all of his creation, particularly his covenant relationship with his people. He is righteous. He acts righteously. He demands righteousness. If God is perfectly righteous, then he cannot justify someone who is unrighteous. He rightly judges the heart of man, and only he can judge accordingly. But this is why salvation in Christ is by grace. His grace doesn't undermine his justice, nor does it nullify his righteousness. Paul uses three words in this passage to describe how God brings about this justification. Look with me in verses 23 or 25 and following. He uses the word redemption. This word recalls the experience of what it meant for Israel to be delivered out of bondage from Egypt. It's a word that was familiar to the Greco-Roman world that was used in the context of purchasing the freedom of a slave. Jesus' life and death on the cross purchases redemption from the bondage of sin Paul uses another word, propitiation. Now we've discussed this word. It's a big theological word. It's an important word as well. We've discussed it when we looked at another attribute of God last year, when we looked at the love of God from 1 John. Some English translations might use the phrase atoning sacrifice here. There is good debate if this word should be propitiation or expiation. It's fun for theologians, right? What does that mean, right? Propitiation is the turning away of God's wrathful anger. It's him being put forward to function in that way. Expiation is the wiping away, the cleansing from sin. The word here also carries something of significance in light of Leviticus chapter 16, the high day of the year, the day of atonement. The word here connects us to the mercy seat. The mercy seat was the lid on top of the Ark of the Covenant that was held In the Holy of Holies, the innermost sanctum of God's temple, the very place that the glory of God resided. And the priests would take blood from the sacrifice and sprinkle the mercy seat Propitiation, although we don't really ever use it in any other context. Um It is a good word. It's a reliable, trustworthy word as a translation, as Jesus is the one being put forward to function in this way by the work of his blood. Upon the mercy seat. God's just wrath for sin is satisfied, and we are washed clean. You can't have expiation without propitiation. One flows from the other. This is God's atonement that he is making possible through the work of Christ. The third word that Paul uses is Uh well your translation may say demonstration. The ESV says to show. To show. To demonstrate God's righteousness so that to be both the just and the justifier. When it says God passed over the former sins, it doesn't mean he didn't do anything about them. It doesn't mean that people died in their sin in the Old Testament. No, the mechanisms that God put into place for the people of God was also in a system of the covenant of grace that he made, because remember, God is gracious and he makes a way that the unrighteous can be in the presence of his righteousness. But those things were not complete, they were not permanent, they were always pointing to a greater fulfillment to come. Paul says this in verse 21 when he affirms that the law and the prophets bear witness to what he is talking about. Though this current, present manifestation is apart from the law, meaning it is not through the law, but it is in Christ, the very law itself, the whole of Scripture. bears witness to what God is doing by his grace. God's righteousness is manifested in the person of Jesus. Another well-known teacher, writer, and pastor, John Stott, writes this about this such important event that happens at the cross, our justification. He writes that justification is the heart of the gospel and unique to Christianity. He says it's the source. The source of justification is God and His grace. The grounding of justification is Christ and his cross, and the means of justification is faith alone, altogether apart from works. No other system, ideology, or religion proclaims a free forgiveness and a new life to those who have done nothing to deserve it, but a lot to deserve judgment instead. On the contrary, all other systems teach some form of self-salvation through good works of religion, some standard of righteousness, or philanthropy. He goes on to say Christianity, by contrast, is not in its essence, in its essence, is not a religion at all. It is a gospel. A gospel good news that God's grace has turned away his wrath, that God's Son has died our death and has borne our judgment, that God has mercy on the undeserving. And that there is nothing left for us to do or even to contribute. Faith's only function is to receive what grace offers. This gospel message of justification that that though I lack everything to be in the right, to pursue a right relationship with God. I lack it all, but instead I get it all that Jesus accomplishes on the cross. It's offered freely as a gift. It's provided extravagantly. It's provided lavishly by the God who is gracious. And this brings us to our final question this morning. How do we relate to God? This question is for both the person who has no interest in God. It also is important for the person who is a Christian, who has already placed their saving faith in Jesus. Fundamentally, existentially, we're asking how do we relate to our place in this created order of things? How do we relate to our creator? How do we relate to our Redeemer The gospel message for salvation is the same gospel path for both the non-Christian and for the Christian. It's the very door into salvation and it's the very path for formation. We must all come to a point that we consider who this Jesus is and how we will receive this gift from him. We hear this message of God's gracious love. We become aware of the true depth of our sinfulness and the true height of God's holiness. And so the story of grace in our lives is we see God moving us from unbelief to belief through repentance and faith. This is my story coming to Christ. It's likely your story. But then we continue on in our spiritual journey. We go from belief to belief, from belief to maturity. Through If it's the same gospel through the same pathways, through repentance and faith, the longer We walk with Jesus, the more we experience that our sinful hearts are far worse than we can understand. Sometimes it's shocking. Sometimes it's demoralizing. Sometimes it's frightful. You can lose your kind of center balance, you can lose your sense of place. We realize in new ways how far we fall short of God's holiness. And in those moments, we often can be confronted with a new question. Whether it's something aching and deep down or something we actually verbalize, we begin to ask, if we are justified by grace Do we grow by grace too? And the answer, of course, is yes But the question of why it is yes is because, or the answer to the why question is because God is gracious. Jesus declares once and for all that we are righteous. Doesn't mean we are righteous, but he declares it so. But he doesn't leave us where we are. Jesus, by the same gospel, grace. saves us. And that same gospel grace enables us to love and to walk in new obedience. To live for God's righteous commands. The gospel that pardons our sin is also the gospel that subdues our sin more and more throughout our life. The gospel that completely, once and for all, unites us to Christ is also the gospel that works in us continually, growing us. Until we reach a perfect maturity in the resurrection life. And until then, we live In the already of what is true in our standing before God is justified, but we move forward in the same grace being renewed more and more into his image. This spiritual journey deepens our awareness of our sinful plight. Our sin is far worse. than we can understand. But by God's grace, it is far better than we can ever imagine. Not our sin, his grace. And so how we come to God in faith is how we related to God in faith for a lifetime. So as we think about coming to Christ for the first time, we have to be confronted with how we try to perform. But even as we walk in Christ, we have to be confronted with that tendency. It is not our self-righteousness that makes us acceptable in the sight of God. It is not our sinfulness that makes us unacceptable in the sight of God. God is gracious, and he graciously gives his salvation to any who would accept To receive and trust in Jesus. Even as Christians, we can slip back into a performance mindset. If I follow the best I can, then God will love me and be kind to me. If God is for me, then he will bless me. If I do right by him, he will bless me more. But rather, the gospel says his kindness leads me forward. It leads me on the path of repentance and faith. I know his love. I receive his grace, and I trust all the more that I'm empowered by his spirit. I relate to God daily by what he has done. Not what I have or haven't done. Because I know he loves me, I want to follow him. So as Christians, we must be honest with ourselves and we must walk with others as we follow Christ. Why might that be? The journey is dangerous. The longer you live, the more life kicks you in the teeth. We get tired. We forget. Our sin has consequences sometimes in our life. And so what we can do, what Paul Miller writes about when he calls it shrinking the cross. He kind of gives two broad categories of how we have a tendency to shrink the cross, either by pretending or performing. In a little book called The Gospel Centered Life, he writes this about pretending and how it can take many forms. One form of pretending is dishonesty, saying, I'm not that bad. Another form is comparison. I'm not as bad as that person. Another form is making excuses. I'm not really that way. That's not really who I am. False righteousness, which says all the good I have done outweighs some of the bad that I have done. Pretending shrinks the cross by thinking we are not as sinful as we are. But Paul Miller also goes on to say we shrink the cross by performing. Take a moment and reflect on this question. As God thinks of you right now, what is the look on his face? Is he angry? Is he disappointed? Is he ambivalent? Do you think if you only tried harder, or if you did more, then he would love you more, or that he would bless you more? Do you think that if you don't feel his love and you don't experience his blessing, then that's proof that you're not doing enough? John Stott, who I quoted a moment ago, also wrote something about a pastor and theologian from centuries ago, Richard Hooker. Hooker wrote, God justifies the believer, not because of the worthiness of his belief, but because of Christ's worthiness who is believed. Let me say that again. God justifies the believer, not because of the worthiness of his belief, but because of Christ's worthiness who is believed. These moments of personal reflections are the breadcrumbs to our deepest need. They're the doorways to the truest salvation. God is gracious. God is both just and justifier. All have sinned and deserve his displeasure, but because God is gracious He takes delight in how he is bringing about redemption. To redeem you, to redeem you, to grow you more and more into his likeness. This is the gospel from this passage. This is the gospel to you in Christ. Now my friend who broke the drill bit. She was amazed that I could say that there is grace for that. Saying there is grace for that could be interpreted as just kind of a Easy forgiveness. It doesn't matter. It's an excuse. She broke it. Now what I haven't told you yet, and what I didn't tell her at the time, the drill wasn't even mine. It was another friend of mine. I was able to be kind to her in that moment. Because I took responsibility upon me to pay for that a new drill bit for my friend. And so what I prayed then for my friend, and as I think about it even now, all these years later, I pray that she and I learned something about our gracious God. It's amazing how this little story of a drill bit sticks in my mind these 20 years later. And I pray that this passage sticks with you. Demonstrating that our God is gracious. The same grace you trust Him for your salvation is the same grace you must trust Him as you walk daily by faith. Because he's gracious to save you, he's gracious to complete what he is doing in you If you have believed this already, remind yourself. Point yourself to the word so that you might be reminded of this good news. Put yourself in a conversation with another brother or sister to say, I need to be reminded. Tell me something of God's grace. Show me something of his goodness and his kindness. Because without it, I am a ship afloat with no sail, no rudder, no anchor. And I'm just tossed around. And remember, life beats you up. You get tired. You want to sit down. You want to quit. Dallas Willard, who was a professor, a longtime professor at uh University of Southern California, he also was well known for doing philosophy and theology in the topic of spiritual formation. He wrote once, grace is not opposed to effort. It's just opposed to earning. Our salvation is secured in the efforts and the earning that Christ brought about. And we rest in that security that we have in Christ. But he doesn't leave us where he first kind of walked into our path. He says, come and follow me. Come and be like me. Come and live as I live. Come and know the Father as I know. You will be sharing in my death and my resurrection as we are moved from death to life. In Christ. God is gracious to do it. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we rejoice indeed that you show yourself again and again gracious. We may look out into your creation and say, there must be something powerful, something connected to what all this might be about. But it is only by your own word, your own disclosure, to say who you are and what you are like, and to know how we might relate to you By grace, through faith, as we look to our only Savior, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. Please stand