Good morning. All right. Yes. Good morning. Um since uh my dear Brother John had opened with that comment, I I also must now as mine. Uh it is true. A year ago um uh Elder John McCurley did ask me to work through Psalm 73. It was a joy to do that. Uh and so I did. And uh that that honestly was the first time that I ever looked at Psalm 73 in that much detail. Uh having studied it and then reading through it, um It it occurred to me just how powerful the message is of Psalm 73 and how relevant it is for our day. And so I really thought, boy, this is a magnificent psalm. A psalm that really lifts up the glory of God. um a good Calvinistic virtue to lift up the glory of God. And so I really felt I I really wanted to to promote this. And so I grabbed every opportunity that I could here and there. Um I I shared it in a um at a at an elder meeting. Uh I shared Psalm 73 at a concert of prayer meeting on Thursday morning. I shared it at a cell leader meeting But you know, these little three to five minute uh things just is not adequate. I wanted to preach this passage, this p this song And so on paper initially, uh Elder Tim Flora was scheduled to preach today as well as next Sunday, and so I went to Tim and I demanded this Sunday And so um so that is the reason why um I'm here today, to share with you the good news of our God as it is taught and reflected in Psalm 73. A fantastic psalm. And I don't know if you got any sense of the power of the words and the message of the psalm as you read it here this morning. And uh the providence of God, the uh the helpful application that I hope to give to you is is not something too unique. In fact, it's very similar to what had been preached to you the last two Sundays by Steve Green. And so what I'd like to present to you is perhaps a new different twist on a similar idea Although perhaps something you have heard, it's still nonetheless something to help you, something that we all truly struggle with. And the way I'd like to begin, perhaps, is to begin by giving you a brief description of a typical evening in my household. A typical evening in the Lee household. At around 8 or 8. 30 at night, um, before I put my children down to sleep for the rest of the night And then I can finally enjoy some time with my wife and do things that I need to do. After a long day, before I actually put my kids down to sleep, that is the time when we have our family worship, our family devotion And the way in the format that uh I do our family devotion is very simple, it is not complex. Uh we begin by singing a praise song And it's usually one of three or four different praise songs that we rotate uh on a regular basis. So our my children know these three songs really, really well. Um in fact some of them have claimed it as theirs. This is my song. After we sing that song, we go into a brief time of the word. And then I, as the head of my family, pray for my children, for my wife. for needs of our community, for you, for our family, and and uh other things that we need to pray for. Then we as a family recite the Lord's Prayer And then we close our family devotion and every night we will do the same exact thing. We close our family worship with the same one song. The song, God is So Good. Now, um, I I'm not going to assume for one minute, do you all know that song? Yes, God is so good, God is so good, God is so good, He's so good to me. That's it. And we do that every single night. And there's a very specific reason why I end my family worship with that simple song. And the reason why is because I want that idea ingrained in my children's head, in their mind, into their heart. God is good It's important for me to get them to think that way at an early age, and I'll tell you the reason why folks, because as you live this life, you will see, hear, and experience things that may tell you otherwise. Is God really good? God is good? You know you have struggles You have a number of issues that may arise, and it begins to cause doubt within our thinking. The psalmist begins in verse 1 by saying, Surely God is good to Israel. God is good to his people. Now that is a bit it's subtle, but it's a very different way than way than the the way we treat the idea that God is good. The way that we treat it, oftentimes, we we kind of approach it idea kind of in a state of quasi-neutrality, in a semi-neutral state. And then we observe our lives. We see the things that are going on and then we evaluate if in fact God is good. That's oftentimes the way that we treat this idea of God, but not the psalmist. And I would also say not the Bible as a whole. The Bible begins first and foremost. God is good. Period. Now things may happen in your life that is not easy, but the way in which to begin dealing with that is to first begin with that concept and that idea, the biblical precondition of life. God is good. Challenges and struggles and hardships come our way, but the way we begin by dealing with it is to first change the way in which we look at our lives. So oftentimes the store the way to begin dealing with struggles is not to pray to the Lord for a change of situation of circumstances. Sometimes what we really need to do is change for our own hearts change of persp perspective. For us to be given a new way of looking at our lives. that in fact God is good. I've thought about this on and off a bit here and there. Um when I was a seminary student Uh I was sitting in the office of our president of Westminster Seminary in California. I was not in trouble. I did nothing wrong. I was just sitting in his office and I can't remember for the life of me why? I just couldn't I guess I just had nothing better to do but to sit in the office of our president. So anyway, I was in his office We were talking and um in Westminster in California, by the way, is a small conservative reform seminary. What that means is it's dirt poor. Okay, what that really means is that it's dirt poor. And so one thing that our uh seminary president continually to even to this day struggles with struggles with is trying to raise enough funds for the seminary to get by from year to year. So anyhow I was sitting in his office, a faculty member, another faculty member came in and showed him a clipping of a newsletter that gave the name of some small, obscure, liberal Christian seminary that really teaches nothing of the gospel, nothing of biblical Christianity, um, that received a multimillion dollar donation. And when my when Bob Godfrey, our seminary president, saw this, he just kind of threw his hands up in the air and he just said, you know what? It doesn't pay to be good It doesn't pay to be good. I hear that from my children oftentimes. Boy, I'll tell you, if I If I lost a strand of hair, every time I heard one of my children say, It is not fair, I would be bald. Wait a minute, I am bald. But that's sometimes that we In verse two begins by saying also, but as for me, my feet had almost slipped. I had nearly lost my foothold. Almost. I was like you. I had a problem. I looked at life from a certain perspective that caused me to doubt the goodness of God. But I came to l and because I struggled with this, I nearly slipped. I almost fell You see the psalm with the saying, I learned something. I have come to realize something about God that I'm going to share with you now that really caused me to now see things from an entirely different perspective, from a biblical perspective, a God-centered, Christ-centered, God-glorifying perspective. And that is what has caused me now to rejoice. And I'm now going to share that with you. You see, God is already beginning in this psalm to give you a sense of hope. God is good. This psalmist nearly nearly slipped. You also can nearly slip and now be able to say what he says and be able to exalt the name of our God. And the problem that the psalmist is dealing with, what is that problem, verse 3? For I envied the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. I looked at the wicked in the world in which I live, and I see them prosper. I see them doing well, and I see them doing great. I look at my life as the righteous, and what I see is struggle, pain, hardship. That makes no sense. That makes no sense at all. There is the dilemma of the psalmist. He continually presses to be a faithful, obedient, and child of God, and as a reward, he gets hardship. He looks at the wicked that cares nothing of God, and they prosper. That makes no sense. Absolutely none And that is what the psalmist is struggling with. He begins first by describing the wicked, the prosperity of the wicked in verse 4. They have no struggles, their bodies are healthy and strong. The NESB, which I'm not going to use, although I have a copy of it right here. The NESC actually has a better translation here when it says in verse in the second part of verse 4, their bodies are fat and strong. The literal word there for healthy really is the word fat. Now, uh it may again I know it sounds odd that they would be uh that they would describe the wicked as being fat as if that was a good thing And this is something really that Western Christians really have a hard time grasping with. The only way that a person could be fat in the ancient world, in ancient Israel, was for them to take have regular uh amounts of meat. Now you and I have meat pretty much every single day, it's a regular part of our lives, but for those in ancient Israel it was not. Meat was very, very expensive. Meat was only used for special occasions. This is the reason why the feasts in the Bible are always lifted up in the exalted as a very special time because it's one of the few times when the community of believers can actually have meat. And so in order for the wicked here to be fat, they had to have had meat on a regular basis. In order for them to have meat, they need to be extremely wealthy. You see, the wicked here, what it's saying, really are wealthy. They are loaded. They are rich. Again, it makes no sense. The wicked prosper financially The wicked prosper in body, in health. Here they are just uh living a life. Carefreeness, as it says there in verse twelve, this is what the wicked are like. Always carefree, they increase in wealth. That describes their lifestyle. Not only are they healthy and prosperous in finances, in verse 6 and 7, you start now to read the arrogance of the wicked Therefore, pride is their necklace. They clothe themselves with violence. From their callous hearts comes iniquity. They are really seeing themselves as being superior to everybody else Their arrogance doesn't just simply start with their relations with each other. Now their arrogance begins to go into blasphemy. They begin to challenge God Himself. In verse 9, their mouths lay claim to heaven, and their tongues take possession of the earth. Verse 11, they say, How can God know Does the Most High have knowledge? Here is now the boldness, the audacity, the blasphemy of the wicked to stand there and mock the living God. And nonetheless, that is what they do. They stand there with that much arrogance and pride to be able to mock our God, our faithful and living God. Now what about the righteous? How is their lifestyle described? How is the psalmist looking at his own life? Verse 13 Surely in vain have I kept my heart pure. In vain I have washed my hands in innocence. Verse 14, all day long I have been plagued. I have been punished every morning. The result of living an obedient life, a faithful life to God, the result of trying to love God with all of your heart, mind, and soul, what does that result in? Hardship. Pain, suffering. And that is the dilemma of the psalmist. He looks at his life and he says, it makes no sense. I mean it's one thing for the wicked to prosper, but where but is this right that by trying to do the right thing that this results in even harder things Yeah, sure, the wicked may have a hardship and their bodies may break down, but they are immediately healed. But what about the righteous? We get hurt, we get hurt again, and we get even more hurt That seems to be describing the way that the psalmist sees his life. He is trying to make sense of this, and when he contemplates on this issue on his own, two things result. on his own power. When he thinks of this issue on his own power, on his own way of thinking, in his concept of logic, without God, two things result. Verse 13, he goes into despair. Surely in vain have I kept my heart pure. In vain have I washed my hands in innocence. It's futile to follow God. It's a waste of time. There is no benefit in being a faithful follower of God. That's essentially what he is saying there in verse 13. In verse 16, when I tried to understand all this, it was oppressive to me. It doesn't make sense. It is irrational. It's not right. It is unfair that I am trying to do my best to be obedient to God, and this is what happens. Look at the wicked, look at how they live, and they continually prosper. Now we can look at our lives and and I don't know if you all have struggles like this. A lot of you I know are are struggling with trying to find jobs. And I don't know if you've tried applying for work and lifted that up in prayer to the Lord and only to find out that someone else, a non-wicked believer, perhaps, received a job that you had been so faithfully praying for. It doesn't make sense. What about the things that we have to do to even stay as successful in our work Sometimes we tr we look at corporate America and the way that they are willing to do whatever it takes to succeed, and in fact they do. And we try to do our best to be able to live within the values of our uh of our Christian beliefs. And you would think by doing that maybe God would bless us with an added bit of income or added bit of wealth It doesn't always end up working that way and we think, boy, this just doesn't make sense. Or even the way that we try to raise our children, continually trying to do what is honoring to God and the uplifting of our kids. And then seeing how it seems, supposedly, that the wicked and the unrighteous are able to do that much better in raising up quality children. It just doesn't make sense For students even, I'll tell you, um there are students who are out there, I'm sure, who could write a doctoral dissertation on cheating, on how to get by bare minimum work and still do academically well. But we as the righteous students who try to do things that are uplifting and honoring trying to do what is good and right and pleasing to God. You would think by doing that the Lord would bless us and it would reflect in our grade. Sometimes it does, sometimes it doesn't. But look at these students out there on the other hand. They get away with it. Sometimes they get caught, but most of the times they don't. And they and they move on. And in fact they succeed. And they get those report cards and and the grades and the rewards and all the benefits that comes with it. It just doesn't make sense. And so the psalmist here is just banging his head against the wall, just saying that again. It doesn't make sense. It is not right. It is irrational. And he struggles with this until until verse seventeen Until I entered the sanctuary of God. Until I entered the sanctuary of God Until I engaged in worship. Until I opened my heart and gave it to the Lord in worship Folks, so many times I think our perspective on what we do when we gather here on Sunday mornings is just not adequate. We genuinely perhaps don't believe that God can truly change your lives in a worship like this. In the church of our day where we are con where the church is so overwhelmed with trying to be spectacular, innovative And trying so hard to come up with the newest model of ministry, we have forgotten about the fundamental, primary mode that the word that God has used to bless his people The worship un in his church. We come in here and we don't genuinely believe that God can change our lives. When in fact this is one of the greatest per privileges that we have, the greatest tools that the Lord has to transform our lives. Tragedy at times I feel is that we can leave this room on any given Sunday without a little least bit of difference. We come in defeated, we walk defeated. We come in hopeless, meaning we walk out hopeless, and the worship of God has done nothing for us. We come in with such a distracted mentality when I'll tell you, students, uh some of you who are into video games, I'll tell you Students can sit there and play video games for five, six, ten hours straight and they are focused on it. You give them a one hour worship and it's difficult for for us to concentrate You know, we we can watch a three-hour movie and we are attentive throughout the entire thing. One hour worship is hard. You know, we we can and I think it's not too far off for us to say You can be bored when you watch a movie. You can be bored when you read a book. You can be bored when you watch TV. You can be bored when you sit in a class, as long as it's not my class But the one thing that we cannot be bored in is our worship. It is our worship that will transform our thinking. It is our worship that will give us a proper perspective. In worship, the psalmist learned two things. It is what I refer to as the perspective of glory, an eschatological perspective, so to speak, an Anton's way of looking at this issue. And the two things that he comes to deal with is the ultimate end of the wicked and the eternal blessedness of the righteous. In verse seventeen B and following, he is describing now What he learned as he entered the sanctuary of God, what he learned when he engaged in worship. I understood, he says, verse 17, till I entered the sanctuary of God, then I understood their final destiny. Surely you place them on slippery ground, you cast them down to ruin, how suddenly are they destroyed, completely swept away by terrors. Verse 20 describes the Before God, the wicked is being just a phantasm, a a vision, a dream that just passes by. That's the life of the wicked before God. It is just nothing but the passing air. Very quick, very brief, nothing beyond that Let them enjoy the life that they have, because there is no light for them beyond that. And so that is the way that our God is trying to cope with this and the way that the Psalmist is dealing with it Now it may seem odd for us perhaps that we that the psalmist would find some comfort in the judgment against the wicked. I know that seems a bit uh unusual perhaps, and sometimes we generally may struggle with that. But if you really think about it, folks, there there's something much more going on. Sin, arrogance, blasphemy, whatever you want to call it Sin, like any other words like it, is a word that describes a relationship. And the relationship that this is describing really can be the relationship between the wicked and the righteous, us But clearly, and more so, it is describing a relationship between the individual and the Almighty God Himself. And the relationship here is one of arrogance Of blasphemy. It is dishonoring to our God. It is taking the name of God and throwing it into the mud. It is fitting upon the name of our God. That is what the arrogance and the blasphemy of the wicked is doing to the glory of our God. And so what God is doing by judging the wicked is not only just simply judging the wicked. He is vindicating his own glory. He is exalting his own glory and retaining the beauty of his own majesty. And so also our thinking must be very much the same. You know, sometimes when we pray and God answers our prayer, we stop simply at that. And we never take the step beyond that and really acknowledge that this is for the glory of God. This is for God's name to be recognized before a watching world before us. And so rightfully, rightfully, we can have Elder Tombrose standing before you here a few months ago. Giving thanks to God the fact that his wife was healed enough that she did not need open heart surgery and give praise and glory to God for it, but that wasn't enough He had to acknowledge the name of God and say that God was doing this for his own glory's sake and lift up and exalt the name of Jesus Christ Himself. You know, that testimony of Tom Broad a few months back really reminded me of the story of Elijah in 1 Kings 18, his great challenge with the false prophet the Baal on Mount Carmel. The Great Testire, the way that they set up two altars and sacrifices and said that the God who brings down fire He is the true and living God, either Yahweh or Baal. And so the prayer that Elijah lifted up, the prayer that Elijah lifted up was a humble prayer. And the prayer that he lifted up was, let it be known today. That you are God. Now here is Elijah. He had wicked Queen Jezebel hunting his life. He had 450 prophets of Baal, 400 prophets of Asherah, 850 prophets to one. Clearly, his life was in danger. And so he could have very rightfully, like many of us would have done, prayed for his own well-being and for his own protection, but he didn't do that. He prayed for one thing, let it be known that you are God. In Psalm forty-six, verse tense It it was a very special psalm and a very special verse, especially a few years back after 9-11. Really Christian America embraced this one psalm and you heard it reiterated everywhere that you went. This one verse that said Be still and know that I am God. You know, the wicked really dishonor the name of our God. The wicked Treat his name really with garbage like dirt. I long for the day when our Lord will return, when the wicked in fact will be judged, and I'll tell you the reason why, because it will be at that time that every knee will bow. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And God will be finally given the glory that He so richly deserves because He is not getting that right now. And frankly, folks, it should upset us. We should see it and we should be uncomfortable. We should be angry. You know, we should the reality that we live in perhaps is that we are just too darn comfortable. We are not angry enough. We do not pray enough. We do not get upset enough when the name of our God is being defamed and de glorified. And so God here vindicates his own glory before, and that brings comfort to the psalmist that God in his glory will be restored. But he doesn't stop there. Not only does God vindicate his own name He vindicates yours and mine. Verse 23 and 25. Yet I am always with you. You hold me by my right hand, you guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will take me in to glory. You see that? God is with us in this life, and then he takes us into glory, and in glory there is a life that awaits for us in a kingdom that is built not by human hands, whose maker and builder is God. A life that is so far richer than what we have right here. But even in this life, verse 25, who am I in heaven but you? the psalmist says. Clearly in heaven we have nobody but God. But also here on earth, the psalmist says, I desire nothing besides you. The Lord is my foundation. The Lord is my rock. The foundation of my heart and my portion forever. Let the wicked have their rich cars in their houses, I have something far better in those true and living God. Let the rich, let the wicked have their promotions, and let them have what is that pleases them. L I have something far better in the true and living God Their cars may break down, all it takes is one little scratch. Their houses will be ruined, all it takes is a few little mice. You know, the grades will trul crumble and and the economy will fall But our God is a rock foundation, an eternity of satisfaction for you and for me. So the psalmist now in the end begins to change his perspective. You know what he says? It's amazing. There are people out there in the world who really believe Genuinely believe that there are things in this world that can satisfy them. There are people in this world who really, really think that you can be happy and content divorced from Jesus. There are people who really, really think that. And so he is so convicted, so passionate now. about the newfound joy that he has in Jesus Christ that is so far lasting than anything that this world has to offer. He now wants to declare it and share it and lift up the name of our God. God, you see, he says, truly is good. To God be the glory, great things that he has done. So loved he the world that he gave his one and only Son. who yielded his life in atonement for sin and opened the life gate that we may go in. You see, God is Good. So in my life, O Lord, in my home, in my church, in my community, be glorified. And be glorified today because you are good. So let the trials and the road ahead of life become unclear. Let this be your prayer, for I have you. I have nothing to fear. For you, O God, are truly good. Let's all pray together. Our good and gracious God, thank you. Thank you for being who you are. Lord, look upon your people in all of our needs and struggles. Uh I don't know what they are, O God. For some I do, others I don't, the extent of which I even may not know, and I draw comfort always to know, Lord, that there is nothing that we can hide from you. And perhaps many of us struggle. Many of us have uh doubts. I pray if so, Lord, that you will reassure us once again with that firm affirmation of understanding who you are as our God. You are good. And you are good to your people. The world may try to tell us otherwise. The evil one may try to persuade us. Even our friends around us may try to make us unperhaps unw unknowingly may say otherwise. But Lord assure us to know that one simple truth. You are good. You are good to your people. Help us, O God, to live our lives, living, understanding that, and trying to see our lives through that perspective. Give us, O God, strength, because we need it. We are weak without you. We need, O Lord, the hope that only you can give, a strength that only comes from heaven, a joy that is a product of your kingdom We need these things, O God, and we need for you to give it. And so, Lord, be pour abundant mercy upon your people. Hear the cries of your people from the silent places of our hearts See our needs and meet them, and do so, O Lord, for our sake, but also for the lifting up of your name. And so, God, hear our prayers, for we pray this all in Jesus' name. Amen.