Morning, everyone. I'm Craig Colburn. Uh many of you have known us for a long time. We first came to CPC in nineteen eighty-three, just after Rhee and I got engaged. And uh we attended church here for uh uh something like twelve years before we went to Japan. In nineteen ninety-four uh uh you sent us to Japan and we've been in Japan most of the time since that time We're back now on a home assignment. We're expecting that we'll be returning to Japan in early June. It's good to be with you again. It's always good to be with you. You all have loved us and encouraged us so much over the years, and we are very thankful. You've walked with us for many years now. We've been greatly helped by your support, greatly upheld by your prayers. Greatly encouraged by hearing from you from time to time. And it's been a joy for us to walk together with you these many years, and we thank God for you. This morning, for this morning's passage, I've uh chosen Philippians chapter 1, verse 6, as the just that one verse for the text for this morning's message. So I'll pray and then read that passage. Father, we thank you that you are not a God who is distant and separated from us. But that you are a God who is drawn near to us, that you have pursued us when we were separated and alienated from you, and that you speak to us even now. We thank you for your word through which you speak to us. By your word, we can know you. We can know the way in which you will for us to walk, and we can know the way that you have provided for our sins to be atoned for and for us to be reconciled to you. And we thank you for your Holy Spirit dwelling in each of us. We pray that that same Holy Spirit which inspired this word that I'm about to read would enlighten our hearts that we could receive from it what you have for us in it this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Philippians chapter 1, verse 6. And I am sure of this. That he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. As new missionaries, we got lots of advice from veteran missionaries. For example, we were told, don't you let yourself get sucked into ministry during your language study time. That was good advice, because the language aptitude that a missionary gains in their language study time is probably their language aptitude for the rest of their careers. It's a real temptation for us to want to get involved in ministry as soon as we get to the mission field. We went to the mission field in order to do ministry, and it's hard for us to be there and to not get involved. But by getting involved in ministry too early, We don't make as much progress in the language, and this can hinder us for the rest of our careers. We were told. To learn a language, you have to make a million mistakes, so you better get started. That also was good advice. We've seen over the years that the factor that most determines how fluent a missionary will become is their willingness to make mistakes in front of other people. The missionaries who do their best with whatever vocabulary they have. Knowing that they're probably making lots of mistakes as they do so, those are the ones who tend to reach a higher level of fluency. And those who are hesitant to speak until they're sure they've got it right don't tend to progress as far. And we were told, you'll be surprised at how little happens in ten in a year. You'll be surprised at how little happens in a year, but you'll also be surprised at how much happens in ten years. I have to say we didn't really grasp how profoundly true and important this advice was for some time. The point is that progress on the mission field is slow, but also that God is at work. And we had to experience some of the frustration of the slow progress before this advice really resonated with us. But then in time, we began to see that the second part was also true. We reached the point where we could look back and where we could see that God actually had been at work and that he had brought about more than we realized. Actually, this last piece of advice was initially a little hard for us to accept. Maybe such advice is hard for many people to accept because we want to see results quickly. We're often in a hurry. Maybe it's because we're Americans and Americans are very goal-oriented and expect to see results Or maybe it's because we live in a time of amazing technology where I can contact you on your cell phone instantly, even if you're on the other side of the world. We've become used to rapid results. But it seems that God is not in a hurry. He has his plan for what he intends to accomplish, but he isn't in a hurry to do so. Consider, for example, the words to the serpent in the garden. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Genesis 3:15 But by even the most conservative estimates, it was 4,000 years before Jesus, the offspring of the of the woman, appeared on earth to bruise the head of the serpent And when Jesus ascended into heaven forty days after his resurrection, the angel told the disciples, This Jesus, who is taken up from you into heaven, will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. Acts 111. Some of Jesus' followers expected that Jesus would return to establish his kingdom on earth in all its fullness during their lifetimes But nearly 2,000 years have passed since those words have been spoken. God had a plan to send a Savior, and He's done so. And God has a plan to establish his kingdom on earth. And he'll do so. But he clearly hasn't been in a hurry in either of these cases. And perhaps he's not in a hurry to bring about some of his other plans as well. The verse I chose this morning reminds me of some important foundational truths. Which helped me to have a right perspective on God's work in me and on God's work around the world. In Philippians 1:6, the Apostle Paul wrote, And I am sure of this That he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. One thing I should say at the outset. When Paul wrote to the Philippians that God began a good work in you, the word you is plural in the original Greek. That means that the truth taught in this verse doesn't apply only to us as individuals. I'm not saying that it doesn't apply to us as individuals. I believe that it does I'm saying that the truth taught in this verse was relevant to both the whole community of the church at Bilipi and to each individual member in that community. God had begun a good work in that community. And God had begun a good work in each member of that community. And God would bring each of those good works to completion. These are words which give us hope. God is at work. He's doing a good work. And when God is at work, we have reason to have hope. These are also words which give us confidence. God will bring the good work that He's begun to completion. When God starts a work, He finishes the work that He started. And these are words which call us to patience. Bringing his good work to completion is something that's going to take until the day of Jesus Christ. God's work isn't finished yet. It will be finished, but at present it's still a work in progress. So when we notice that there's still more progress needed in God's work in us or in God's work in the world around us, we shouldn't be surprised. We shouldn't become complacent. We should remain hopeful and confident. But we should also recognize that God's work remaining unfinished will be the normal state of things until Jesus comes back. Let's first think about God's work in individuals. God has begun a good work in every person who trusts in Jesus. What is that good work? We can find the answer in another passage which Paul wrote. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. Romans 8, 28-30. The work that God is doing in each of us is the work of conforming us to the image of His Son. God is transforming each of our hearts to make us more and more like Jesus This is the work of sanctification. And notice where this work ends. We're glorified. We're made completely like Jesus. That's the completion of the work that God does in each of us. But God's work in us isn't finished yet. I often see the stark reality of the need for further transformation in my own life. Far too often, it's my old self that comes out rather than the new self into which God is making me. Far too often, it's apparent that I'm serving myself rather than serving God. Do you experience any of these things in your lives? When we see such things in our lives, it's important for us to take them seriously. We need to acknowledge the sinful tendencies which remain in our hearts. To lament them and to repent of them. But at the same time, we should have hope. God has begun a good work in us. That work isn't finished yet. So at times we're going to see evidence that more transformation is needed. But God will finish the work that He's begun in us. He won't leave us as we are. God is not only at work in us, he's at work in other individuals around us as well. Perhaps there are some people that you know in whom you notice the need for further transformation. Maybe some family members. Maybe some people with whom you work closely. Maybe some people in your church. These same things are true of those people that are true of us. If they've trusted in Jesus, then God has begun a good work in them. God's work in them isn't yet complete. So it's natural that there would be evidence of need for further transformation. But God will finish the work that He's begun in them. Let me tell you the story of a young man that we know in Japan. I'll call him Junji, but that's not his real name. Junji grew up in a church-going family. However, in his teen years, he became disillusioned with the church. There were several reasons, including some things related to his own heart. But one reason for his disillusionment was the hypocrisy that he saw in people who attended his church. Their lives didn't match their words. Junji eventually stopped attending church. He disassociated himself from all fellowship and he began pursuing his own interests. He made some lifestyle choices that weren't the best. After graduating from high school, he began working a job. But God didn't leave Junji in that place. After working for a while, he realized that he didn't want to be doing this kind of job for the rest of his life. He thought he'd have more options if he went to college, and so he began investigating his options. Just at that time, Junji heard about an open campus event at a nearby Christian college. It's probably a little surprising that Junji would even consider a Christian college because of his earlier disillusionment with the church. But he went to that open campus event. And he found out there that the tuition at that Christian college was lower than the tuition at many other colleges. And because of some financial limitations that his family was facing, the cost of the tuition was a significant factor. So Junji applied to and was accepted by this Christian college. Some of the things that he was hearing in his college classes began to strike him deeply. In particular, the words of Jesus from Mark 2. 17 had a profound impact. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners. Junji began to understand that the people at his church were still a work in progress. Of course, they sometimes fell short, and he knew that he was far from perfect as well. That he needed the forgiveness that Jesus offered and God's transforming power in his own life. And so Junji came back to faith in Jesus. The students at this Christian college are required to do Sunday internships at area churches. And so that requirement brought Junji to Shin Uriasa Grace Church, the church that I was pastoring, and he served there as a student intern. In time, he became a member of the church. Then he became a deacon, and he contributed greatly by serving in a wide variety of ways. He married a woman who's also a member of the church. And several months ago, we sent Junji and his wife off to become church staff at a new church plant. The transformation in his life covered a period of about 10 years, and there were some low points along the way. But God carried on the work that he had begun in Junji And the transformation is a beautiful thing. Philippians 1:6 invites us to have hope. For others we know as well. God is at work in them just as he's at work in us. He won't leave them where they are. He will finish his work in them. But Philippians 1. 6 also calls us to patience, recognizing that God's work of transformation in people we know is still in process, just like it's still in process in us. So let's believe the promise of Philippians 1. 6. Let's believe it for ourselves. Don't lose hope. Keep persevering to put off the old self and to put on the new self. Keep trusting that God is carrying out the work that He's doing in you. And let's believe Philippians 1. 6 for others as well. Don't lose hope that God is at work in them. Keep praying for them as you wait expectantly for God to further his work of transformation in them. Now let's think about God's work in his community, the community of his church. What's the work that God is doing in his church? Jesus said to Peter, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Matthew 16, 18. That's the work that God is doing. Building the church of Jesus Christ, establishing the kingdom of God. When Jesus spoke of building his church, he was referring to his worldwide church. To borrow the words of the Westminster Confession, this church consists of the whole number of God's chosen people Who have been, are, or will be gathered into one under Christ, the head of the church. That's the church which Jesus is building. That's the church against which the gates of hell cannot prevail. Several years ago, I had the opportunity to visit the ruins of Ephesus in modern-day Turkey. I was able to see the theater at which a crowd gathered in opposition to the message that Paul was preaching. There are the remains of a house in which it's said that the Apostle John lived with Mary, the mother of Jesus, carrying out his commission to care for him that was given to him by Jesus from the cross. But there's no active church in Ephesus now. The thriving church of the New Testament times is no longer there. But while individual churches may come and go, the worldwide church of Jesus Christ will always be. As the Westminster Confession says, there will be always a church on earth to worship God according to his will. In each individual church, there will be times of progress, and there will be times of setbacks. But God is doing a work among us of building the Church of Jesus Christ. God is establishing his kingdom, and he will finish that work. There will be a church of God's people for eternity. God will rule over his kingdom forever. And each of us is part of that work in our various locations. The Church of Jesus Christ is being built around the world. God's kingdom is expanding in Colombia. It's expanding in Japan and in other places. Each of us is a part of that work, but we don't produce the results. As the Apostle Paul wrote, I planted, Apollo swatered, but God gave the growth. 1 Corinthians 3. 6. God has begun this work, and God will finish this work. We may plant and we may water as part of that work, but it's God who produces the growth. It's been said by some that ministry in Japan is like plowing in concrete. That's because of the small percentage of Japanese people who are evangelical Christians. The Joshua Project estimates that 0. 4% of Japanese are evangelical Christians. And so more than 165 years after the first Protestant missionaries arrived in Japan, That's still only one out of every 250 persons. By comparison, the Joshua Project estimates that 26. 6% of Americans are evangelical Christians, or one out of every four. Actually, our experience is that it's much easier to get a hearing for the gospel with non-Christians in Japan than it is here in the United States. That's because Japanese people don't assume that they already know what Christianity is. So they're curious and they're willing to learn. But the pressure to conform in Japanese society is very strong. And Japanese people are very slow to change as a result. They're very hesitant to be different from other Japanese people. Probably the question we've been asked the most as we visited churches over the years is, why are there so few Christians in Japan when there's been such a good response to the gospel in Korea? I think there are several answers to that question. The isolation of Japan as an island nation means that it's a very homogeneous place, and in that kind of context, it's much harder to be different. The prosperity of Japan means that the sense of need among Japanese people has been dulled somewhat. And the position of strength that Japan has held for a long time in Asia is very different than the posture that's needed to to receive the gospel. But ultimately Revival is a work of the Holy Spirit, and the wind blows where it wishes. John 3. 8. There has been revival in Japan a few times in the past. In the 1870s, revival broke out in response to the concerted prayer of missionaries and Japanese Christians. And especially in the cities of Yokohama, Sapporo, and Kumamoto, significant numbers of Japanese people came to faith. In the first five years of the 20th century, another revival broke out in Japan, again in response to the concerted prayer, and the membership of Japanese churches almost doubled And in the aftermath of World War II, a humbled and broken Japan saw a large number of people turn to Christ. And out of this revival, a large number of pastors were raised up as well. Perhaps you notice the connection between concerted prayer and revival. We're praying for another revival to come to Japan, a broader revival to come to Japan. Please join us in this prayer. And we're praying with hope and expectancy, because when God begins a work, he carries it on to completion. God is working in Japan, just as he's working here in Colombia, and all of us have an ongoing part of in his work. So let's believe the promise of Philippians 1. 6 for God's work in the world around us as well. Let's not become discouraged and lose heart. Therefore, my beloved brothers, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that in the Lord your labor is not in vain. 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Jesus is alive. God has given us victory through Jesus, and God will finish his work. So let's keep planting and keep watering. Keep planting and keep watering here in Colombia. And keep planting and keep watering around the world by your prayer. by your giving and hopefully by sending some more from your congregation. And let's trust God to give the growth. If you feel that God is prompting you to think about missions and to consider that as a possibility, to explore the possibility, Ree and I would be glad to meet with you in the prayer room right there, by that entrance there, after worship, to pray with you or to talk with you. So please feel free to stop by. And I am sure of this, that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. Philippians 1. 6 calls us to have hope. God is at work in us and in the world around us. It calls us to be confident. God will finish his work. And it calls us to be patient, knowing that God's work isn't yet finished, and to wait expectantly as he continues his work. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you were a proactive God, a God who sought us out, called us to yourself, made us your children, and is in the process of transforming us into the likeness of Jesus. And we invite you to continue that work in us. We plead with you to continue that work in others around us and in the world as well. Would you glorify your name by the work that you do? And would you bring many to be a part of your kingdom? We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.