By any chance the Sunday before Thanksgiving, so near and yet so far, huh? Anyone remember what I preached on? What the text was Back then? Yeah, I I knew Tom would, because he mentioned it last week. Anybody else remember what that was, what it was about? Ah, I knew I I figured I could ask this because I knew Tom would be able to come through. Okay Tom, what was it? Let us give thanks. I didn't expect you to quote the whole verse, just the idea, you know. I mean, you know, you oughta memorize everything I preach here, you know. It's a great verse though. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful and so worship God acceptably. With reverence and awe for our God is a consuming fire. And do you remember how back on that Sunday I described the shaking of Sinai when God, the consuming fire, came to visit his people. Do you remember that God had given them three days warning? And he told them to consecrate themselves ritually for this event. And so it's three days till God comes, and then two days till God comes, and now it's Sinai Eve, and then the next morning. After an eerie quiet, there is a blaze of lightning, and then the bark and the growl of thunder. Too close for comfort, more lightning, more thunder. The mountain is enveloped in darkness and gloom and storm And then there's the blast of celestial trumpets, louder than anyone had ever heard, an ear-splitting, glorious sound, and then the mountain itself begins to tremble. and quake, and soon the mountain enveloped in this thick smoke and darkness, with lightning and thunder and trumpet sounds continuing begins to writhe and twist and tremble, and then God speaks And when God speaks, Hebrews twelve twenty-one says, Moses, who had met God in the wilderness in the burning bush, was scared to death. And the people cried out in fear, God, please stop or we'll die. Because God was meeting with his people. Twice in Exodus chapter 20, God says to the people, Cleanse yourself and do not come to touch the mountain, lest I will break out against you. And that idea of breaking out, one writer says, implies that God, who has infinite power, who had created the stars and the galaxies was now confining himself to a dot of existence on one mountain, on one dot of a planet within one galaxy And with utmost self-control, God keeps Himself from breaking out in His power and His glory against sin and against sinners. God says, lest I break out against you. And it is as if God is holding all his power in check. If you were standing there, imagine what you would have felt You would have not just thought, I'm sure, about all the power and the glory being displayed. You would have thought also about your sin. You would have thought, I know the things I've thought this past week that I've tried to hide from God. The things that I'm ashamed that I've done. The very worst thing about your life Would come to mind, and you would wonder, how can he not break out against me? How can he not, who is, as we read in Hebrews 12, 29, our God is a consuming fire. How can he not break out in that fire? Against me to destroy me in my sin. And you and I would have been full of fear, wouldn't we? We'd have been trembling. It's no wonder that the people cried out, God, stop or we'll die. For God was with them. Now fast forward about thirteen hundred years And the angel comes to Mary and says, You're going to have a son. And that son is going to be of the Holy Spirit. And she tells Joseph. And of course, we know Joseph's response when he hears this announcement. Yeah, right. And so he's wondering what to do, how to try to minimize the scandal with a broken heart The angel comes to him and says, Joseph, it's really true. She is pregnant by the Holy Spirit And you're going to have a son, and you'll call him Jesus, for he'll save his people from their sins. And then Matthew adds these words. Matthew says, all this took place to fulfill what the Lord had said through the prophet Isaiah. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son. And they will call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. God with us? Oh no, not that again. We know what it's like when God is with us But instead of thunder and power, there is the cry of a baby and utter helplessness. Think about the wonder of God with us, with me for a few minutes Consider first to admire the mystery of what this means. That's the first blank for you, blank fillers. Admire the mystery. The mystery A of his condescension. The mystery of his condescension. This power, this same power, that restrained himself from consuming Mount Sinai and a sinful people assembled before him. Who is larger than the universe, who with utmost self-control kept himself from breaking out in glory On that scene, now confines himself in the body of a tiny baby. Imagine that The self-existent Yahweh has become utterly dependent on a human mother for feeding and for care. Now listen carefully, and I say this very reverently. God would poop his pants and not be able to change them. If this God had become an archangel That would have been infinite condescension. But this God has become far lower than that. He has become a baby, a baby born in a sinful world to live with sinners. And to be subject to our sicknesses, to our suffering, and even to our death. Moses, who when he asked to see God, was told by God, No one can see me and live. And so let's Moses see What is probably the best translation of that phrase in Exodus 34, the after-effects of his presence. Kind of the echoes of his presence. This same God now lies in a manger, and shepherds gaze upon his face and wonder that God looks so ordinary. Truly, as 1 Timothy 3:16 tells us, without question great is the mystery. He, God, appeared in a body. What condescension You and I should fall on our faces in awe before this condescension. But admire also The mystery of his grace in doing this. For centuries, Israel had broken his covenant, had spurned his love He's exiled them. He's restored them. And they have prostituted the office of priest and king. Through the Hasmonean dynasty, descended from those godly, brilliant warriors, the Maccabees, till now these people walk in darkness. And have every right to believe that if God comes to visit them, it will be with judgment. Already they're under the Roman yoke, already they sense his distance. They wonder, will God ever visit them with favor again? And the angel says to Joseph Virgin's going to bear a son. And Matthew says that's in fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy that God will be with us. And the display of his grace is that God is with us, not to break out in judgment. But to become one of us in the flesh to walk with us and to bear the judgment due to you and to me in his own body. Because he became one of us for the very purpose of being eligible to do that. And so as a parent Whose child has been taken and sold into slavery would determine with infinite love To visit the foreign country into which this child has been taken, that they might at any cost purchase back their beloved. So God has become flesh to purchase you and me out of the kingdom of Satan. At the cost of the lifeblood of his own son. For God is with us Not to destroy, but to save. Hallelujah. And it all began When Matthew says, Emmanuel, God with us, appeared in the manger. Admire the mystery of this. But also I call on you to receive the assurance, secondly, that is conveyed through this. Receive the assurance. The assurance of three things. First of all The assurance of his empathy, because God is with us. The assurance of his empathy. Empathy means to suffer and to feel with someone, not to sympathize, which is to look at that person with a complimentary feeling of mercy or compassion, but to feel with the feelings of the person Whatever you suffer, whatever hardship, whatever disappointments Whatever temptations, come to Jesus and know that He understands what you are feeling. Because he is Emmanuel, God with us. Hebrews chapter two Speaks of this amazing empathy when in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 17 He says, for this reason, he, Jesus, had to be made like his brothers in every way, in order that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God, and that he might make atonement for For the sins of his people. He had to become flesh to die for our sins. But then verse eighteen. Because he himself suffered when he was tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. In other words, he feels your temptations. The word temptation Is that word that refers to trials as well as to explicit temptations? He feels your trials. Chapter 4, verse 15. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But we have one who has been tempted in every way just as we are, yet without sin. Let us then approach the throne of grace with confidence, so that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in time of our need. You can come with confidence if you have trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord and belong to Him by faith. You come with confidence. Because you know whatever you are feeling, whatever has broken your heart, Jesus has felt in the root of his being. The same feeling that you feel. The only one he doesn't feel is guilt. But the disappointment, the difficulties, Jesus was born into poverty. He was born into disgrace and the mocking because of the circumstances of the pregnancy of his mother by the Holy Spirit and all the misunderstanding and the stickering. Jesus was a refugee as a very young child, homeless, displaced. The object of racism by the Romans and the Greeks. Jesus knew grief. Joseph is never mentioned after Jesus is twelve years old And everyone supposes that he died. And so Jesus probably is a teenager was supporting his mom as a single parent and helping somewhere along the line between where he was twelve and when he was full grown Jesus knew the stress in his ministry of constant demand. So at one point, Mark says he and his disciples couldn't even sit down to eat. And yet in all his kindness, he was twisted. He was misunderstood. He was always alone because people could never enter in and understand him. He who could understand them so well never had anyone who could fully reciprocate and share his feelings. That twistedness of his kindness and his motives. Finally led to the betrayal of him by one of his closest friends. If you think of temptation, You and I are tempted every day, but let's not kid ourselves. We say, hmm, Satan's really out to get me today. Give me a break. Satan hardly even knows you. He despises you. Your name or my name comes up, and who's that one? Yeah, take care of him. He sends his minions, his demons to take care of us. He delegates us down three or four chains before somebody's finally assigned to our case, not Jesus. Satan himself met Jesus and pulled out all the stops and everything he possibly could to tempt Jesus to fall as a single man, as a man who understood power, as a man who was called to be servant of servants, in every way to get him just to think one vile, selfish Self-protecting thought, and to disobey his father at one point. And you ever say, Jesus, you don't understand temptation like I have There is nothing that you can come to Jesus with that he hasn't understood and felt and experienced. In greater, deeper, more sensitive measure, and can enter into your trials As your Savior, because he is God with us And receive thirdly, brothers and sisters, the assurance of his presence You see, his empathy is not from a distance. It's not simply that he is up way out there beyond the galaxies in heaven. But Jesus is here with us. His being with us has two thoughts. It's not simply that he is with us as opposed to being distant But it's also that he is with us as opposed to being against us. God is with us. He is not against us If you have not hidden your sin, if you're willing to admit your sin and own up to your responsibility for it. And stop blame shifting and to say, I have sinned and I am without excuse. Jesus, you are my only hope to take that sin. to bear it and to take it away as the scapegoat driven into the wilderness, apart from your Father's presence. As the one who alone drank the cup of his wrath to the dregs, so that there's nothing left for me to drink. You can't drink a liquid someone else has drunk. And if Jesus has drunk the cup for you, there is nothing left for you to drink if you accept the offer of his salvation. Do you know what Colossians chapter 1 says, verse 22? But now he, God, has reconciled you by Christ's physical body. God with us in a physical body through death to present you holy in his sight without blemish and free from accusation. Isn't that astounding? Because of Christ's physical body and his death, you have been reconciled to God and are free from any accusation from God Himself. Therefore, He is with you. And not against you. He is with you, for you are his son or his child. That's the next blank there. There's no barriers. He takes you to himself. draws you to his breast, takes you to sit on his lap and to love you. He is with you Not only is he with you, but he is also in you, for you are his temple. You are as temple, the embodiment of his presence by the Holy Spirit, for God is with us. And he draws you to himself, not simply to populate heaven for his praise, and that would be glorious enough. But because he also wants the companionship of your heart. He wants to share each day with you. From the moment you awake to the moment you go to sleep, he wants you to share your hopes, your thoughts, your fears, your day. I sometimes imagine Jesus sitting with me in the front seat of my car, able to talk, to interact. I I hope I don't start talking out loud so you know motorists passing by. I think I don't see anybody else in there, but you know takes all kinds. But to talk to him. To talk to him about what you're feeling and what you're thinking. Because he is God with you through Jesus. And finally, admire also the assurance of his power. Receive, excuse me, the assurance of his power. It's not that he's simply there to empathize, to be with you, but he is able also to deliver you. Do you remember that in 8th century BC, Judah was threatened by the powers of Syria and Israel? who had joined together to invade and to destroy Judah because it would not put itself in an alliance with them against Assyria. And so you remember that time that Isaiah came to Ahaz and he said, Don't enter into that alliance In fact, God's going to protect you. Just ask a sign, and He'll give you a sign. And he says, No, no, no, I'm not going to ask a sign from God, you know, this this hip hypocritical pretense at piety. And Isaiah called him on, he said, All right. God will give you a sign. The virgin is going to be with child, and they will call him Emmanuel. Which means God with us. That's what Matthew 1. 23 is quoting. And then Isaiah goes on to explain that, what often is missed. He goes on in chapter 8 to talk about Assyria coming down into the land to invade. And he says in verse eight that they will sweep on end to Judah, swirling over it, passing through it, reaching up to the neck. It's outspread Spread wings will cover the breadth of your land. Oh Emmanuel. There it is again, that same name. Oh God with us. Almost as if it's ironic now. You're going to be invaded and people are going to come against you and it's going to seem like the end has come. God with us? Oh great. Big help that is Then verse 10. Go ahead, he says. Devise your strategy. Talking to the enemies. But it will be thwarted. Propose your plan. But it will not stand for Emmanuel. For God is with us. And Isaiah says, they will not succeed, because I will protect you. And everybody sees that. And they see the Assyrians come against Israel, and Hezekiah watches as 185,000 are struck dead. And they say, yes, yes, God is with us. And Isaiah says, but don't think that his presence with you will always mean victory. For in your sin, God is going to need to judge you and to take you into captivity. And so he writes to those who are projected forward in captivity and in Babylon. And he says in Isaiah chapter 41. Just after what John of what Tom had read about the comfort, the comfort passage of Isaiah 40 He says to them in Isaiah 41, verse 8, You owe Israel my servant, one of those terms referring now to the whole people of Israel as the servant. You, he says, are my servant. I have chosen you, I have not rejected you. Verse 10, so do not fear, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you and help you, and I will uphold you with my righteous right hand. And then he goes on to describe how this one, the servant in chapter 42, is the one who is going to be the one on whom his spirit will rest, and he will not shout or cry out or raise his voice in the streets. But a bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. He is with us in tenderness and in power. Forget this. Don't miss this. If you had heard what Isaiah said, God is with us, what would you have thought? He is with us spiritually to protect us from our physical enemies. What Matthew does is he takes that and he reverses it in Matthew 1. 23. Matthew says, no, no, no. That'd be great enough. But the awesome thing that's happening here now is that God is with us physically to protect us from our spiritual enemies. And that's the root problem. God is now with us to defeat Satan and to restore to us the burden. To crush the head of the serpent, so you and I are ushered into his paradise, because once the spiritual enemy is defeated, the rest is a mop-up operation. God is with us physically. And so if you are discouraged, tempted If you feel like you're abandoned and you don't know where to turn, Jesus, who was with us on earth physically, is now here in this room spiritually. To call you to Himself. Come. Come to Jesus. Come to my Savior, my Lord Jesus. Who wants to meet with you to forgive you your sins, to give you a new life, to draw you back to himself He doesn't change the past, but he does change your heart, and he does give you a hope for the future. Come to him now. Do not delay. Remember Sinai. He will not always offer you his mercy. If you delay, he will come when he returns in judgment. And God Himself will be against you. But today, he offers himself for you to receive you, to forgive you, and to enter your life. Come to him daily for comfort, for communion. Don't take his presence for granted. Bethlehem means that he understands your weaknesses. And he is here for you. This past week I felt at one point very misunderstood. And I remember I came to Jesus and I imagined a conversation with him and me. Maybe you think it's a dangerous thing to do, but I find it helpful if I can project scripture and what he would say to me in that situation. And I told him how I felt. And he pointed up some things that I didn't want to see about sin in my life. And then he comforted me with the dearest, sweetest comfort of his presence, to know that he loved me. And he was with me. And he would take care of me. He would never leave me. Come to him in whatever your situation is now. And know that he doesn't want simply to give you the sense of his presence, but also of his power. To deliver you in whatever your situation, be bold in your requests, for he desires to show that he is the God of Sinai. He is the God of the resurrection. He is the God of restored relationships to sustain you or to deliver you, whatever suits him and will most honor him. But always to be with you, never against you, never absent from you, for he is Emmanuel. God with us. Let's pray. Well, Lord, how we need to know. You as Emmanuel God with us. How we thank you for that infinite condescension by which we are assured You know our griefs, our disappointments. You have taken our sin upon yourself. You will never leave us or forsake us. We come to you now, with our troubles, with our disappointments, with our sin, with our guilt. And know that you are here to receive us. Lord, do so. In Jesus' name. Amen.