This morning I'm running the danger that many people warn you against as you learn to preach, and that is having a long text. But uh this is such a rich story. And I think such an encouraging one and yet challenging that that I am excited to preach it. So if you turn now to Second Kings chapter five For all of you who have an NIV study bible, it's on page five thirty-one. For those of you who don't, look. Let me open us briefly in prayer. Merciful Father who has all power, you who have all honor and glory, we pray that you would teach us this morning through your word in Jesus' name. Amen. Now Naaman was the commander of the army of the king of Aram. He was a great man in the sight of his master and was highly regarded because through him the Lord had given victory to Aram. He was a valiant soldier, but he had leprosy. Now Bans from Aram had gone out and had taken captive a young girl from Israel, and she served Naaman's wife. She said to her mistress, If only my master would see the prophet who is in Samaria, he would cure him of his leprosy. Naaman went to his master and told him what the girl from Israel had said. By all means go, the king of Aram replied, I will send the letter to the king of Israel So Naaman left, taking with him ten talents of silver, six thousand shekels of gold, and ten sets of clothing. The letter he took to the king of Israel read, With this letter I am sending my servant Naaman to you, so that you may cure him of his leprosy. As soon as the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his robes and said, Am I God? Can I kill and bring back to life? Why does this fellow send someone to me to be cured of leprosy? See how he is trying to pick a quarrel with me. When Elisha the man of God heard that the king of Israel had torn his robes, he sent him this message: Why have you torn your robes? Have the man come to me, and he will know that there is a prophet in Israel. So Naaman went with his horses and chariots and stopped at the door of Elisha's house. Elisha sent a messenger to say to him, Go, wash yourself seven times in the Jordan, and your flesh will be restored, and you will be cleansed. But Naaman went away angry and said, I thought that he would surely come and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God. Wave his hand over the spot and cure me of my leprosy. Are not the Abanah and the Farfar, the rivers of Damascus, better than any of the waters of Israel? Couldn't I wash in them and be cleansed? So he turned and went off in a rage. Naaman's servants went to him and said, My father, if the prophet had told you to do some great thing, would you not have done it? How much more then when he tells you, Wash and be cleansed? So he went down and dipped himself in the Jordan seven times. And as the man of God had told him, and his flesh was restored, and became clean like that of a young boy. The prophet, or then Naaman and all of his attendants went back to the man of God. He stood before him and said, Now I know that there is no God in all the world except in Israel. Please accept now a gift from your servant. The prophet answered, As surely as the Lord lives whom I serve, I will not accept a thing. And even though Naaman urged him, he refused. If you will not, said Naaman, please let me, your servant, be given as much earth as a pair of mules can carry. For your servant will never again make burnt offerings and sacrifices to any other God but the Lord. I'm going to stop there This is a passage that we oftentimes hear about. I'm sure that if I were to ask for a show of hands, there would be an incredible number of you who are now adults that had heard this story first as a child in Sunday school. The miraculous story of how a leper from Syria came, saw the prophet of God, obeyed by taking seven baths in the river Jordan, and was cleansed. And there's a lot that can be explored in this story. But one of the things that I tend to often forget is how simply God says he meets the needs of people. And in this story there are three people whose needs are incredible. There's Naaman. There's Joram, the king of Israel, who I often overlook. And there's Elijah, who I don't look at as having needs. And so today as we look at this passage, we're going to look at how God meets the needs of Naaman, of Joram, and of Elisha. In the beginning, as we're introduced to Naaman, he appears to be a man who has everything. He is the guy that you envy. He's the woman that you are jealous of. That sounds a little strange. Let me rephrase that. They're the people that you look at and covet You see, Naaman, we're told in verse 1, was the commander of the army of the kings of Aram. King of Aram. He was probably number two man in the whole country. He was powerful. The king had the army to back up his authority, but Naaman controlled the army. And serve the king. If you look at the history of the northern kingdom of Israel, it's often those who command the military who kill the king and become the next king. Naaman has tremendous power. Naaman not only has power, but he has wealth. He's able to load up ten talents of silver, six thousand shekels of gold, and ten changes of clothing. Just to go and give thanks when the prophet cures him. He has tremendous respect Not many men could have gone to the king and have said, please let me go. And for the king to respond by saying, Here's a letter. I'm behind you. Go. But the thing that I tend to envy is that last section where he says, Because through him the Lord had given victory to Aaron Those of us who pretend that we're spiritual would really be jealous of having God Himself say of us that He has given victory through us. But Naaman not only had everything, he had nothing. Because you see, Naaman, we're told had leprosy. You can read that AIDS today. A few years back you could have read it cancer. But Naaman was dying. Naaman was going to be isolated from his people because he knew his disease to be contagious. He would be isolated from his power because he would no longer be able to do the things that a commander of an army needed to do. And he knew that he would die soon, and of what cause. And if you think that Naaman wasn't terrified of that Consider this for a moment. How often would somebody of that stature listen to a slave, leap at the chance, risk embarrassment by asking his king to let him go see somebody in some distant land? You can think back to the days where everybody was going to Tijuana for cancer treatments There was a potential cure. It was out of country. It wasn't approved by our scientific agencies. It wasn't safe. But it was a potential cure. And people left at the chance, sold the things that they had to get their cash so they could go to Tijuana and pay outrageous amounts to go into clinics and seek a cure If you like the people that we so often envy, Naaman had something that deleted, that wiped out everything that he thought was good. I don't think he cared about being commander. I don't think he cared that he was rich. He cared he was dying You see, Naaman knew that he needed to be cleansed of his leprosy because if he wasn't, he'd die. And so he left it to chance and went to go see the king of Israel. Now it started off being the prophet who was in Israel, but it became the king, because that's who the letter was addressed to But what Naaman didn't know, what nobody apart from God knows, is that he needed to be healed of his sin. As fatal as his leprosy was, it was nothing compared to his sin. What is sin? Man calls it an accident. God calls it an abomination. Man calls it a blunder. God calls it a blindness. Man calls it a defect. God calls it a disease. Man calls it a fascination. God calls it a fatality. Man calls it a luxury. God calls it leprosy. Man calls it liberty. God calls it lawlessness. Man calls it a mistake. God calls it madness. A young man one time asked a preacher flippantly You say that unsaved people carry a weight of sin. I feel nothing. Is it 10 pounds? Is it 80 pounds? How heavy is sin? The preacher replied by asking the youth, if you were to lay 400 pound weight on a corpse, would it feel it? He said, no, it would feel nothing. It's dead. The preacher concluded: the spirit too is indeed dead, which feels no load of sin, or is indifferent to its burden. Or flippant about his presence. The youth obviously was silenced. Naaman needed salvation. Naaman didn't know that The people outside of God don't know that, but they need it desperately. But the wonderful thing of the message here today is that God provided for Naaman. And he did it in a remarkable way. He did it in a way that no one else could take credit for. The sovereignty of God is a strand that's woven through this story. If you were to take it out, the whole story would fall apart. It begins with Remen, the god of Aram, being unable to cure Naaman. If his God had been able to cure him, do you not think he would have stayed in Aram and not have gone? Do you think that by the time the servant girl has mentioned to Naaman's wife that there is a prophet in Israel? That he had not already examined his option. He must have thought the prophet in Israel to be a quack Of all the people who I heard of going to Tijuana, I don't know of any who went there first. Rimen was useless. When Naaman came to Joram, the king of Israel, To whom the letter was written. Joram realizes one thing quickly, and that is that Baal has no opportunity, no ability to save Naaman. Joram reads the letter and instead of saying, Oh yeah, well we'll send them to the prophets of Baal, he rips his clothes. He yells. He is expecting tanks, airplanes, armies to attack. Not literally. But what happens? What happens? Elisha in his house hears that Naaman has come. He hears of Joram's reaction. You see, the servant girl pointed Naaman to the prophet. And the prophet now points Naaman to God. Put yourself in Naaman's place. You've got leprosy. You've got an army. You're carrying an amount of money and gifts that is staggering. Gifts that would honor a king. And you go to the house of a prophet. Now, if you were a man of name and stature, you'd expect that the prophet would come out dressed in beautiful robes, would stand and begin incantations. Would do things to make you think that he had power and magic. But Naaman sees none of that. He sent a message through a servant. God is the one who heals Naaman. God sends the slave girl in verse 2. She's captured by the Arameans. But she's a particular slave girl. She knows the Lord. She's not just taken to Damascus, the capital of Aram. She's taken into the household of Naaman. She's not just in his house as a servant. She serves as a servant to his wife. She has access to Naaman through his wife and can communicate God's power. Naaman hears this and leaps at the opportunity and goes to Samaria. Where he's met by the servant of a prophet, because the prophet won't come out and talk to him There's no magic, there's no incantations, there's no waving of arms or calling on the name of God. There's simply a task. Go, wash. There's nothing hard that he has a part in that will allow him to say. I succeeded in my task, therefore I have earned my cure. There's nothing. He can't claim any of the credit He goes to Elisha and says, Thank you. Please take this gift for your part in my cure. And Elisha says, I didn't do anything. God did it. Don't give me anything. I won't take it. You see, nothing in this whole process will allow for glory to be given to anyone other than God. We're told in verse 14 that Naaman was cured. He obeyed God. He dipped himself seven times in the Jordan, and as the man of God had told him. His flesh was restored and he became clean like that of a young boy. But not only did God cure him of leprosy, verses 15 and 17 point to the truth that God cured him of sin. God met needs Naaman did not even know he had. Verse 15, Naaman makes a wonderful statement. Now I know that there is no God in all the world except in Israel. Verse 17 he says Your servant will never again make burnt offerings and sacrifices to any other God but the Lord. Is God good Is God faithful? Yes. Beyond all that we can ask or dream And in the case of Joram, we find he's more faithful than we even sometimes want. Joram, you see, was another man who apparently had everything. Joram was a king of Samaria. He had riches. He had power. I won't say that he had respect. But he was a man you would envy. And yet, like so many people we know who seem to have everything, he too had nothing. And he was clear on the fact that he had nothing. When Naaman brought the letter, Joram realized that he had nothing to offer Naaman. Neaman already had ten talents of silver and six thousand shekels of gold and ten changes of clothing. Naaman was already the commander of the army of the king of Aram, who'd engaged in war with Samaria on and off, and would yet again engage in war, and would destroy Samaria. Wipe it out for a period of time. Joram had nothing. And you see, Joram, who was the king of the covenant people, Israel. Had contributed to their turning away from the covenant God to an idol. He had turned the people Israel from Jehovah, Elohim, El Shaddai to Baal. We oftentimes will find ourselves, we find ourselves in good company with Israel As we who are the covenant people of God find ourselves turning away. It's subtle. It wasn't immediate and it wasn't dramatic in the case of the North Northern Kingdom. It began with not wanting to have to go to Jerusalem to worship God. So they created an idol to worship God with. And it turned from there away from God entirely into Baal. And we find ourselves at times in our own life turning away from God to worship career, to worship material. To worship ourselves or our pride or any number of things. And Joram is in that position. Crisis comes A crisis of immense proportions. You see, he has to admit that he can't heal leprosy, and he has no access to anyone who can. He doesn't send Naaman to Elisha. Elisha comes and says, Send him to me. He rips his clothes and throws his hands in the air and says, Woe is me, I'm about to get into a war. You see, it's like it's like this. Joram is saying to himself, I by my own stupidity got myself into this mess. And instead of concluding that otherwise, he finishes it by saying, I by my own stupidity will get myself out of this mess We find ourselves periodically in crisis. There's two things that can happen. You can have your heart broken and repent. You can realize your sin, confess it, forsake it, and draw close to God. Or you can harden your heart and find yourself destroyed. Joram is aware of a sin. With Elisha in the same city, he could not help but be aware of a sin. He's aware of his needs. He couldn't heal. He knew that Baal couldn't heal because he didn't even try and send him to the prophets of Baal. But he refuses to return to his covenant God. He refuses to return to the God who has done remarkable things through Elijah the Tishbite. And through his successor, Elisha, the prophet. We read the story and we think, boy Joram is between a rock and a hard place. He's got somebody here saying do this, he's got somebody here saying do that. What is he gonna do? He's lost. It's like reading a tragedy. You see the beginning from the end. The end from the beginning. What's up? You see the beginning from the end. But the problem is, we oftentimes will think that there is a track that they're locked into they can't get out of. Joram could easily have repented. He could have turned from his sin, he could have turned back to God. God in his faithfulness, his goodness and love, sends a crisis. Like Aaron Burr, when revival swept Princeton, and Burr went to the president of the university and said, Mr. President, I am seriously considering the claims of Christ. Turned to him and said, What would you do? The president looked at him and said, Well, with all this emotion and fervor taking place, I would let the revival pass. Then in a calm and collected state, I would consider seriously the claims. Aaron Burr bowed his head for a moment and said, Mr. President, that is exactly what I will do. And it's stated as a fact that he never again in his life expressed the desire to become a Christian. And they say that he died without such an expression. Burr hardened his heart when he saw revival taking place. Joram hardened his heart when he saw Naaman and Elisha. And after Naaman had come back and professed his own faith, Joram's heart was still hard. And not long afterwards, he was assassinated by Jehu, the commander of the army of Samaria, who then became his replacement. You see, God is telling Joram that judgment is upon you. Judgment is upon you now. Will you repent of your sin and turn back to me? And Joram said no. And was assassinated. And judgment came. He died in the wrath of God. But don't miss in that that God was faithful. God met his need God gave him an opportunity that he would not otherwise have had. And as crisis comes to you, don't respond in anger Respond in submission. Draw close to God. Whether it's from sin or whether it's suffering that is righteous, draw close to God. But there's a third person who has tremendous needs in this story, and that's Elisha. Elisha is the faithful prophet of God who has a message that he needs to proclaim. There is a fire in his bosom for the honor, for the glory of God. It's like a character named Roland Hill, who also had a passion for souls. The people of Wooten called him a madman. He made this defense for himself. While I passed along yonder road, I saw a gravel pit cave in and buried three men alive. I ran to their rescue and shouted for help until they heard me in the town nearly a mile away. No one called me a madman then. But when I see destruction about to fall on sinners and entomb them in an eternal mass of woe, and I cry aloud, if perchance they may behold their danger and escape. They say that I'm beside myself. Perhaps I am. But oh that all God's children might thus be fired with the desire to save their fellows. I think that could characterize Elisha, a man who knew the holiness, the sovereignty, the glory of God, and knew what his society was doing. We find throughout this story that God and Elisha are consumed with showing the people the glory of God. If you look at verse 8, actually look at verse 2. If only my master would see the prophet who is in Samaria, he would cure him of his leprosy. In verse 8, have the man come to me, and he will know that there is a prophet in Israel. Verse 15. Now I know that there is no God in all the world except in Israel. God in his sovereignty gives that desire to Naaman and to the slave girl. And God's honor is glory. It's magnified, it's increased, it's displayed. We're told in verse eight That Elisha rebukes the king. Why have you torn your robes? Have the man come to me, and he will know there is a prophet in Israel. I don't think Elisha said that passively. I'm sure he must have been pretty upset. The king was trying to usurp the position of God. I don't think Elisha would have liked that. But not only does Elisha want Joram and Samaria itself by witnessing this miracle to know that there is a God in Israel, Elisha is concerned about Naaman. He wants the Aramean. He wants the foreigner to know that there is a God in Israel. And he has a message for him. In fact, he has a message for both Samaria and for Naaman. For Samaria, they are to repent and return to God, for judgment is at hand. I'm sure they probably accepted Elisha in Samaria about the same way we used to look at those who would carry signs around New York and other large cities saying the end is near. Somebody humorous. Somebody who has some sort of a problem or there is something missing upstairs. But the difference is Elisha. Elisha cures namely. Elisha performs miracle after miracle, and when his prophecies are made, they come true. Elisha tells Samaria, you have turned from the covenant God of Israel to Baal. You have turned from a useless a living and powerful and holy God to a useless idol. Turn back, or judgment is upon you. His message to Naaman is that if he repents and obeys, God will cleanse him. Naaman does. Naaman obeys. He repents of his pride and goes to the Jordan. He repents of his seeking some sort of magic cure. And obeys. He goes and he is cleansed, visibly cleansed, and spiritually whole. He realizes what is taking place in his cleansing and understands that there is no God but the God in Israel You see, there is a tremendous contrast taking place here. And if you miss it, you miss the beauty of this passage. Namon the foreigner who has worshipped Rimmon for all of his life. Exchanges the idol Remen for the true God of Israel. Jehovah, Elohim, Adonai, El Shaddai. But there is an ironic contrast because Joram and the people of Samaria, who have been formed as a nation by that same God. Have exchanged the God Naaman has now accepted for the God Naaman has rejected. Because Baal and Rimen are the same God with a different name. They are both the God of storms. They're worshipped in the same way. They are the same deity. The foreigner who knows nothing comes and accepts the God of Israel in the very midst of the people who have known the God of Israel, have known his power. Have seen him deliver them from Egypt, from the wilderness, have seen him give them the land As they have turned from God to Baal, he turns from Baal to God And in doing so his needs are met. Joram's need for repentance was offered. Ability was given for him to repent. He was in a crisis. And Elisha was given the opportunity and the freedom to preach the message of God. And as as Naaman was used of God to give victory to Aram, so Elisha was used of God to give glory to God. As you look at this story this morning, ask yourself this. Where do you turn to see your needs met? As you come into crisis, do you find your heart hardened or broken? For you see, God has pointed out in his story that he alone is God. He alone is worthy of worship, praise, and of our faith. No other will meet your needs. And to be honest, no other can receive your worship.