We're very thankful for those who serve us in worship by leading us There is, for those of you with munchkins, there is a quiet nursery room in the back that's accessible via the lobby. There's also children's worship that's available now for ages four through second grade Today, they're going to be looking at 1 Samuel 1 and Hannah praying. So we move into a time in God's Word. You'll remember, maybe some of you, if it's your first time, you won't remember, but we're uh catch you up. We're in a series on the attributes of God, and in particular, we're looking at the love of God. God is love, and so he loves. And our what we've been wrestling with is how can we sense his love so that we end up as loving people? Let me remind you why that's important. Our primary calling in life is a grateful response to God's love. That's our primary calling in life. Maybe you've never thought about it that way. But it is the way the scripture talks to you about it. What does that love look like? Well, first, it's to love God with all our being. Which includes not only feeling love for God, which we've been working on, but expressing that love that we have for God by sitting under His Word. As our sole authority, so that we think God's thoughts after him, we think like him. And we also depend desperately upon the Holy Spirit to obey. God's commands are kind, they're merciful, they're good for us, and so we gladly say, Rule over me, help me to know how I might live that would be best for me and honor you. you. So we love God. We also love our neighbor as ourself. We do that first here within the body of Christ. We love one another despite our differences. John 13, 35, Jesus says that this loving within the body is the prime gospel demonstration to the world. The prime gospel demonstration to the world. That God's grace, when understood, really changes people. By loving one another, we show that our common need for Christ and His grace provides an overarching. Broad commonality among us that vastly supersedes the smaller kinds of things that separate people in the world. And as a result of having a shared need and love for Christ, our differences don't disappear, but they become vastly less important in comparison to the Jesus we share who has met our common needs. So we seek to love one another in the body as a response to the love that we've received from God. And having been loved, so that we have this reservoir of love within us. We also love people outside of the body, people where we live and work and play. We love people in a way that they know that we feel it and mean it. so that they know that we're committed to them. Committed, unwavering love from God, that's today's focus That we might feel that kind of love from God so that we would give it away freely. So, with that background, let me read Romans 8, 31-39. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life Nor angels, nor demons, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. Our Lord. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, you know our hearts. Mine is very messy today. Perhaps many of my friends here are that same way too. We desperately need this clear word for you, from you, that you're for us. And that you've made it abundantly clear. Help us to hear it, to believe it. To internalize it and dare to live like it's true. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Verse 31 of our passage asks a couple of rhetorical questions. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? What we're going to spend our time this morning working on is meditating on the assumption that's built into the second question. If God is for us, who can be against us? The assumption is God is for us. That indeed God is for you as his child. In the church that I pastored in West Seattle, we were working on this area of growth and development. for the congregation. And we were in a Sunday school class setting. And I met a man at the time. Oh, this is funny. Um, I didn't even realize this. I met a man at the time who's my age. I was not the age that I am now, then, obviously. But he was my age, 51. And no one up to that point in his entire Christian life had told him that God could not love him any more than he did right then. Have you ever heard that? That God could not love you any more than He does right now. God is fully for you as his child. How can that be? That God would be for you, that he would be on your side, he'd be along with you, even cheering for you in life. Well, to understand that, you would need to first see the whole scope of God's Romans argument. The first rhetorical question, what then shall we say to these things, pushes you towards this point. To what does these things, the first part of 831, what then shall we say to these things? That first question pushes you to reflect. To what does these things refer? Certainly It's what has come just before it, the kind of the what's been called the glorious of the golden chain of redemption in verses 29 to 30. But I with other people that teach the scriptures sense that what God is referring to here through Paul's pen is actually the whole argument of Romans that's come before this. If you've not read the book of Romans, you should. It's basic gospel doctrine for Christians. It's glorious and wonderful and dense and true and beautiful. But the basic flow of Romans is that begins, you might recall the first sermon that I preached once I was came in as the interim preacher. was from Romans 1. So Romans begins with creation and God's good creating of things, and then it moves to fall, and that we're all condemned because we're sinners and we sin. And then it moves on to the glorious redemption that we have through Christ. And then even to glory. Right? Even in this passage that Jesus was raised again. Why? Because he's the first among many brothers who will be raised. And even the whole world will be raised in the life of the world to come. This is the all things. What should we say to them? This is what we're meant to reflect on. Those These things that we've heard about through the whole argument of Romans, they show what it means for God to be for each of his children. This also is not a new thing. In the New Testament, Psalm 56, 9, the second half of it, which contemplates an environment full of enemies. That was certainly the case for Paul, and it feels like it could be for us too. Here's what that Psalm says, 56. 9, the second half. This I know that God is for me That God is for me. God is for his children. You should also know, though, that as you look at the whole scope of Romans, that Romans also argues God argues through Paul's pen that this isn't the case for those who don't yet follow Christ. That he is not for them. For people who don't yet follow Christ. Why? God is kind daily and repeatedly. You might remember Matthew 5. 45 that Jesus talks about the Son of the Rain fall on both the just and the unjust. God is kind daily and repeatedly. To those who keep seeking to cancel him. God, you'll note, doesn't immediately vanquish those who refuse him, despite The fact that God daily upholds them, we're told in Hebrews 1. 3, he upholds them by the word of their power, of his power. God doesn't immediately vanquish people despite the fact that their ongoing existence, their very coherence as people That coherence is in Christ, we're told in Colossians 1:17, God keeps them cohering, even though they keep insisting they don't need the Christ in whom they cohere. God of course could. He could immediately vanquish those who refuse him, and he'd be righteous if he did it. No one could blame him. But he doesn't. To those who are against him, even those in an indifferent rebellion, I don't really know if God exists or really care, actually. God doesn't. Amazingly exercise his righteous wrath immediately. But he is relationally against those who are not coming to him in repentance and faith. Wouldn't you be? If your sustained daily kindness of ongoing gifts was daily spurned, And your person salted is unworthy. The gospel, which Romans is explaining, it's explicating. The gospel is God's gracious pleading call to you to repent in light of God's kindness. You can read about that in Romans 2. 5. To repent and to believe. You can read about that in Romans 1. 16. Upon Christ. The gospel is a gracious pleading call to you to respond to God's kindness. Well, what does that involve? Repenting and believing. Well, it involves renouncing any plea to your own ability to make yourself worthy of God's love. And instead, you rely wholly on Christ. This repentance and faith is a lifestyle change. You'll hear me talk about it that way, that it's a lifestyle of repentance and faith. It's a daily way of living, not simply a one-time act of desperation. But a sober choosing of a different path than you've been on. And when you do that, when you've come to repentance in faith, now you've done something wise. you've put yourself in the relational space where God is no longer against you, but for you. The whole scope of Romans up to this point is trying to get you to see that God is indeed for. Each of his repenting and believing children. But what does that mean? What does it mean that God's for you? A question that you could raise, and a staff member raised this question, which is why I thought it was valuable for us to ponder, goes like this. Here's a question that could be raised. Sure, sure. I mean God's love, and so he has to love even me. This is the gospel for Eeyore's Sure he has to love even me. But does he like me? Does he like me? Is that part of God being for me? You ever wondered that yourself? It's certainly a part of sensing God's love for you, and so let's ponder that some. Let's answer this question: does God like me? For the Christ follower, the child of God, this is a good question to get answered, to get clear on, to know, is this part of God's being for me? It is But let me not just assert that, but show you from scripture that this is so, and then we'll think about some implications in our last point. God's regard for each of his beloved begins in the womb. And so there's going to be some extra passages that everybody who makes all of this happen beautifully, Megan and the slide folks, who says fix some stuff I messed up this morning. There'll be some extra passages that I'll be referring to up on the screens. So Psalm 139, verses 13 to 16. I'm just going to read these and briefly comment. For you formed my inward parts, you needed me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works My soul knows it very well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. Your eyes saw my unformed substance. In your book were written every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there were none of them. If on the slides you guys can go back and cycle through the verses as I talk about them, that would be great. So verse 13. God individually shapes each and every one of his children. And he don't make no junk. He don't make no junk Verse 14. Fearfully, wonderfully made, wonderful are your works. Don't be down on the shape that you have. God gave it to you for a reason. The way you are physically, your personality and temperament, your intellect. Your interests, you were wonderfully personally made, every one of you a handmade original. Handmade original with love. Every one of you. I love this intricately woven, I love the idea of a tapestry. Tapestries are really, if you've ever seen like We we should have to go to a museum to see a tapestry these days because they're too expensive for most people to have in their homes. But if you ever get the opportunity to see a tapestry and touch it, which is hard in a museum because they're like, don't touch. But But you look at a tapestry and it's it's unbelievable when you get up close and you see all the intricacies of all of the stitches to make this beautiful picture that you can step back and look at. When you flip the tapestry over, it looks like chaos. Some of the Christian life is learning how to flip the tapestry over. To not simply see the chaos side, but to see that you are intricately woven and that there's an intricate weaving by a master weaver of everything. Everything that shapes us. You were intricately woven, a unique tapestry. Verse 16. Your eyes saw my unformed substance, and your book were written every one of them the days that were formed for me. This day, me preaching at CPC was laid out. When I was being formed in my mother's womb. You being here. You being online. They were laid out by a loving father. They were laid out because you and me both were uniquely shaped because we have a unique assignment. You do. You have a unique assignment. Paul talks about this in Ephesians 2. 10 on the backside of speaking about the gifting that you have. He says you're God's workmanship with these daily good works to do. If we're in step with the Spirit and paying attention. Does God like you? He likes what he made. Your unique personal design of God handcrafted to perfection. There's another truth though. It's the back side of the tapestry. You and we both were fallen. We're broken in every part of our being. And so what do we do? We repent, where our fallen shape doesn't match up to what we find in God's Word. Especially where we don't exhibit, for me, high emphasis for me, the fruit of the Spirit, where we disobey God's commands, when we seek to live in ways that we believe are wise, but God says, dishonor him. Recognize that it's not just us that are fallen, but also all of us that are around us. And so we get sinned again. We sinned and we sinned and we get sinned against. And we react to getting sinned against. We react sinfully many times to being sinned against. Sometimes that sinful reaction to being sinned against by other people who are sinning around us is that we we turn that reaction inward. We attack ourselves, and we end up refusing the very truths, the very wonderful truths in Psalm 139. And so we have much repenting to do. I have much repenting to do. When we repent Whether our actions to being sinned against are directed against ourselves or against others, we reflect, when we repent, we reflect that being sinned against, while true, Is not the biggest truth. Because the biggest truth, Christ follower, is that God is for you. That's the biggest truth Remember, we're trying in this section of the sermon to try and answer the question, does God like me? What we've seen so far from Psalm 139 is that God made you personally and you uniquely as He wanted. But how does He feel about you? How does he feel about you? To answer that, we'll need to briefly consider Zephaniah 3, 17. The Lord your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save. Now listen to this. It's pretty unbelievable. He will rejoice over you with gladness. He will quiet you by his love. He will exult over you with loud singing. This is how God feels about you. God is a near Savior. We'll think about that more in a minute, and also at the table. Your father rejoices over you. Think um like a cheerleader. I know that sounds odd. To call God a cheerleader. I recognize the oddity of it. But I have experienced this myself. I saw someone model this for me. So let me tell you about him. I'd like to tell you just a snippet about my friend Ted Strawbridge. Ted Strawbridge is now with the Lord. He was a friend that I met in 2014. Ted Strawberg is the reason that Flourish exists and that I do what I do. Because without Ted cheering me on, I would not have the courage To have moved forward and done something different than I had been doing. And he looked at me and he looked at the shaping that God had given me and he said, Matt, this is, I believe, what God wants you to do. And he was my cheerleader into what I do now. And in that way He showed forth that God was for me and liked me and had an assignment for me. And my friend loved me enough to tell me. And that is why I'm here this morning. Because I've experienced this Jesus exults over you. He cherishes you. He delights in you. That's why he came for you. Delighting in a child is perhaps one of the most important things that can happen in the formative years of a kid's life. When we lived in West Seattle, across the street from us, moved in just a couple of years after we moved in, moved in a professional family, both working with one and only child. who was begrudgingly bore by his mother because his father wanted a child. It was painful to watch. That child would be in my home in a couple of weeks. It was painful to watch a child whose mother did not delight in him. Grow up. I'm sorry if that was your experience, but it is not your experience with your heavenly father. Because he delights in you. He isn't like that. He doesn't just put up with you. The truth is way better than that. But to get the full force of that, we need to look at one more text. Let's look at Ephesians chapter 1 and verses 3 to 5. This is a passage about God wanting you in his family. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places, even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy and blameless before him. In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself As sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. Adoption to himself. If you find yourself today with repentance and faith, trusting in Christ alone, seeking to understand this gospel more deeply and apply it to your life more broadly, How did that happen? How did that come about? I've heard some of your stories, I want to hear more. But in the background of all of our stories, of all the people who shared the gospel with us, churches that we were raised in, VBSs we went to, Sunday school teachers, parents. Family members, friends. Ultimately, the reason that today you find yourself with repentance and faith is because God wanted you and his family. He wanted you in his family for his purposes. On Friday, five, six days, whatever it is from now, we will have um I live on the lake in Court d'Alene, we will have our our third wedding. on the lawn in front of the lake. Yes, they're picturesque. This is the the third one of we got this will be our fifth fifth of ten of my mother-in-law's grandkids that will get married off. And my niece, the youngest daughter of the oldest sister in the family, my wife's the youngest daughter. My niece will marry a beautiful Christian young man named uh we call him Stevie. And I can't wait for Stevie to be in our family. We want him in our family. He is a wonderful, and he is a wonderful to my niece. We can't wait. Do you know that that's what it was like for you? That God said, I want Matt. Messed up, screwed up, unbelieving, all kinds of problems, still have all kinds of problems. I want you, Matt, in my family. And he says that's all of you. That's what this says So, yes, God likes each and every one of his adopted handmade children. In fact, more than likes, he loves and delights in you Bask in that. Bask in that. Enjoy it. And as you do, let's last think about what difference all this makes. Why does it matter that God says? For you. He certainly is. God is for you. What's the cash value of this? Let me first dispel a couple of myths about what it's not. It is not an assurance of your best life now, despite the famous book by that title. It's also not Hakuna Matata. No, I'm not gonna sing, because you'll never have me back. I'm a broken person, you are a broken person in a broken world among broken people. The world is full of problems. It's full of sinning, your sinning and mine, and of being sinned against. Around us, we have the unbelieving world system. We have our own flesh to war against, as Pete helped us think about from Romans 7. Oh, and there's the devil to contend with also. I know. Lots of bad news. First. It'll get better. Recognize that when we think about what's the cash value of a certain truth, that we want an answer that that shines up holds up, exalts our hidden American idol of comfort, that we just want an easy life and not struggle anymore. I'm sorry. That is not forthcoming in this life. It will be in the life of the world to come, which is why the creed commends to us that we look to it. that we look to the life of the world to come. But not in this life However, you face all of that challenge with the assurance that none, not a single one. Not a single one of those struggles are because you're atoning for your sins. Because God has turned against you. Instead, as you live life now, God is alongside, even inside, in the person of indwelling Holy Spirit. The passage just before this reminds you that God is at work meticulously working in the world all things for his glory and your good. Why? To make you more like Jesus. so that you are more useful to him in his kingdom purposes. The truth that we're pondering today is meant to take away your lingering doubts. About God's feelings and disposition towards you as a child of God. Now you might still come back to me and say, uh, you mean there's no goodies? This is only about right thoughts. A downside of we Americans is that we tend to look very short term. And we tend to look quite materialistically at things. One of the deacons in the church I pastored in West Seattle put this this way: What have you done for me today? Show me the money. Recognize that when we do that, we forget the daily cash value that has become invisible to us. Remember, it's not just those who aren't yet following Christ who are forgetting that their very coherence, their every breath. God's meticulous providence providing what we take that's just automatic and expected. That these friends are personal daily gifts. From the Lord. Have I told you about my flying prayer habit? I don't think so. Um, I pray every time a plane takes off. I take a lot of planes. Not just here, other places too. Alaska likes me. They call me Mr. Bowling. It's very interesting. Once you reach a certain level of flying, how they treat you differently. That's mostly good. Why do I pray? Well, I trust Alaska. Trust the pilots. It's very rare. Planes crash. I pray mostly, though I could do this more, in adoration. Do you know how many things are at play in order for a plane to fly successfully? Perhaps some of you were aeronautical engineers and you know way more about this than I do. What I do know is that Lyft has to keep working. that friction has to be operative, that the properties of our atmosphere have to stay the same And that the actions that yesterday controlled a plane will still control a plane today. Do you realize that none of those are automatic? They don't have to be that way. They are the result of God's covenant promise on the backside of the flood. You can go read about it. That God says He will keep things the same. Personally, individually, every time you touch your brakes. You are trusting that God is going to keep that promise. He keeps that promise every day, personally, for you. And for me. We have many personal daily gifts from the Lord. One of the problems I think about being Americans and being very short-term and sort of materialistic is that we tend to look at the dot instead of the line. This is a Randy Alcornism. It talks about the dot is our life now and the line is the life of the world to come. And we tend to insist that if the dot isn't the shape that I want it to be, all is lost. Which is why we need to actually look to the life of the world to come and know well all the goodness and comfort that will be there. And that in this life we rejoice in the abundance we have in Christ, even if we only have a modicum of the world's goods. Could we be courageous enough to join the Apostle Paul in saying, But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content? That's 1 Timothy 6. 8. We also have this assurance, friends, in our passage, verse 32 He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? The father whose family he wanted us to be in, gave up his own son. Well we're going to celebrate in just a minute at the table. And having done that, we are assured that he will give us all the things that are needful that we might please him in this brief life. Well, here's the question, Dan. Can you read God's many blessings to you? And experience them as though he's for you. Can you do that? Let's pray that it would be true of all of us. Father is usual I've said a lot. A brainful. Sift it out for each one, please, Holy Spirit, that we might clearly hear and believe and reject Rejoice in this glorious truth. That as we trust in you, Jesus, Father, that you're for us. That you like us. That you wanted us in the family. Help us dare to believe it. Holy Spirit, even as we come to the table, would you convince us that these things are true? That Christ coming for us is the proof. Father, that you're for us. Do this we pray for our enjoyment of what you've given us in Christ. For your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. For