Time of age-appropriate worship together as they also are learning what it means to to gather together to worship God as the people of God. For those who are here, please turn in your Bibles to John. We're going to be looking at John chapter 5 this morning. Now that I'm finished through the book of Philippians, I'm looking forward to joining Matt Bowling in his series on the attributes of God. And he has begun just a little mini-series within this broader series looking at the love of God. And some of God's attributes are unique to him alone. while other attributes are to be appropriated and lived out as we share and reflect his image and likeness. For example, God is love. We receive his love, and we are also to embody and share his love. Jesus says, All the law and the prophets hang on these two commands, that you would love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. And the second is like unto it, love your neighbor as yourself. So let's explore a passage this morning that on the surface doesn't seem to talk about God's love directly But let us pray, asking the Holy Spirit to help us to see and to hear God's love this morning, so that we might receive it. So that we might be changed by it. Let us pray. Father in heaven, bless our time together in your word this morning. Help me as I direct people's minds and hearts toward you. And may they see you and not me. May you increase and may we decrease so that we would glory in your love, O Christ. In your name we pray. Amen. Reading God's Word from John chapter 5, verses 2 through 9. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheepgate a pool in Aramaic called Bethesda. which has five roofed colonnades. In these lay a multitude of invalids, blind, lame, and paralyzed. One man was there who had been an invalid for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been there a long time, he said to him, Do you want to be healed? The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going, another steps down before me. Jesus said to him, Get up, take up your bed and walk. And at once the man was healed, and he took up his bed and walked. This is the word of the Lord. The phrase I see you can mean different things. And the tone that we say it can make all the difference in our meaning. For example, a police officer with a flashlight in their hands says, I see you to the person who is hiding in the bushes. A teacher with the eyes in the back of their head says, I see you, to the student who is passing a note in class. A parent with a big grin on their face playfully saying, I see you, as they scoop up their laughing child for a big hug. Or a friend with that understanding presence that says, I see you, because they know what you're going through. How we see a person becomes very important. And what we can see in a person is what we take in and we instantly assess what that person means to us. We can either be hot or cold, we can be on or off. But how does God see us? How do we see ourselves? Because we can't see as God sees completely. Our view of Him is limited and And at times it can be misguided. And our view of ourselves can either be bloated with pride or crushed with despair. But God sees us truly. God sees us fully And since God sees our need, his love confronts our barriers to him. So as we go through this narrative this morning, I'm just going to walk us through some context. I'm going to ask some questions that draw us attention to the text. So there's no specific outline, but to walk through the narrative and see what God has for us this morning. So first, let's just go through a little context to this passage. So far, in John's Gospel, we have the testimony of John the Baptist. Announcing that Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. We see Jesus calling his first disciples as he enters into public ministry. And we already begin to see how Jesus travels around the region with his disciples, as well as people traveling to see him. And through the course of his travels, he's in and out of Jerusalem several times. In chapter 2, the first of Jesus' signs that took place at a wedding in Cana. In chapter 3, Jesus speaks with Nicodemus about being born again. In chapter 4, Jesus interacts with a woman at a well in Samaria, and then back later in Cana. He heals the son of an official that's from Capernaum. We come here now to chapter 5, and we learn that Jesus is in Jerusalem for a festival feast. We don't know which one exactly, but we read from the passage there in the second part of verse 9 that it is on the Sabbath. Verse 2, Jesus is visiting a pool near the sheepgate, and it's called Bethesda. Sometimes you might feel like going down to DC is a sheet gate that just kind of bottlenecks going down south of us, right? But the sheet gate here was located on the northern section of the Temple Mount, and it was built after the return from exile. It's referenced in Nehemiah chapter 3. And Bethesda has different spellings, and there is some discussion over what it means, but it could mean house of mercy. Could it mean house of springs? And for a long time, no pool was identified in this area, and it was actually used as evidence against John's gospel. But archaeological remains have been identified that suggests a very large building complex that includes two pools. With four sides and a middle partition with columns that suggest these five colonnades It's near the modern-day church of St. Anne in Jerusalem today, and it's on the northeastern section of the Temple Mount, with what they think is the sheep gate. Being this building complex of five roofed colonnades, you you get a picture of the vastness that it it would carry and accommodate large numbers of people visiting the pool. And here at the pool, out of the multitudes, Jesus has a conversation with a man. We see in verse 5 that this man's condition has lasted for at least 38 years. Though the text doesn't describe his particular affliction, We see there in verse 7 that he has long endured physical limitations to his mobility, at the very least. So why is this man here at the pool? This was a gathering place for many who suffered from various afflictions and diseases. Considering how such people were often seen in their day, this would have been a community of folks who shared in the camaraderie of their physical needs and perhaps the mutual support as they faced social isolation. We learn in verse 7 that he goes to the pool because of his belief that the waters have healing properties. Now if you have um are looking at the ESV or the NIV, for example, uh. you may have noticed that it jumps from verse 3 to verse 5. and omits verse 4. Other translations like King James or the NAS include verse 4 with kind of an asterisk. And your your footnote might say something that it you know due to copies of the manuscripts starting at the end of verse 3 and kind of going forward, it might say something like this, waiting for the moving of the waters. For the angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred the water. Whoever stepped in first, after the stirring stirring of the water, was healed of whatever disease he had. The ESV chose to omit the verse as not being part of the original scriptures. And so it's important to ask the question why and realize that there's good reasons for that. And scholars have found that the earliest and best manuscript copies don't even include it at all. And those copies that do, um even in those copies of the manuscripts, there's a little scribal note that something like we would even call an asterisk that highlights Another key reason why it's unique in that it's several of the words and expressions are not common to John and his other writings. And so it is safe to say that it's not part of the original manuscript written by John. But whether your Bible includes this verse or not, what we can conclude from verse 7, at the very least, is that people had a superstitious belief associated with this pool. That if they go and they wait, and their stirring of the water would somehow be contributing to the healing of whatever ailments they suffer. And so at this point, this is where out of all of this, all of these people waiting by the pool, we see the interaction between Jesus and this man. It's always important in the Gospels to see where dialogue is happening with Jesus. The Gospel writers are drawing our attention to what is happening. And what are we to take away from who is Jesus? And what is he claiming? What is he demonstrating? And what does that have to say about what God is doing in his redemption? So what can we learn from this interaction? Verse 6 is incredibly important in that Jesus saw him. He knew something about his life and he knew something about his condition. Perhaps the man was born with this condition. Perhaps he was disabled by some injury or illness. As I said, we don't know exactly, but we do know that he's lacking mobility, and in verse 7 suggests also that he didn't have family or he didn't have friends. that would be with him, helping him, there at the pool. So just imagine that circumstance. Put your mind in his place. Imagine his daily needs to acquire food and water. Imagine this man's daily needs for hygiene. Imagine the heat of the day and needing to move and get under the shade. Imagine how the most basic functions and the most basic tasks each day become so time-consuming. Now imagine the needs of the multitudes that are there gathered at this pool. Imagine the sounds, the smells Of the people. Imagine the sounds and the smells of the sheep that might have been kind of shepherded through by the pools and through the gate. There is something happening here and Jesus sees In the book, How People Change, Tim Lane says, what you see when you look at yourself will condition your hope. and shape your actions. What you see when you look at yourself will condition your hope and shape your actions 38 years is a long time, isn't it? How do those years shape the man's hopes? How do those years shape his aspirations? How do those years shape his sense of self in that society that likely thinks he is deserving of his condition, assuming it must be directly caused by some sin? Or something he did wrong, and it becomes a double whammy. People see him as a sinner who depends upon the spare coins from strangers And perhaps the man begins to see himself as broken, needy, useless, and suffering daily outside the view of God. But isn't it amazing that Jesus sees him? That means as he's walking around and he's looking around, he makes eye contact and sees him. When Jesus says, I see you, he sees us with all truth and all compassion. He doesn't see and look away. He doesn't see and then Disdain us. He doesn't see and then forsake us. He doesn't see and then pretend that nothing's out of place. No, he sees and he moves toward us. As one writer said, among the many here at Bethesda looking for healing that day, Jesus selects a man who is a particularly difficult case. Jesus does not reach out to those who are spiritually on the margin but socially safe. Instead, he reaches out to someone whose suffering and isolation are beyond measure. And when Jesus sees this man, what does he say to him? Look at verse 6. Do you want to be healed It's a very probing question, isn't it? It could come across as inconsiderate in light of the man's obvious limitations and suffering. Such a question could come across as dismissive if you assume his only reason to be there is to beg for food or money. The question could come across as condescending if you assume that he is enjoying it somehow. He's benefiting from his condition, or maybe even smugly thinking that he isn't working hard enough. to help himself. But but Jesus sees him and Jesus knows him And by asking this question, he is acknowledging the man's need and exposing the man's desires of his heart. Verse 7, we see the man's response here. He says, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up, and while I am going, another steps down before me. He doesn't really answer Jesus' question, does he? You could say that he even blame shifts or makes an excuse. But from another point of view, he is revealing the despair of his heart. He is trying. He has been trying. He wants to be in the pool. He longs for the pool's healing properties as it promises, or so he believes. And so within this series on the attributes of God, we're taking these next several weeks to look particularly at the love of God. So how am I connecting God seeing us with God's love in this passage? And I admit, love is not mentioned specifically in these verses, but John talks about love everywhere. He mentions it some 27 times just in the Gospel and over 50 times in all of his writings in the New Testament. It is near and dear to him. Because he knows that it was near and dear to the Lord. Just some examples from the Gospel of John. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be safe through him. Later on, John 8, verse 42, if God were your father, you would love me. Meaning Jesus, for I came from God and I am here. I am not of my own accord, but he sent me. John chapter 10, verse 17, For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life, that I may take it up again. Talking to his disciples in John chapter 13, verse 34, a new commandment I give to you that you love one another just as I have loved you, you also are to love one another. John 15, verse 9, as the Father has loved me, so I have loved you. Abide in my love. So the passage this morning helps us look at Jesus' healing, particularly of this man, through the lens of God's love. It's the thread that goes throughout John's gospel. He's communicating about God. He's saying something about who he is, and he's pointing to this man, Jesus, as the one. Who is God with us, God in the flesh, who moves towards us because he sees us And with this single question, do you want to be healed? We can explore our own barriers to receiving God's love. So just a couple examples of the barriers we might have to experiencing God's love. This is not exhaustive. There are books and books. To read, this is the life we live as we explore what it means to have God's love be embraced and received. And have it transform us. But just as for a couple examples, we can be disinterested in experiencing God's love. We are very prone to being self-centered. And we're also prone to being self-centered first. We may not even see God's love because we don't believe there is a God who sees us, much less a God who loves us. So not only are we self-centered because we want to, we also become self-centered because we think we have to, because we're the only ones to take care of ourselves. We can be distracted from experiencing God's love. Perhaps you find yourself cynical. Perhaps you find yourself skeptical. And what we do to kind of medicate our own cynicism and skepticism, these things drive us forward to look for other answers. Besides God, other help besides God. Perhaps we look for anecdotes to our fears so that we might feel secure in anything other than God. We can be disillusioned, we can be disinterested. We can also be dulled to experiencing God's love. This can be due to the exhaustion we may feel from enduring affliction for so long, for going about our days and experiencing trials and troubles that wear us down. We can be dull because we are actually drunk off our pleasures, looking for everything to satisfy us other than God. We can be dull because we'd rather be numb than feel any pain. We can be dulled because we're actually spiritually lazy. Spiritually lazy because we confuse God's part for our part, and spiritually lazy because we want big changes instantly by the snap of our fingers. And so whether we are disinterested or distracted or dulled, we can trick ourselves into thinking that God never sees us because our sin is too ugly. Or that our mistakes have gone too far. Or that our brokenness now makes us useless. And as we meander for 40 years in the desert, forgetting that we are loved in Christ and set free. In her book, Suffering and the Heart of God, Diane Langberg writes this about pain. Pain is the only protest in the human constitution that something is wrong. It is the only thing that raises its voice against existing abuses. If you jump to silence pain, you will fail to find the wound. You will fail to find the wound. So as Jesus asks this man, John is asking us, the reader. It's as if he's writing with his pen and is jumping off the page to us. Do you want to be healed? The question probes our present, ongoing awareness of the depth of our need to be healed. And Jesus sees us, moves toward us. Points us to the scope of his love for us that he forgives all sins and he heals all wounds. By asking this very question, do you want to be healed? Jesus is probing our very heart's desire, our heart's motivation, and our heart's readiness. To be changed. Jesus doesn't leave us vulnerable and exposed just for the sake of it. He's not asking the question to hurt us. He's asking the question for us to be honest with ourselves. And then he offers himself As living water that never becomes stagnant and is always with us as the true source of healing. He is a God of love because he is a God of action. And as Jesus said in verse 17, my Father is working until now, and I am working. That's part of the broader context that we don't have time today. We'll save that for another sermon. But because not only is the the man grappling with how he sees himself and and and having that in contrast with how Jesus is seeing him There becomes a whole nother conversation because this man is healed between what the religious leaders see of this man. And it is very indicting what they see versus what God sees. And so what does the man do? Look at verse 9. And at once the man was healed. And he was told, he took up his bed and he walked. What's interesting about this particular healing is he doesn't know who Jesus is. This man asks him a question, and this man tells him to get up. And he just responds. He didn't know who Jesus was, but Jesus knew who he was. At first, I bet this man was excited to be healed. And in light of his experience with Jesus, I would just briefly want to share about how we respond with the love of God kind of through this lens. And I'm going to borrow from an early theologian from the 11th century. Bernard of Clairvaux was one of John Calvin's favorite theologians, for example. Bernard lived in the 11th century and he grew up in France. He was a writer, he was a speaker, he led a monastery, and he wrote a little book called The Love of God. And in that book, he writes about the four degrees of love. So I just want to briefly touch base on that and have that be a framework for us to think and grapple with the dynamics of God's love for us. First, love of self for the self's sake. Love of self for the self's sake. Love is very natural As a human affection, it's very natural for it to be oriented to self first. But we do love other people, we love other things, if they fit into our agenda. The love for ourselves, though, is also weak in that it is actually compelled to serve ourselves first by seeking pleasure, by seeking security, by seeking a sense of avoidance of pain and danger. So we think we're loving ourselves, but we're actually consumed by a greater love, which is just self-protection, self-dependence. Bernard goes on to talk about the second degree of love being the love of God for the self's sake. When we experience clear skies, we are happy, but when we face storms, we cry out to God for His help. But God is love. And God is generous in his kindness. And we grow in love for God because He's good and He cares for us. And so this part of our love for God really is exemplified of how we love the giver because we have received. That is a good response. That's a part of our love for God. But we are loving the giver because we have received. Bernard goes on to talk about a third aspect of love of God. The love of God for God's sake. As we experience God's steadfast love and faithfulness, our hearts are continually softened and molded by His grace as we taste that He is good. And as we continue to go to God with our needs, we are drawn into greater love for God because we're actually mindful of more than our needs. We're going to God because we are compelled more so to love Him for His provision. Because he has provided. Because he is the provider. Bernard explains at this stage we begin to fulfill the command to love our neighbor because we desire to love the things God loves. This type of love moves beyond transaction, the giving to getting. This love is a reflection of the love that we have for the giver because he is the giver. And Bernard talks about a fourth degree, the love of self for God's sake. This is where we no longer see our own needs because we are so caught up in love for God, because we are so enamored by God Himself. Now, Bernard would acknowledge and speak about how this aspect of love is often experienced in short bursts or glimpses, if at all. in this life, and it's not fully realized until God's future glory. But it's moving from the love of self for the self's sake to the love of God for God's sake. And so here in this healing, this man at the pool, he was healed and he was pleased. But later the man came into fuller knowledge of who Jesus is. And he came into a deeper experience of God's love for him through Jesus. He was seen fully, and he was seen truly as God saw him. And God's healing of this man was a sign pointing to the work of Jesus to bring about life from death, reconciliation from isolation, and making all things new out of the old. As he's bringing into light what was once in the dark. I've mentioned to you before, um that uh I think it might have been the last time I spoke, but I I mentioned that I once worked uh for a company that partnered with the Department of Juvenile Justice. Uh that that time was very uh illuminating, it was enjoyable, it was hard. Um It was fun. And it was scary at times. But that time taught me to see those boys as God sees them. That time taught me in a very real way, a very tangible way, what he says in his first letter, that we love only because he first loved us. Love is naturally self-serving. Self-serving love seeks to preserve ourselves. And such a self-serving love will see another person's need as something that seeks to take from me Self-serving love is a barrier to God's love. We fail to see who is the one who is pouring out his abundant love. And we sit in judgment over our circumstances. We sit in judgment over our relationships as hindrances. Hindrances to our own reputation with others. Hindrances to our self-sufficiency in our own capabilities, but the one who loves judges rightly and he sees clearly. God sees those with need and he moves towards them. He exposes the motives of those who have need and he calls the needy out to receive his love. And he calls you and me. He calls us out and he asks us this question through the Word of God here this morning. Do you want to be healed? Now I I don't know all of your afflictions. I don't know what you're enduring, but God sees you. And I make no promises or offer no false um um assurances that that the way this gets played out in your life is that you would be physically healed. I don't know that But what Jesus is drawing his attention through the healing of this man is he sees him. He's drawing our attention to him that we might see him as our Savior. And as we see that we are made well by his grace, we are invited into a path of godly living that extends the love that we have received to others. Who have need. For God so loved the world that he sent his only son. In the sending, God is seeing And as he draws near, we see him for all of his love. May we see what God sees, and may we live as God loves. Let us pray. Father in heaven, we give you thanks. For by your grace we can see. By your grace we receive. And by your grace we see that we are in need of a savior. Father, would you meet us today as we hear from your word, as we celebrate your supper? May we hear you ask us that question. Do you want to be healed? May we be honest with ourselves? And may we see you fully. And recognize that you, though our judge, draw near to us. Because you love us as your children, and you make us your friends. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.