You can turn to Luke chapter 2. We'll be looking at verses 8 through 20. And as we celebrate Christmas, we are celebrating our Savior's birth. And it's something that we should never grow tired of hearing or grow tired of telling. It is a story that we should hear with awe and wonder. And we should rejoice and celebrate Jesus who is Christ the Lord. Hear now God's word from Luke chapter 2, verses 8 through 20. And in the same region there were shepherds out in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night, and an angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were f Filled with great fear. And the angels said to them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest. and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. When the angels went away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, Let us go over to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened. Which the Lord has made known to us. And they went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the baby lying in a manger. And when they saw it, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child. And all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. But Mary treasured up all these things, pondering them in her heart. And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen as it had been told to them. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Our Father, we rejoice at this great news We do ask for your spirit to enliven us to faith, to enliven us to joy as we share in the blessings. In the rejoicing, in the very message of the gospel for our salvation is the very gospel proclaimed to the world. That you are living and active and you are knowable because you have made yourself known. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So how are you doing after the weekend? Hopefully you had some rest. I had a great nap yesterday. following some great cinnamon rolls and and great ham and all the fixings. It was a wonderful time with family and I hope that was a a a wonderful time for your um Christmas celebrations, wherever they might may have taken you. The stage of life that my wife and I are in is this stage. We are sleeping in until We've told them, our kids, that they cannot bother us until a certain time. And then right on the dot, our kids came in, hopped on our bed, and with great joy said, It's Christmas! And there is something um beautiful and childlike uh uh that we see in a child that we maybe have whispers of of of how we might have acted, maybe uh mourning the fact that maybe we we are not sharing that same joy. But it is something beautiful of that overflowing rejoicing of to say, it's Christmas! And indeed, Christmas is a story to tell. It is God's story. It's God's story that He has made known, and it's a story that He invites for a response. So as we look at the passage this morning, we're just going to walk through the narrative and hear this story again of God's salvation. God's proclamation of the way that He makes Himself known. And so first we're just going to look at how what the angel makes known. The gospel writers, here we're looking at Luke, but Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the gospel writers are doing something historically significant. They are recounting the life, they're telling of the death, and they are bearing witness to the resurrection of Jesus. And their task is to tell who Jesus is. And their task is to tell of his saving work. But until Jesus' birth, it had been about 400 years since there was a prophet of the Lord to give a message to the people. It's a long time of waiting. A long time of silence. Crying out to the Lord. Waiting. But the Christmas story demonstrates that God no longer remains silent. In the opening chapters, Luke tells of three messages. First, the angel's message to Zechariah telling him of his son John's birth. An angel gives a message to Mary telling her of her son Jesus' birth And in our passage this morning, the angel's message to shepherds. And what is this message that's announced to these shepherds? Look again at verse 10 through 13. Fear not, for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ the Lord. And this will be a sign for you. You will find a baby wrapped in swaddling swaddling cloths and lying in a manger. This announcement that the angel brings shares three key things. First, this announcement shares good news, a message of salvation and not of judgment. This word for good news, the word that we know of when we say gospel, which it just broadly means an announcement. So, for example, it was commonly used in the Roman Empire when Rome would have a victory and they would send out heralds to all the villages, all the towns throughout the land. proclaiming gospel of their victory, proclaiming good news. And in the New Testament, it is often a word referring more specifically to the proclamation of a specific message, that of God's salvation in Jesus Christ. Luke uses this word throughout the book of Luke, as well as his book on the Acts of the Apostles. Interestingly, in the backdrop of this gospel proclamation would be something very familiar. For example, in an ancient city in modern Turkey, they have found an inscription that celebrates the birth of Augustus. That's the same Caesar that's mentioned in Luke chapter 2, verse 1. And that inscription calls him Savior. And it also states this: the birth date of our God has signaled the beginning of good news for the world. The good news made known by this angel of the Lord to the shepherds is one of much more Beauty, much more joy, much more satisfaction for the world. Secondly, this announcement makes known the birth of a child, but not just any child. This child, which is told of the prophets, and specifically the prophet Micah, that the Savior is to be born in Bethlehem. And this child is the Christ, the Lord. Christ is simply the word for a Hebrew concept, the Messiah. The anointed, and it's a term for kingship, attributed to the line of David, heir to the throne of Israel This child not only is great joy of salvation, but it is also an announcement of a king. And third, this announcement makes known where to find him. The angel tells the shepherds how they will confirm what has been told concerning this child. And amazingly, this king. This son of David will be swaddled and lain in an animal feeding box So as you think about what's happening here with the shepherds, what responses do you notice in the text? Just a couple. First, in the face of the supernatural and the shining glory of this angelic visitation, the shepherds respond with fear. This is a common response. And I can imagine how terrifying this would have been during the dead of the night. Fear is a natural response. But thanks be to God how quickly the message is given with assurances, with a divine message, to fear not. Second, there is a response of this message that it even moves the angel and it moves a multitude to praise God. Verse 13 and 14: Glory to God in the highest. And on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased. We see a response of shepherds, and you see the response of the angels themselves. And then third, we see this response from worship to action. The shepherds are moved into action. They don't fall back into fear. They don't pretend it didn't happen, and they don't assume it was their imagination playing tricks. They believed the message and they went to see for themselves. And let's move on into the passage and see how the shepherds make something known. Upon finding Mary and Joseph, the shepherd see all that the messenger had said is now confirmed. Indeed, here is that baby. Swaddled, laying in a manger. If you see the shining glory of God, if you see an angelic message, and you and you hear a chorus of multitudes from the heavens, And then you go and you see with your own eyes what you were told you would see. That, my friends, is seeing is believing. And upon seeing, they tell others what had been made known to them about this child. That his birth is good news of great joy, that he is the Savior. Christ the Lord. Pause and reflect on these events. It's amazing, isn't it? Delivering a baby is amazing. There is excitement and anticipation. There is stress. And frustration. There is fatigue. There are shouts of pain. There are voices of calm coaching. And hopefully there are cries of relief and joy and laughter every single time. A child is delivered. It is a wonderful, amazing, scary, dangerous, hopeful, celebratory event. And how much more in this place with livestock? How much more for a child as this? And so what responses do we notice in this part of the passage? Just a couple. First, can you imagine the shepherd's response? Here with Mary and Joseph, them saying, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Cool, cool, cool, cool, cool, Mary. We get it. You had this baby, but let me tell you what just happened to me This angel told me that that you would have this baby and I would come and find it. And this baby is my savior and and he's Christ. And then and then he said you would be here and the baby would be here and and the baby's here And and though it doesn't say it explicitly, can you just imagine the excitement, how their words would be filled with joy, their faces glowing with this amazement, this just this eagerness of being there. But notice what the other responses, um uh the responses of the others, it says in verse 18, and all who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them. Now the text only identifies Mary and Joseph, but it is reasonable to assume that a small entourage of family or perhaps even close friends may have been traveling together with them for the registration. as well as considering Mary's uh near-approaching delivery. And here the the the the group that is gathered and hearing this testimony from the shepherds, they are in wonderment. To be amazed, to marvel. And the reaction for this word really is neutral. It's based, you know, it can be a favorable response, it can be an unfavorable response, and which it's always based on the context. It's a word that is often used in the Gospels, describing the responses from people as they engage the events that are unfolding, as they interact with the teachings of Jesus. We're hearing the different responses to who Jesus is. And here is bewilderment. But amazement of this good news of great joy. It's all amazing The royal news is being delivered from the heavenly hosts to earthly peasants to be shared with a humble family about the appointment of this baby as king. Do not lose sight of that And it's interesting that the messengers here to this royal family are shepherds. And it's interesting for this reason. The patriarchs of God's people had long-tended flocks and herds of animals. In the Old Testament, we learn that Moses tended flocks, David served as a shepherd, and both of them also were shepherds of God's people. We learn in the Old Testament as well that the Lord Himself is described as Israel's shepherd. We learn from the prophets of how they would speak of Israel's leaders as shepherds, but in their context, they would often be decrying how corrupt they were, how they were leading the people astray, and how their messages cried out for a hope to come of a better shepherd. And just as God delivered the people out of Egypt, he will continue to guide his people. He will provide the Messiah who will one day gather and lead his people as a shepherd to still waters and green pastures. So that's in the backdrop of shepherds, but at the same time there is another image of shepherds. Culturally, shepherds were often seen as robbers, potentially, as cheats. Seeing them in similar ways as publicans and tax collectors. Shepherds could not fulfill any judicial office. They could not be admitted in court as witnesses. And so on the one hand, you have this beautiful imagery of the shepherd being integral to Israel, understanding their relationship with their God as being the sheep of his pasture. them understanding clearly the role and duties of a shepherd and how they would have been so important in the economy of their food. And the practices of their religious sacrifices, but on the other hand, they were often mistrusted. And they existed on the fringes of communities, spending long periods of time in isolation with their flocks. And so the amazing announcement of this message is that Jesus, the son of David, was not born in a palace. And the first recipients of the first Christmas were not high society. And so the those hearing this message were amazed. Then Moving on from the group as a whole, when Luke focuses in on Mary on verse 19. Can you imagine this all being overwhelming? The travels, the very location that they're in, the process of delivering the baby, these now uninvited guests coming. Saying these marvelous things. And what is the mother of Jesus thinking? It says, Mary treasured up these things, pondering them in her heart. Just as the shepherds were given confirmation that the baby would be swaddled and lain in a manger, Mary could have easily remembered in this moment her angelic visitation and the message told to her. In chapter 1, verse 30 through 33, the angel said to Mary, Do not be afraid, Mary, for you have found favor with God. And behold, you will conceive in your womb and bear a son. And you shall call his name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and of his kingdom there will be no end. And so Mary treasured these things. She marked them in her mind to have and to hold and to give careful consideration. Something private to her that the shepherds take no interest in because they're they're doing what they're doing. They're saying, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, cool, cool, cool, cool, Mary. But but we're we're amaz like it's that just happened And the shepherds, in their response, they go away in verse 20, continuing to glorify, to continue praising God for all that they had heard and seen as it had been told them. And this brings us to actually remember another message, the very core of the message itself. What the gospel makes known. The Christmas story proclaims Jesus as fully God and fully man. It is a great mystery of our faith. This Christmas story is of God's salvation. And this gospel, this birth announcement, this message invites our response. You see, now the appointed time has come. What has now been made known of the offspring of the woman, that all that has been lost will be found. As he comes to seek and save the lost, as he comes to redeem all that is in enmity with God, as far as the curse is found. And after 400 years, there is no more silence. But it is amazing that this birth announcement of salvation goes hidden for another 30 years until Jesus enters into his public ministry. Imagine recalling those things pondered, those things treasured in your heart as you await the day for Jesus to go public. Luke will go on to focus Jesus as the true Israelite coming up out of Egypt, facing temptation in the wilderness. facing what the first Adam failed in, this second Adam succeeds in, entering the exile of our lives so that we might be brought back into the full communion with God as we were intended to have. What has been lost is now found. Where there has been sin, there is now atonement. For those in Christ, you are no longer in exile with Adam. You are no longer in the wilderness with Israel. You are brought home in Jesus Christ. It's why Paul can say in Romans chapter 10, Verse 15, as he quotes Isaiah 52, verse 7, how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news. Who publishes peace? Who brings good news of happiness? Who publishes salvation? Who says to Zion, your God reigns. It is why Jesus in Luke 4, verse 18, can quote Isaiah 61: The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. It's how John can say in chapter 1 verse 14 that the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And then further on, John can say in chapter 3, verse 16 and 17: For God so loved the world that he gave his only son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. It's how Jesus can say that He is the way, the truth, and the life, that He is the true vine, that He is the light of the world, that He is the door and the Shepherd, that He is the resurrection and the life. It's how Jesus can say that it is finished and that he will be with you to the end of the age. He is the word made flesh. He is the God man who came, who lived, who died, and lives still as he reigns and intercedes on our behalf He is the perfect prophet. He is the perfect priest. He is the perfect king. He is the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, and in him all things are held together. God has made himself known through his own self-disclosure. We can look out at the beauty of creation and say, there has to be something, but I don't know what it is. But that which is there from the beginning has made himself known. And he makes covenant with his people, and he sets up a way of salvation. And God has made himself known through his very word. The word made flesh has been made known to the world so that the world will hear of God's salvation and respond with praise, with celebration, and with trust. This good news is made known to the world. If you are sitting here and you have placed your trust in Jesus, this good news has been made known to you. And we are to respond with faith, looking to Jesus as our Savior. But something that we can glean from what's happening here in this text From the shepherds is as good news has been declared to them, they find it fulfilled in the Son who is given, and they go and share that good news. We are likewise to make him known in our lives, in our words. Christmas is a story to tell. It is God's story made known, and it invites our response. So we looked at various responses in this text. And what I leave with you tonight, this this morning. Is for you to ponder what responses do you notice in yourself at this message of good news with great joy? That this day a Savior is born. The Savior is Jesus, Christ the Lord. May we treasure these things May we ponder them in our heart. May we glorify and praise God for all that we have heard and seen. And may we tell it to others as it has been told to us. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we give you thanks and praise and we rejoice. And as we go from hearing your word, we go singing. We come glorifying your name, praising you for your salvation, recognizing that as far as the curse is found in our minds, in our bodies, In the world, all that has been lost in sin is redeemed in Christ. May we respond with great joy and great faith in you, our great God. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.