Now we continue in our series in the book of Amos, and we come now to chapter six. Amos has been developing the theme of God's displeasure on those who name his name. And yet are self-centered and complacent. And you remember he has described himself as their adversary, even as a lion about to pounce on them. And he develops this idea further and more specifically. chapter six. And so now let's hear God's word as we consider Amos chapter six. And we'll consider all of this chapter this morning. And so let's give our attention to that chapter as we hear God's own very word. Addressed to us. Woe to you who are complacent in Zion, and to you who feel secure on Mount Samaria, you notable men of the foremost nation to whom the people of Israel come? Go to Kelna, look at it. Go from there to great Hebah. And then go down to Gath in Philistia. Are you better than those kingdoms? Was their land larger than yours? You put off the evil day and bring near a reign of terror. You lie on beds inlaid with ivory and lounge on your couches. You dine on choice lands and fatted tags. You strum away on your harps like David and improvise on musical instruments. You drink wine by the ball field and use the finest lotions. But you do not grieve over the ruin of Joseph. Therefore you will be among the first to go into exile. Your feasting and lounging will end. The Sovereign Lord has world by himself. But our God Almighty declares, I abhor the pride of Jacob, and detest his fortresses. I will deliver up the city and everything in it. If ten Men are left in one house, they too will die. And if a relative who is to burn the bodies comes to carry them out of the house and asks anyone still hiding there, is anyone with you? And he says, No. And then he will say, We must not mention the people who are not. The name of the Lord. For the Lord has given the command. And he will smash the great house into pieces and the small house into bits. Do horses run on rocky crags? Does one plow there with oxen, but you have turned justice into poison, and the fruit of righteousness into bitterness. You who rejoice in the conquest of Lodabar, and say, Did we not take Carnaum by Our own strength. For the Lord God Almighty declares, I will stir up a nation against you, O House of Israel, that will oppress you all the way from Leboh Hamath to the valley of the Arabah. Well let me ask you, as we think on that chapter, how did you feel when I read that? Not a very encouraging chapter, isn't it? So I sort of need a pickup this morning. Something to uh get me going for next week. And uh I don't think that's the chapter is gonna do it. Not a very encouraging upbeat kind of chapter. Perhaps you felt some guilt as you read the indictment against luxury and against complacency. And perhaps you felt a little anger at feeling guilty, and you find yourself feeling, what is this? Am I supposed to feel guilty? For enjoying things? Is God against a little pleasure and enjoyment in life? What is with God anyway? Seems like every time I want to enjoy something I need to feel guilty about it. And so perhaps you have some mixed feelings. Reactions as you hear that chapter. Let me remind us at the outset of it that we need to make a distinction. A distinction between some sour-faced super-spiritual who's against all thought And against someone who would come to us while we're having a party and warn us that our party has set the house on fire and that we better get out. And as we were to flee the building as it burns down about us and finds that we have a Escape with our lives, would you find that you resent the person who spoiled the party by telling you to leave? You see, there's a distinction between somebody who's simply against fun and good times and somebody who's in touch with reality and says that this is a time to awaken. This is a time So we need to be aware of what's coming. We need to be aware of a certain danger and wake up to it. And when we read people like Jermaine Greer A secular feminist who writes in her latest book, Sex and Destiny, that our culture is on a suicidal course because of our short-sighted obsession with self-gratification. Then we better stop and listen. And what do we read that Billy Graham has said in his latest book, Apocalypse, Approaching Hookweeks, The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse? Graham says in this book, There is something ominous in the air, and my bones like Like John's vibrate with the horror and the hope of it. Speaking of the four horsemen of the apocalypse in the book of Revelation. And Billy Graham, who has been a confidant of the past seven presidents and has talked to us with heads of state all over the world, says there's something very ominous in the air. God's judgment is about to fall. to stop and we need to say there's something that Amos is trying to tell us. And he's not against fun, he's not against enjoyment, but he's saying you've got to wake up to a certain reality. And the reality is that God hates Two things. Those two things are a self-satisfied complacency and pride on the part of those whom name is name. And so God is saying through his prophet Amos to us that there is a universal Principle here. And that principle is a declaration of what must happen when those who call themselves by his name are carried along in the vertex of a self-satisfied competition. Placent and proud culture. And we hear the world that's all about us. We hear them in secular media, in the books, in the movies, in the television programs. And we need to stop and listen and see what God's answered. So I want us to notice three things from Amos chapter six. First of all, I want for us to notice God's indictment, and then God's response, and then what should be our response. First of all, what's God's indictment? Against the people at this time. He gives to them two charges. He says, first of all, you're complacent. That's in verses 1 to 7. And then he speaks of their pride in verses 8 to 14. First of all, he says you're complacent. Verse 1. Woe to you who are complacent in Zion. To you who feel secure on Mount Samaria. Notice he's speaking both to the southern nation and to the northern nation. Zion is in Judah, so this is a message to both parts of the church. And it's particularly a message addressed to the evangelicals. He says, I'm concerned about your complacency, especially those of you who are influential. You notable men of the foremost nation. You who are the influential people in the notable nation. And if that doesn't describe you and me, I don't know what does. Influential people within A leading nation in the world. And God says you're complacent in two ways: in your position and in your possessions. First of all, in your position, in verses one to three. Probably what Ana This is doing here is mimicking the government PR. The government probably was saying the kinds of things that you have here in verse 2. Go look at the nations to the north, look at Gath in the southwest. Uh are they better than us? Look at all we have done. Look at our conquests. And so Avis is saying, You're looking at your position, you compare yourself with others and you're Power, and you find in that status. You find in your status that which gives you security and complacency. And in an achievement-oriented culture, you say, we've made our mark to some degree. Perhaps whether you have made it or not, you feel at least the pressure to need to make it. And so Amos is saying you have found a certain complacency in your position, whatever that is. But also that he says in your possessions. Look at verses. 4 to 7. He speaks of a materialistic culture, a culture that is very well off. And notice this: a culture which, if you read verse 4 to 6, you would never guess is on the brink of disaster. This is a culture which seems like it's got it made very secure. The emphasis on the houses, on the food, on the music and the arts, on the uh intemplance even, because of so much that they had. You might characterize it as the deodorant society. Notice what he says. He says that you lie on beds inlaid with ivory, very luxurious, and lounge on your couches. You dined on choice lands, fatted calves, your gourmets. You swung away on your harps like David, the famous harper. You improvise on musical instruments. You have finely tuned the arts. You drink wine by the bowlful. And that word, the Hebrew word means a large bowl. You know, you just guzzle this stuff down. And then you use the finest devotion, speaking of the deodorants of that day. You see, Avon and Max Bacter were just uh making it out like bandits back in that society. It was a society that pampered itself, and they had a great deal of luxury and ease. And Amos is making the connection, not an inevitable connection, but nevertheless a connection between materialism and complacency. When I say not an inevitable connection, I mean not inevitable between having many goods. But materialism is the worship of the goods, the finding of the security and the complacency in the material things. It reminds us of the purity. Why can't we learn our lesson from them, even in our own culture? You remember how the Puritans fled from England in sixteen twenty in order to worship the Lord Jesus, to have freedom in order to establish a society in which The Lord Jesus could be king, and in which his principles could be worked out in righteousness and justice. And they suffered a great deal. That's why we had Thanksgiving. That God had preserved them from starvation, which was a very real threat. But within one can of In their seeking of Jesus Christ and their good stewardship, they had become rich. And so thirty, forty years later, you have a well established material society which is enjoying many goods. And at that same time, you have the decline of Puritanism in the United States, the decline of its effects, the souring of its theology, the diminishing of its spirituality, so that a generation later, Cotton Nader, writing the history of this, reflecting on its downfall, wrote and I quote, religion begot prosperity, and the daughter devoured the mother. That's what Amos is writing about. Amos is saying here so hung up on all those things that you enjoy that there's one thing that you have forgotten it's at the end of verse 6 and that's the key statement You do not grieve over the ruin of Joseph. You do not grieve over the ruin, the breaking of Joseph. Nothing wrong, you see, with having having a bed with some ivory in. There's nothing wrong with having a choice lamb and a fat of calves. It was God who had instituted the beast things for us to celebrate and to enjoy his goodness Nothing wrong with music and fine-tuning and developing the arts. Nothing wrong with even drinking of those things which God has given to us for pleasure with deodorant. God's not against deodorant. But he's saying the fact is you've so centered on these things, you have forgotten to grieve over the ribbon of Joseph. Why Joseph? He's talking about Israel here. Why does he call Israel Joseph? Along with J. A. Mother in his commentary I agree, that the reason that he probably says Joseph is because it reminds us of Joseph. Do you remember when his brothers sold him into slavery? They wanted to get rid of him, and they threw him into a pit before they sold him. And as they threw him into the pit And Joseph was there crying out for mercy. What were his brothers doing? They were feasting, they were eating, they were enjoying themselves, and in their enjoyment they didn't hear the cries of their brother. Famous as saying you are caught up in a culture which is so set upon the things which it's enjoying, it's so consumed, so obsessed with short term self-gratification, that you're not hearing the cry of an apostate Church, you're not hearing the cry from a culture that's going down the tubes, and as Jermaine Greer says, is set on a suicidal course. And Anus wants to call our attention to the fact that it's not that you shouldn't enjoy. But you've forgotten how to grieve over sin. I think of our prayer meeting on Wednesday. Brandy Smith Keeper mentioned it. We should be praying for apostate churches with leaders who have gone from the gospel of Jesus Christ, that God would bring them back to see his word. And I thought How rare it is that we pray for such a thing. How much do we grieve over churches that are meeting this morning around this country in which there's straw going forth rather than the bread of life? In which people are using Using the name of Jesus Christ as a banner for self-gratification, self-actualization, in which they use Jesus Christ as a means for us to affirm ourselves and to exalt ourselves. And Jesus Christ gloriously. laid in the dust. Do we grieve over that? Do we grieve over the fact that our nation has come to such a point where we can call good evil and evil good, where gay rights And other movements take on such an arrogant militancy that there's not even the consideration that what God's Word says has any authority in the laws that should be made. And Abis is saying here, you have forgotten how to grieve over sin. You have forgotten how to grieve over the break of the people of God in this culture. You're a proud people, he says in the second part of that chapter. You're proud in your achievements. You're proud in your fortresses, verse 9. You're proud in your conquest, verse 13. There's a little bit of humorous irony in verse 13, kind of a prophetic bitter irony, and a little sarcasm there. He says you rejoice. Now, you know, it might not mean much to you, but if you look up Low Divar on a map, you find it's this little hick town out there in Trans Jordan in the northeast. In fact, it was so small and so insignificant that the word road to bar means nothing. It means it's it's nothing. It's not even worth giving a name to, you know. It's the kind of place where they had to change the population numbers every week because it would, you know, double or half or something like this. There were as many cows as there were people. He says, you're exalting over the fact that you conquered Lozador. You know, it reminds me of a a show once I heard on Jackie Gleason. Do you remember that back in the I remember that my parents used to watch that 20 years ago? And it was Jackie Gleason there, you know, the big shot in his home. And he says, just remember, I'm king and you're nothing. I'm king here and you're nothing. And that's why he says, big deal. So you're king and nothing. And that's what Amos is saying. You're bragging over your achievements. You've conquered. What have you conquered? Nothing. And Amos is saying, you're glorying in that which is a sham. And you and I can come this Tuesday, and we can see God's great provision for us and facilities. And that He's taking care of us. provided for us. But will there be the temptation to think, isn't that nice? We've pulled it off. Look what we've provided. Look how we have found the stonehouse and look what we have accomplished. Look at the things we've accomplished in ministries and programs as a congregation. God says your pride is detestable, for it's a nothing. Billy Graham once wrote that the smallest package I ever saw was a man all wrapped up in himself. And the same thing. to be said of a congregation. In order to be great in God's sight, we need to humble ourselves. And so God gives his response to these indictments. He gives us response, and we need to notice as we see God's response that God is not an impersonal machine. He is not talking about impersonal principles here. God is a feeling person. And so he states his response to this sin, to the sin of complacency and pride, in terms of of his reaction. Notice that. He's not talking about the cracking out of some machine that works in response to certain impersonal input. God has said, I've made you in my image, and this is what you've done. You've forgotten how to Grieve over sin. You've exalted yourself in your supposed achievements. And I have a response to that. Three responses that he mentions. First of all, he says, I have. Verse 8. The sovereign God is swelled by himself, the Lord God only. Almighty declares, I abhor the pride of Jacob. That's a strong word. I detest it, he said. I loathe that pride. It's like the worship in chapter 5 that we looked at, where God said You think that you're impressing me, but you're not impressing me at all. Your fortresses don't impress me whatsoever. God says I abhor that tribe. Secondly, he describes his response in terms of alienation. A vivid picture given in verses 9 and 10, a difficult picture to interpret, but the gist of it is somewhat clear. It's a picture of a siege. There's desperate conditions in this siege. Ten men are left in a house, and they're all And somebody is sort of digging through the rubble, you know, after a disaster, and they're trying to find out if there's any survivors, and they say, Is anybody here? And this one person comes and they say, There's nobody left alive. And in that time, that immediately. Immediate response where there's possibly going to be an o a calling out, oh God or Jesus Christ, as we would say now, or something that would call out an explanation, an oath, in response to the tragic situation. The immediate response before is hush. not mention the name of the Lord. What's that saying? That's saying things are so bad the time has come when God is so alienated from his people that they dare not even use his name, either lightly or waitily. The time for cursing has even passed. The time when God's name has a power in cursing has gone. God is so utterly alienated from his people, they say, don't even use his name. Perhaps there's a note of superstition in it, as often happens in tragedies. Don't even use God's name, or perhaps something worse will happen. No possibility of calling upon the Lord for mercy, utter alienation. Even calling on its name as an own, let alone in prayer. Then he describes himself as an enemy. He describes himself as an enemy. Verse 3. He says, You put off the evil day and bring near. A reign of terror. A reign of terror. Perhaps you saw Tale of Two Cities on Wednesday night, in which Dickens portrayed the reign of terror in revolutionary France, and what a terrible time. that was to live. And it's that same kind of thing that's described here. Do you know Jeroboam II was reigning at the time when Amos prophesied? Between Jeroboam II and the end of this nation there were six more kings. Of those six Six kings, only one passed his throne to his son. All the rest were assassinated. What Amos has to say here came literally true. There was a reign of terror after his days. A reign of terror which led to the utter decimation of that nation. But God again uses a certain prophetic irony, a kind of prophetic humour and cynical sarcasm in portraying this. He says in verse one, now I want to speak to you who are the first men of the first nation. The Hebrew is literally the first. You're the first ones. The big shots. You use in verse six the first motions, the first excuse me, uh yeah, verse six. The first motions, the first universe. You know, none of this Kmart stuff for you. You go into the highest quality stuff. First universe. And so God is saying, let the proprieties be Observe. You want to be first? Alright. Verse 7: You'll be the first ones into exile. You're going to lead the way in judgment. God says that those who were influential and did not use their influence. In order to churn their culture, will be the first to suffer. Verse 7. Therefore you will be among the first to go into exile, and your feasting and lounging will end. Verse 8. He says that he's going to deliver up the city and everything in it. Verse 11, he speaks of smashing the houses, utterly crushing the small houses. Verse 14, he's going to stir a nation against them. Oh house of Israel. I'm going to oppress you all the way, all the way from the north to the south is what he's saying there. Because of your foolishness, your stupidity. And that's pictured you see in verse twelve. Again, it's a it's a difficult image, but the The essence of it's probably pretty clear. He says, Do horses run on rocky crags? And the picture there is cliff bases and rubble, huge boulders that are piled up, where it would be very difficult to get any kind of a horse up. You know, if you want to go up a cliff face over huge boulders that are piled up, you're not going to go up there on a horse. Were you going to take a horse up there and break the horse's legs? He says, if you're going to plow, are you going to try and plow those boulders with the oxen? Utterly stupid and useless. uh some uh translations, some uh manuscripts have the sea there in that second part. Does one plow the sea with oxen would be the same kind of idea you're reading. Uh you know, who's gonna think of plowing the sea with oxen? Utterly something stupid and useless. And he said That's just what you have done when you turned justice into poison and the fruit of righteousness into bitterness. You thought that by perverting values for your own ends that you would thereby reap the benefits. And Amos says that's utterly stupid and useless. Because God's ways will win out. God is a God of justice. He's a God of mercy and a God of justice. And he says, you can't win out by trying to pervert values in your culture. And so what is our response? to be to such a word. Our response is, of course, simply to heed the two warnings that God has given to us. But as a church we humble ourselves and we learn to grieve over sin. to humble ourselves, as he speaks of in chapter four, that we return to our God. That we look at our hearts and we see the pride and the complacency that we have over our accomplishments. And that we learn to Humble ourselves before him. I believe that in our day we need to learn a whole new kind of feeling of our helplessness and need of Christ. Do you know we have become so proud as a people that even the gospel has been displaced? distorted and manipulated in order to fit our proud notions? A hundred or two hundred years ago, the gospel was that you are absolutely helpless to lift your finger for salvation. And the only thing that you can do is to cast yourself upon God's mercy and to plead for Jesus Christ in his work. And God Himself must even work in your heart that response toward Him. Who are we here today? Decide for Jesus. Come to Jesus. Exert your will and your faith toward Jesus Christ. You have something to give him. You are valuable in God's sight and he's made you so precious. He wants to have you. The whole message is become today that I have the power to come to Jesus Christ so that I might be saved, a kind of cooperation between me and Jesus. And the gospel today has not shattered our self confidence. The Church of Jesus Christ should be so shattered in our self-confidence that when we look to Jesus Christ, we realize that from the very first to the very last, salvation is by grace, not by what we do. We need to humble ourselves, to come to realise again that grace really is grace. It's not a cooperation between me who finally decided that it was a good deal, it was something worth doing to give my life to Jesus. But rather that I was utterly helpless to save myself. And that Jesus Christ came in his infinite mercy. He came and not only did he accomplish salvation on that cross in taking my sin, and he Rising again from the dead, but he by his spirit reached down and applied that salvation to my life and took me, overcame me in my stubborn resistance. Jesus Christ took that will of mine and turned it toward him. And he has saved me. He has rescued me. He has brought me out of the miry pit. He set my foot upon the rock. And there's nothing I did to contribute to that. And once you get, brother and sister, some sense of that helplessness. It shatters the possibility of pride. And it lays us low. But it lays us low in an exhilarating sense in the Lord. Because it lifts them up and it helps us to see what our real confidence is. is, not in the flesh, but in his grace. The second thing we need to do is, along with that then, learning to grieve over the ruin of Joseph in our day. To learn to set our hearts over And the powerful work of the Spirit, not just our minds, but to feel grief over sin, to even be able to weep over those that we know and care for, who do not know. No, Jesus Christ. When's the last time you or I, in our prayer, for that person that we care for without Jesus Christ, have not only prayed for them in some sense perhaps of exasperation that they keep holding out But even grieved, as we're told here in verse 6, grieved over their ruin, grieved over their brokenness, grieved over the destruction of their life apart from Jesus Christ. Read over a society that's very structures are set in array against Jesus Christ. I'll tell you, I need to learn much more about that. As I prayed through this week and this message To try and capture something of what that means, I find my own heart more convicted than it is entering in to the kind of grief that Amos is calling upon us about. A hundred years ago, in Victorian England, There was the same kind of spirit of complacency. There was the gospel preached, but it was to be preached properly, not in a way that is going to upset the proprieties of the dead. And the messages were to be just So long, and the services were just so set, and everything was quite properly done. But there was very little fervor, very little fear of God in any real sense in the worship. And in that scene, God raised up a sixth. sixteen year old man who he brought to himself. And that man came to Jesus Christ at the age of sixteen, took his first pastorate at the age of seventeen, and then was called to a church in London at the age of nineteen a church of two hundred and fifty people. And so in the year in eighteen fifty four, actually at the very end of eighteen fifty three, Charles Hagis Burgeon at the age of nineteen first stood in the pulpit of New York. New Park Street Church. Let me quote from his biography. Spurgeon came to London conscious that God had been hiding his face from his people. His knowledge of the Bible and of church history convinced him that compared with what the church had a Warrant to expect, the kind of thing we talked about last week on Pentecost. What the church had a warrant to expect with the fullness of the Holy Spirit from the first fruits of the harvest, but the Spirit of God was in great measure withdrawn. What we see. And if God continued to withhold his face, he declared to his people nothing could be done to extend his kingdom. This is not your knowledge, nor your talent, nor your zeal, he would say, that can perform God's word. Yet, brethren, this can be done. We will cry to the Lord until he reveals his face again. All we want is the Spirit of God. Dear Christian friends, go home and pray for it. Give yourselves no rest till God reveals himself. Do not tarry where you are. Do not be content to go to your everlasting jog trot as you've done. Do not be content with a mere round of formalities. Awake goes on. Awake! Awake! Awake That was a message of a 19-year-old preacher in London. Before many months had passed, it was manifest that the congregation at Newpark Street Church was awakening. And as travail and prayer became the character Characteristic of the church, one common burden spread from pastor to people. The Lord, send a blessing. He must send it, or our hearts will break if he does not. Oh, how that convicted me. Do I feel that longing, Lord, you must send your spirit to change Columbia, or our hearts will break if you don't. Well we say, well you know, we'll be a little bit disappointed, but we'll get over it. Our hearts will break if you prayer. What a change took place in the prayer methods. Now instead of the old dog prayers, every man seemed like a crusader besieging the new Jerusalem. Each one appeared determined to storm the celestial city by the might of intercession. And soon the blessing came upon us in such abundance that we had not room to receive it. The spring of 1854, there were two hundred and fifty people in a church that was to seat a thousand who did By the fall of that year, six months later, there were 500 people meeting, not for morning worship, but for prayer meeting. Five hundred people assembled every week to pray for God's Spirit to be out poured. Regular attendance arose at such a rate that by eighteen fifty six they had to have a building project to expand OCE to fifteen hundred because three thousand people were packing in every week to hear the gospel. In one year they required. They reported one thousand conversions to Jesus Christ. They ran an Exeter Hall which held four thousand, and they filled that. And they finally went to the Metropolitan Tabernacle which seated five thousand and was filled from floor to ceiling every week. And God's spirit has outpoured on a people who had learned to grieve over the fall of Joseph. In our day, Francis Schaefer has been the one who God has raised up to grieve over the fall of Joseph. Joseph in our day. Will we join with him? Will we follow in his train? Will we come tonight and see what it means to grieve over the fall of Joseph? And how God would raise up in our men. those who we would use mightily to transform this structure, this culture, even where we live. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God. Teach us how to grieve over the fall and the ruin of Joseph and our day. Teach us, Lord, to grieve over sin and over sinners. Those that we have shared your gospel with and who have turned away. Teach us, Lord, to grieve over a society and culture that's turned its back upon you. Lord, we pray that you'd strip us of our Self-confidence, that you would show us Jesus and lift it up, and that we would be so concerned that people bow the knee before Him, that we would be moved emotionally to see people ignoring Him. That we'd actually grieve over people who ignore our Lord Jesus. Lord, if there's somebody here this morning who has never bowed to Jesus Christ, we pray that you would lift up that one, show up your power. Your mercy and your grace. Show, Father, what you have done in Jesus Christ to bring them to yourself. Strip away and shatter their self-confidence until they must lie low before you and cry out for mercy and receive. Even to everlasting life. Lord, make us a people who cry out to you, Lord, send the blessing. Our hearts will break if you don't send it. In Jesus' name.