In order that we might know our God better, that we might understand and build our faith by seeing how perfectly adequate He is for all of our needs. We want to turn away from just looking at ourselves and simply be lost in the wonder of who he is. As he has revealed himself in his great names. Last week we began by looking, or we began the most significant Of all of God's names, we looked at, began to look at his covenant name, Yahweh. Now, That uh name is you see on your bulletin outline, Y H W H you have to insert there the A Y A H W E H in order to get how you pronounce it. We showed how last week For centuries that name has wrongly been pronounced Jehovah, and it is the name Yahweh. But more important than how you pronounce it is the question, what does it mean? And that's what we've begun to look at. What does Yahweh mean mean? How does this help us to know God? How does it help us to understand who he is in order for us to be able to relate to him as his people? Well If the book of Genesis defines his name God, G-O-D, as you see in your Bible, the name Elohim The book of Exodus defines his name Yahweh, which you see in your Bibles as capital L small capital O R D, Lord. And so turn to Exodus chapter 6. Last week we looked at Exodus chapter 3, and I Tried to show you that this name, Yahweh, is a name which is very beautiful and complex, and one way of understanding it is to picture that name like a house. And in that house, God lays the foundation for it in Exodus chapter 3. We looked at that last week to see that the foundation meaning of that name is that God is the sovereign one. He is the God of sovereign power. His name basically means I am who I am. I am what I determine. He is a God who is dependent on absolutely nothing and no one. Can you imagine? God is never frustrated. Because he never depends on someone else to fulfill his plans. He is absolutely self-determining in his purpose And the mystery is that he uses us and interacts with us. But the fact is we need to understand that the foundation of his being is that he is the one who is able to do all things. Not only that, but he is the God who is willing to do whatever it takes in order to rescue his people when they are in trouble. And so this God is the God who is able and willing And when he saw his people in Egypt who were in bondage, then God came to Moses and he said, Moses, go lead them out. And if it was anything that Moses needed to understand at that point was how in the world are you and I going to pull this off, God? And so God says, I want you to know who I am. And he gives him his name, which says basically, you can count on me. I will never let you down. I am Yahweh. I determine what I do. And nothing will ever frustrate my purposes. And if I call you Moses to go and lead out a group of slaves from the mightiest nation on earth, count on me. I'll be able to do it. And so Moses went back. And in Exodus 4 and 5, we read that he took his family, took his brother Aaron along with him, because Moses wanted to have somebody to speak for him. He wasn't very good on speaking. And so he took Aaron along. He went back and he spoke to the people and he said, God has come to me and he's spoken to me out there in the desert. You guys aren't gonna believe this, but God says he's gonna take you all out. He's heard your crying, he's heard your praying. And he's going to rescue you. You know how the people responded? They were very moved. You thought I was going to say they laughed, didn't you? No, they didn't. They were very moved by the fact that Yahweh had such compassion on them. And the Bible says that they prostrated themselves and they worshiped. And they said, Oh, God has heard us at last. And so then Moses and Aaron said, well, that wasn't too bad. Got the people here. Let's go to Pharaoh. So they went to Pharaoh and they said, Hey Pharaoh, we got a message for you. God appeared to me on the backside of the desert out there in Midian, and he said, I'm Yahweh, and I want my people to come and to worship me. So, Pharaoh, you've got to let all these people go. They're going to go worship Yahweh out in the desert. How did Pharaoh respond? Well not quite the same way that the Israelites did. Pharaoh said, Yahweh? Who's Yahweh? I never heard of a Yahweh. No, you can't go out there. And besides, the fact that you guys are talking about going out on a picnic in the desert to go worship this Yahweh means you got too much time on your hands So from now on, you've got to keep the same quarter of building, only now you've got to get your own straw to do it. And you've got to do still the same amount of work by the end of the day. Well, that wasn't exactly what the Israelites expected to hear, you know. So the foremen come to Moses and Aaron. They say, Hey, Moses and Aaron, what's this about Yahweh delivering us? Things were better off before you guys showed up. This is your idea of deliverance? Now we got twice as much work to do, and things are harder than ever. Why don't you guys take a hike? Well, so then what did Moses and Aaron do? Well, what you might expect, Moses goes back to God and he says, Yahweh, is this your idea of deliverance? What are you doing here You tell me that I'm going to go and I'm going to deliver the people, and they believe me? Then I come to Pharaoh and he says, take a hike. Lord, what are you doing? I am confused. You remember a couple weeks ago we looked at Habakkuk? Habakkuk said, Lord, I prayed to you. I've been praying and praying. And what happens? Things get worse. How many times is it true in your life and in my life that we pray for God to deliver? And things instead of getting better, get worse. And that's exactly what happened in the life of the Hebrews. And so when you come to Exodus chapter 6, you need to understand that this chapter is God's response to Moses' complaint and his cry of agony at this point. And so at this point in Exodus chapter 6, God comes and he says, let me tell you a little bit more, Moses, about what this name Yahweh means. And in this chapter, Exodus 6, in verses 6 to 8, God builds the three pillars of this house, that I call them, the three pillars upon the foundation of saying, I am the sovereign power. To begin to be more specific about just what he means about that power as it's exercised toward his people. So let's now hear God's word. From Exodus chapter 6, and look at verses 1 to 8 as we hear God's answer to Moses. Exodus chapter 6. And then the Lord, there it is, that's that covenant name, capital L small caps, O R D. Then the Lord Yahweh said to Moses, Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh. Because of my mighty hand he will let them go. Because of my mighty hand, he will drive them out of his country. God, there it is, Elohim now, God also said to Moses, I am Yahweh the Lord. And I appear to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as God Almighty, El Shaddai. But by my name Yahweh, the Lord, I did not make myself known to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, where they lived as aliens. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving. And I have remembered my covenant. Therefore say to the Israelites, I am Yahweh. And I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them. And I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. I will take you as my own people. And I will be your God, and then you will know that I am Yahweh your God, who brought you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. And I will bring you to the land that I swore with uplifted hand to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. I will give it to you as a possession. I am Yahweh. Five times in those verses, you read from God that he says, I am Yahweh. He wants us to understand what that means. You notice the stress there in verse 2, where he says, I am Yahweh. And then in verse 3, Notice he says, I appeared to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob as El Shaddai. Now those of you who have been around for a while, remember we looked at that name a year, a little over a year ago. To see what El Shaddai is, the God who is able to do the impossible. And he says, I revealed myself to them as that, but by my name Yahweh, I did not make myself known to them. Now, that does not mean that they had never heard the name Yahweh. In fact, Genesis chapter 2 and verse 4, and Genesis 4:26 make it quite clear that from the time of Seth The son of Adam and Eve, people began to call on their God, the true God, as Yahweh. He revealed that name back from almost the very beginning. But what this verse means is that God had never revealed the significance of this name. He had never explained this name. They never understood what it meant. It was just a name. Yahweh. They didn't understand what it connoted. And so God is saying, I never revealed myself to them as Yahweh. Now I am about to unfold to them the meaning of this name. We'll talk more about that next week. But then in verses 4 and 5, God goes on, and he says, I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, where they lived as aliens. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the Israelites, whom the Egyptians are enslaving, and I have remembered my covenant. Yahweh is the covenant initiating God, remember, you saw last week. And then in verses 6, 7, and 8, God gives the three basic meanings of his name Yahweh. This morning we want to look just at verse 6 to see that first meaning. He says in verse 6, therefore say to the Israelites, I am Yahweh. And I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them. And I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. Now do you see then the connection, the obvious connection here between the name Yahweh and the statement, I will redeem you. And so the very first most basic meaning to this name is that Yahweh is the sovereign. Now you look on the side of your house up there, you see, that Yahweh is the sovereign redeemer. You've got to turn your paper around right sideways here. Yahweh is the sovereign redeemer. Now, this word redeem and redeemer maybe a bit problematical to some of us because we tend to think of that as maybe an archaic nineteenth century camp meeting word I am redeemed. Brother, have you been redeemed? You know, and you hear about redeem and redemption, and you think that's not very relevant to somebody living at the end of the 20th century. It's religious language that doesn't mean very much to us. And because we've heard it so much, but we've heard it in the context of fundamentalistic Elmer Gantry camp meeting kind of background, we tend to think that it's a word that really doesn't say a lot to us. Well, I want to tell you honestly, I've thought a lot about this word as I've thought about preparing this in the names of God. And I must say to you that I am convinced That there is no term more relevant to the needs of people living in the end of the 20th century than the term redeem and redeemer. And if you pay attention and hang along with me for a little bit, just a few minutes, I want to prove that to you. That you will understand why that term is so utterly relevant and precious to us. is people living at the end of the 20th century. What does the word mean? The word means And you look again, still hanging on your box there, the sovereign redeemer, when you sum it all up, it means I will free you from bondage. All boils down to that. I will free you from bondage. Now look down below the house. The term redeem or redeemer has a simple basic definition. The definition is freedom from bondage. By the payment of a ransom price, freedom from bondage by the payment of a ransom price. One of the great scholars of the Old Testament and the New Testament, the Bible in general, is the Australian scholar, Leon Morris. And he has written a whole book on this term, redemption, as well as some of the other salvation terms that describe the work of Christ. And so he has written hundreds of pages on this term, Redeemer, and few have done any more of an in-depth study. And Morris says that you can reduce the term, the notion of redemption, down to three basic elements. And you see them listed there, the three basic elements to redemption. The first is that there is bondage. Bondage, slavery, captivity Someone is in a helpless situation from which they cannot release themselves. Helpless captives, bondage. The second element of it is that there is deliverance through the payment of a price. There must be the payment of a price to release this person from their bondage. And the third part of it, the third element, is that there is a resultant state of freedom. There is freedom which is purchased. No more bondage. Now, what I want you to see, and what I believe that God wants you to see this morning, is that Israel's situation here in Egypt. is a picture of what is available to you and to me in the person of Jesus Christ today at the end of the 20th century. And I want for us to see how Israel's situation is a picture of the redemption that you and I can have in Christ. And so look as we consider these three elements in Israel's life and then see them also in our life. So consider, first of all, Israel's bondage and ours. Israel's bondage and ours The Bible says quite clearly that you and I are in bondage to sin. In John chapter 8, verse 34, Jesus said, Whoever sins is the servant, the slave of sin. Paul said in Romans chapter 6 that before Christ all of us were slaves to sin. We've all been in bondage to the law and to sin. And that's never been more apparent Than in our culture at the end of the 20th century, which is so obsessed with freedom. There has never been a culture so obsessed with freedom and yet so obviously in bondage. We're a culture in bondage to addiction and to compulsive behaviors for coping with stress and pressures and low self-image and everything else. Dr. Edward Welch, who is an expert on addictive behavior, has written that the Bible speaks of sin in the language of addiction. It controls us. We are hopelessly out of control in its grip. Some ways are more obvious than others. Addiction to alcohol. Addiction to drugs. Addiction to pornography, addiction to gambling. Then there's the ways that are not quite so obvious. Addiction to shopping You know, when things go tough, the tough goes shopping, women's places in the mall, and all the rest of that. Simply reflection of coping behaviors of addiction. Or the addiction to work. The addiction to perfectionism, all kinds of addictions that we have And Welsh's point in his writing based on his study of scripture and his successful treating of many people who are in addictive behaviors. Is that basically addicts are no different from any of the rest of us who don't consider ourselves addicts? We are all in bondage. Bondage to sin. And so the good news is that for the addict, the solution is really no different from anyone else. But the bad news is for those of us who don't think we're addicts, you've got to face the fact that you are in bondage just like an addict. You and I are in bondage to sin, and if we think we're not, without Jesus Christ, we're simply fooling ourselves One of the first steps anyone will tell you who's been through any kind of a recovery program, the first step Toward any kind of recovery is to stop living in a fantasy world and stop living in denial and face the fact of your bondage. And so the very first thing that a person in bondage needs to do is to recognize I am in bondage. And when you do that, you all of a sudden realize how very relevant is the picture of Israel in Exodus chapter 3, 4, 5, and 6. Think about a typical day of an Israelite living in Egypt. You'd get up, no alarm clock, probably somebody kicked you out of your tent. Up at the crack of dawn, some coarse, plain breakfast, the same breakfast you had the last 365 days of the last year, and then off to work. Working in the hot Egyptian sun, the same work you did yesterday, the day before, the week before, and the month before, laying the same bricks in the same kind of order, getting the same straw, mixing the same mortar to produce the same kinds of buildings for the same kind of city in the same way that you've always done and will do for the rest of your life. Utterly boring Besides that, the people who supervise your work never have a kind thing to say to you. They kick you around, literally, treat you like an animal. Never say any word of encouragement for what you've done. No sense of satisfaction of what you've accomplished. They're literally called slave drivers And that's their job, to get the most work out of you so that they will meet their quotas and somebody won't be on their butt. And so your life is a life of unremitting misery. You have children, and your children are slaves, and you see your children mistreated. You see them abused. You see them without any kind of a normal childhood. You remember your sister who had a baby at that time when Pharaoh decided that there were too many boys in the land and perhaps they would grow up and become an army that would be a threat and revolt against Egypt And so he decided that the Hebrew babies would be thrown into the Nile. And you remember that day when your sister took her little baby boy, and it was ripped from her arms. And the little baby was thrown into the Nile, where it was immediately besieged by thrashing crocodiles and eaten alive. There's no hope in your life. You have no future. There's nothing to plan for. There's no vacations. No hope for anything better. If you get sick, you won't be treated. You'll simply die and be replaced in the line. Absolutely without hope. This is your life. A life of bondage. You are a slave, and there is no hope for your release. There's no possibility that you could revolt against Egypt on your own. No hope of running away through the desert. No hope of escape. Unless somebody were to purchase your freedom, you will remain in bondage and you will die in that bondage. A life that is utterly hopeless. And the Bible says that that is your life and my life. As slaves to the law, with its unremitting demands upon us, slaves to sin and that nature within us Whereby we know to do better, but we are unable to escape the habits and the compulsive behavior that enslaves us. Fear of people, a need to succeed in order to feel good about ourselves and unable to do what we so desperately want to do. to escape the bondage of those habits in which we live in chains to them. What about the second then? Consider Israel's ransom and ours. Israel's ransom and ours. Look again at verse 6. God says to the Israelites, say to them, I am Yahweh, and I will bring you out from under the yoke of the Egyptians. I will free you from being slaves to them, and I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with mighty acts of judgment. Three times there you see God describes their slavery as a yoke, slaves That they're powerless. And he says he'll bring them out. He's going to free them. He's going to redeem them. And you see that word means that I will purchase you. I will pay the price. Necessary for your freedom. And so the Bible goes on to tell us about how God redeemed them with power, with outstretched arm and mighty acts of judgment. And he carried out plague after plague in order to humble Pharaoh in Egypt. Lice and hail and darkness and blood and flies and on and on and on it goes Nine plagues, and there's nothing that utterly humbles them. They're still as arrogant as ever. Until the tenth plague. For God says, now you have not listened to me, and so I am going to take the firstborn of every home. And God says he's going to sweep through Egypt with the angel of death. And he's going to utterly obliterate in each home the firstborn out of that home. No exception for Israel, for anyone living there, except those of his people who will believe his word and kill a lamb. And then with a hyssop take the blood of that lamb and sprinkle it on the doorposts of their home. And by trusting in that blood provided by the Lamb, God says the angel of death will pass over that home. And we get from that activity the term the Passover Lamb. In Exodus 12, 27, that Passover lamb is described as a sacrifice. to substitute for Israel. And that Passover lamb, then, is the lamb by which Israel is substituted by the blood of that lamb. So that death passes over them, and that death becomes the payment price of their freedom. Thirteen hundred years later, God sent his son Jesus. And when John the Baptist introduced him to the world, how did he introduce him? Do you remember he said, Behold, here is the Lamb of God. Who takes away the sins of the world. And so Jesus becomes the Passover Lamb. And Jesus sheds his blood on the cross as a substitute for you and for me and anyone who trusts him. That that blood alone Will become the payment price to release you from the bondage of your sin and those habits from which you cannot escape in any other way. And Jesus sheds his blood. And the payment is made. And the freedom is secured for anyone who sees that payment. as necessary and sufficient for release from their bondage. Have you ever admitted To God, that you are hopelessly and helplessly in bondage to your sin? Or do you see the Christian life as something which comes to you as a list of requirements? Which basically you are able to fulfill by militant self-discipline and a baptism of prayer on top for God to help you to do it. Until you and I see ourselves as hopelessly in bondage to the law and to sin. We will never really rest in the payment of Jesus Christ and know the power of Jesus to release us from the bondage of that sin. Amen? A few of you have experienced that. It's true. Really is true. The more we go on, the more I go on as a Christian The more I understand, there is no alternative to my overcoming the sin and the enslavery of my background the ways that I form my sin patterns, the root sins that dominate my life, any more for me to escape those than there was for an Egyptian for a Hebrew slave to walk free out of Egypt and expect to escape. You see the picture? God has given to us a graphic picture that in Israel's bondage and in the purchase price of their freedom You and I would see the escape from the bondage that enslaves us in our own day. They could not save themselves, but God, Yahweh. Said, I am the sovereign power, the sovereign redeemer, and I will do anything that it takes to purchase the freedom of my people, even the blood of my Son. He did it for them. They walked free out of Egypt. And he'll do it for you. Consider finally then for a few minutes. The nature of Israel's freedom and ours. Israel's freedom, that's the last blank on the back, and ours. God brought Israel out to freedom. But even in the going out, you remember how their enemies pursued them. In order to overtake them and bring them back into bondage. And you and I, as Christians, need to understand that whatever those bondage patterns of our lives have been. When we come to Christ, they don't disappear. That old master is always standing there ready to enslave you again. And the only way that you experience that freedom is to claim that freedom and to claim it in Jesus Christ by faith and to walk with him. Recognizing on a daily basis that He alone is your freedom. And so when they went out through the Red Sea and God parted that sea, so they walked through on dry ground, God saw their enemies coming to enslave them again, and you remember what he did? God took those seas which had been the very element of Israel's salvation for them to pass through that sea, the picture of baptism in the New Testament. And then God took those seas, and as the Egyptian army came tearing through that in hot pursuit, God closed the waters. You can remember, think with your mind's eye the screams and the cries of the horses. As the chariot wheel sank down into the mud, and as the soldiers screamed and cried and saw the waters come crashing down on top of them like a dam that had burst, And all their cries and shrieks go up for just a matter of a couple of minutes until the waters swirling close over where they had been. Then you look, and all is quiet. For the enemies of God's people have disappeared. Yahweh has redeemed them. Yahweh has stretched forth his arm and he has destroyed their enemies because they walked in faith to follow him. I think it's significant that the most effective, the largest Bible-believing ministry to homosexuals in our day has chosen as its name Exodus International. Because with insight they understand that whether it's bondage to homosexuality or anything else It's God who has got to redeem. But that God is able to bring his people out from under the bondage and the slavery of whatever it is that has held you captive in your life and threatens to continue to do so this morning. Maybe you think you're winning and maybe you think you're losing. But it doesn't depend on assessing your own abilities. It depends on one thing. That you would look to Jesus for your freedom. That you would look to Jesus who stands ready to save you. That you would look to Jesus by faith, whatever that is in your life that is threatening to enslave you and to hold you captive. Romans chapter 6, verse 6 tells us, you were a slave, but you have been set free when you were raised with Jesus Christ. Because he who has died to sin has died once, and if you are joined to Jesus by your faith, then you are joined to him in his resurrection. And that resurrection is unto freedom. Freedom that He has purchased for you once and for all and calls you now to claim it. By the payment that He has made. Romans 7 says, you are freed from the law. That law can no longer enslave you by its demands because Jesus has become your new master. And he's a master that you love to serve. And you serve him not in your own strength, but in the power of the Spirit. And the Spirit can enable you to experience freedom from that bondage in your life. I still remember, and I've shared it with you, some of you before, how some years ago I was preaching on Romans chapter 6. And there sitting in the congregation that morning was a fellow who was in the bondage of alcoholism. His wife and family had left him. He had lost his job. He was staying with someone in the congregation at that time. simply to be able to live and survive, and they were showing him mercy and trying to help him, but there wasn't much progress being made. He had no victory over his alcohol. That morning, as I spoke of the freedom that we have in Jesus Christ, purchased once for all, so that we are dead, alive people, having died to the power of sin. And having been raised with Jesus Christ to a new authority, so that whatever the bondage that's held us, we can look at that bondage and say, I am not that person who was under that bondage. That person has died. And Jesus Christ has given me freedom to walk out of that. And all of a sudden he said, you know, I realized there was nothing holding me in my chains but my unbelief. And that morning he said, I looked at myself as a person who is dead and alive in Jesus Christ. And he said, I look to Christ and I look to him every hour and every day from that point on. And to the last I had had contact with him, he never touched another drink from that morning on. In his own strength? No. He'll be the first one to tell you. But it was in the strength of Jesus Christ, whose strength he appropriated not by his effort, but by his faith. In Jesus. And that faith worked out in new patterns of discipline and behavior. Some months later he was reconciled to his wife and to his family. Went to her where she was living, got a job, and been helped through our church and its deacons' funds to some extent. Was the only person I ever knew that in the years later wrote back to us, replaced all that he had received, and gave more, that we would be able to help people like him to know freedom in Christ. What's your slavery this morning? Jesus stands ready to free you. And if there's someone that you know who's in that bondage Perhaps he wants us to use you as an agent to declare to them the freedom they can have in Jesus Christ. Let's pray Lord our God, we come to ask that you would give us the taste of the freedom that we can have in Jesus Christ. That we would not dishonor you with our unbelief, but we would take whatever that is that holds us in bondage. Present it to you now, believing. That you have purchased the freedom for everyone who trusts you. And that includes us if we have turned from our own sin to trust you. And to know the freedom that you right now can give us Hear us, Lord. We believe you stand ready to redeem us in Jesus' name.