In May of 1989, I began a series on the names of God. Because I believe that one of the greatest problems that we as Americans at the end of the 20th century have is that we think too much about ourselves. and too little about our God. How refreshing after a long introspection In the depths of it, considering what a wreck I am, to come up and burst into the fresh air of a new vision of God and how wonderful He is. How worthy he is of our worship. Worship, you know, is a big concern of the contemporary church And yet so often I'm afraid it's the experience of the worship that is our concern, more than simply being lost in the wonder of adoring the face of our Jesus. And so we're back to the basics. To see who God is. And I think one of the very best ways to do this, to understand him and his character. is to look at the names that he has revealed himself to us by. In the scripture, he has given us over 20 names, by which he has revealed his character and his nature to us. And in May 1989 we began to look at those. And from May 89 to February 90, we looked at six of those names in 20 messages. And now, finally, we get to the most wonderful name of all. This name is so wonderful, so basic, it's the root of at least nine compound names in Scripture. It's the most distinctive of all of God's names. The Bible calls it his covenant name It's the name that in your Bibles is translated by the word Lord. Capital L small capital O-R-D. We're going to be looking at Exodus 3, so turn to Exodus 3. You see that, for example, in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 4, when the Lord saw that he, Moses, had gone over to look. God called. God is a totally different name. Elohim that we looked at in the past. But this name, Lord, capital L small caps or r d is entirely different from when you see that name capital L small O R D in your Bible. That's the name Adonai that we looked at. A totally different name from Lord with small caps in your Bible. That name, with the small caps, the covenant name of God, appears in the Old Testament 6,823 times. Now I didn't count them this week. I read that somewhere. I've read it a couple of places. So uh somewhere around there, 6,823 times, the most frequently used name of God in all the Old Testament. That name is so sacred that when the Masoretic scribes that copied the Bible over would come to that name, each time they would come to this covenant name of God, The scribe would retire into his chambers. He would take off his clothes, take a bath, put on a new clean set of clothes, and come back with a brand new pen to write that name That's how sacred it was treated by the Hebrews. This name, you know, that that would mean that for that scribe, just to write the book of Jerod, the chapter Jeremiah 33, you had to take 39 baths. When he wrote Deuteronomy 28, he needed 40 new pens. But it was worth it because God's name was so sacred. It was so sacred that the Jews never pronounced the name. They would read that name and they would pronounce it Adonai. And that's how you have the link of the Lord with the small caps and the Lord with the small letters. Because they would take the consonants of the name Adonai and they put that with the excuse me, they take the vowels of the name Adonai and they place that with the consonants, Y H W H, which You see at the top, that's the basic Hebrew letters for this covenant name. And when you put those together, you come out with This they would use, excuse me, they would replace that covenant name by reading the name Adonai. And six since the 16th century, the church has pronounced that name Jehovah. Now Jehovah is taking those vowels from the name Adonai and putting them with these consonants, Y-H-W-H, or the Y sometimes becomes replaced with a J in various And so it's almost certain that the correct pronunciation of that name is not in fact Jehovah. That comes from that strange mixture. Scholarship has all but for certain established that the correct pronunciation of this name is Yahweh. But there's a problem because it was liberal critical scholarship that first seemed to come upon that, and so through the last twenty, thirty, forty years. He would often read of God's covenant name as Yahweh in unbelieving literature. Literature that was belittling God and was saying that he was simply a little Israelitish deity. I remember a professor I had in college. University of Pennsylvania was not a very believing college, and I was naive enough to take a Bible course there. And my professor would refer to Yahweh, that little Israelitish tribal deity. And so I've always had trouble looking at Yahweh as the name of God. But, you know, it's sort of like the English and metric system, like inches and centimeters. You know the metric is superior, but you're familiar with the inches, you know, and so you keep hanging on to the inches even though you know that the other is better. I remember hearing of a preacher in the South that was a scholar, and he would refer to God always as Yahweh, which was the accurate way. Uh the right way probably of referring to God's covenant name. But people began to think he was establishing a new cult. This cult of Yahweh. One of the people in the congregation said, Who's this Yahoo the preacher keeps talking about? And they didn't know that this was God's covenant name and that this was in fact what the Bible was speaking of. Well, so that's a dilemma for me as we go through these names of God. And I'm going to try using this name Yahweh because one of the great scholars of the 20th century, a man by the name of Deerhardis Voss, wrote back in 1948, That it's almost certain that the name should be pronounced Yahweh, but because of the critical associations of it, we don't use it But then he said, when the church, when the church should restore this pronunciation in its usage, when some of the critical overtones shall have evaporated. That was 1948 Now in 1991, let's hope that some of that has evaporated and that we can restore the proper pronunciation of God's name But I'll tell you, if I start hearing that I'm establishing a new cult around here, and people begin to think that they're so uncomfortable hearing the name Yahweh, then I may just reconsider and go back to calling him Jehovah. And then you'd be more comfortable. But let's try to understand that to see if we can in fact. Maybe by using a name that's not so familiar to us. Grasp the fact that we don't understand God as well as we thought, and therefore be more open to learn new things about him. Now, more important than how we pronounce it, of course, is what does the name mean? And that's what we want to look at. There's remarkable little clarity and agreement from the scholars on what this name in fact does mean. You see in your bulletin outline that I have offered a little diagram here that is my own approach to this thing Now I'm going to seek to establish a different way of looking at this name, and you've got to examine Scripture, which is our basis. It's our only infallible rule of practice in faith And I want you to look at that and see if you think that by the Scripture this in fact is getting at what God's covenant name means. I believe he defines that name in the book of Exodus And I believe that he does that in two ways. He lays the basis for this name, the foundation, as you see, of that house in Exodus chapter 3. Where he speaks of his basic understanding, the basic meaning of that name. Then in Exodus 6, he goes on to build three pillars of that name. He talks about three different aspects of the meaning of that name, each one vital to its understanding, because it's such a full name. It reveals God in such a fullness that no one single idea can fully grasp it. And then after these three pillars are raised up and they're recapped then in Exodus 34, then you have the whole New Testament to build the roof on it. and show how Jesus is the fulfillment of that covenant name Yahweh. How Jesus comes to fulfill all that God had begun to reveal to his people in bringing them out from Egypt. And taking them out of bondage. And so we want to look this morning briefly at Exodus chapter 3 just to lay the foundation of this name. This doesn't give you the fullness of it, it lays the foundation for it. And so I want to take this time to just be able to look at that. Because this name is so interesting and there may be a number of questions that you have for it, this morning I'm going to offer time for a sermon discussion for you to just ask questions for us to discuss it because we begin the newcomers class this morning back here behind the stage in C126. At 11 o'clock, anyone who wants to come back and ask a question about this or anything that I'm saying in the message or share an insight or some application or an exhortation. Come on back. We'll have 15 minutes from 11 to 1115. If you stay till eleven sixteen, you're part of the newcomer's class. But uh from eleven to eleven fifteen, I will be able to discuss anything that you want to about that. You can bring your coffee and tea back there. Uh at least that's one advantage of meeting back there rather than here in Smith Theater. Well now, Exodus chapter 3, you may recall, is where Moses meets God. You remember the setting of it. Moses Forty years before, had fled from Egypt because he was escaping a murder charge. And for 40 years he's been living in Midian as a refugee, an exile, a shepherd, once the prince of Egypt. And now simply a shepherd tending sheep out in the wilderness. Moses is convinced that he'll spend the rest of his days, as many years as God gives him. He's 80 at this point. As many years as God gives him, he will spend there in the wilderness, and that's all he has to look forward to. And not a terribly exciting life. Until one day he meets God. Now I want you for the next few minutes to put yourself in Moses' sandals and to the best you can imagine place yourself in his situation to think what would it mean for you to meet God in revealing himself to you like this. And I want you in that to consider whether you are in fact open to God surprising you this morning in meeting you, surprising you right here in Smith Theater with his presence. To be open to a transforming experience in which the living God comes to meet you and reveal Himself to you in all the fullness of what Yahweh, the covenant-keeping God, means. If you're not here open to that, then why did you come? Are you really open to God surprising you with His presence? Let's seek to do that as we hear God's word and receive that word as we look at Exodus chapter 3 in the life of Moses. Now Moses was tending the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the far side of the desert and came to Horod, which is called Sinai, the mountain of God. There the angel of the Lord, Yahweh, appeared to him in flames of fire from within a bush. Moses saw that though the bush was on fire, it did not burn up And so Moses thought, I will go over and see this strange sight. Why the bush does not burn up. Now when the Lord, there it is again, Yahweh, saw that he had gone over to look, God, now that's Elohim, another name we've looked at. God called to him from within the bush, Moses, Moses. And Moses said, here I am. Do not come any closer, God said. Take off your sandals, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. Then he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. At this Moses hid his face because he was afraid to look at God. The Lord Yahweh said, I have indeed seen the misery of my people in Egypt. I have heard them crying out because of their slave drivers. And I am concerned about their suffering. And so I have come down to rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land into a good and spacious land. A land flowing with milk and honey, the home of the Canaanites, the Hittites, Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And now the cry of the Israelites has reached me, and I have seen the way the Egyptians are oppressing them. So now go. I am sending you to Pharaoh to bring my people, the Israelites, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the Israelites out of Egypt? And God said, I will be with you. And this will be the sign to you that it is I who have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you will worship God on this mountain. Moses said to God, suppose I go to the Israelites and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name? Then what am I, shall I tell him? God said to Moses, I am who I am. This is what you are to say to the Israelites. I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, say to the Israelites, The Lord, Yahweh. The God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob has sent me to you. This is my name forever. The name by which I am to be remembered from generation to generation. Here God catches up this old man short. And he says to him out in that barren, barren wilderness, Moses, look around. There's not a soul in sight. There's no noise that's heard except the noise of the wind and the bleeding of the sheep. There's no one here. You're all alone With me. See this place, Moses? In a short space of time, you're going to see a couple of million people gathered around here. They're all going to be worshiping me as free people, no longer slaves. In bondage. I've said to you sometimes in the past that vision is the ability to see with the eye of faith what your eye cannot see in your present circumstances. Can you imagine the vision it took for Moses to look around at this desolate wilderness and to picture God's people currently slaves? under the mightiest nation on earth and to picture them as free people out there worshiping God? That's vision. We as a congregation are committed to erecting a $1. 7 million facility in order that people from Columbia and the Howard County region will be delivered from bondage. In support groups, in men's fellowship, in women's fellowships, in youth ministry, in a full-size gymnasium, and all kinds of opportunities. So people will come from bondage into freedom in Jesus Christ. But you go over there right now and it's just a property with a house on it. And it takes vision to be able to see that God is able to bring this to pass. What is it that enables a person to have that kind of vision? It's an understanding of who the God is who has called you to see that vision And so you see, after God has revealed this to Moses, his immediate question in verse 13. Now you notice Moses, he you know he's he wants to be diplomatic. He don't want to lay the whole thing out. And so he doesn't say, God, there's no way. I can imagine this happening. But what he does is he says, Now Lord, suppose I go to these Israelites and I say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name? Then what shall I tell them? And you see what this old man is really saying is, God, I don't know what you're really like. Who are you? That you are sending me to the mightiest nation on earth in order to release them, these people from bondage I mean it's sort of like God saying to you tomorrow morning out in your backyard, I'm sending you over to Iraq single-handed to deliver Kuwait. And you say, well, it's a nice idea, Lord, but how are we going to pull this off? And you see, the basic thing to answer that question is not how you're going to do it. It's who are you that dares call me to do this? And oh, that you and I would have that kind of desperation that Moses had that says to God, God God, what are you really like? What is your name? You see, when the Hebrew said, What is your name? He was asking the character of the person. And Moses was saying, God, what are you really like? You know, maybe you should take some comfort in that. Here's a fellow who was ultimately to be the man who perhaps walked closest with God of any man in the Old Testament. The Bible says you walk with God face to face, not like the prophets or anyone else. And yet at age 80, he's asking God what his name is. Maybe you're getting a late start. But there's hope for every one of us who seek God at any point in our lives and say, God, what are you really like? And when you do, God will reveal Himself to you and give you an honest answer in the face of Jesus Christ, just like Like he did Moses. For that's what he does. You look there at verse 14, and God responds to Moses' question. Now you notice that in verse 14 it says that God said to Moses, that's Elohim. And Moses, of course, knew that God was known by Elohim. But there were many Elohims. There are true Elohim. There was the one true Elohim, but there were many false Elohims. But this name that God reveals to Moses now. Is a name that is used of no other God in the ancient world. There is no such thing as a true Yahweh and the false Yahweh's. There is no other Yahweh Only God, the God of the Israelites, used this name to identify himself. And so God says to Moses, I am who I am. That's what you are to say to most to the people. Now that name may not seem to reveal a whole lot to you. In fact, I think the name is so mysterious it's in some ways more enigmatic than it is revealing. It raises more questions. Then it does provide answers. God says, Moses says to God, God, what is your name? God says, I am who I am. That's my name Well, if somebody asked you your name and you answered in that kind of a way, it wouldn't be very helpful. But what God is doing is he's telling Moses a couple of very, very important things. And time's moving along, so I only want very briefly to tell you what those two things are that Moses is saying, excuse me, that God is saying to Moses about who he is. The first thing that God is saying is that I am the sovereign self-determining one. That's the first blank in your bulletin outline. I am the sovereign, self-determining one. That is, I am able to do all things. That's the second blank. I am able To do all things. Verse 14. I am who I am, or I am what I determine. This is what you were to say to the Israelites, I am has sent me to you. God is saying there that he depends on no one and nothing. For he is the eternal I am, who was never created, who had no beginning, who was utterly independent of anything else in all created reality, and exists beyond created reality. C. S. Lewis once said that if you imagine a scroll of paper going all the way out beyond the sun and into the solar system, and beyond our galaxy and into the farthest reaches of the universe, both ways. He says, as you imagine that scroll extended infinitely both directions. And then in front of you there is a one-inch line. That one-inch line represents all of human history in comparison with the eternality of God. You get the picture when you and I ask, what is the present and the past and the future to God? It's like asking a person looking back from horizon to horizon, Where on that point are you conscious? God is conscious of all time and beyond it, one sweep of his mind, for he's the eternal I am. And all human history is but a one-inch line before his gaze. I am who I am. And because he is totally independent, he is the all-powerful one, able to do all things. And you and I can't begin to grasp what it means for God to be utterly powerful, sovereign in every possible way. We haven't had an astronomical example for a while, so Doug's getting a little restless Remember that uh this is Steve back there too and a few others. Remember that light travels 186,000 miles per second. That means that the sun's 8. 3 light minutes away. Now if you were to go to the closest star beyond the Sun, that would be Alpha Centauri, 4. 3 light years away. Now let's picture the distance between the Earth and Alpha Centauri as a scale in which that distance is two city blocks long. The Earth to a star, the nearest star beyond the Sun, 4. 3 light years away, is a distance measured by two city blocks. Our own galaxy is simply our neighborhood of stars. There are billions of galaxies within this universe that God has created How far on that scale would it be across the galaxy of our own neighborhood, with the nearest star two city blocks away? Well let me tell you this, if you were to travel all the way out to California, you'd be at about the halfway point on that kind of a scale. You see, what God is saying to Moses is, Moses, I know I've called you to do a impossible task, but you see what he said in verse 12? The point is, I am with you. I can handle it, Moses. I am who I am. I am what I have determined to be. And what I've called you to do, I will enable you to do. And what God has called you to do, He will enable you to do. Because it doesn't depend on your power. It depends on the power of the one who has called you. Do you believe that this morning Perhaps God's calling you to do something that's utterly impossible in your imagination, but he says, I am with you, and I am I am I am the one who is the I am who I am, who I determined to be, and I am with you to fulfill what I've called you to do. Now he's able. But is he willing? Is he willing in your such situation? Was he willing here? I'm glad you asked that question. Because that's what he addresses in the next verse. You see, he goes on to say in verse 15, God also said to Moses, say to the Israelites, Yahweh. The God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob has sent me to you. This is my name forever, Yahweh, the name by which I am to be remembered from generation to generation. And in this, God is revealing the second thing, that he is the sovereign covenant-initiating one. He is the sovereign covenant initiating one. You see, he calls himself the God of Abraham, the God who made the covenant With Abraham, who called Abraham out to himself and initiated that covenant and said that I'm going to create a people through you who will be my people. And so God has said earlier when he was talking to Moses, remember back there in verse 7, my people are in Egypt. I've heard my people crying out in bondage. I'm concerned about their suffering. And so I have come down to rescue them. Because I established the covenant with them. I am the covenant initiating one. And so Yahweh is willing to deliver in the time of need. And that's the second The covert sovereign covenant initiating one is willing to deliver in time of need. He's not only able to do all things, he is willing to deliver those who trust in him. And so he will bring Israel out from under the bondage of the mightiest nation on earth as slaves who will be sent out in freedom. He will bring them through the Red Sea and parted before them, and then he will drown their enemies and destroy them. He will bring them into his paradise land after they have worshiped at this mountain that Moses stands here all alone. And soon, in just months' time, God is going to have millions of the men, women, children, and all their animals gathered here as his free people. And he's going to give them a Passover, so that the angel of death who destroys the enemies of God will pass over them and they will be forgiven and they will be safe in his care. Then he will send his own son as the Passover Lamb to curse him in the place of his people so that you and I can be delivered from the bondage of our sin. Of those things that enslave us in our lives. And we will be forgiven, and we will be given new lives in Jesus Christ because Yahweh has been willing to deliver us. Amen. Amen. You see, God's not only able, he's willing. And so this name is the name which is given, intended to build faith. That's on the back side of your bullet. This name is a name intended to build faith in the face of fear. It's a name which is intended to build confidence in the face of doubt. Moses is called to be doing something entirely beyond his own ability. But God is saying, I am with you. And I can handle it. And so God is establishing here a contest of power between Yahweh, the I am who I am. And the gods of Egypt. And God will demonstrate that He is the one true living God to His people. And He will deliver them And he continues to deliver today because to this very day there continue to be contests of power between Yahweh, the I Am, and the gods of this age. I read recently of a missionary in Erie and Jaya to a tribe of headhunters. As the missionary came to that tribe, he tried to speak of them of the power and the love of Jesus Christ to forgive them And they heard his message, but they said, we couldn't believe in your God, and he said, why not? And they said, because if we did, our God would kill us And he said, but my God is more powerful than your God. And he's able to protect you from your God. And they say, you've never met our God. He'll kill you too. And he said, but my God is stronger. And it was a contest of power, but they had no way to settle it then. And so there the matter lay Until some months later, that missionary was out with some guys in the jungle, and he met their God. He didn't see anything, but all of a sudden, out of the silence, there came a horrible, blood-curdling scream like he had never heard before. His heart failed within him. His knees turned to water. He sank down in terror that he had never known and began to sink into the swamp. And then it occurred to him what he was up against, what was happening, the overpowering sense of evil. And he cried out in the name of Jesus that Jesus would rebuke the demons and protect him. And that he would reign over that region and show his power. And immediately the screaming ceased. And he felt an incredible peace like he had never felt before. He went back to that village with the guides. And they said, what he says is true. His God is more powerful than our God. And the whole village gave their lives to Jesus Christ. And after Japanese, the Japanese lost World War II. They saw World War II as a contest of spiritual powers. At the end of World War II, when the emperor was de-deified and he had to surrender, the Japanese said, Our God was not powerful enough to defeat the God of the Americans. Said Japan is in spiritual bankruptcy. And now they are open to the gospel. The missionaries didn't go. The Bibles were woefully short. And we have been paying for that ever since. Because the Japanese concluded that the God of the Americans was secular materialism. And that's the God God they've worshipped. And we're in contests of power right here and now. Contest of power between whether God, the God that you and I worship, is able to deliver people who are in bondage in Howard. County. The bondage of broken homes, the bondage of substance abuse, financial bondage. The bondage of stress and every kind of escape to cope with stress. You and I say, our God is the I am who I am. And God wants through you and through me to demonstrate that He is the true and living God, the God who can conquer all our fears with His Power. What are your fears this morning? Do you believe that He is able to deliver you? Do you believe that He is not only able, but that He is willing? Then let's pray. Oh Lord our God We come here in the name of Yahweh who has revealed himself in the person of Jesus Christ. And you have revealed to us here, that you revealed to Moses, that you are the great I Am. The Eternal One, dependent on nothing and no one, able to do all things, able even to deliver us from our bondage. You are the one who is willing. Because you're the covenant-initiating one who established yourself as the God of Abraham and identified yourself with us sinners through Jesus Christ. So we come with our fears now, Lord, whatever they are. And we ask that you would deliver us. Build our faith through the revelation of who you are.