Our text this morning comes from Numbers chapter six. If you have a copy of the scriptures with you, I'd ask that you would turn with me to Numbers chapter six I'll be beginning at verse twenty-two and reading through verse twenty-seven. The words will also be projected there behind me. Before we read and turn to God's word, let us go to Him in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, you are so good to us. Lord, you bless and keep your people. Father, I thank you for your word that you are not a silent God, that you are not a God who is a far-off or distant, a God who is unknowable, but that you reveal yourself to us. That we might know life in Jesus Christ. Father, I pray for us today that you would help us to be hearers of your word, that you will help us at this time. To allow the distractions of the world to fade away that we might focus in on your living word. And Father, it's only in the name of Jesus that we pray. Amen. Numbers chapter six, verses twenty-two to twenty-seven. Hear the living and true God, hear his word. And the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the way you shall bless the children of Israel. Say to them. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. So they shall put my name on the children of Israel, and I will bless them. May God bless his word. Well, this might be a familiar passage to you. At least the words of this passage might be familiar to you. Maybe in a less familiar book, in the book of Numbers. And you know these words, these words you will often hear at the end of the service in the benediction, at the end of the service. And though these words might be familiar to you, I wonder if you were like me, not really understanding what they meant or even why we do that whole benediction and the The pastor raises his hands at the end of the service. What is that all about? What do these words even mean? And certainly we all want to be blessed. We all want to be blessed. We all want God's favor in our lives. But how do we find this blessing? How do we receive this blessing? You see, even in this troubled world and we look around us, even some of the things many of you are facing, we sometimes wonder, where is this blessing, God? And that's what I want us to consider this morning. I want us to look at where this blessing comes from. Where's the source of this blessing? And then what this blessing is, and then finally, how do we get it? How do we receive this blessing of God? So that's uh where we're heading, that's where we're going in this text. So first I want us to consider, where does this blessing come from? Well, it's pretty obvious in the text. This blessing comes from the Lord. He's the source of this blessing. The Lord. Right? If you look at the text there, it says, the Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you. The Lord, the Lord, the Lord. The Lord repeats himself three times as the one who is the one who blesses And then at the end of this passage in verse 27, just in case you missed it somehow, the Lord says again to Moses, I, I myself, this emphatic me, I will bless them. So why do you think there's so much emphasis here in this small text about where this blessing comes from? About where our blessing comes from. Why is there so much emphasis here that the Lord is the one who gives the blessing? Well, I think it's because we tend to look for our blessings in other places, don't we? In in Jeremiah chapter 2, verse 13, the Lord laments of this tendency of ours and also of Israel. He says My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewed out cisterns for themselves, broken cisterns that can hold no water. You see, of instead of going to God and seeking His blessing, the one from whom all blessings flow, the fountain of living waters. We often try to find our own blessings in places where there is no true blessing at all to be found in broken cisterns. Instead of the fresh springs of living water in God, and God's blessings that flow from the Lord, we find ourselves scratching around in stagnant, muddy pools that we're trying to get blessings from. For Israel, that meant looking to other countries like Egypt and Assyria to protect them from their enemies instead of trusting the Lord to protect them. It meant worshiping idols of other nations for Israel. It meant making that golden calf and worshiping it But just like Israel, we too have tried to find blessings in other places, haven't we? We have our own broken cisterns, we have our own muddy pools, and we try to drink from these and find true blessing. Some of us have maybe tried to find blessings and possessions. We've tried to find significance by acquiring everything on our wish lists, on our on our want list, and the to be as comfortable as possible. And perhaps your list includes a a beautiful house, a luxury car, fine clothes, or or maybe the the latest electronic device. You see and you think if you had those things Then you then you would truly be blessed. Or perhaps maybe you you try to find your blessing in relationships. You want to have that wife or husband, or maybe you want to have that better wife or husband, or that obedient son or daughter, and you think if you just had those Well then you would be truly blessed. Or maybe if you're similar to me, you might find your seek to find blessing in People respecting you, wanting people to think highly of you, you want your colleagues to admire you, you want your friends to like you, and you think if you only had those things, well then you would be truly blessed. And you see, you can discover actually where you're seeking your blessing by the ways, by taking the time to examine the ways when you get anger uh angry. Um when you're in despair, by tracing the heart of your fears, you can tend to find the things that you're seeking your blessing from. By following these things it'll tend to map and uncover where you're finding that hope of blessing. You see, our strong emotions and our actions often show and reveal what's going on in our heart. And what we will find is that we've been seeking blessing in all the wrong places. For the true source of blessing Comes from the Lord alone. And that's why we see it repeated so many times that the true source of blessing comes from God alone. It comes from the Lord alone. So if blessing is not having possessions, if blessing is not having perfect relationships, or blessing is not being respected by all, what is it? What is this blessing? How is it that we're blessed? Well, here in this benediction in our text, God gives us a little bit of an understanding of what that is. Our text tells us what that blessing the Lord gives. And the first few syllables of the first word, if you look at the text, it's it's broken up into three lines, right? Each line beginning the Lord, the Lord, the Lord. And in that first line, you you see it has the fewest syllables and the fewest words. And then the second line has a little bit more syllables and a few more words. And then the third line climaxes with the uh this idea that the people of God will rest before God in peace. As he delightfully looks upon them. This blessing is kind of building up in anticipation. And here in this first line we see, the Lord bless you and keep you. We see keeping here is to guard. It's to preserve. The God who rescued his people from slavery, right? The people, the people that God delivered from Egypt. He will not leave them. He will protect them. He will guide them. He will keep them. He will guard and preserve them. He will persevere his people to the end. God is not only God who saves, but he perseveres and he keeps his people as a father cares for his children, so God cares, protects, and keeps his children. The Lord knows exactly what we need and He gives it to us at exactly the right time and exactly the right measure. And then in the second line we see the Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. You see, true blessing, true blessing is to know God face to face. The idea of having God's face shine when he looks at us is a wonderful image. Have you ever seen anyone's face shine? Not because of heat, as it's been fairly hot, but have you ever really seen someone's face shine because of excitement or delight? Maybe if you've ever watched a child at Christmas time open up a present, you see their face shine. Or maybe you perhaps you've you've seen a young couple walking through the park. And they look at each other and they glow with delight being together. Their faces are are shining towards each other. Well, you see, this is the heart of blessing, to have the Lord delight in us so much that it's as if his face is shining towards us. Our Heavenly Father's face beams as He looks upon us. Can you imagine God delighting in you in that way? Don't we long for that? To know our Father's delight in us, to know he loves us. You see, God's shining face to his people means grace to them. When God's face shine upon us, it means that he's being gracious to us. God's face shines with salvation and love towards his people. When God's face shines, it means salvation. Listen to Psalm 80, verse 3. It says, Restore us, O God. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved. The Lord's face shines towards you by graciously saving you. And then in this last line here, this climactic build of this blessing, it says The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. You see, lifted countenance literally means lifted face. To be before the face of God. Some of you might recall Isaiah VI, known as the the Holy God chapter, one of R. G. Sproul's favorite chapters about Where the angels are crying, holy, holy, holy. And in Isaiah six, the angels fly around the throne room. of heaven and they cover their face for no one can see God's face and live because God is so holy And yet this blessing calls for God's face to be upon his people rather than death. His people will have peace. Peace before their holy, holy, holy God. And God offers salvation and peace and his blessing. So how do we receive this blessing? We all want to be blessed, and how do we receive this blessing of the Lord? The true blessing. If we can be blessed by anything, how do we receive this blessing from the Lord? Well, the Lord gives it to his people freely. It's out of his grace and mercy that he gives us his blessing. I think often that we we feel that we need to steal a blessing from God, that we need to manipulate him somehow and in in our good deeds or or in what we're doing. We need to manipulate the hand of God. We need to force a blessing out of his reluctant grasp. We aren't sure that he approves of us. We had a bad week. But we see in this passage, what do we see in this passage? That it is God who gives it to us. God is the one who initiates this blessing to his people. Aaron doesn't come to the Lord and ask, Lord, how do I bless this people? Moses doesn't first come to the Lord and file a request to initiate the blessing. God comes to Moses and Aaron and says, I want you to place my blessing on this people. And here is how you do it. You see, there's no magic here. There's no trickery, there's no manipulation in God. And his blessing. God initiates his blessing because he wants to bless his people. He wants to give them peace. But here's the amazing thing. What makes God's desire to bless us so amazing is that we don't deserve it at all. You see, in in the two chapters before this blessing in the book of Numbers, there are two whole lists of laws for two very different kinds of people. There are right before our text there's two different lists of laws for two different varied types of people. Numbers five records the laws that reg that are a test for a wife. Who was accused of unfaithfulness. And then here right before our text in number six, we were given laws for a person who was to take a Nazarite vow. That is a a vow to live for a period of time as someone especially devoted to the Lord. Two very different types of people in these chapters. Two completely opposite situations are presented before our text. A faithless wife and someone who is completely devoted to the Lord. Now which of these two people is is more like Israel? At the time when Moses uh or that when the Lord speaks blessing to his people? Is Israel often more like the unfaithful wife? Or is Israel more like the Nazarite? You see, Israel was certainly supposed to be more like the Nazarite. The Nazarite was supposed to be a picture of Israel's devotion and how Israel should be like. But don't we often see as we read scripture and don't we see so many examples of Israel being that faithless wife, going after other gods, seeking other countries, other nations Complaining against the Lord and grumbling and complaining, rebelling, being so unfaithful Well, which of those two people are more like you, you think? More like the unfaithful wife, or more like the Nazarite? Well, if you could recall even in our first point that we considered today We too look for other lovers, don't we? We look for other lovers outside of the Lord to bless us. We grumble and complain. We're no different than the Israelites. We too are are that unfaithful wife. Whether it be possessions or relationships or respect, we're really more like the unfaithful wife as Israel. We're not the Nazirite at all. But God wants to bless his people. He wants to put his name on you Because Jesus came to save sinners. Because Jesus came to seek and to save sinners. You see, we have fallen short. We have been unfaithful. We all deserve God's curse. Not his blessing And God is able to bless faithless people like us because he sent his son who would be completely completely devoted to him in our place. Jesus Christ came and lived a perfect life. He was that true Nazarite who was separated from sin and who kept God's law in every way, perfectly, without sin. You might recall even at Jesus' baptism the words of the Father to Jesus, it said, This is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. And then you hear those good words again when Jesus is transfigured on the mount. This is my son in whom I am well pleased. You see, Jesus knew the Father's face shone toward him in blessing. Jesus knew that the Father's face shone to him with delight. But when Jesus went to the cross, he wasn't simply bearing the weight of a heavy cross on his whipped back. He was carrying the burden of your sin. He was made sin who knew no sin. For us, Jesus took upon himself the very wrath, the very curse of God that we deserved, that we might now be blessed. If there was all it was there on that cross that Jesus felt the curse of God. In fact, the cross is the very antithesis of this text. The cross is the very antithesis of this blessing of the benediction. Did God the Father bless Jesus and keep him when he was on the cross? No. He was handed over to the power of those who hated him and wanted to kill him. Did God the Father make his face shine upon Jesus on the cross? No. He poured out his wrath and his crushing anger upon sin upon him. Did God the Father turn his face toward Jesus on the cross and give him peace? No. He turned his face away from him so that Jesus cried in agony, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? You see, there was no peace there. But because Jesus suffered the curse of God on the cross and paid for your sins. You will always now be blessed. This is God's blessing. This is God's gift. His son to you. In Christ, God will most certainly bless and keep you. In Christ, God will most certainly make his face to shine upon you and be gracious to you. In Christ, God will lift his countenance to you and give you peace. Peace in Jesus Christ. But note here in this text, note here in our text before us, that this is not a general blessing given to all people. This is not a general blessing given to all nations. This blessing is for God's covenant people. So, how do you receive this blessing? How do you receive this blessing from the Lord? Faith. Faith. Believe in Jesus Christ and it is yours. Receive it today in faith, and this blessing is yours. Come to Christ and receive this blessing of new life and peace. Repent of all the ways in which you sought to gain blessing through other broken cisterns. Receive Christ today by faith and receive this blessing. Let me simply conclude by saying That there is no other source of true and lasting blessing apart from the Lord. Remember the Father's love to you in Christ. The Lord knows our weakness in a way. He knows our weakness so much that we easily forget. And we often seek blessings in other wrong places. And that's why the Lord tells Aaron to repeat this blessing often to his people. This is why we conclude each service with God's authoritative and trustworthy proclamation to his people of blessing. We must look to the cross again. We must look and marvel again at God's wondrous love to save us. You see the fulfillment of this blessing rests upon the promise of God in Christ Jesus, not in you. By faith, receive it. Don't miss the end of the service. Don't miss this blessing of the Heavenly Father to his people. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, you are the source of all blessing. There is no other source of blessing apart from you. Lord, forgive us for how often we seek other lovers. We are more like that unfaithful wife. Lord, we thank you for your blessing, how you save us, how you give us peace, how your face shines upon us. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for Jesus who suffered the curse of God, who suffered your wrath and curse. That we might now forever and always be blessed. And it's in the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.