Luke chapter one, verses one to twenty-five Let's give attention to God's own words to us. Many have undertaken to draw up an account of the things that have been fulfilled among us, just as they were handed down to us by those who from the first were eyewitnesses and servants of the word. Therefore, since I myself have carefully investigated everything from the beginning, it seems good also to me to write an orderly account for you, most excellent Theophilus, so that you may know the certainty of the things that you have been taught. In the time of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zachariah, who belonged to the priestly division of Abijah. His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. Both of them were upright in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commandments and regulations blamelessly. But they had no children. Because Elizabeth was down. And they were both well along, we used. Once, when Zachariah's division was on duty and he was serving as priest before God, he was chosen by Lot according to the custom of the priesthood to go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And when the time for the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshippers were praying outside. Then an angel of the Lord appeared to him. Standing at the right side of the altar of incense. When Zechariah saw him, he was startled and was gripped with fear. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah. Your prayer has been heard. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you are to give him the name God. He will be a joy and a delight to you. And many will rejoice because of his birth, but he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He's never to take wine or other fermented drinks. And he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from birth. Many of the people of Israel will he bring back to the Lord, their God. He will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. That wife has amazing. How can I be sure? I'm an old man and my life is well along in years. The angel answers, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God and I have been sent to speak to you and to tell you this good news. And now you will be silent, not able to speak until the days of this happen. That you did not believe my words, which will come true at their proper time. Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zachariah, wondering why he stayed so long in the temple. And when he came out, he could not speak to them. They realized that he had seen a vision in the temple. So he kept making signs to them, but remained unable to speak. When his child of service was completed, he returned home. After this, his wife Elizabeth became pregnant, and for five months remained in seclusion. The Lord has done this for me, she said. In these days he has shown his favor and taken away my disgrace among the people. So far, God's word. Let's give our attention to it now to learn from it, to instruct it. We continue in our Advent series on Luke chapter 1. This year focusing on verses 8 to 17 You remember last week we saw the insight that these verses give us on prayer in the life of Zacharias This week we're going to take a look at the insight that these verses give to us regarding revival as illustrated in the life of John, the promised son. You notice that verses 13 and 14, the angel said, Don't be afraid, Zechariah, your prayers can hurt. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you're to give him the name John. He's going to be a joy and a delight to you. And many will rejoice because of his birth. In fact, verse 16 goes on to say that many of the people of Israel will he bring back to the Lord their God. Now there are six things through of God that we're told in verses fifteen and seventeen That enabled him to be so mightily used of God, to change the course of an entire nation. Three of these in verse 15 have to do with his character, his life. Three of them in verse seventeen have to do with his ministry, his work. You notice that his character comes before his ministry. Take a look at verse fifteen He will be something. And then verse 17, he will go and do something. That's always God's order for us, you know. Character has priority over activity. The God's concern for us is always first that we be something before we're able to do something. He wants to make us to be godly people before we can have any kind of effective ministry. And that's illustrated in this life of John so very clearly. The first thing the angel says is this is what John is going to be like And as a result of that, here's what he's going to be able to do. Three things that he will be, and three things that he will do. And I would like to suggest to you that these principles are generalizable right down to this very day to the man or the woman that God uses. If you and I are going to be used by God in some particular, some special way, if our lives are going to count for Jesus Christ Then we must be similar to what John was. And we must do what John did as we can extract and apply those principles. Three things that must characterize our lives, and three things that must characterize our ministry and our evangelism today. If God is going to use it in a life-changing, even a society change you well. First of all then, what's God's person to be like? Verse 15. What God person must be like. Follow along in your bulletin outline as I go through these versions to see the points there before you add any notes that you care to add. Particularly note down any personal application that you want to make to consider in your own life as we go along First of all then, of the three things that John must be, the first one that the angel mentioned in verse 15 is that he will be great in the sight of the Lord. Notice, beginning of verse 15. He will be great in the fight of the Lord. How brave is he going to be in the fight of the Lord? Well, do you remember Jesus' estimation of God? We're told in Luke chapter 7, in verse 28. Jesus said, I tell you, among those born of women, there's no one greater than God. That's Jesus' estimation of John. He's the greatest man who was ever born. That's how great John was, according to Jesus' own evaluation. Why was John so great? Was he rich? No, as far as you know, he only had one suit of clothes and and those were not the most elaborate uh goat skin, do things like that, you know. Uh his popularity, even though his ministry seemed to make a great splash, was very brief. Probably less than a year And that was only in one small locality in a despised nation of the world. At the age of thirty-one, after being put in prison for the effectiveness of his ministry, he was beheaded. Not the kind of aspiration that most of us would have to be great. Why then was John great? Why was he so great? And what the angel promised and what Jesus said. And the answer is of course very simple. He was grace because he was faithful to what God called him to do. Therein lied John's grace. He had one consuming passion to please his God. His most consuming concern was what Jesus thought of what he did, not what other people thought of what he did. He was great not in the sight of the crowd, but in the sight of Jesus. in the sight of his God. So because of that, John was able to say when he saw his ministry diminishing And he saw the crowds leaving him to follow Jesus, you remember he said in John 3, unlike the bridegroom's best man at a wedding. And when he sees the bridegroom coming down, he doesn't uh grumble that the spotlight's not on him. He's delighted because that's what he's there for, to assist the bridegroom. And you remember John said at that time, he must increase, and I must decrease. And that's my joy And John wasn't concerned for his own greatness. He was great in the sight of the Lord. What about you and me? What is our concern in our own greatness? Who do we seek to be great to Afraid that there's such a contrast, so often in my own motives. And for many of us, I think, if we're honest, our concern is to be great in the flight of man. Our concern is to be great in the sight of what others think of us. We're so concerned, aren't we, of the effects of our words and our actions on what others think about us So concerned to be popular. So concerned to be must. We all so very much want to be lost. We want to be liked so much that we place the estimation of others higher than the estimation of God upon what we do. I'm afraid that at the end of our life, if someone were to ask, how is he or she great? The answer for many of us might be, well, he was really a great guy. Or she was just a terrific person. You know, you couldn't help but like her He never stood for anything that I'm aware of, but he was great to be around, you know? Just lots of fun. But John was said to be great in the sight of the Lord. Because his concern was to please him, and you and I are going to be usable by God in some rich fashion Your concern and my concern must first of all be, am I pleasing the Lord that I love? What does he think of this? My concern is to be great in his life, not just to please the crowd, not simply to be popular among my friends, not even to ask what my Christian friends will think. Before I ask, Lord, what do you think about this? Does it please you? Connected with that Following right after it, of course, is the second thing. Not only is John to be great in the sight of the Lord, but God sensors in his aspirations But he is to be consecrated to the Lord and his control. Notice in verse 15 again. He will be grave in the sight of the Lord, and he is never to take wine or other fermented drinks. Now, why this statement about John to be a teethotler? And what's so significant about that in revival? Well why is that so important for John to be used by the Lord? Well, of course, the the importance of that is not the fact that John didn't drink. Uh that, you see, is a brief kind of uh uh shorthand description of the Nazarite vow. Now what the angel is saying is that John is to take a particular vow of consecration to the Lord, of voluntary sacrifice. The scriptures do not command us to not take any wine or any from any drinks. And that's clear, you see, by this addition. This is not normative to the church. To say that I will not take any wine or any drink is a voluntary sacrifice on the part of a Christian. It was a voluntary sacrifice for God. But it was an indication of his saying, my life is to be particularly beyond the minimal requirements as it was. To be an offering to the Lord. My life is to be wholly consecrated to him. Well, what's the point of this? I think it's very important if you and I grasp it. What it's saying is that John was not asking, what must I do, in order to be pleasing to God? But he was saying, what can I do? Not what is the least required, but what is the most I can do beyond what God requires in his word See, I'm afraid that so many of us as Christians ask, what does the Bible say I must do in this? If we ask a question about our conduct, about some habits. With something that we're to do in our priorities. And we say, well does the Bible forbid it? And if it doesn't forbid it, then well, okay, you know, I'm not gonna lay a heavy on myself, I'll do it And sometimes the question we need to ask is, does this thing help me to be usable by the Lord? And the Bible in Hebrews 12 speaks not only of the sins that so easily besets it, but of those waste that cling to it. What the angel is saying here is that John is to be stripped of anything that will keep him from being totally concentrated to the Lord's complaints. And you and I are going to be obsessed with you by Jesus Christ. Way that brings us that satisfaction of knowing that we're under totally his control. The question you and I must ask is not simply, does the Bible let me do this? But is this something that will help me to be more usable by the Lord Jesus in my life? Is it something that if I perhaps got rid of, the Lord could use me more effectively because I love it voluntarily? I will lay that aside Back in 1958, somebody gave me a track that sort of struck me as uh perhaps uh a little Different from other things I had read, but it was something I couldn't get out of my mind. And for these many years the words of this tract have stuck to me and have rung through. It's simply called Others Men. You cannot. If God has called you to be really like Jesus, He will draw you into a life of crucifixion and humility and put upon you such demands of obedience that you will not be able to follow other people. Or measure yourself by other Christians. And in many ways you will seem to let other people do things that you will not let you do. For instance, others may be able to work teams, but teams to work for them. But as soon as you try to manipulate and work as teams God humbles you and He brings you to the end of yourself and you're humiliated by it and you can't get away with it like others can do. Others may be able to boast of themselves In what they do. And they seem to get away with it. As soon as you begin to burst, God mortifies you, and you wonder why you can't get away with it. The Lord may let others be honored and put forward and keep you hidden in obscurity, because he wants to produce some truly fragrant fruit for his coming glory. It can only be produced in the faith. He may let others be great, except you small. He may let others do a work for him and get the credit for it. But he'll make you work and toil on without knowing how much you're doing. Then to make your work still more precious. He may let others get credit for the work which you have done. And thus may be rewarded ten times greater when Jesus comes. The Holy Spirit will put a strict watch over you with a jealous mark And he will rebuke you for little words and feelings or for wasting your time which other Christians never seem to feel disgusted. He may not explain to you a thousand things which puzzle your reason and is dealing with you. But if you absolutely sell yourself to be his loved slave, And bestow and uh he will then wrap you in a jealous love and bestow upon you the many blessings which come only to those who done was to take an Azorite vow indicating a particular consecration to Jesus Christ, beyond what everybody else was doing, and seemed okay by the community. Well he wanted to be under the Lord's complete control. The Bible, he knows, don't start by a determination to evangelize. In Korea, in the early part of this century, one million people came to know Jesus Christ in a period of two years. That was the beginning Of what has continued to this day to be an unprecedented conversion of a conscience in the effect of the gospel. That started got by a group of people who determined to evangelize Korea We started in a prayer meeting when a group of Christians got curious over their dedication to Jesus Christ in dealing with sin in their own lives. And as they begin to deal with that sin, God began to root it out. And the effects of his control in their lives produced In turn, the desire, the concerns of those people without Jesus Christ. Revival begins by a consecration to Jesus Christ, not simply by planning a campaign. The third thing that we see that is true of John and his characters at the end of verse 16 is that he will be filled with the Lord's Spirit. Grave in the Lord's sight, consecrated to the Lord's control, and filled with the Lord's youth. Notice what he says. He's never to take wine or other fermented drinks, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from birth. In fact, as we take a look in later on in chapter one, in verse 39, we read that the when Mary who had received from the angel, the same angel Gabriel, the Messie, that she was to bear the very Son of God. He hurried and went to the town of Judah and entered Elizabeth's house. Remember, we read there that in verse 41, when Elizabeth heard Mary coming, the baby, John, leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. He says then in verse 44 that as soon as the sound of your readings reached my ears, may be loose in my wounds for joy. What an experience. For a mother to feel her baby sleeping in her with joy because Jesus was here also in the womb of his mother. That's how That's how the Lord had gotten a hold of God by his spirit and filled him to such a degree that even within the womb of his mother he was already praising Jesus. There's a lesson for us in this. And the lesson you see is the danger that you and I will say, Yeah, you know, I I really want to be brave in the sight of the Lord And I'm going to determine that my aim is to be pleased into him. And I'm really going to be under his control. You know, I'm not going to fight I'm not going to continue to rationalize and fool around with those areas in my life that I say, Well Lord, you haven't really told me I couldn't do this. And so I'm going to argue that I can because uh I can get away with it. But I'm really going to lay my life before you. And Lord, from now on going to do that. You know, you've got to gut it out. You're going to brick your teeth and you're going to hang in there. And the Lord's saying here it'll never work. No way. When I all fall on our faces before the words are out of our mouth. Something that's super nice. Something that must be done in the power of the Holy Spirit Only his spirit can enable you and I to come into that kind of control by you. We don't live in a day that's very much of that. We live in a day of method. And we don't live in a day where we're encouraged to simply come before the Lord to pray. To humble ourselves, to fall on our face before Him and say, Lord, I can't do it. Lord, I must send you to do it in my life. I went to an evangelism conference one time. And there this speaker had geared up the entire conference in training in evangelism to give to us methods by which he guaranteed that our churches would triple within two years. He gave at one point in the seminar a method of telephone evangelism. And I remember his words so clearly. He said, if you use this method And practice at it and refine it and do it just the way I've told you. I will guarantee you 90% conversions of the phone calls that you make. There was no reference to the power of the spirit, and no reference to the fact that God must get a hold of a life, that he must show him You and I must learn in the more subtle ways that they may be inclined to the same kind of thinking. It's not a method, Lord It's you, it's your spirit, it's your power in me. It's blown away that my life is going to be under your control. Pleasing to you and grace in your sight Who is it? The control is you. Whose power are you under? Who is it? The two seats. These So these are the three things that reprove God. You and I, by the power of the spirit, keep them in our own hearts. John was so powerful in the power of the Spirit that he's described even as Elijah. Verse 17 He will go before the Lord in the Spirit in the power of Elijah. And in this power of the Spirit, he could do three things. Having looked at what John's life is characterized by him achieved his ministry and message. Three things That the person that God uses will do to turn a people in a society to Jesus Son. First of all, you notice that he is to turn people. Notice verse 16. Many of the people of Israel, he's going to bring back or turn to the Lord. Um the new American standard is, I believe, turn that ID to bring back, but the idea is turning Turning of people, influencing a people. But you and I have a desire to influence people to Jesus Christ. And that's God's desire for us. That you and that I be an influence on people to Jesus Christ And that turning, that influence, is described here in three ways. You notice what they are, verse seventeen. First of all We are to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children. First of all then, we're to turn people to their families Now this phrase here, turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, is again shorthand. It's an abbreviated quote from Malachi 4. 6. That passage was a description of the ministry of John Sebastian. Malachi 4 verse 5 Malachi had said, the last prophet of the Old Testament, these are the very last words of the Old Testament, see I will send you the prophet Elijah before that great and dreadful day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and notice the other side, the hearts of the children to their fathers. So when the angel says, turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, that's not only you. He's talking about a total reconciliation within family. He's just picking up that one phrase out of Malachi 4. He's going to turn the hearts of the fathers of the children and the hearts of the children of their fathers, or else I will come and strike the land in the curse. These are from the last words of the Old Testament It's a curse that is upon the people without Jesus Christ if they do not turn. The last word of the New Testament gives the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. But John's ministry to begin with was to reconcile families. What was the problem in the family? Why did Malachi write that? Well, there's a context to that. Malachi had explained that in chapter 2. Malachi said, there's two problems in your family. You want to see how contemporary the Bible is. These are the two problems in Malachi's family. Number one was the problem of mixed marriages. That is the problem of believers married to unbelievers. That's chapter two, verse eleven and twelve. Malachi says, the man who does this. It's a testable thing that's been committed in Ephraim, Jerusalem. Judas desecrated the sanctuary that the Lord loves by marrying the daughter of a fallen god Talking about both sides, men marrying unbelieving women, God's people, women marrying unbelieving men. He's saying there is a division in your marriage You as believers have married and joined yourself to unbelievers. And there's confusion in your home because of that. There's division and there's no clear lines of spiritual authority and everything is messed up Because you have chosen to do that. Not talking about where two people marry and then one becomes a believer. He's saying you have you have walked arrogantly in your own way and decided to disobey me, marrying someone who's an unbeliever. Many of you here who are unmarried and even consider the possibility of marrying someone who doesn't follow Jesus Christ, if you're a believer, the one who follows them. I I suggest you don't have any idea of the kind of trouble that you're letting yourself into. It must be a policy settled in your life that you will never even entertain the thought of disobeying God in that way. The second problem, that Malachi says that there were in the families at that time, was divorce. Chapter 2 verse 13 to 16. He says another thing that you do. Verse 14. Uh you uh the Lord is uh uh acting as a witness between you and the wife of your youth because you have broken faith with her. Though she's your partner, the wife of your marriage covenant Then he says to be more specific in verse 16, I hate the voice, says the Lord. Not only was there disputes predictions, it was also disruption. The problem that we see about is all of our today, at home breaking up, kids confused, and because of divorce And God forgives divorce. He's clear in his word. Exist as every other thing is something that he can forgive and heal. But that like you that we have today, where even Christians make excuses and rationalizations for being able to break up their home and not continue in a lifelong Commitment, the one that they had been in covenant with by Mary, is producing diseases and destruction and chaos in the home. And John's first ministers was to reconcile the home. The first thing that God said that you're to do, John, is to bring homes back together. To turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers. To bring homes together. So when Malachi predicted to be the a characteristic of the new age when the Messiah would come, that's the effect of the gospel today. One of the most popular seminars that I ever ran as an Innovarsity staff worker was the seminar How to Prepare Your Kids for College. I ran it in many, many churches, in many areas. And time after time, I was read, hearts, at the such a typical response of people who would come up after that three-week seminar And how to prepare your kids to live as disciples of Jesus Christ in this culture. People would come up and again and again they would say, if I only knew those things five years, ten years ago But now my kids have gone off and they want nothing to do with Jesus Christ. And we're a broken family. We're ill. I can't talk to my kids And they don't want to talk to me because there's a diseasion in our homes. There's bitterness, there's alienation. They believe we've been too harsh, and I believe that they have been self-willed and disobedient, and there's no communication. So you know, those of you have been around here for a while, one of the highest priorities that we have in the ministry of our church is the home. To produce Christ-centered homes. And that's why we try to keep our meetings during the week and any other activities to a minimum so that families can be together, to have family-centered activities. Because we believe that the first thing that must be done in teaching the turnaround of society is to establish solid biblical home. Turn the hearts of the bodies to the children. What about your home this morning? Is there alienation? Uh does is there a need for the father or the child in your home, you kids, you fathers, you mothers, to ask forgiveness of one another? Is that ministry of the gospel needed in your home? Because right now there's bitterness and there's turmoil John's first ministry was to turn fathers and children back together. To bring about A reconciliation where there has been no communication before. Bill Gofford has said his desire to bring about revival in the United States is the key to doing that. Just the same father to be the spiritual head for time. And I believe that he's right in that. And so he's been his effort for years In reducing family conflicts and showing the power of the gospel in home. And if you and I are to affect our society in Colombia And in this area, the way I believe God's going to do it today is by showing among those that we live what a Christ-controlled home looks like. A home of peace. A home that people can come in and they can see. Your home is different from my home. And I'd like to be here There's a sense of peace and quietness. There's love in this place, and I'm drawn by that. That's the ministry of the gospel Because that will produce the second thing you see. In verse 17 he says, He will not only then turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, but in conjunction with that, the disobedience to the wisdom of the righteous. Now what does that mean? The disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous there means the disobedient to the attitude, the frame of mind, the disposition of righteousness. A person who begins to be sensitive to right and wrong is what he's talking about. He's going to give people who are used to all their lifelongs rationalizing sin, minimizing sin Saying what I really need is security, but I don't really need forgiveness and a changed life. So the angel here, Gabriel, is saying John's ministry is going to be to sensitize people to sin. And the way that that's done very often is through the family. How many of you have talked to friends and to neighbors who could care less about Jesus Christ? But they know that their families are falling apart. And so as you begin to talk about how God's principles apply to their families, how they can raise their kids to be kids who can go on with stable lives. And not fall apart as they see so many of their friends doing. They say, that I want to know about. And you say, Well no, you know, I don't have the answer for that But the Bible speaks about that, and I can show you one who does have the yes. And we begin to sensitize them to righteousness. Begin to speak to them about what God's principles are and the ways that they can feel and that they can understand. This is the ministry that God has, it's his strategy and changing a society. You see, Christians are called to be people who hate sin, but accept the sinners and begin to turn those sinners to be sensitized to their own sin. You and I, if we just begin to preach Jesus Christ, we're people who are not sensitized to sin. We'll find people simply saying, Why should I accept Jesus? What did he have to offer me? But we begin as John did, by taking the people who came down to the Jordan and all over where he preached, and we're used to only rationalizing this thing as John begins to call things in And John says if you have two coats, you ought to give one to the person that doesn't have any. If you have food, you ought to do the same thing. He takes the religious leaders and he says you guys are a bunch of snakes in your apocature. Hardly the kind of guy you'd use for a PR campaign. And he begins to call sin in undiminished terms. He begins to sensitize people to the wrong ways that they're living. Then they begin to say, you need to save you. Then they begin to say, we need some help in our lives. But the problem is how often we present Jesus Christ without that kind of a concept. We have not given to people a vegan birth of the fact that we can accept them, love them, while telling also that their thing is wrong. A good example, I think, of how this is done is given in Becky Pippert's book, Out of the Fault Sea. She says there, I know Christian woman Who have cared deeply for a non-Christian woman who has had every variety of sexual experiences. One day the non-Christian woman said to the Christian, You know it's funny, my non-Christian friends accept me. They say it doesn't matter what I do. I'm free. But it's only with you that I feel love And I only know that with you, I could always come to you. And yet it's also with you. But when I'm with you, I feel shame and remorse for what I'm doing. Or to have those kind of ministry Not on. It will produce in people both the sense that you love you in a way that my friends without Jesus Christ don't please you But at the same time, I sense that there's a lack in my life, that there are things wrong that need to be changed, and those things need to be dealt with. And so of course the third thing comes from this one of people have begun to see what God's principles of the family should be like And they begin to turn their hearts to begin to have an attitude, a sensitive to right and wrong. There are people who are then made ready, prepared for the Lord. Return people not only to their families, not only to righteousness, but ultimately return people to the Lord. Not just to principles, not just to a message, but to the Lord Jesus Himself. John, remember, came. Luke chapter 3. In verse 3, we're told that John came preaching a baptism of repentance. It's showing people their need for a savior. Why is it that Jesus didn't simply come on the scene without God? Why did ye cause God to be born and have this ministry of a prophet in order to go before him? I mean, wasn't Jesus uh capable of announcing himself? Well wasn't Jesus capable of preaching the whole gospel? Why did he need somebody else to preach it before? Because the preparation For Jesus' word is always repentance, to see what sin is, to see our need for the work of Jesus Christ in our lives See, our generation is not that very different from John's in any ways. We're not very big on sin today either. We talk about Jesus coming at Christmas and people think, yes, isn't it nice to be pain, to show love. To give us security, to relieve our guilt, to give us peace, to make weal good And you and I will never appreciate what the coming of Jesus Christ was all about until we see really How lot of the honest. Until we get a glimpse into our hearts as John was unable to do in the power of the Spirit, to see that we have sinned, gone, and turned arrogantly In our own way, away from God, who is new, who has an absolute claim upon us to be his people, until we begin to glimpse The magnitude of the disobedience and the turning away from God, that you and I are guilty of, we're never going to be ready to receive the ministry of Jesus Christ. An evangelism that has no message of God's law and repentance is not a biblical evangelism. If you and I seek to bring people to Jesus Christ without turning them from their sin and showing them, first of all, that they have a real guilt before a God who stands in just. are not accomplishing biblical angels. It will not be a spirit-controlled anxious. It will be a fellow method. You and I are called and snarl. Called to be pleasing to him, divine to be great in his purpose, the divine to be holy in his control. Wholly under the power of his spirit, that we might show how God's principles apply to families, to show people what sin is So that is John, he can say, Behold the Lamb. The Lamb of God, who both, to take away sin. Came to bear it as the sin offer so that he would bring us into a right relationship with God. And God would no longer be our judge, but our Father. Is this the kind of Jesus that you're looking for? Is this what you think of when we think of Jesus being born in Christmas? The one who is the Lamb of God to take away sin. Would you simply look for a piece of third, to feel good If you've ever given your life to Jesus Christ, I please come to you. On the basis of what he has for offer to you, did he hold you back? Take away your guilt. Take away all that peace from God the Father and to bring it to Himself. Behold, the Lamb of God