Last week we flew over three promises in Proverbs three, verses five to ten. We looked down and saw that uh there were three things there that we all longed for that were promised in Jesus Christ. Wealth, health, and contentment, or in the order that they're presented, God's will, good health, and great prosperity This morning I want for us to begin to land on one of those promises and get out and explore around a little bit so that we might see what's actually in it. And we want to start with the first promise And so now let's hear God's word as he gives us this promise in Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 and 6. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. And lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways, acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. The first three lines that I just read there are all conditions. The fourth line is the promise. He will make your paths straight. And that's what I want to consider this week. The three lines before the conditions we'll consider next week. A promise of God is like a deed to a piece of property. You can decide whether you're going to live on that property if it's given to you. But the first thing you need to do is explore the property a little bit to find out what's there. When we obtained the Lewis property and made it the Potter's house, many of you wanted to find out what we had acquired, and so you came over to see it. Because it was ours and you wanted to be able to make use of it. And I believe that this promise is something like that. Many of us have claimed this promise for many years. Some of us have it on our walls. One of you at least has it in your wedding ring. and a little bit of Columbia Presbyterian trivia. Find out sometime this week who is in our congregation that has Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 engraved on your wedding ring. And you don't say anything to 'em, Mike, about who that would be. Right? Now, uh many of us have claimed this for uh a long time, but we're not really clear on what's being promised to us here. Because the translations vary. Some would indicate that what's being promised is guidance. For instance, the King James Version reads: He will direct thy paths Some translations would seem to indicate that what's being promised here is success. The NIV translates this, of course, as we just read, he will make your paths straight. Or is there some other promise that really is in mind, other than just guidance or success? Is there some other way of stating it? It's important for us, if we have a deed, to know what we have a deed to. If we have a promise, what is it and how can we claim it? And so that's what I want us to take a look at to see what exactly it is that God's promising us here. Now, the Hebrew word here, the key word, is the word to make straight. And that word is a word which means to make or to be, excuse me, to be smooth, straight, or right. Or it could also be translated to make something smooth, straight, or right. Or it could be translated to lead someone in a smooth, straight, or right way. That's the idea of the original. To be, to make, or to lead smooth, straight, right I believe that what's involved here in verse 6 is a combination of that second and third idea to make something or to lead something. And perhaps it's best illustrated in its usage in 2 Chronicles 3230. For in 2 Chronicles 32:30, the word, the same word, is used, and here's what it says. It was Hezekiah who blocked the upper outlet of the Gihon Spring and channeled the water down to the west side of the city of David. He succeeded in everything that he undertook. Now, anticipating that m some of you have not meditated on that verse recently, uh The key idea there is that Hezekiah was, you know, he needed some water, and so there was this nice bubbly spring, Gihon, that was up east of the city of David. He blocked it up, dammed it up there, reverted the waters, and channeled them down an aqueduct through Jerusalem to the west side of the city of David. And the word that's used there, channeled, is the same word that we have in Proverbs 3. 6. It means that he led it straight along, he directed its path He didn't just sort of show it how to go. He directed it. He channeled it. He led it in a straight, smooth way. He made a conduit. He made an aqueduct. And that's the same word, and I think communicates a similar idea to what God is promising here. Now there's three things that the Bible highlights about this path. That I want for us to look at this morning so that we can claim it more effectively. First of all, it is a straight path, not a crooked path. That's the first point, Roman number one. It is a straight path, not a crooked path. The word straight in Old Testament Hebrew language has the idea often of being righteous. To be straight is to be righteous, or to walk according to the rule of God's law. That's the idea that's in mind. It's contrasted to the idea of being crooked, perverse, uh wandering around in some devious way. You follow straight on God's word, and you don't turn to the right or to the left. It And you hear that command oftentimes in the Old Testament. Turn neither to the right nor to the left. Number of times in Deuteronomy For you remember when God called Joshua to follow in the footsteps of Moses to lead his people into the land of Canaan? He gave them the command in Joshua chapter 1, Be strong and courageous, because you will lead these people. to inherit the land that I swore to their forefathers, to give them. Be strong and very courageous. Be careful to obey all the law my servant Moses gave you. Do not turn from it to the right or to the left, but rather that you may be successful wherever you go. Do not let this book of the law depart from your mouth. Meditate on it day and night, so that you'll be careful to do everything written in it. Walk straight, Joshua. Don't turn to the right hand temptations. Don't turn to the left hand temptations. Fix your eyes and walk straight in this way. And so that's why David uses this same word in Proverbs 3 when he prays in Psalm 27 in verse 11. Praise Though my father and my mother forsake me, the Lord will receive me. Teach me your way, O Lord. Lead me in a straight path See, lead me in your straight path, O Lord. To remember Pilgrim's Progress, John Zbunyan's picture of the Christian life. where the path is a path that leads on to the celestial city. And you remember every temptation is pictured as a kind of a way that leads off of that path, somewhere to the right or the left, may look like a shortcut at first. But it's going to lead to something like uh the Doubting Castle or someplace that's going to get you in big trouble. And uh Bunyan was picturing there what is perfectly biblical literature. That to follow Jesus is to walk a straight path in which you and I are not distracted to the right or to the left in those ways walking according verse six. Verse 5 of chapter 3 here, on our own understanding. In fact, that's the exact language that's used just a few verses back. If you look at Proverbs chapter 2. Look at verse 12. It talks there about wisdom. And what does it say? Wisdom will save you from the ways of wicked men, from men whose words are perverse, twisted, you see. Who lead the straight paths to walk in dark ways, who delight in doing wrong and rejoice in the perverseness of evil, whose paths are crooked. And who are devious in their ways. So God is saying to us, there is a straight way, my way, the rule of my word. That's what I call you to walk in. It's the way of holiness, as opposed to the way of twistedness and deviousness and perverseness. And the only way that you and I can do that is to fix our eyes ahead. To look at something. You can't walk straight, you know, if you're looking down at your feet. If you're looking at yourself, you will never walk straight. Because you'll sort of be looking at your feet, and you know, gradually you'll sort of wander off and you'll go off to the right, you'll go off to the left. The only way that you can run a straight race or walk straight is to look ahead of you at something else. Interesting, isn't it? And so that's what Proverbs goes on to say in chapter 4. You look at Proverbs chapter 4 verses 25 to 27. Solomon tells us, let your eyes look straight ahead. Fix your gaze directly before you. Make level paths for your feet and take only ways that are firm. Do not swerve to the right or to the left. Keep your foot from evil. How is it that you and I can gaze directly ahead? What we're to gaze at, of course, the Bible tells us is Jesus. He's the goal of the race. He's the one that you and I look at in order to walk straight. He's the one that we fix our eyes upon. And so in Hebrews chapter 12, after the writer has given to us that hall of fame of all the heroes of the faith who have walked straight according to faith in their lives. He then enjoins you and me, therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off everything that hinders us The sins that so easily entangle, and let us run with perseverance the race marked out for us, and let us fix our eyes on Jesus. The author and the perfector of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, scorning the shame. And is sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Consider him, he says. I still remember back in 1961, going to a conference In which the speaker so forcefully hammered over again and again for four days. That word I didn't know a word of Greek until that day. But from after that conference, I will never forget it, he said again and again, the word affarontes means a steady, fixed, habitual gaze upon Jesus. And that's the only way he said I was just uh beginning college at that time. And I remember what an impact he had on my life as he illustrated again and again and again How God cares for those who walk straight with a steady, fixed, habitual gaze upon Jesus. He said, if you want to walk straight in your life, if you want to keep from the devious ways that are going to lead you into the thorns. And into the thickets and the slough dust pond and all the rest of that. He says, the only way is to have a steady, fixed, habitual gaze upon Jesus. To think upon him day by day, to meditate on him, to tell him you love him, to see what he's done for you. To cultivate your love for Him by that steady, fixed, habitual gaze on the goal that's set before you. So Proverbs says, Trust in Him with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge Him. And He Will lead you into those straight paths, the straight path of righteousness, with Jesus set before you. What about this past week? If you've been walking straight. Were you walking this past week with a steady, fixed, habitual gaze upon Jesus? Would you lean on your own understanding, looking down at your own feet, and found that you kind of wandered off to the right or to the left? I love that picture that C. S. Lewis presents in his book Out of the Silent Planet, in which he presents that good sovereign Lord Oysara. Who there stands with this earthling before him. And he says, oh, he doesn't call him earthling. The man's name is Ransom, but he says, uh You know, you have literally gone millions of miles out of your way to avoid coming before me. And you didn't know that all I intended for you was to do you good. But you feared me. You wanted to avoid me because you were afraid of what I would do to you. And I only ever intended your good. And you know you really can't avoid me. And so he's brought before him. And I think so much of how you and I avoid the way that Jesus wants to lead us in. We're afraid of what it's going to lead us to. We're afraid that he's going to take away our fun. He's going to take away our freedom. And he says, come, walk straight with me set before you. Try it this week. Walk straight in the way that Jesus leads you with your eyes fixed on Him. And see how this next week goes. Because the way that he promises here is the straight way with Jesus set before us. The second thing that we're told about this path Is that he is with you. You are not alone. He is with you. You are not alone. You notice verse 6 again. He will make your path straight. It doesn't simply say your paths will be straight, it says he personally It's not mechanistic. It's something that He personally does for you. And those verses that are listed there will highlight that, will give you the idea there. of how he personally leads you. Each one of those verses has this same word in Proverbs 3. 6 to make straight in it. Take for instance Isaiah chapter 48. Verse 17. What a precious promise. God says, I am the Lord your God who teaches you what is best for you, who directs you in the way that you should go. Same word here, you see, who causes you to walk straight in the way that you should go. But you see he says, I'm the one who teaches you, I'm the one who takes you. And the picture is of his taking us by the hand To personally lead us into that way that He wants us to go. The Christian life is not a map, but it's a shepherd. And the Bible is a map that gives us a straight line to walk with Jesus. But the Christian life is not the map. But it's a matter of a shepherd. I think some of us as Christians have the idea that to know God's will is to pray that He will reveal to us some sort of a map that will lay out the directions and then we say, okay Lord, now I can choose whether to follow that or not. But I want you to lay it out for me so I can see the options. That's not how God leads us. Rather, the picture that's here in Proverbs 3:6 is rather one of one deciding to let him take me by the hand. And then step by step, often in a fog, not knowing one step ahead of me where I will be going, simply s seeking to follow what he reveals to me in his word and trusting him to take me by the hand and lead me into that straight path. People come to me and they'll say, How can I know God's will? And I find the best passage to speak to that is Ephesians chapter 5. We don't have time to look at it, but let me just sum up what it's saying. In Ephesians 5, you have a number of specific commands about what God wants for you to do. And it's summed up in the first verse to imitate Jesus. But then there's a number of specifics, and he says in verse 10 that if you do this, you will find out what is pleasing to the Lord. You will become more sensitive to his priorities. And then he goes on after that verses eleven and twelve on to some more specifics of what it is that in fact pleases the Lord And then he comes to that promise in verses 15 to 7. Be careful then how you live, not as unwise, but as wise, making the most of every opportunity. To what? He said before. To know how to please the Lord. Lord, I could do this or I could do that. Neither one of them is possible. But I think this one's going to please you more. There's no command that says I've got to do it this way. But I want to please you. I want because you have me by the hand. I want to follow you. I want to please you because you have loved me so much. You have given me the very righteousness of Jesus. You have died for me. I want to please you And he says, if you make the very most of the opportunity because the days are evil, then therefore you will not be foolish, but you will understand what the Lord's will is. That's his unrevealed will, which pertains particularly to you. So trust the Lord with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding, but on all your ways, you see. Acknowledge him. Try to please him. And he will take you by the hand in the fog, not knowing one step ahead of the next. And he will trust, you can trust him to lead you into that straight path. What a comfort to know that you and I may not know what's ahead. But at least we can claim this promise, Lord, you will make my path straight. You will lead me into those pleasant paths. It's the same idea that Paul gives to us in Romans chapter 8 verse 14 where he says, those who are led, personally led by the Spirit of God, those are the sons of God. If you're a son of God in Jesus Christ this morning, you have the promise that you are personally led in your life by the Spirit of God. What's that mean? It means that he gives you the understanding in your mind to apply scripture to the decisions and the values that determine the course of your life It means also that he is the one who comforts you in that process to lead you and to direct you in the way that you should go. Do you remember Jacob? Jacob the heel grabber who had deceived his brother and then had a run for his life. Do you remember how he fled out in Genesis chapter 28? And there he is in the back side of the wilderness on his way up to his uncle Laban. And Jacob would like to know what's ahead. Oh, he'd like somebody to give him a map and say, where is my life going to go from here? I've got to leave home and I don't know where to go and I don't know what's going to happen. And oh how he would like to know God's will for his life. But do you remember in Genesis twenty-eight when God revealed himself to him, he didn't tell him a thing about what was going to happen. Didn't reveal anything about the good times and the trying times that were ahead, but one thing the Lord revealed to him in Genesis chapter 28 and verse 15. God says, I am with you, Jacob, and I will watch over you wherever you go, and I will bring you back to this land, and I will not leave you until I've done what I have promised you. That's the promise that Jesus gives to you and to me this morning. I'm not going to tell you where I'm going to lead you. You don't know what's ahead. But if you trust me with all your heart and take my hand to follow, walking straight with a steady-fixed habitual gaze upon Jesus, wanting to learn what pleases him and trying to do his will, as you see it revealed here. He says, I will never leave you. So Jesus said just before he went back to heaven in Matthew 28, verse 20, I will never leave you. I will be with you until the end of the age. And you and I have that promise that God Himself is with us. He will direct us into smooth paths. We don't know where he's taking us. It's a precious promise to Steve and Annie Green, who are here back a second visit with us this weekend, taking a look again at whether God would have them to be with us and for us as a church to look at whether God is leading Steve to be our assistant pastor. To know that God isn't playing games with us, that he says as we take him by the hand, he will lead us as a church and he will lead them in the place that he has for them to serve. Because as his promise to us, he will direct you into his straight paths. Finally, the last thing we're told about this path is that it's a way of peace and joy, not of danger or despair. It's a way of peace and joy, not of danger or despair. Look again at what it says. It says, He will make your path straight. And that word there, to be or to make straight, is a word which also can mean to be or to make smooth or pleasant. Remember, I said it had that meaning of smooth, and that word smooth means in the Hebrew mind something which is pleasant, which is even delightful. The same word is used in 1 Samuel chapter 18. David had uh eyes for Michael, Saul's daughter. He kind of noticed her above everybody else around there and yeah, he kind of began hanging around her a little bit you know how it goes, you know, they found ways to be together and one day somebody came up to him and he said, uh, Hey David, uh Michael thinks that uh you're pretty groovy too. You know, that word groovy sorta come back, you know, Phil Collins uh has brought it back into use now so that, you know Means that she really thinks you're pretty neat too, David. And the word then says that David found those words straight, smooth. pleasant, you see. That's his response to hearing that the one he loves loves him too. He says those words were smooth. Kind of interesting. It's kind of a little bit of humor as you read that. You know, David found those words smooth to him. And he goes on a little bit later on they say, you know what this means? It means you're going to be the king's son-in-law. Again it says he found those words smooth to him. That's not too hard to take either. Yeah, she's pretty nice. I'd be the king's son-in-law, you know. But you see, it's something pleasant, it's something delightful. The will of God is not something that is hard to bear. It's a way of peace and of joy Proverbs 11 tells us that it's a straightway in contrast to the evil path in chapter 15. Proverbs tells us in verse 19. That this way is a straight, smooth way in contrast to the way of the evil that leads into thorns, thorns of addiction, alcohol, drugs. pornography, various kinds of stumbling blocks and ways that come into our lives that are full of devious thorns and thickets and pitfalls, rocks to stumble over. God says, my way is a smooth way. My way is a delightful way. It's a way of peace and a way of joy. It's the same word used in Isaiah chapter 40. Where you hear about the one who's going to go before the Messiah, and he will make straight, smooth the way of the Lord. It's the same word that you have here in Proverbs 3. 6. He's going to wait, make your way, your path, to be a smooth path. We have a couple of beautiful pictures in Isaiah about this, in Isaiah chapter 26. In verse 7, we read, The path of the righteous is level, oh upright one. You make the way of the righteous smooth. Same word. That you have there in in uh Proverbs 3. Where that most beautiful picture in Isaiah 35 of the way of holiness, that highway of holiness that you read about in verse 8. And specifically it says in verse 9 and 10, No lion will be there, nor will any ferocious beast go up on it. They will not be found there, but only the redeemed will walk there. And the ransom of the Lord will return, and they will enter Zion with singing, and everlasting joy will crown their heads, gladness and joy will overtake them, and sorrow and sigh will flee away. You see, on this path, there is no despair. There is no danger from the lion or anyone who could molest or attack because Jesus Himself is our guard. He's the one whose hand we have, and none can get through to us except it gets through him. And so this is the promise, that it's a way of peace and joy and contentment. And that's why I've summed it up. In the series, by saying it's a promise of contentment. It's the promise of peace that we're given. The promise that Zechariah seized on when he talked about Jesus who is to come in Luke chapter 1. Do you remember Zechariah at the very end of his song, he says that this one, the Messiah who is to come, is going to lead our feet into the way of what? of peace. He's the one who is going to lead us into the smooth, straight path of peace and of contentment. You say, uh-huh no. That's not my Christian experience. Man, since I become a Christian, things have become harder. They become rougher Things I didn't even used to bother me, things I didn't care about before. Now have become problems to me and my life seems so much more complicated and complex and I seem to lack freedom and why is it that I feel more guilty now? And why is it the things seem to go harder for me now than even before that I was a Christian? And I think of the words of Francis Schaefer shortly before he died. I remember seeing him at that time, and he had been through the bounce with cancer for the couple of years before that. And I remember there was a small group of us there, and it was just a kind of an informal time. And he began to open up his heart and he said, you know, he said When I think back, somebody asked him about the cancer and what he thought about that and what was his feelings and experience. He said, You know, I hate that cancer. He says, I hate it with all my heart. He says the pain and the suffering that it's given to me, he said, are something that I can't describe to you. Then his face changed. He said, but I can also tell you from the bottom of my heart that I wouldn't trade it for anything in the world. Because he said that cancer has brought me closer to Jesus And he says, I've seen things about him and his kingdom that I never saw before, as he's taken me by the hand through this. You see, that's the thing that only the Spirit can enable you and me to see, isn't it? That when you trust Jesus, that way which may circumstantially seem to be full of rocks and holes and pitfalls and cliffs. Is a way that you wouldn't trade for anything. Maybe Beth Williams sister has written a book called Letters Never Sent. I highly recommend it. It's an excellent, excellent book In this book, Ruth Van Rieken talks about a number of the trials and the difficulties in her life as a missionary. She talks about a period in her life when her uncle L was dying from an accident. And she was devastated by that and after she came home from the hospital she co came home to find out that their house had been broken into. And all the things that they had valued, so many of their valuables, were taken and for her it just seemed to be the final blow that she'd looked off these years to have matching sheets and Didn't have matching sheets anymore again. It just seemed like the little things that she had set her heart on, God had just snatched them away. As if God was toying with her, as if he didn't want her to have peace and joy. She uh goes on to talk about how shortly after that she began to wonder about her whole career as a missionary. She began to wonder what she was doing that was worth anything. She began to wonder if her whole life was fruitless. And what was it all worth to follow this Jesus into Liberia and seek to serve him there? And she says in one of her letters that she wrote in this book, one day she says, both the Indian and the English babies died this week. Not only did their funerals bring us grief for our friends, and every raw memory of burying Uncle L, or Uncle who had then just died. But they seem to symbolize my whole glorious mission career at this point. Failure. Yesterday I hit rock bottom. I couldn't even get out of bed to face the day. I lay there all day long and I thought about my hopes and my dreams for life versus where I am. We were so sure God was bringing us to Africa. He brought all our support in so that we could be in Liberia six weeks before after candidate school. But what I am I doing now? Nothing. I had a far more spiritual ministry in Portsmouth, Virginia, than I have here. Since we arrived I've barely been able to keep the family going, with all the interruptions of kids coming to my door, wanting drinks of water, needing cups of rice, or just wanting to sit awhile. All my nurses' training has gone for nothing. The verses about binding up and healing others only mock me now. I realize they're actually prophecies of Christ, and I was a fool to think that they could apply to me. It's bad enough to be a failure. But think of all the money people have wasted to send us here if I'm not doing anything. What am I supposed to tell them? My thoughts went round and round like this all day. And finally I asked God where I'd gone wrong. I've always been so sure that I was following him. See, that he would direct me into the smooth path. But it had come to nothing. And then God reminded me of all the miracles that He worked to get us to Africa. It wasn't a mistake that I was here. Well, if it wasn't a mistake, I demanded, why is everything so upside down? Ruth, did you come to do my will or yours? What kind of question is that, God? I wouldn't come all the way to Africa just to do my will, wouldn't you? What is my will for you here? What do you mean, Lord? I'm a nurse. I've been a Bible study leader. I like the nationals. You haven't given me anything to do here. Ruth? Do you think you might be presuming what my will for you involves? Have you checked with me or just headed off with your plans to be the world's greatest missionary? I had to admit that I had come with a lot of ideas about how to be great. I had a lot to offer God. I was culturally adaptable. I'd grown up in Africa. I was friendly to Liberians. I would do everything right that had been done wrong when I was a kid. Missionary life would be a breeze. God showed me something that hurt. It's very possible to want to be a great missionary, not for his sake, but for my own. I think I have a lot of listening to do. She then goes on to talk about further trials. A year after that, her father died. More pain. More robberies. More break-ins. Then she comes to one last passage I'll just share with you. She comes back to the United States. And after all these trials, she comes back to her home church, and this woman sees her. And she says, Honey, aren't you the lady always cries when she talks? Up until that time, every time she had to talk to the church always broke down into tears because things were so bad And she la and she said I laughed and I said, Well yes, I guess I am. Well, honey, she said, when I saw you up there tonight, telling how happy you are. In what you've learned in following Jesus, I thought, if God can see that lady through, he can see anyone through. And that's the truth. God is in the de indeed in the business of restoring and healing the bruised and the brokenhearted. The traumas of my life seem small compared to what others have gone through. Nevertheless, they have been real. To know what God can take, that God can take the very things that Satan wanted to use to destroy me, and use them to teach me more deeply about himself. And others is a great miracle. And it gives me the confidence to know that He can provide that same restoration and healing for others. What is the path that's promised here? It's simply that when you and I trust Jesus with all our hearts and take him by the hand to follow the best we know how, step by step his will. He promises that he will lead us into a path that you and I, whatever it is, would never trade for anything else. Because it's been with him. What's this promise all about? I think this promise is really the same thing as Psalm 23. It's the same thing that saints have clung to through all the ages. That's why we're singing it four times this morning. The Lord is my shepherd, and I shall not want. He's the one who makes me to lie down in green pastures, and he's the one who leads me beside the quiet waters. He restores my soul. He guides me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. And even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff they comfort me. And you prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil, and my cup overflows Surely goodness and love will follow me all the days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us here have resisted following you because we've been afraid of where you would lead us. But you give to us here a promise that you want to take us step by step into that straight way of holiness and that smooth path of peace and contentment. Lord, speak to us in the quiet of our hearts, that we might turn from our own ways and determine this week to trust you with all our hearts. Hear us in Jesus' name.