It's Valentine's Day we've had a couple I guess that's been worshiping with us last few weeks. Siberia, Alexander and Valentina. Okay. This was her day. But uh it's a valid time today, which And they then open and love and then rest, right? Well, I we're not going to meet up to the expectation to perhaps or fail. But let's We have taken the pressure off us of your dad by telling you that several times they really did it primarily for lovers and husbands and wives. I think mother is a bit more Valentine than lovers or spouses. And if you think that that's enough to destroy spirits But uh don't get the most valentine to get back up by a more now. Don't get the most valentine for balanced. But I'm going to continue in connection with the marriage retreat. Uh the marriage retreat was postable until next year. So I will take that again. Since Valentine's Day was on a Sunday to use this passage from God's Word to speak to us, to our marriages, particularly. Now look at all this this bird is specifically to husband Uh I don't think the advice will mind my preaching on this um because it's about how husbands are told their bodies. Uh and there are principles here that are also applicable and tell us something of God's nature for those of us who are singles or who no longer have a spouse that were dead. So it speaks to all of us because it's God's word. But it speaks protectively to those who are husbands that can read the verse. Give you the translation. And then again, husband. 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 7. Husbands in the same way. Be considerate that you live with your wives and treat them with respect as the weaker partner and as bears with you of the gracious gift of life. so that nothing will hinder your prayers. I remind you that that is not my word. It is God's word to you. That is actually a difficult test to preach. Let me be honest with you. My wife comes to the first service. I've done it all. Because for times I wanted to look at her and to use illustrations because she becomes more and more precious to me, but I felt awkward. It could be freer this service, but the reason I found this hard. Specifically. However, I preached it. Um people after the first service. So that Um they were tired of hearing nail bashing of what was hand on the gender specific. Yeah, sure, even opening this text up and preaching that I have no intention to nail that person saying, What are we going to hear about the sermons or women? Um happens and But I specifically an option that they want to hold to you that word that God speaks to us, particularly as husbands and the general principles. Because I really feel that God needs to speak more powerfully. I'm going to ask us to pray for just a moment. Be receptive. I think you would help us In lumbering our defenses. That you would help us, Lord, and being able to hear what you say, but you would help me in speaking it without any problem. personal agenda. Either to hold myself up as an example or as with another. But you are the God of grace. You tell us that in this verse. There are heirs of the grace of Life. Mark will put angels before us. We delayed we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me give you that verse again and let me give it to you the more the way it appears in the Greek. Because I had to scratch that question different from what can happen in the MIT. And uh some of you have your Bible Mother Translation, look at that version thing. Well I I read it to you in a more word for word kind of uh translation. So Peter is saying to this weird God through Peter Husbands, likewise. He says likewise in the same way because it's part of the series of commands. We'll get to that later. Husbands, likewise Welling together a word of knowledge as a liquor metal female, assigning honor, and indeed the grave of life in order that your prayers then not be hindered. Take all that lot of thoughts very important First command, understand your wife. Understand her. According to knowledge he says, that is in an understanding way. That is study them. Because they like things. What a victim was like. When we first met this woman, we couldn't do another You know what? You want? I can prove that. For over thirty years I have been doing pre-mergal counseling and I do have a tool called the calendar temperament analysis, in which you say what you were like what you first have treatment And then the other perspective bounce does that, and then there's a crisscross where we not only say that you are in the area, but you imagine the same question. I are the majority of those major the other person. And does the men, or better, than the men tell the women. Look at what the man is like. What the man does the bike is like. So God is saying to give it to me what does not come naturally because we already started behind when we got a question But he's not exactly in knowing them. And if you neglect that, you are told. Ask that question. What would your business be like? Or how would your job performance be great? If you apply the same Amount of mental and emotional energy to your work as you can do it for understanding your wife. We just don't have a job. But would then America be bankrupt? Wouldn't we be an economic collapse? If we then Spent the same amount of emotional energy in our work as we do in studying our minds. God work has happens. No her. Three things are recalled that bird. First of all, he says um live with her. That is where there is a weather Together, but with implying two things, first of all, it implies spending time with her. Live with her, dwelling together doesn't just mean half the same It means that you actually do things together. You spend time together. And it's so easy to bring in the world Actually long for when we only had one car. Two cars was much more efficient. We have to do more together because we're back to one car, so we have to do more together. Uh you should separately. Separately What American, in whatever ministry you are involved in, if at all possible, decide to do ministry that you can do together as couples Uh for those who are makers in Columbia Presbyterian the training that we offer for that, we urge that the husband and the wife of the as makers of the Work together as a couple in that strengthens the work that strengthens the marriage. Spend time together. Get away occasionally. set of breakfast or something that will enable you to just get away from the activities. It's difficult, it's expensive to cap your life. Or retirement would probably be a lot better We had the money we spent on baby and in early years, but it was worth it. We have never regretted it. To spend the money to be able to get away to do things together You meant to give your wife undivided attention. You must study, get to know her. Everything that's involved here is got to get intimate The word that praises dwelling together is a word which means living together, and it's kind of the way we use the term living together. It was a word that we So it says that we need to take time for romance together, and what better day to start than today. I guess you guys were going to decide today. We're going to write the note here. You need to work in his time, you know, you know. early our married I didn't study Kathy too well. I meant a lot. Um the later years the more I studied her, the more I Fatestimate how difficult these in certain areas that I could not spend the time and the effort to cultivate her one. I respect her And you're dwelling together, spending time getting to know The discovering what is distinctive and unique and romantically expressing it. The second thing is that he says here understand that she is a woman. According to understanding of literally living with her as a weaker vessel and female. And that's that's really important, you know. Sometimes we forget that we speak the same language, but different dialects. The chapter is entitled to volume, not better from Mars, but better from Venus and all the studies about how men wouldn't communicate Differently. Well, that's totally true. Uh we think differently. We communicate differently. A lot of studies to demonstrate that. I think one of the more perceptive um students behavior today is what they're as a key and an editor wonderful how men and women think differently about how they look. Uh you know, if if you're wondering how I look, that is the no win question. The other thing is because we've got to think about that question every week Think about how they look at everyone that I've done themselves. the size of an eggplant. Even though you might uh call a heartburn or a cat with Marga. What did that say for yourself in it? And so he says, you know, we think about this whole question Finger despends about five thousand hours a year just being concerned about their fingertips and it has been all the years I've been walking around talking about yet to hear about it. That she had nice figure that different priorities, different kinds of views of things. Well it needs to be that can't even talk to me. I'm going to be able to take it and I would get defended. I later on began to realize it wasn't about me so much as it was about something that she was feeling and needing to take care rather than to just defend it to the Take a time to learn. Something that will help you. Whatever it is, it takes undefined attention, eye contact, and undistracted place where you should think of yourself to us understand our language and the listen. This was a controversial one can understand the thing we can Commentary what that means is a great word for vessel, but a commonly used metaphor for the body. And so what it's simply saying is that recognize I have some problems with that interpretation because to me that wouldn't take a whole lot of study. That'd take a whole lot of concentration and demonstration I think rather I agree with John Butler in his interpretation where he said it means. That is something that is precious and to be handled with care. The idea is that Peter here is warning us then that we tend to be coarse and insertive. That we must be civilized and we must come to stand in awe of the precious creature that God has entrusted to your care and to mine. Because I guess I need to recognize her as something precious. And that implies to be inferiority. Let me put to rest any idea that this virus could possibly be implying inferiority in a beginning that competition In the same way, read and because that is because verse one in the same way. That goes back to chapter two, verse thirteen, which has the topic sentence of the whole thing. Why have this reverse one the same way? Be submitted to your husband and then Why? Because what he is saying here, if you look at that two verses thirteen to seventeen is that we are as those in the authority position within the marriage relationship. Respect to the wife in her hand, to not a beauty or a strength or authority, which is different to care for her That is clear because the other thing he did, which is the second command, to honor her. See that? Um treat them with respect the MIT said the word is to honor her. It's the second word. That verse. You read it back to verse seventeen. Show proper respect to everyone. Hotter people. Creatures mean in God to make the word show proper respect to such things. And then at the end of the verse, you're called honor the king. The same word, honor the king, is the word that is used in three seven for the husband. Honor of life. What does that word honor mean? It means there has to be no condescending behavior or demeaning jokes about women That's looking down there because her means are more possible than errors. See that's close to bear. And you take it crazy. I didn't observe that. Rather than consently, move to order only when she's kind and nice to you. To not be criticized and sorry for yourself. To realize that where your wife may be for a period of time standing in my career That you may be in her primary source of affirmation. It's not going to be the kidney thing, it's just change saying thank you very much. Quite clearly, you're saying you are declining Partners, no inferiority, superiority, no second class citizen in the kingdom of God. I wondered whether it was harder for Peter to eat pork or to make that statement. A woman is an equivalent partner in the grace of life. Let's never be concepted that Christians are not the gospel. It doesn't understand particularly in contrast to other cultures and religions This gospel against freedom for a mail and women to live with public partners. The grace of Christ, the bridegroom, the Greeks of Bride, the grace, honoring God who did not deserve honor. Not And yet charity that's what she describes in the soul of life. What a pattern. What hard for you and your being then? Realize how How much we have failed in our obedience to this, to recognize that we are heirs with our wives of the grace of Jesus Christ who has loved us. Offering forgiveness to you, to me, today for our feelings. The offering forgiveness today. You're not making any problem. Christ Because I got failed to obey the first understanding of life. In living with her while the time. I'm understanding her and honoring her. My relationship with my wife is dependent on my relationship with the Lord. My relationship with the Lord Work is dependent on your relationship with your wife. You know, so that nothing your your prayers. So that your prayers will not be in there. And all of a radical thing that I can recall number of times when I'm going to the office. I'll be a pastor. I can't have the Bible for the second I study this passion and I pray and master. I can't do it. I struggle with a I'm not going to give her the power to come between you and me. Let's just put that aside, come together. I remember I thought of this verse. So that your prayers will not be entered. Could it be for some of us then here? They were frustrated spiritually. Frustrated in our cruelty. Relationship with Jesus and intimacy with God our Father. God understand your prayer are going to be in your relationship with God. You and I need to stop. We need to repent today. It's Valentine's Day. God show me what I've been missing, show me my blindness. My relationship with you, my very story. Or even praying with your wife. It's not just talking about prayers individually, it's also prayers together. Some of you might screen back today is to say, I want to give you some Valentine's gift. The gift of taking the initiative. Not every day, Kathy, and I don't do it every day. There's probably no other time in the week that I get 10 mil or Maybe fail up there. Sermon to the wives. Yes, we speak to them once. I don't want to have every version of one of six and I need to preach to the wives. But that's what I tell you right now Now in a reverse of what the fact will be very clear to you, you cannot make your husband a day for a shot to come try. I'm calling you to obey the thing. It's for the husband to obey verse 7. You to remember the grace of life, the ten of my teachers for your family. It's part of the relationship. They've made it difficult for your husband to obey the relationship. Read verses one to six. And thank Jesus for the grace that He gives to you both. It's trying to cooperate. It may not be easy. There isn't this statement. The case of the bright girl. And know that and know that your needs. And can provide that life part as we can just weak if you decided to do that. To make us errors. Passive recipients of the grace of life and forgiveness. and power to live as you call us to live. Whether we are souls, whether they are wives, whether they are husbands, we come to you Now that we ask you in this moment of quiet. That you will speak to us those things. That you will not be here and that we will not be defended anymore. Let me get to someone else. We will confess before you our failings and receive the grace of your forgiveness. Okay, that you do off the back forget. I need to walk the grace and the power now. And what may seem unnatural to us. But since you have cause to do it, you will also So pray that the brain to obey. And Lord, what would our congregation, what would our character be like? In our marriage, and if we were obeying other things call us to do. It was a congregation. We were demonstrating the love of Jesus Christ in our homes in whatever homes we have today. Lord, how do you want to be honored and glorified? Do that we pray for your sake in Jesus' name.