So this Palm Sunday morning, we come to the last of three studies on the person of Pontius Pilate. We have seen that Pilate is not the evil despot that he's often pictured. He's simply a Roman prefect trying to do a tough job in order to advance his career. He wants to establish a good record for being able to rule an unruly people, the Jews, the Jews. And uh you've seen that he's very much like you and me, isn't he? He wants to live by principle, but there are limits when he's under too much temptation or pressure. We've looked at Pilate by way of three contrasts. The first was to contrast his heart with Jesus' heart. We saw that Pilate was willing to sacrifice Jesus in order to save himself. Jesus, by way of contrast, is willing to sacrifice himself in order to save compromisers like Pilate, like you, and like me. You see that Jesus' heart in this even more dramatically displayed because of the pressure of his being on trial for his own life. Then last week, secondly, we looked at the contrast between Pilate's guilt and Jesus' innocence, particularly Pilate's travesty of justice. Contrasted with God's perfect justice, we saw that both God and Pilate declared Jesus innocent. Both God and Pilate condemned Jesus to death. Pilate unjustly Because of the pressure from those who hated Jesus, God perfectly justly, because he had agreed with Jesus. That Jesus would bear the sins of everyone who would hide from God's justice in Jesus Christ. So if this morning you have given your sins to Jesus and said, Lord Jesus, I pray, hide me in yourself from God's wrath. Jesus does that. And you have already received the verdict of acquittal because in God's perfect justice, all of that was poured out on Jesus, all of his wrath. And there is nothing left for you or for me. Because God is just Have you received that? Are you resting in that this morning? There is absolutely nothing more important that you will ever decide in your life. Then whether you want God's justice standing on your own record, or whether you hide under the record of Jesus Christ. So that God's justice was endured by Him so that you could go free Wonderful news. And so it seems, perhaps, as we look at this story, like Pilate is simply an example of a person in the wrong place at the wrong time. I was reading in the news just this week about a female Iraqi soldier who was sitting in a cafe in Baghdad last October. A bomb went off ten feet from her. The explosion was so intense that it sent bits of the table into her body. And she was blown from her seat several feet. And she said the one thing she thought at the point of that explosion was wrong place, wrong time. Is that the case of Pilate? Is it simply that God's Crucifixion of his son was inevitable. Jesus had to be crucified, and Pilate just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Did Pilate make choices? Could Pilate have changed things? Or was he simply on a string like a puppet? Being manipulated by God to accomplish what God intended. Now, lest you think that's an idle question, the Bible itself phrases that You remember um and let me let me say at this point that this is the third contrast that I want for us to explore this morning, and that's the contrast between God's sovereignty and Pilate's responsibility. And it's an important issue here, not just for understanding this incident, but because It's very practical for your life and for my life as we think about the interaction, the interface between our responsibility and God's sovereignty. Do you remember it was just a few weeks after Jesus' crucifixion that Peter and John are going around claiming that this Jesus has risen from the dead. And they've healed a layman, and uh they continue to proclaim this, and the Jewish authorities are incensed, and they threaten them that they must stop this. You remember back in February talked about the Holy Spirit constituting us as witnesses? He remembers at that point that Peter and John say, but we can't help but witness to the things that we've seen and heard. We just can't stop. We can't help it. So they threaten them further. You must stop it, or there will be consequences. We can deal with you guys. And the disciples are scared. And so in Acts chapter 4, we read that the disciples, who realize these are not idle threats, these men can make their lives very difficult, do probably what any group of Christians would do at that point. They pray. And their prayer is very instructive. It's in Acts chapter 4, and it begins in verse 22. One uh verse twenty-three, excuse me. And uh so they they come together. Actually the prayer itself begins in verse twenty-four. They heard this, they raised their voices to the Lord together in prayer. And they pray, Sovereign Lord, you made the heavens and the earth and the sea and everything in them. Well, that's a quite clear, bold statement of God's sovereignty. Sovereign Lord You've made everything. You've made the heavens, the earth, the sea, everything that's in them. It's a good idea to begin your prayer with praise. Not only does it honor God, but it reminds you who He is, and that builds your faith, doesn't it? And so in a situation in which they're scared, in which they are being threatened, in which their world could come undone, they say, sovereign God. You're the one that has made heaven and earth. We come to you. And then they quote from Psalm 2. You see, they want to start by getting a big picture of what's going on. That's also important for your prayer and my prayer. Get a big picture. Where is what I'm experiencing fit into what the Bible says about reality? And so they quote from Psalm 2 that says, Why do the nations rage, the people plot in vain, the kings of the earth take their stand, and the rulers gather against the Lord against his anointed one? You know, they're saying uh David had written about the fact that unbelief refuses to bow before God, it rages against him. gnashes its teeth against his sovereign rule, refusing to bow. And then they apply that to Jesus' trial. And so in verse 27, they say, indeed, Herod and Pontius Pilate met together with the Gentiles and the people of Israel in this city to conspire against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. All right, so now they're bringing this down to more immediate circumstances. Now how what does it mean when it says that Herod and Pontius Pilate conspired? Now, you know, they weren't friends before this, remember. They were they were adversaries um doesn't mean they got together. What it's referring to is the fact that as part of this picture of Psalm two They're part of general unbelief that's always conspiring to throw off God's rule. And so what Pilate and Herod had in common was an antipathy to Jesus Christ's Lordship. They weren't going to bow before him. They wanted to overthrow him, each in their own way. Now, after saying that, look what they say in verse 28. These guys who are evil, they're refusing, choosing to throw off God's yoke, God's rule. They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen. Huh? Well now then, who's responsible? Pilate or God I mean, you know, you put verse 28 in there, it sounds like, well, you know, they they really didn't have any choice because this is what God had decided beforehand should happen. So did Pilate choose to do what he did? Or was he simply a puppet on a string? Wrong place, wrong time. Well, let's look back at the account And in that you see that the New Testament presents in this trial a number of choices that Pilate makes. And those are presented as real choices freely made. There's no indication that these are choices that are under some sort of compulsion, except the pressure of the Jews. But there is nothing here to state that Pilate didn't choose to do what he did. Remember, he started well. He refused to simply rubber stamp the Jews trial. He said, We're going to try this thing over, gonna do it right. Okay, bravo, good start, Pilot. You know, we're gonna do this under Roman rule. We're a good fair Roman trial here. As a result of that, you remember, six times he acquits Jesus and says he's innocent. I find no basis for the charges against him. Seven times he seeks to release him, at first simply saying, I'm going to release him. Then it's a, well, how about I flog him and then I release him? Is that okay? And then it's well, you know, well what about Barabbas and Jesus? How about I give you Jesus? You don't want Barabbas. You know, so he tries again and again to release him. And then when all that fails at four different times, he tries to just simply distance himself from any responsibility for it. You do it. You go try him. Let Herod do it. How about Jesus instead of Barabbas? I'd release him. I'm innocent. I'm going to wash my hands of his blood. You see, Pilate knew about Jesus. There's no question that Pilate would have known something about Jesus His teaching. I mean that was Pilate's job was to know anybody that was attracting crowds, particularly during Passover. And I imagine that Pilate felt a certain kinship with Jesus because they both were adversaries of the Jewish leaders. You know, Pilate probably thought, I know what it's like, these Jewish leaders after you. Yeah, they're always giving me trouble too. And he probably had heard about the healings that Jesus had done and the good things. And so If anything, I imagine that Pilate would have had at least tilting toward a positive view of Jesus, and yet still does what he does. He knows that Jesus is only accused out of envy from the Jewish leaders. Matthew 27 and verse 18 tells us that. And yet he still resists Jesus' overtures. You know, I think if you said to Pilate, Pilate, you know, you really could have done better You you'd probably be kind of defensive and say, oh you know, it's easy for you to say. You didn't have a mob coming, a riot about to break out, these guys after you. What could I have done? Cast yourself at Jesus' feet. Throw yourself upon him, the Savior, to rescue you. Well, you see, but he resisted that. Even though he knew that Jesus was more than a mere man, he had never seen a prisoner act like Jesus acted in a trial for his life. And then there's that one incident recorded in Matthew 27, verse 19, that is so intriguing, isn't it? This business about Pilate's wife. Verse 19, while Pilate was sitting on the judge's seat, his wife sent him this message: Don't have anything to do with that innocent man, for I have suffered a great deal today in a dream because of him. Now remember, his wife, Procula, was the daughter of that notorious Julia, who was disowned by her father, Tiberius Caesar, because of her scandalous behavior. But there's nothing in history to indicate any kind of smear upon Procula's character. In fact, in the Eastern Church, she's a saint. There is a long early tradition that Pracula was a secret believer in Jesus, whether at this point or later that Pracula became a Christian. Seems that when Pilate went out that morning, Procula stayed in bed, and in her early morning dream she had a nightmare. About what would happen to Pilate if he condemned Jesus. And it shows something about their relationship that she was concerned for her husband and sent this urgent message. Please, Pilate, don't have anything to do with this innocent man. I've suffered greatly in a dream. Now That would not have been something Pilate would have dismissed lightly. He would not have said, you know, that's all I need. Now my wife's on my back. You see, the Romans were very superstitious about dreams. And both Pilate and Procula would have been very familiar with the story of Calpurnius' dream. The night before the Ides of March, where she dreamed of Caesar's bloody toga. That was well known. And so the Romans put great stock in dreams. Now, what's intriguing to me about that is who gave her that dream? I mean it wasn't something she ate. You know, it wasn't just some psychological thing. God was warning Pilate through this dream And I don't think that we can say that God was just kind of doing that to heap more judgment on Pilate. But that there was a sincere warning. Not only was Jesus appealing to Pilate, God the Father. Was warning Pilate through his wife in a means, a medium that he would have listened to. And yet he still ignores His wife's warning. That is, ignores and finally what he did. I imagine it unnerved him and was partly The explanation for why Pilate was so insistent on trying to release Jesus and finally washed his hands, thinking, I will at least distance myself. We know he's deeply impressed by Jesus. We know that when he heard that Jesus claimed to be the Son of God, he didn't laugh, but became more anxious. And yet, when all is said and done, there's simply a hypocritical show of Roman justice, and he releases Jesus to the mob. Whatever else they say, all of these things at least indicate to you and me, don't they, that apart from an internal work of the Holy Spirit in a person's heart Even warnings from God and appeals from Jesus physically in the flesh will not cause us to change. That's how hard our hearts are. What a lesson. What happened to Pilate after this? After the crucifixion, you have an interesting little incident. Begins in verse 62 of Matthew 27. The next day, the one after the preparation day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate. Sir, they said, We remember that while he was still alive, that deceiver said After three days I will rise again. So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he's been raised from the dead This last deception will be worse than the first. An innocent Pilate, who at this point despises these guys, does not say, Get out of here, I've had enough of you. What he says is Okay, you got a guard. Take it. Make the tomb as secure as you know how. That's a significant statement, isn't it? Here's a dead man that he's crucified and he's saying, Hey, guard that tomb. Watch it. And so they went and they made the tomb secure by putting a seal on the stone and posting a guard. And then Pilate hears that Jesus is alive Now can you imagine the effect on him in hearing this rumor that Jesus has in fact risen and that his Roman guard failed to guard the tomb and that the stone was rolled away? I mean there was nobody on this earth who had been more anxious that they find that body. I mean, imagine yourself, you have had this person beaten, scourged, abused by your soldiers. You let him be crucified, even though you had declared that you admitted, that you knew again and again and again that he was innocent And whatever Pilate is thinking about resurrection, he's saying, I sure hope this Jesus, if he rose, is not into revenge. I'm a dead man. Well, just fear fear. Whatever happened to Pilate after that? Well, some we know and some is lost. What we do know is that a couple of years after this, in 36 A. D. , there was one incident that was Pilate's undoing. It was because of a Samaritan prophet, a false prophet, who said that he knew where Moses had buried the holy vessels in Mount Gerizim, and so he attracted a large crowd of people to come up. To Mount Gerizim in order to show these vessels. The Romans suspected that this was really just a roost, it was actually an armed rebellion that was mobilizing Under religious pretense. And so Pilate mobilized a troop of soldiers and they met them and they blocked them. The Jews insisted on moving forward, and the Romans cut down and slaughtered a number of the Jews. The Jews bitterly protested their innocence, that Pilate was a butcher, that they had no evil intentions whatsoever, and they appealed to Caesar, to Tiberius. And Pilate was recalled to Rome under a cloud. Probably pretty bitter at this point. Ten years I have spent here trying to do my best. And now I am on trial for my career and possibly my life because of this incident The strange twists of fate of history. Before Pilate got back to Rome, Tiberius died. And in his place, there rose up one of history's worst. Unhinged megalomaniacs to ever sit on a throne, Caligula, whose name means little boots. This man was so bad, so evil, so corrupt, so depraved that his own soldiers assassinated him Pilate would have gotten back to Rome while Caligula was still on the throne. What happened? The simple answer is we don't know. At that point, Pilate disappears from history. It's tempting for some to say that they can imagine that Pilate appeared before Caligula In his capricious evilness, and Pilate himself got a very unjust trial, and perhaps was condemned because Caligula simply liked torturing and killing people. On the other hand, there is a strong early tradition that says that Pilate became a Christian. Now, it's almost certain that Pilate would have known Cornelius, who was converted, that Roman soldier in Acts 10. Now two Roman soldiers serving in Judea would have certainly had contact. Cornelius would have known that Pilate Was in charge of Jesus' trial. And so when Cornelius became a Christian, it certainly would be reasonable, Pilate was still in Judea at that time, that he would have shared his faith with Pilate. And perhaps it's all speculation. Perhaps Pilate became a Christian. We imagine that his wife perhaps was sympathetic. But we don't know. Simply don't know. There's also an early tradition that says that Pilate committed suicide as a raving madman. Now that one perhaps is more appealing to our flesh, you know. Like this sense of justice that Pilate was driven to distraction by his guilt. But you see, the fact is, God's grace and God's mercy is so great he could have saved Pilate, couldn't he? You believe that? I mean, you imagine when you get to heaven meeting this guy, Pontius Pilate, and there he is, worshiping Jesus? I mean, what would you say? That's not fair. That's how great God's grace is. We don't know. We simply don't know. But let's get back to the question I raised at the beginning. And the question simply is, how do you reconcile Pilate's responsibility? with God's sovereignty. How do you reconcile these two verses in Acts 4? Pontius Pilate inspired Romans 2, I mean Psalm 2. Casting off Jesus' Lordship, refused to bow the knee, but this was what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen You see, that verse is simply summing up what the Bible says in the Old Testament prophecies and even in the Gospels in a number of places. You know, Psalm 22, for instance, written a thousand years before, this describes crucifixion in some detail. Being clearly a messianic psalm, particularly as you read toward the end of that psalm, it's quite clear this is the Messiah. And so crucifixion was not practiced until the Romans. It was a typical Roman execution. Um and so a thousand years before God said the Messiah, so in so many words, was going to be crucified. And you remember in Isaiah 52 and verses 13 to 15 of Isaiah 53, you have this picture of disfigurement, of being crushed, Messiah crushed by the Father. But when you get to the Gospels, it's even clearer. Remember in John 18, verses 31 and 32, we read a couple of weeks ago. You read that the Jews had to take Jesus to Pilate in order to be executed because that would fulfill the way Jesus said he had to die? Where do you say that? Well, for instance, in Matthew chapter 20, Remember in Matthew 20, verse 18, Jesus says to his disciples, We're going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the teachers of the law. They will condemn him to death. And they will turn him over to the Gentiles, the Romans, to be mocked and flogged and crucified. On the third day he will be raised to life. I mean you can't get much more explicit, can you? And that was said early in, or not early, but some at least some months before this in Jesus' ministry. In fact, uh He goes on to say in Matthew 26, verse 2, that it's going to happen during the Passover. Do you remember when Mary anoints him at the celebration feast of Lazarus being raised? Jesus says, Mary is anointing me for my burial. So it's all quite clear what Jesus is saying. This is going to happen. It must happen. It is inevitable. It doesn't say Pilate, it simply says the Romans. So, how do you put these things together? How do you understand that? This is what I would want to offer to you that I think is so significant about this text. There is no attempt to reconcile it. They simply state it. They pray it. They state the one hand, this is what Pilate did, this is the evil that he did. In fact, in chapter 2. In verse 23, in Peter's sermon at the day of Pentecost, he said, This man was handed over to you by God's set purpose and foreknowledge. And you, with the help of wicked men, literally lawless men, put him to death by nailing him to a cross. You are guilty of this They're cut to the heart with his condemnation, but he says, by God's foreknowledge, by God's set purpose. The Bible never backs away from those things, but neither does it ever attempt to reconcile or explain it. Now, what helps us to understand what use that is to you and to me as we try to live this week? Because the sovereignty responsibility Question is never addressed in Scripture simply for speculation. And here is where we get to the great truth of the context of this. You notice it is not stated in some abstract discourse. It's a prayer. It's a prayer of Christians who are scared. It's a prayer by people whose lives could be coming unraveled, for whom life may not ever be the same, safe and secure as they've known it. And these people are coming threatened to say, Sovereign God, you made everything, heaven and earth. This world is against you. It refuses to bow before you. Specifically, in this city at this time, Herod punches Pilate, example of that But God, you are in control. You see You're 100% responsible, but God, you're 100% in control. That's gospel math. One plus one equals one. Ephesians one eleven. You are in control of all things, whatsoever comes to pass. And the result? Verse 31. After they prayed, the place where they were meeting was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and spoke the word of God boldly. That's what they prayed for. Not protection, not safety. Not revenge, boldness. And that's what God did. But you notice the initial phrase in verse 31, before the place is shaken, before they are filled with the Spirit before they speak boldly, after they prayed You see, it's the same thing again. God sovereignly answers the prayer, but they need it to pray So I urge you come to the April 9th prayer conference. Come and find out. Paul Miller says this is a conference for Christians who pray badly. So come, let's learn together. It's not for prayer experts. This is not prayer 301. It's prayer 101. For all of us to say simply, God, how do we make sense out of a world that seems out of control, but you say you're in control, and our temptation is either apathy or anxiety. It's either apathy that says, well, you know, your will be done. It really doesn't matter. I mean, what what is my prayer going to do to change things? You see, if um If we're not responsible, prayer doesn't make sense. We can't affect things. On the other hand, it delivers us from the anxiety. That says, I've got to wrestle with God and I've got to claim this and name it and I've got to get going and I've got to do this and I've got to take charge. And so there is a relaxed insistence of a child to a father. We need to learn what that means, don't we? I'm looking forward to that conference. I don't know anybody more qualified who I would respect more than Lee Eakinson to Scripture to learn about that. You see, it's like I've given that example to a number of you in the past. And uh one more time. You know, it's like imagine that everything that you and I can understand is contained in this room. All of our ability to understand anything is contained in this room. And hanging down from the ceiling are these two ropes. Now on this rope you have all the scriptures that talk about Your responsibility, my responsibility, choose you whom you will serve this day. Follow the Lord All the commands, all the statements about our responsibility to repent, to believe, to follow Him. Well in this work you have all the scriptures that talk about God's sovereignty. By the determined foreplan foreknowledge of God, by his plan, by his determination, by his hand, all this happened. Not anything happens that is not according to his plan. No one comes to me except the Father draws him. All the rest of those things. You see, you and I, when we take these things, we try to tie the ropes together, you know, we try to make 'em fit, we try to do something, and it won't work. Well we try to, you know, cut the one root and say, well, it's really God's sovereignty that matters. And then we short circuit our responsibility, or we try to cut the responsibility and say, you know You know, you get the where you cut one or you cut the other one. Responsibility, sovereignty. The Bible tells us to hang on to both of those roots because it says really above the ceiling is just one root. You're just two ends of one truth in God's mind. You understand that? Well, either do I. But it's like standing by Niagara Falls with a Dixie cup and saying, I wanna I wanna get the falls in my Dixie cup. If we could understand it, then our God is not very great. But our God is so great that he says in Romans 8. 28 For all things, all things, God is working for good Through your good choices and your bad choices, of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose. He's at work in your life. Whatever seems out of control for you. Whatever people are doing for you. You say, God, this is the situation. But God, I want to learn how to pray and lay hold of your promises, believing that you are sovereignly in control and I can relax. I can rest. For you who worked through Pilate to accomplish your perfect, just purpose of salvation for me can work in my situation, in whatever you're going through, or your family, or any of us, for good. To your glory. You believe that? Makes all the difference. Let's pray. So, Father, we come We don't understand this. We cannot hold Niagara Falls in the Dixie cups of our minds. But we want to hang on to the two ropes. Of our responsibility, of the responsibility of those around us. We can't change people. You can. We pray because you are sovereign. We pray because we are responsible. And we can't reconcile it. But hallelujah, God, you know exactly how those things fit together, and they're both 100% true. And it's because of that That we uniquely of all people in this world, Christians, who have a strong view of our sovereign God, can live at peace, even in the midst of chaos, even when we are so tempted to want to grab control and even the illusion of control. That we can rest in your control. Help each of us in whatever our circumstances are to believe that. And to rest in you this day. Because of our strong Savior, Jesus. Amen.