You notice that the title of the message, as you see in the bulletin outline, is God's Purpose for the Church in Columbia, Roman numeral two, part two. Why is that two there after the title? Because this is the second time that I have spoken on this topic from these verses in Scripture. The first time was when we first began as a church in Columbia, back in September nineteen seventy eight. I first preached this on september twenty fourth, nineteen seventy eight. The first month we began to meet, even before we were at church. How many remember being here at that time who were in the congregation this morning, back in September 24, 1978 Well I'm not going to ask you what my points were at that time. But I did speak on this precise same topic in text. Why did I speak on it back then? Well To understand that, we have to go back to an experience I had in May of 1978. In May of 1978, I had long since agreed to come to take the new emerging daughter church in Columbia. I was leaving Intervarsity after ten years of ministry and service with them And on one spring day, back at that time, I went out to pray in that morning at Clark Reservation outside of Syracuse, New York. Clark Reservation is a falls larger than Niagara Falls. The only difference is few thousand years ago it dried up. But it's a beautiful place, a beautiful place to pray, to meet the Lord. And I still remember clearly as I was walking around the rim of those falls and going toward the rear in the uh woods there. that I was wrestling with God about the question of the nature of the church in Colombia and what God's purpose for the church was to be. God had raised up a number of people here and I was convinced that He wanted to make Colombia different. Because of the people that he had placed here. And I began to dream and began to think of how Colombia could be different as a community in ten years or in five years, because the church in Colombia was being established. I began to pray about what that That purpose should be. I began to struggle in my mind about what as a church should we be distinguished by? What should be our unique purpose as a church of Jesus Christ in that community? Not claiming to be the only true church. Certainly in that area. But what should we our calling as a church? I remember I was so caught up in prayer, I almost stepped on a snake, and I was so struck by the fact not that I had almost stepped on it, but that I hardly even noticed it afterwards and just kept on. walking, concentrating on what God was saying about our purpose as a church. I remember at that time not wanting to go on, but saying, Lord, I'm not going to continue down this trail until you give me some understanding. What is it? Did you want for us to have as a purpose as a church? And I began to think, uh get a little nervous about uh how long I'd have to wait there before I could go on, before the Lord was going to be pleased to speak to me. He didn't audibly speak. But I remember so clearly they're having a distinct impression to turn to Ephesians 1. I hadn't been studying Ephesians 1 recently, so it wasn't as if I had some clear understanding of a verse that I was going to. But I looked at Ephesians one and God seemed to direct my attention very clearly to these verses, Ephesians one, verse fifteen to twenty-three. And I saw as I looked at those verses that this was God's purpose for the church. And it was a The purpose that we as a body of his people could adopt is our foundational bedrock purpose for our being here. The most foundational purpose against which everything else could be laid as a superstructure on top of this, but this was our foundational. foundation. And so follow with me as I read from Paul's words in Ephesians chapter 1, his desire for God's work and his purpose in the church in Ephesus. Ephesians chapter one begins with verse fifteen. After having described the riches of glory and God's grace, Paul goes on to say, for this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your faith. With your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation. So that you may know him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. and his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Far above all rule and author power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet. And appointed him to be the head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. Now you notice that Paul begins this prayer and this concern in verse 15 by reminding them of his contact, what he has heard from them. He begins in verse 15. fifteen, saying, For this reason ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you and my prayers. It had been four years since Paul had left Ephesus and had established the church there. It's likewise been four years since the Lord has established the church here in Columbia. About the same amount of time between Paul's establishing that church and leaving and his writing this. Letter, to the time from which I first preached this, the time that we established ourselves as a church, the time that we come to this, our fifth fall together, a time to review ourselves as a church, to review once again. The foundations and the basics of our purpose for being here in Columbia. That's what I want to remind us of this morning. I want to review that together with you. Paul gives you three reasons for his three requests. for the church there in Colombia. And these I see as three reasons for the existence of the church. Three purposes that the Lord has for the church and in particular for us as a church. These three purposes are three requests that he prays for the church, beginning in verse 17. You notice he says there, I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, that glorious Father, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation, so that you may know him better. The first purpose of the church, I would suggest, is to know him better. That's Paul's first concern here in verse 17, that we know him better. The word there used for no is significant. There are two Greek words that Paul could have easily used. There is one word, Genosto, that would describe the kind of knowledge I have about you. I know many of you, some of you I know fairly well, others of you I've seen for the first time this morning. But some of you, the most part of you, I know by name, and I know a number of things about you, and I can say that I'm personally acquainted. Paul didn't use that word. The word he used was epigenoso, a word which means full intimate knowledge. That word I could only use about four people who are here this morning, my wife and my three kids. Only of them could I use this kind of a word, which means of a deep, personal, intimate acquaintance. And that's the word Paul uses here. He's not talking about simply knowing God. He says in verse 15 that he's already heard about their faith in Jesus Christ. That's been established. What he says is God's purpose for you is to come into a full, intimate relationship and knowledge of him, to know him better. And who is the hymn that he refers to? That hymn has three antecedents. God is described in three ways in the verses before this, and I believe that these are the ways that Paul has in mind, that we know it. First of all, he's called the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. You notice there in verse 17. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ will give you this spirit to know him better. And that should really encourage us, you know? Because sometimes when we talk about knowing God, that seems so abstract and so mystical that it frustrates us. We simply feel guilty about the fact that we don't know know him better. And you say, yes, you know, Pastor, tell me about it, lay it on me. I ought to know God better. Yes, I should have a more intimate relationship with him. And I'll go home feeling about what a wretch I am but I don't know him. But I don't have a handle on how I I can help. But Paul gives us the clue right here. He says, The one I want you to know is the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus came in the flesh to reveal God. And if you want to get to know God better, all you need to do is get to know Jesus better. You simply need to read the gospels. You need to submit your mind to the kind of a person that he is. Read about him. Pray over the ways that he treated people. Think about that. Think about Jesus in various situations. And read in an understanding way so that you'll develop a full intimate acquaintance with Him. And by doing that, you will find that you've gotten to know God better. Because Jesus said He came to be the full revelation of what the Father is like. So it's not Some abstract spooky thing that we're talking about here. This isn't mysticism. It's talking about getting to know Jesus. And God says that's how I measure the purpose of the progress of my church. Since September 1978, those of you who been around. Can we say that we know the issues of the Christian faith better? Do we know the world and life and view of the New Testament better? Do we know the issues of obedience to which God is calling us better? If we do, that's good. That's part of our maturity. But if we answer yes to that question, But then when we ask the question, but do we know Jesus more intimately? We back off and we say, I don't see any difference there. Or my knowledge of him has become more abstract. He's more distant from me. And Paul says the basic purpose of the church hasn't been accomplished. His basic purpose for you and for me, as brothers and sisters in Christ, is to get to know Jesus better. Not simply issues, not simply Goals that we can chalk off. Not simply ministries that we can say we've started, not simply attendance records. But knowing Jesus better. The second way God is referred to here is as a Father. You notice that also in verse 17. I keep asking if not of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father. May give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation to know him better. That too should encourage us. To encourage us that he wants us to get to know him as a father. Someone has once said that tell me how much a person makes of God as Father, and I'll tell you how good his prayer life is. How your prayer life and my prayer life goes Largely depends on how much we make of God as Father. However else we know him as Master, Lord, and Savior, if we do not know him well as Father, we won't be very good at praying. It takes that understanding of God in the new covenant name of Father, who hears our requests, and with a sovereign, omnipotent compassion. seeks to bend his ear to answer us, that causes us to call upon him, whether in desperation, in quietness, but with confidence that he cares. And Paul says the foundation purpose of the church is that you and I get to know him better as father. To be able to say that in the past two, three or four years I've gotten to know more about the fatherhood of God. That's more precious to me because of what the Lord has taught me. You know, being a church together. That's the purpose of the church. The third way that he is referred to here is as the father of glory. Now the NIV has the glorious father. But the New Mark and Standard, typically more literal in its rendering, more direct in the syntax, puts here that he is the father of glory. And that is the way Paul wrote it. I keep asking at the Lord, with the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory. How much do you know of the glory of God? Have you ever trembled in awesome reverence? to think that you have intercourse with the Father of Glory. Have you ever been stumbstruck to know what it means to stand vulnerable as a sinner before the majestic Christ? For God to strike you with some truth from His Word, or some impact that He has made on you from creation So that you stand before him, and all of a sudden it hits you who this God is who has called you into relationship with himself. That he's the Father of glory That his majesty is spread abroad, and his holiness is shown to you, that he is not someone to be toyed with, that his name is not to be taken lightly on our lips, that we're not to go around acting as if we've got our arm around God as our buddy. But that he's the father of glory. And I've gotten to know his glory better. But along with that intimacy with which I've gotten to know him over the past few years, I've also gotten to tremble more at his glory. Quake more at the fact that this God of glory bids me to call him Father. Paul says the first purpose of the church is to know him better. Not issues. Not simply programs, not ministries. But knowing Jesus Christ, the Father, the Father of Glory. And how's it done? It's done through the Spirit. You notice he says there, for he will give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation to know him. It's the Spirit, the Holy Spirit. Who produces in us this deeper, more intimate knowledge, and we depend on him for it. Just incidentally, in this verse, you notice that the Trinity is mentioned here. And if you're speaking to some Jehovah's Witness friend or someone who has problem understanding, That the Bible teaches Trinity, you have in this one verse three distinct persons, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, who will give you the spirit of wisdom and understanding. And most people are agreed today that that spirit is not man's spirit, it's the Holy Spirit. You see that in the context of the rest of chapter one Now, this is the first purpose, then. The second purpose, he goes on to state in verse 18, the purpose of our knowing his calling and his inheritance. Notice what he says I pray also, secondly here, that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance. in the saints. You have two parts to that verse, his calling and his inheritance. What that calling is is made clear in the parallel passage in Colossians chapter one. Remember, if you're ever confused about something in a Ephesians, look at the approximate portion of the book of Colossians, and it may give you some light, because they're parallel just as gospels are parallel. If you're confused about something in Colossians, look back to Ephesians. It may give you some light likewise. And that's true in this case. He says here in verse 18 that I pray the eyes of your heart will be enlightened to know the hope which he's called you. In Colossians 1:5, we see a little more what that hope is. Paul says there, the faith and love is spring from the hope that you can be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to do it. It's stored up for you in heaven, and that you've already heard about in the Word of Truth the Gospel. So the hope that He's calling for us to see is what is stored up for us in heaven, what God has for us, that I have hasn't seen or ear heard or has even entered into our heart that rich calling which we have in the kingdom. That calling is then spelled out as our inheritance, the riches of his glorious inheritance of the saints. Now again Colossians gives us some help here. In chapter 1, verses 12 to 14 we see what that inheritance is. You notice Paul says in Colossians that he gives thanks to the Father, who's qualified me to share in the inheritance of the saints in the kingdom of light. For he rescued us from the dominion of darkness and brought us into the kingdom of the Son that he loves. In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Part of that inheritance then is redemption. It's the forgiveness of sins. Part of it, uh, in its fullness, is that we are heirs of the kingdom that He has given us. to us the inheritance of all that's his, the inheritance of the kingdom. That inheritance is not the fact that we are God's inheritance. It says his inheritance among the saints, but it's the inheritance that he gives to the saints. It's our Inheritance, the inheritance that we have laid up for us in heaven. The foundation of that inheritance, as I say from Colossians, is redemption. It's the forgiveness of sins. Is there anybody here? this morning, perhaps, who has not entered into that inheritance because you don't know the forgiveness of sins. You haven't understood what it means to come to Jesus Christ and say without excuse, without Offering rationalizations and self-justifications, Lord, I have nothing to offer you for the forgiveness of my sins. I come to you because I need the blood of Jesus Christ applied to my life. I come to you because I desperately need to be forgiven. That's the inheritance of the church. You can this morning go out from this room. Knowing that that inheritance is yours, if you come and place yourself at the disposal of Jesus Christ and say, Lord, Your sacrifice is what I need. Nothing else is going to do it. Nothing else will provide my forgiveness. But I don't need to add anything to that. Because Jesus took the sin of All this we trust him and look to him as Savior. But the inheritance of the saints goes beyond even that. What does it go beyond? Well, you notice how he states it here. He says he wants for us to see the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints. It's the inheritance of our father. How do you get an inheritance? It's from someone who leaves you that inheritance, a parent And God as our Father has an inheritance for us. Well, what is his inheritance for us? Well, it's all that he possesses. Now what does he possess? Well, what did we say in verse 17? He's the Father of glory. So therefore, what's his inheritance? The inheritance is glory. That's why he says in verse 18, that I want you to know that inheritance which is the riches of his glory. That's literally what it says in verse 18. It's the riches of his glory, the inheritance which he has given to his saints. And so, because God is the God of glory, And his inheritance he has given to us is the inheritance of glory. It's all the glory that he possesses, the least of which are material riches. Paul says, You can't see this with earthly eyes. Now that's trouble. With so many of us in the church, isn't it? We look for an inheritance as Christians that's something that we can see and feel and touch and enjoy right now. But Paul, notice how it begins, this verse. I pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened. See, he's not just simply saying, open your eyes and look around you to see all these blessings God is giving you. He says, I pray for the eyes of your heart to be enlightened. If your spiritual understanding, back in verse 17 given by the spirit of revelation and wisdom that that spiritual understanding will be enlightened so that you'll see what you possess. How do you look at your brothers and sisters in this room this morning? There's a bunch of neurotics and sinners. Or its glorified saints. How do we look at what's happening in our lives? As simply one series of unending problems, or as a means for God to display the riches of his glory in the inheritance that he has for us. I think it's significant that before Paul goes to state anything about living the holy life, about how we ought to behave as Christians in the book of Ephesians, the first thing he does is to remind us three chapters about the riches of our inheritance in glory. And I think this is something that the church desperately needs today. We're so busy finding out what we want to do that oftentimes we get our Eyes off of the riches of our inheritance. We have lost sight of what our calling is. We've lost sight of seeing things from spiritual eyes To realize that we are in the heavenlies right now, seated with Christ, that this worship service takes place in the heavenly Jerusalem, teaching the angels to worship as we arrayed around Mount Zion, the new Jerusalem, to worship the Lord Christ. You and I need to have the eyes of our heart might in order to see what we possess. And I remind you, that's not a side comment. That's Paul's basic purpose for the church. He's saying if there's just three things that I would pray for for you as a church, it would be first of all that you're known better. Secondly, that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened to see your inheritance. Christian, look to see your inheritance, to see what it means to be a member of his kingdom, headed for the glory of a body that will be transformed. in a mind transformed into the likeness of Jesus. And that's yours now. And we go there into. Finally one third thing he says to cap it all up is that you will know his power. Third purpose of the church is to know his power. Verse nineteen. He started in verse eighteen to pray that the eyes of your heart will be enlightened so that you will see. By the way, that word know there in verse. eighteen. It's not the same word as verse seventeen. It's a word which means to see in the Greek, so that you will see, know by seeing that hope and that inheritance. And also, thirdly, verse nineteen, his incomparably great power. That power which is to us who believe. That power which is not simply for those who once for all have made a decision for Jesus Christ. Christ, but of power to those of us who believe moment by moment, day by day, his promises, who take him at his word That power to us who believe Him, who look at the scriptures and search for the promises and say, Lord, I need your promise in this situation. I want to experience your power because I need you. Now, what does that mean? Power am I? Paul says, What kind of power am I talking about? And so he goes on in verse 19. That power that I'm talking about that I want you to experience, he said, is like the working of his mighty strength which he exercises. He exerted in two ways. What are the two ways? Verse twenty. Which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead. Resurrection power. How much power did it take to raise Jesus Christ out of a tomb? We've been crucified. That's the power that Paul says, I want you as a church to experience. Then what happened? After he raised him from the dead, he seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Great. God gave him a seat in heaven. So what? What does it mean? It means that he has seated him in absolute authority. That's what it means. Notice how he goes on to describe that. Far above all rule and authority, far above all power and division. Meaning, and every title that could be given. Not only in the present age, all kings and emperors, all prime ministers and presidents today, but also in all the ages to come, there will be no No power to compare with Jesus Christ. And God has placed all things under his feet. And He's appointed Him to be the head over everything for the church, which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills everything in every way. That's the power Paul says he wants the church to experience. Kathy and I were at a conference last weekend, a Lebris conference in Baltimore. And that conference, he was chapered. Made a very insightful statement. He said, God wants for us to experience his power in deliverance. But if you're sitting out on the sun porch sipping orange juice with the sun streaming through the window and God were to come through to you and say, I'm going to deliver you your heart wouldn't probably leap up into your throat for joy. When we're at rest and there are no troubles and problems, who needs deliverance? When we're comfortable, who needs power? Power is for those in trouble. Power is for the suffering. Power is for the desperate. Powers for those who are in battle. And so Paul is saying here: the church is in a battle, and it needs power. And he says, I want to remind you that the power of the resurrection and the power of the risen Christ, seated in absolute authority, is at your disposal. And God's purpose for you is not to rescue you from situations in which you'd have to experience that power. God's purpose for us as a church is to put us in situations in which He can demonstrate that power Just this week I was at a pastor's conference outside of Philadelphia. I was with some fellows who had begun to start churches in that area. I met two fellows who I had never seen before who had started two Orthodox Presbyterian churches in the last couple of years. One in Southwest Vill and one in Logan Square. As I mentioned to those who are in the Sunday school class this morning, Of those two churches comprising fifty or sixty adults, one hundred percent of the people involved in those churches are from backgrounds either of occultism, one girl was dedicated to Satan at another. Birth, others involved in witchcraft, many other forms, all involved either in occultism, in murders, in drugs, In prostitution, one in the mafia. That's the kind of congregations that have been started. If you take those categories along with drug dealing, you've got 100% of those congregations from what they say. But those congregations hover on the brink of existence. You get people coming to Jesus Christ out of those kinds of backgrounds. You've got a church that knows something about power, and it's also a church that knows an awful lot about problems. And the thing that struck me was as one of those fellows, Paul, was sharing what he had been going through recently. His wife in the last years had had four miscarriages, one still burned. They had adopted a fellow who tried to beat him up, another girl they had. taken as a foster child. After a year being promised that she would be with them till she grew, she was taken away from them. The church has been vandalized, broken into, he's been beaten up. They've experienced a lot of problems. But he said it's one of the most rejoicing congregations he's ever seen. Because of those problems, they've experienced the sufficiency of resurrection power. I don't say that because I'm wishing on a s some sort of a holocaust as a congregation here. I don't choose for problems. I think it was helpful that at that same Legree conference, Francis Schaefer, when questioned late in the evening about his cancer, said, I'll tell you truthfully, if I had a magic wand to make this cancer disappear, I would wave it in a moment. No fun having cancer. But he said, in the last four years I have experienced more of the Lord's power in how he has used me to minister than I have in the rest of any other comparable four years of my ministry. God places us in situations that we wouldn't choose to demonstrate his power. And as a church, as we review our progress, what I'm suggesting is that we look and ask ourselves not simply What ministries have we started? How have we grown? But how have we experienced the Lord's power in the last four years? If in the last four years you've experienced his power in temptation over sin, if you've experienced his power in following the Lord Jesus, then you've fulfilled God's purpose for you. What If you've experienced There's his power in the assaults of Satan in the world, and we've seen people come to Jesus Christ, snatch it from the jaws of hell That's power that he wants us to experience. That's our purpose as a church. But I'd like to suggest that there's a lot more of that power that God intends for us to experience. And it may be that as a church he'll need to put us in situations so that we'll desperately look to him for that power. How do you feel about that? Is that okay? He's got an awful lot in store for us if he does. Well, you know, four years after I had been at Clark Reservation in the spring of 1978, I went back this summer. We're back for the first time since we had moved from Syracuse to see friends. And I took one part of the morning to go back to Clark Reservation. Walked around the rim of those dried-up falls, back through the Walked along the trail where the trees looked the same and everything just as it had been four years ago. And as I went back to those same verses, I asked myself, Lord, what have we experienced of your purpose for us as a church in Columbia in these four years? And again, I don't think there's anything spooky about Clark Reservation. But the Lord seems to somehow get through to me there in ways that are almost tangible. Almost as if the Lord spoke to me again. It was as if he shot right back to me, Alan. How much do you want? to experience of those purposes. And I said, well, Lord, you know, of course I want to experience these things. I want to know you better. I want to know the calling and my inheritance that you have for me. I want to know your power. It was almost as if the Lord shot right back to the end. me again, enough to inconvenience you. And I was struck to the Lord. Because I was seeing that what I was saying was, Well Lord, I want to experience these things enough to fit within my lifestyle. But I'm not so sure I want to experience these things in a way that's going to disturb that lifestyle and make it inconvenient for me. And I thought of Jonathan Edwards' words, after revival had broken out. of the Second Great Awakening. And he wrote in his journal that he almost wished that God would take away the revival because it was so exhausting to him. He was never getting anything done except talking to people about the Lord, and it was coming to a point of just simple physical exhaustion. And he said that uh without greater help he couldn't simply go on at that pace. That's a great inconvenience. That's a great price to pay. What about us as a congregation? Are we ready if God were to bring in October fifty people to Jesus Christ and place them at our disposal? What would we do with fifty people? fifty people to disciple and to work with in Jesus Christ. Would we say, Praise the Lord, look what He's given to us. Now let's get to work in building up these saints and using them to penetrate more of Columbia. Or would we say, How are we going to get this time? Man, I've already Got my hands full. I can't do anything else. How much do we want to know of his purpose in knowing him better? And I began to see the fear I have of inconvenience. Inconvenience is Even in knowing him better. The inconvenience of being awakened by the Spirit at three o'clock in the morning to pray and to come before him, to spend extra time in his word. What do I say? rather sleep. I'd rather get other things done than to spend that time coming into a deeper, more intimate acquaintance with him. Do you want that purpose for you? Enough to inconvenience you? What about your calling and your inheritance. Do we want to know enough about that to give us joy? Or are we afraid of the inconvenience of taking our eyes off of our idols? Those things that we long to procure, that we polish and cherish? Enough to get our eyes off of those things to see the inheritance that the Lord has for us, the riches of his glory. Or are we disturbed by the inconvenience that might cause us if we really grab the whole? Of what that inheritance meant. And what about his power? Let me ask you a question. If you had the choice between these two alternatives, which one would you choose? To be able to spend all of your free time and your daily off doing what you would like to do without being interrupted. Because nobody sees that there's a whole lot of power that you have to offer that they're going to seek to interrupt. So peace, but without power. Or a little bit of power. Or, the second alternative, to be interrupted, to have people calling you at inconvenient times, people looking for your ministry in their lives, people coming to you with question, seeking for help from you. Because they're saying that they've seen God use you. And they need that ministry that God has used your life for. A little bit of power and no inconvenience? Or to be inconvenienced and interrupted, but to experience power. Which would you choose? And what would the Lord Jesus do with a congregation that single-mindedly said, These are our purposes? Whatever the cost, Lord Jesus, we want to know you better. Whatever the cost, Lord Jesus, we want to see and taste that inheritance. Whatever the cost, Lord Jesus. We want to experience resurrection power and the power of your absolute authority as it puts down your enemies and the rebellion of this world in battle. Thank you.