Last week I began a series on the names of God, as they are revealed to us in Scripture. I began by reminding us of the privilege of knowing God's name. God's name, I reminded us, is God as He is known and revealed to us. His name reveals His character. Even in our own culture, we speak of Knowing a person has a good name, that doesn't mean that their name sounds sweet to us. It's got a nice ring to us. It means that they have a good character to have a good name. And in the Bible, particularly in the Hebrew culture, the name, remember, we said describes and discloses the inner nature of a person. And so God's name reveals who he is and what he's like. Wanna know what God is like? You look at his name And remember, we saw in John 17 that Jesus said that his work could be described as simply revealing the name of God in its fullness. Well, now this week I want to look not just at the privilege of knowing his name, but I want us to look at the responsibility of knowing God's name, that we not misuse it. I'm afraid in our secular culture we don't think very much of the misuse of God's name anymore. And yet When God decided to give us simply ten commands on which to base all of life, one of those ten, he chose to deal exclusively with this concern. The third command, as it's revealed to us in Exodus chapter 20, I read to you God's word. This is what the Lord Himself says to you You shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God. For the Lord will not hold anyone guiltless who misuses his name. I purposely read that command out of the context of the other nine. Because I think that often as Christians there's a problem when we read the Ten Commandments of blurring them together. And so the unique distinctiveness of each one sometimes is missed. But do you see that command standing alone in its full force? God says, one of my ten most basic rules for living is that you will not misuse the name of the Lord your God. For the Lord will not hold anyone guiltless who misuses his name. And I want to look, first of all, at how we violate that in American culture today. How do we violate that? Each culture violates that in slightly different ways. And I think there are some distinctive ways in which we as a culture utterly violate And ignore that command, you shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless, who misuses his name Now the first way, as you see in your bulletin outline there, the most obvious way that we do this is in our cursing the name. Jesus Christ used as an expletive when you hit your finger with a hammer or some frustration or anger at some other person comes and so there is uh just a bursting, spewing forth of that sacred name. Do you ever get used to it? There should be a holy horror of chills that go up and down our spines as we hear someone using Jesus' name in such a way. Oh my God, is used much more commonly and is seen in our culture as something that is not even particularly offensive. So common among kids as well as adults. And yet it's a blatant disregard for one of God's ten basic rules for a living. You shall not misuse my name. And a common oh my God over every few sentences thrown in to add a little bit more impact or a little force to what a person is saying is such a cheapening of God's name. Perhaps you're aware that in most parts of our country there were laws against profanity in the early days of our nation. Laws against profanity, blasphemy, the using of God's name in vain. And how ironic it is that we have passed from a situation in which in many States, those laws are still on the books. Can you imagine some officer trying to enforce one of those laws? Uh what are you doing there, officer? I'm writing out a citation. What for? Because you said, Oh my God He'd get a lot more expletives from trying to write out the citation than what he would quell. But the state would sure get rich out of trying to enforce the blasphemy laws that are still in many cases on the books. But we've moved from such a case in which uh it's against the law to now every time you go to a movie, no matter how good the movie's been recommended, it's usually full of blasphemy. At least uh various parts are sprinkled with it in order to add a little bit more force and realism Or even now, when you turn on the TV and prime time family shows, or at least during that time of TV in the evening, you hear more and more A blasphemy going on. And God's name is cheapened, and so there's no reverence for God's name. In fact, his name is linked with obscenities made dirty and cheap in the use that we give to it. And so that as one person has said we are raising a generation of kids who think that God's last name is Dammit. We have such a cheapened use of the sacred holy name. You shall not misuse my name, God has said. And God doesn't accommodate Himself to our standards. He said, Well, you know, back when I wrote that, that was pretty important. But well, well, for America now everybody does it, so it really has lost its force. To the holy God who has made us, that is still just as much in force as when Moses write it on the top wrote it on the tables of stone. You shall not misuse my name. Now the cursing is very obvious, but a second way that I think that we do it is just a flip use of his name. That's something that's not only uh Characteristic of unbelievers, but I find often often uh characteristic of believers too. We used to have a neighbor who seemed uh very much to love the Lord Jesus, but would go around uh saying very glibly, commonly, uh, praise the Lord for every other thing, you know. Whatever he'd say, it's a sunny day, praise the Lord, you know, and she would go on and it became such a litany that there was nothing much to it and she'd say, Oh my God, and oh Lordy and all kinds of things, you know, and just the name of God just became so common in the youth, so casual that it lost its notion of sacredness in conversation. Where there are those that uh refer to God by their pet nicknames and circumulocutions, you know, uh Tilix the ground of being. Or people call him the supreme being, or more casually, perhaps in our culture, those that refer to the man upstairs, or the big man in the sky, or more recently the force. All of these, you say, are simply the misuse of God's name, casual flip nicknames given to him that take away his uniqueness and sacredness. But I would say that much graver, much more serious, and yet much less noticed in America Is our American allegiance to what I call the faceless, nameless, harmless God? Those are the three blanks there. Our allegiance to the faceless, nameless, harmless God who meets our needs. You ever consider how fascinating it is that 95% of contemporary Americans, according to the poll, say that they believe in God? And yet, when asked to name him or define him in any unique way, they immediately become very vague and speak in such terms that God becomes a hazy, religious, warm fuzzy. Some sort of a religious concept that has no particular content. You ever talk to somebody that says, uh, sure, I believe in God and Jesus and all that stuff? Yeah, you know you think, oh well, maybe you know we're on some common ground here. You say, Well, you a Christian? Oh yeah. Oh well what church are you a part of? Oh well man I you know you don't need that stuff. I walk with God in my own way And you begin to press for some details about how God reveals his character to this person and his will. And you find that gradually the person's getting more irritated with the fact that you're pushing your thoughts on him, your interpretation of the Bible as it's often said. Just this past week I was talking to a fellow who said, I believe there's a God, I'm sure that there's a God, and I said, Well tell me about him. He said, I can't tell you anything about him. Well, why not? He said, Because I don't know who's right So my father in law is a Jehovah's Witness. I don't know, you know, I don't particularly enjoy him. I don't think he's right. Other people talk about uh what they think God is like And I just don't know who's right or who's wrong. But I'm sure there's a God. And I said, Well, would you be interested in finding out what he's like? Let's look into the Bible, the record he's given, and see what he's like. Well, you know, I'm kind of busy now. I said, if you were to be told that you have cancer and going to die in a year, would you still be too busy? He kind of chuckled, but he still wasn't interested in pursuing it. Really frustrating, isn't it? The misuse of God's name. Yes, I believe in God. But He's a faceless, nameless, harmless God who makes no demands on my lifestyle He has no character and therefore he gives no commands. There's nothing that you can definitively say about this God. And therefore, this God is no threat to our lifestyles. He's the God of what I call reader's digest religion. You read it, it just makes you kind of feel good that he's up there, you know, taking care of things. But you can't say anything about him, particularly anything that will divide you from anyone else. Some time ago I got a letter From uh Howard County General Hospital. I see my friend Brent Brooks out there with Church Resources Ministry, his wife. And uh want to uh welcome you to be with us in our service. But Brent and I both got this letter. It was about ministry at Howard County General Hospital. And uh I thought it was interesting what they say. It's a reflection of just what I'm talking about. It says as you know Howard County General Hospital, a secular institution, is always encouraged spiritual ministries to his patients and staff, provided they're not proselytizing in nature. Well, all right, you know, you don't cram religion down a person's throat. You gotta be sensitive to this kind of thing. But it's saying, you know, you can have a spiritual ministry As long as you're not defining too clearly what the nature of the God is that you're representing in that ministry. But what is particularly interesting to me is the closing sentence of this invitation for the churches to have spiritual ministry. It says, we will be soliciting the support of you and your congregation for this important mission in the name of God. Isn't that cute? I mean, you know, we're gonna do this in the name of God. But one of the ground rules is that nobody's allowed to talk about what this God is like. Because that's proselytizing, that's pushing. You see, that's misusing the name of the Lord your God. That's exactly what the third commandment's about in our culture. You shall not misuse my name and relativize it to make me a faceless, nameless, harmless God. That's a misuse of my name to drag me into people's false security so that they feel that something spiritual is happening. And in fact, you're doing nothing but rearranging their own prejudices and making a pocket-sized God out of the one who declares himself in Scripture I've often been frustrated with how to deal with this. And I got a good clue from a guy in Philadelphia, the street evangelist, Greg Houston. And Greg talks to a lot of tough people there. And one day he was talking to a fella to talk about names of God. This fella had a name. We talk about names revealing your character. This fellow's name was the Scar. He was talking to the scar on the corner of uh one of the uh northern Philadelphia street corners. He got into spiritual things and the scar said, and I quote, I wrote down what he said so I get it straight. He says, Well you know, even with my bad habits, I've always looked to the Lord. Now how are you gonna answer that? You know, well, glad that you're looking to the Lord, Scar, you know. I mean, you know, what's it doing for you? You know, but I thought that Houston had a wonderful comeback. Without stopping or pausing, he said, I'm glad you have respect for God But it's got to go beyond that. It's got to have an effect on the way that you live. See I think uh if you can take any clue from that When you find people who are giving some vague reference to the faceless, nameless God of American civil religion, one possible way to continue the conversation is to say, Well, I'm glad you have respect for God. Because this God tells us what he's like. And it's got to have an effect on the way that we live. How do you understand what he's like? Then you see we can begin to get into some dialogue about what this God that we have just named in a casual way is really like Sort of tuck that into your pocket for some use this week if you get into such a conversation and see what God does with it. But even beyond that, I believe a fourth way that we abuse this Is in what I call American civil religion. Now, American civil religion is something we need to be aware of because it's basically the problem that I just discussed pushed one more step. It's the faceless, nameless, harmless, vague, undefined God who is politicized for the purposes of the state. As someone has said, the answer to the question, who is God, is God is a word which appears in the closing paragraph of a politician's speech. You know how it goes. After everything's been said, the last words are, God bless America, and God bless each and every one of you. There's sort of a warm feeling. You know, you sort of feel like, I can trust this guy. He's on our side. When in fact it may have nothing to do with his convictions about God. The universal God of the Bible has been reduced to the tribal God. By the way, in your bulletin outline, that should say the tribal God. Trivial's pretty close, but the word I wrote was tribal. God of America's destiny. and of America's values. I think one of the best examples of this, and I kid you not, this is a quote from Dwight D. Eisenhower, nineteen fifty two. Eisenhower said at that time Quote, our form of government has no sense unless it is founded in a deeply felt religious faith. And I don't care what it is. Now, you know, I mean, here's a guy saying, you know, I'm a Christian and I use the name of God. God bless America. In fact, our whole foundation of our culture makes no sense unless it's founded on a deeply religious faith. I don't care what that faith is, you know, I mean you can be a Muslim, you can be a Buddhist, you can Baha'i, I don't care, you know. Uh you know, if you take that to its logical conclusion, you could be a Satan worshiper. As long as it's a deeply felt religious faith in which you can speak somehow of God and blessing America and our values. I think we as Christians need to be sensitive to this, and I think oftentimes we slip in that and don't realize that this is an utter violation of Exodus 20, verse 7. You shall not misuse The name of the Lord your God. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless, whether he be president or whoever he be who misuses that name. You and I need to be more sensitive to that. I think it's a it's an indictment against American Christianity that Christians often are far more upset. about the desecration of the flag, which is that symbol of the American civil religion, than they are about the blaspheming of God's name. But the scripture says, not you shall not desecrate the flag, and I'm not speaking about that issue now, but it does say, you shall not misuse the name of the Lord your God. Now why is that so terrible? This is a study on the names of God. Why is it so terrible to do that? I believe it's so terrible, and we need to re-sensitize ourselves to it because of the tremendous uniqueness and sacredness of the name of God. In fact, Scripture is abundantly clear that everything that is distinctive about Christianity is done in the name of God. Let me give you some examples of that. You see them there listed, and you've got to fill them in as we go. First of all, you and I are saved. From perishing only by his name. It's through the name of Jesus that you and I are saved from perishing. In Isaiah chapter 42, for instance. In Isaiah 42, in verse 8 God says, I am the Lord. That is my name. I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. And then he goes on to say in chapter 43, in verse eleven, I even I am the Lord. Apart from me there is no Savior. Do you remember that last week we looked at John 17 and saw how Jesus says, to know you, Father, is life eternal. Only by knowing you is their life eternal. And then he goes on to say, I have revealed your name. It's through Jesus Christ that the name of God is known, is Savior, and is revealed. And so that's why when the early disciples went out preaching, they said in Acts chapter 4 and verse 12, you can't get any clearer than this. Salvation is found in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given to men by which we must be saved. And if you're looking for any other name, any other hope, as Steve shared in his testimony earlier, looking to your own good works or whatever else it is other than the name of Jesus. We're looking to a false hope this morning. And you and I need to be sensitized to the relativization of that name. To be more upset when we hear that sincerity is all that really counts. That's what really matters. But to be jealous for the name of our God. The second way that the name is Important, sacred, unique to us as Christians is that only in the name do we pray and are heard. True prayer is only ever offered in the name of Jesus. If you remember John chapter 14, verse 13, Jesus said, I will do whatever you ask in my name, so that the Son may be bring glory to the Father. You see, the name there is saying that uh prayer is not just some wish of faith or some superstitious incantation But the name of God, which reveals his character, tells us that true prayer is only ever based on the work of Jesus and consistent with the will of Jesus. That's what's summed up in his name, his work and his will, his character, and all his works for us to enable us to have access to God's ear. And so you see that it's through the name of Jesus that we pray. It's important to know that name. It's important to hold that name as unique and sacred. Because that's how we come to God with our needs. A third example of this is that it's only in his name that we worship acceptably. Scripture is clear that it's only in the unique name of God that we worship. Do you remember in John 4, Jesus was speaking to the woman at the well and he said that uh the Father's looking for worshippers to worship him in spirit and in truth. And then he speaks of that worship in truth and describes that as centering on himself, so that Paul takes that thought and he expands it and he says that Jesus who came and gave himself. and ascended into heaven so that at one day at the knee uh excuse me, one day at the throne of Jesus, every knee shall bow, and every tongue confess that he is glor that he is God, to the glory of God the Father. We'll confess the name of Jesus in our worship. All worship is focused on the name, his character, and his works. It's the name that is the central focus of all true biblical worship And that's why we as a church could never engage in interfaith worship, where you in America are supposed to worship as one big happy family. in which uh who the God is that you worship and the definition of his worship is not so important as the fact that we're getting together to demonstrate our unity in the act of worship. The act of worship has nothing virtuous in itself. It'd be worshiping an idol or a demon. But it's worship in the name of Jesus. It's confessing the name. It's lifting up his name, describing his character, his worth, and his works, which makes worship acceptable in the sight of our God. The fourth example is that it's only in the name, the unique, sacred name of our God that we have our security in life. You hear me from time to time that speak the ironic blessing. The Lord bless you and keep you, make his face shine upon you. Interesting, the very next verse after that in number six describes that as placing God's name on his people. And that's their security in numbers, that their name is placed on, his name is being placed on them They belong to him, so that as Proverbs 1810 says, the name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous run into it and are safe. Remember, I said last week, what is the biggest need in your life? What is your greatest insecurity this morning? Look through the scriptures and find the name of God that pertains to that need. Run into that name. Trust that name, that that reveals God as He really is. And see how Jesus Christ demonstrates the meaning of that name in his fullness. Run into it this week and find your security in that. But your security is not found in reader's digest religion or self-help Christianity. It's found in the name, the finished work and the character, the faithfulness of our God, who loves you and cares for you as his sheep. Our security is only in the unique sacred name of our God. And then the final example is that it's only in his name that we do good deeds to bring glory and honor to Jesus. It's only in his name that the things that we do that are good, merciful, compassionate, bring honor to Jesus when they're done in his name. Do you remember in Mark 9. 41, Jesus said, Whoever gives the cup of cold water in my name brings honor. To me through that. And so that as he said in the Sermon on the Mount, when you do your good deeds and let your light shine, people see that and they glorify your Father. But if you and I do good things no matter how kind they are, but it's never done in connection with the name of Jesus. People may think that we're very nice people. But they'll never give credit to Jesus for that. There has to be the connection with the name. In fact, how important is the name that But when we as a session once a month share whether we in fact were faithful in evangelism the last week, the one criteria that we use is not did you say something spiritual to somebody last week Did you get into some conversation? Did you give the whole gospel? You know, describe a certain number of points that have to be given. No, there's one criteria that we use as elders. Did you mention the name of Jesus to an unbeliever last month? That's what matters you. The name of Jesus is powerful. That's why the name of Jesus, even when robbed of all its content Still finds its use to people in cursing. There's a power in the name. That name is a unique and sacred name not to be misused. How sacred and unique is that name? That name is so sacred that when Jesus taught us to pray, the very first petition that he said to pray was holy be your name. Do you remember that? The very first thing that you and I pray is not Lord help me through this day. Lord, this day is a real bummer. Give me my daily bread. I'm needy. Deliver me from evil. All the other things that he teaches us to pray. The very first thing he says, to get the perspective straight If Lord, keep your name holy in my life this day. How sacred was the name What was penalty for the blasphemy of the name? In Leviticus chapter 24, we're given an incident where two guys were fighting. And in that provocation, the heat of the moment, one of them cursed God Leviticus 24 says, he blasphemed the name. He misused the name. It was a wrong and flagrant cursing. And they didn't know what to do, so they said, well let's put this guy in custody. What are we gonna do? We ask the Lord, well what do we do? You told us that we shouldn't misuse your name, but now uh what do you want us to do about that? Do you know what God, the God of love and compassion, said to do with that fellow? Said every one of you who have witnessed this, put your hands on the head of that man to show that you've witnessed that. And then take that man out on a field, and all Israel is to throw rocks at him and stone him to death. You and I think it's a pretty simple thing to curse the name of Jesus. God said it carried the death penalty. He said, because my name is life. My name is my character And when you and I look and we say, God, aren't you being a little unreasonable to make such a big deal? This fella died. And you know stoning to death is a very ugly way to die We've probably never witnessed a stoning to death. But rocks are thrown at the person until you see that person crumple in a heap of blood and bruises. And they drop down and you realize that your hand was part of the execution. And you watch that person until they drop lifeless and their suffering is ended. See, that's cruel. God says that's only consistent with what justice requires. When you take the name of the Holy Living God and you drag that name into the mud before his creatures. For you not only rob him of his honor, but you take that name so that people don't take him seriously and they don't look to him for life. People are lost because the name of Jesus is cheapened. How do you and I respond to the use of the name as we hear it? And as we use his name on our own lips, God gave only ten rules as the foundation for all the rest of his commands. The third of those ten was don't misuse the name. Did it ever strike you why Jesus died? What was the sentence that was given to Jesus for which they crucified him? The sentence was blasphemy. Jesus was accused of violating this third commandment. The religious leaders of his day said that Jesus was accused of blaspheming the name because he made himself the Messiah. They couldn't stone him because they had lost the right. And so they had to hand him over to the Romans to be executed in their way. And he was crucified. Do you understand the significance of that? Jesus was cursed and crucified as the greatest blasphemer of all time. And it was precisely that Jesus who was the one who revealed the name of God. Why was it? Because God, through that cosmic irony, was showing that the very one who bore and revealed his name was going to bear your curse and my curse But the fact that we have flippantly misused and ignored that name. And in doing that, Jesus was bearing all your sin and all my sin. And all our flippancy, and all our cursing, and all the rest of all the things that we have done in flagrant disregard of his authority over us. Have you come to that Jesus for his forgiveness? And if you haven't, I plead with you that you'll come and be forgiven of all your blasphemy, of all your flippancy. Of all your carelessness, and he'll forgive you for the misuse of his name. But if you have come, have you reverenced that name Does the cursing and the flippant use of that name fill you with holy horror? Have you come to love that name and hold it sacred, reverent, in your own life? For his name reveals his character, and all that he is to you and to me. Let's come. To make hold, to take hold of his name and understand why it's so important to God. Do we not misuse that name? Or are careless in our toleration of others dragging it into the mud. Let's pray together I'm going to turn this time of prayer over to our worship leader.