Sixteen years ago today, on January 22, 1973, the Supreme Court handed down its ruling. On whether the right to privacy included the right of a mother to abort her fetus, that is her pre-born baby. The ruling explicitly claimed to ignore the issue of when life begins. It said, quote, we need not resolve the difficult question of life begins, and quote, we are not in a position to speculate as to the answer. And yet, Justice Harry Blackman, in his decision on this case, calls the unborn child only, quote, potential life. And in another place, he calls it a quote, non-person without any constitutional right to life. For a group that is supposed to hold the highest standards of logic, that seems to me rather inconsistent. To on the one hand say that we are not in a position to determine when human life begins. And then to go on and base your decision on the fact that that person is only potential life, and it's a non-person without any constitutional rights. And yet 16 later, years later, we've seen over 22 million babies, pre-born babies, aborted. That's over ten times the number of all the Americans who have ever been killed in any war that we have ever fought. And I believe that 1989 will see the fight for the sanctity of human life in this country reach an unprecedented fever pitch. This, I believe, will be the most important year since 1973 in determining the future of America in this whole matter. And I believe that because of that on this 16th anniversary of that infamous decision, that you and I need to address ourselves to what the Lord would have us to understand about these issues. And what response our Lord Jesus would have us as his disciples to give at this point in history. And so to do that, I would like to turn our attention to the words of the prophet Isaiah addressed to Israel at the end of the seventh century before Christ. Yet as we read these words from Isaiah chapter 58, I want you to think of America in 1989. Think of this nation which still in some vague general way conceives of itself as a Christian nation, at least to the extent That the president at his inauguration can lead in public prayer. So consider these words not simply to Seventh century Israel, but to 20th century America. Isaiah chapter 58, verses 1 to 9. Hear the word of God. These are God's words addressed to Israel's civil religion. Shout it aloud. Do not hold back. Raise your voice like a trumpet. Declare to my people their rebellion, and to the house of Jacob their sins. For day after day they seek me out. They seem eager to know my ways, as if they were a nation that does what is right, and has not forsaken the commands of its God. They ask me for just decisions and seem eager for God to come near them. Why have we fasted, they say, and you have not seen it? Why have we humbled ourselves and you have not noticed? And yet on the day of your fasting, you do as you please, and exploit all your workers. Your fasting ends in quarreling and strife and in striking each other with wicked fists. You cannot fast as you do today and expect your voice to be heard on high. Is this the kind of fast that I have chosen, only a day for a man to humble himself? Is it for bowing one's head like a reed, for lying on sackcloth and ashes? Is that what you call a fast? Are they acceptable to the Lord? Is not this the kind of fast I have chosen? To loose the chains of injustice? And untie the cords of the yoke, to set the oppressed free and break every yoke? Is it not to share your food with the hungry? And to provide the poor wanderer with shelter, when you see the naked to clothe him, and not to turn away from your own flesh and blood Then your light will break forth like the dawn, and your healing will quickly appear Then your righteousness will go before you, and the glory of the Lord will be your rear guard. Then you will call and the Lord will answer. You will cry for help and he will say, Here am I. These are God's words to us. I would like to consider these words under three points. First of all, I would like for us to notice from verses one to five the fast that God rejects And then secondly, I would like to notice in contrast to that in verses six and seven the fast that God accepts. And then finally, I would like to notice in verses 8 and 9, the result of the fast that God accepts. First of all, then notice the fast that God rejects. Now, the fasting that's mentioned here in verses 3, 4, 5, and 6 is a religious exercise to express one's humbling of themselves before God as one who follows him It's to remind you as you fast of your dependence on him for life and for favor. Fasting has at the very heart of it a humbling. It's the opposite of feasting, which is a celebration and rejoicing. It's a giving up of food for humbling. These people are a very religious people. I don't know how many of us fast, but these people fasted regularly as an expression of their humbling of themselves before God. And anyone who has studied the matter will tell you that America is a very religious nation today. Most people practice Some kind of religion. You don't notice that in as much in a place like Columbia. You sort of feel like you're the only one driving out on Sunday morning, but you take America as a whole. Most people practice some kind of religion. In fact, at least a quarter of Americans would claim some sort of born-again experience. Most would say they believe the Bible is the word of God and that Jesus Christ is God and there's a heaven and a hell and all the rest of these basic things. America is very religious. But God says that he rejects the general vague civil religion of these people Because they're characterized by four things, and as I look at these four things with you, notice whether they apply to America today. He says, first of all, that they're a rebellious people in verse 1. He says, you're rebellious. Shout it aloud. Do not hold back. Raise your voice like a trumpet. Declare to my people their rebellion. And to the house of Jacob their sins. That is to say, they don't obey my word. They don't obey the Bible. They give lip service to the Bible as the word of God while it gathers dust on their tables They're rebellious. They don't obey me. They don't pay attention to what I've said. Secondly, he says they seem eager to know him, but they are indignant. When they are told the truth about what they're like. You see that in verses 2 and 3. He says, Day after day they seek me out, they seem eager to know my ways. As if they were a nation that does what's right. We're God's people, you know. Books are written on America as God's people. The nation that has has its roots and its background, Christian foundations. They ask me for just decisions, and they seem eager for God to come near them. Why have we fasted, they say, rather indignantly, and you have not seen it? Why have we humbled ourselves and you haven't noticed? We pray for peace and prosperity and somehow it seems like God's not paying attention. And we're good people. Why doesn't God hear us? Why isn't He noticing how good we are? The third thing he says, why he doesn't pay attention to them, why he rejects their religious exercises, is because they're hypocritical You see that in verses 3 and 4. They are hypocritical. He says, yet on the day of your fasting, you do as you please. And you exploit all your workers. Your fasting ends in quarreling and strife, in striking each other with wicked fists. You cannot fast as you do today and expect your voice to be heard on high. You see, the whole meaning of fasting was to humble yourself before God and before one another. But he says, on the one hand, you're giving some expression, an outward expression of humility, while your heart is so arrogant that even before the day of fast ends, you're fighting with somebody for your own rights. Your arrogance is so unbounded that you have to take advantage of anyone who's weaker than you in order to look out for number one, in order to get your own way and to defend your rights. You're not going to push me around Say here's this guy and he's you know, he's bowing down, Oh Lord, I fast and I tell you that I depend on you and you're so great and I'm nothing and you know and somebody shoves him in the ribs and say, get out of here, you know. Who do you think you're pushing around? You're not gonna You're not touching nobody, you know. And there's that immediate bristling. He says, you know, this is pure hypocrisy. And so he says that leads to the fourth thing which God can't stand, and that's that you isolate your religious activities. Into a private corner for a God that you keep in your pocket. You see that in verse five. See. Is this the kind of fast I've chosen, God says? Only a day, the emphasis is there on a day, you see. Just a day for a man to humble himself. You know, you sort of squeeze it into your schedule So this is the day that we go and we uh bow down now. And you see, bow your head like a reed, you know, sort of blowing in the wind, you know, sort of going up and down. It means nothing You lie on sackcloth and ashes, you know, like a big deal. You're sort of proud of your humility. You know, it's just a day for calling a fast uh that's acceptable to the Lord. God says, this is ridiculous. You know, it's like there's a little column, I don't know what magazine, Women's Day or Family Circle or something. It used to be called God's Corner. You ever see that? I hate that thing Here's God's corner, you know. Let's give them a little nod here and you know between the ads, you know. It would always tell something you know sort of sentimental and neat about God and something about life and all those kind of things. And that's what these people are doing As long as we have some religious activity and sort of give a nod to God, then things will go okay. A purely superstitious ritual that isolates religious activities. separates them from the rest of life. I knew of a fellow just a year ago who was attending a church in this area faithfully. And on Sunday he would go to church and worship, and then between Sundays he was working like mad, ruthlessly deceiving and cheating in order to drive another company out of business. and by all kinds of unethical means to take over that country and run it into bankruptcy. Just purely for his own greed. But on Sunday he would come and he'd be singing the same hymns. It wasn't in this body, but it was in another evangelical body. singing the hymns and praising Jesus and hiding behind the shallow religious comfort that is handed out for a small fee of an offering in many of religious institutions in America, whether on television or in the local church, without the call of Isaiah saying you're kidding yourself, you're deceiving yourself If you think that this kind of religious activity is going to be accepted by me, you're utterly in self-deceit. That day when you will stand before the holy, blazing gaze of Jesus Christ, that deception will be so obvious. If there's anyone here this morning that thinks that you can somehow be right with God because of a ceremonial bowing and nodding to Him on Sunday mornings. And let me urge you to deceive yourself no longer because you know in your heart it's not true. And that when you stand before Jesus Christ, It only be a matter of your relationship to him that will matter, then, not what ceremonies you carried out. And whether that relationship is genuine will be seen in the way your heart really is. And so God in the next two verses contrasts with this the kind of fast he accepts. And that fast is a fast of a genuine heart humbling. And so now let's look at the fast God accepts in verses six and seven. We see here that God points out that if fasting is an expression of humility of oneself before God, then it's going to have two practical consequences. in how you relate to other people. Your relationship to Jesus Christ will be seen in how you relate to other people. That hard-humbling self will show itself in two ways. The first, in verse 6, is a concern for justice. You see that in verse 6. Is not this the kind of fast I have chosen, God says, to loose the chains of injustice? And untie the cords of the oak, to set the oppressed free, and break every yoke. There's an example of this recorded in Jeremiah chapter 34. Jeremiah 34, you have Israel under siege. Jerusalem is under siege there. And God's gotten the people's attention. And so they humble themselves. They fast and they say, Oh God, we repent of our sin. And particularly the interesting thing is that they notice that they have sinned in keeping their brothers in slavery beyond the six-year limit that God had given to them The law said he couldn't keep an Israelite more than six years. Seventh year he had to let them go free. And they were keeping these people in bondage year after year. See, it was unjust. And so they literally did what this verse says. As an expression of their repentance, they loosed the chains of injustice. They left their slaves free. They untied the cords of the oak. They set the oppressed free, and they broke every oak. You know what happened though? These guys also go, hey man, this is good. God's been good. He's heard our cry. He's released us. And then when the siege was over, They changed their mind. Say, that was a little hasty. We have to repent, but you know, you realize how many profits we've lost in this They turned around and they recaptured all those they had held in bondage and they put them back in bondage again. Because it wasn't a genuine heart humbling, you see. And Jeremiah takes him to task on that. But Isaiah is saying, if your heart is really humbled before the Lord, you're going to be concerned for justice, not just profit. That's very practical as we think of a new administration coming into the White House. Because the question that you and I have to ask is, are you as concerned that the Bush administration Will increase the justice of American business practices as you are that they will be profitable over the next four years? All we concern ourselves is, is will the next four years see unbridled inflation or unemployment? Will the stocks go up or down? But what about the humbling before Jesus Christ that says, my main concern is, will we increase in our justice? In our practices as a nation and in our businesses over these next four years. Isaiah says if you really have an understanding Of what God is like, and you're in a relationship with Him, you'll be concerned for justice more than profit. But then the second thing that he says, Is even more significantly an expression of that humbling of the heart in fasting. And that's a concern for compassion. A concern for compassion that he expresses in verse 7. He says, Is it not to share your food with the hungry, to provide the poor wanderer with shelter, when you see the naked, to clothe him? And not to turn away from your own flesh and blood. See, a humble heart sees that the God of the Bible is a God who revealed Himself in this period of history Most pointedly, in the Ark of the Covenant. That was the very symbol of God's presence. And you remember that the Ark of the Covenant, that approximately two-foot by four-foot box, Had in it the table of the law, the symbol of God's justice, but over the table of the law was the mercy seat. As an expression of the fact that God's mercy covers his justice. And every time an Israelite thought of that ark, He realized that God was a God whose mercy, whose compassion triumphed over his judgment, as James says And so, as we look at that, that's what's got to characterize our lives. And so we see in this these four statements in verse 7. All fulfilled in Jesus Christ. Isn't that amazing? You know, if you look at that, verse 7, it says, Is it not to share your food? Literally, the Hebrew word is bread. Is it not to share your bread with the hungry? In John 6, Jesus tells us that he is the bread. He has come from heaven to share himself as the true bread of heaven, so that you and I might eat and live of him. The Bible tells us here that we're to provide the poor wanderer with shelter. John 14, Jesus said, You're wandering and you have no home, but I'm going to prepare a place for you. So that you can come home and be with me where I am. And Jesus Christ, at the cost of his life, is preparing a place, a home for you and for me to come and to be with him. The eternal hospitality of our welcoming God. And thirdly, he says here that you are to see, when you see the naked, you're to clothe him Isaiah goes on in just a couple of chapters. In chapter 61, he says, when the Messiah comes, he's going to clothe you with the robe of righteousness. He's going to give you his own record so that when you stand before the Holy God, you will be clothed and wrapped about in that. And God Himself will look at you and see that you are perfect with His own record. He will die on the cross, taking your record, so that he will exchange his record with yours, and you will have his robe of righteousness. Then he says, you're not to turn away from your own flesh and blood. And of course, Hebrews chapter 2 tells us that Jesus took our flesh and blood. So that he would receive us as one of his own and not reject us. And therefore, you see, what Isaiah is saying is if you understand the nature of this God who's not yet to be fulfilled, and For seven hundred years in the coming of Messiah, the person of Jesus Christ. When you see, you and I looking back on this, and we see Jesus Christ in his perfect finished work for us Then you and I are to translate this into our lives. You and I are to have a concern to share our food and bread through diaconal ministries, the giving that we do to that And through personal ministry of mercy. When we see those who need shelter, we practice hospitality, not simply entertainment. Entertainment is to impress someone. Hospitality is the giving of the heart for someone who needs a place. Needs a home, needs a shelter. You and I, when we understand what Jesus has done for us, want to clothe the naked. We want to give for those who don't have, not only through the literal giving of clothes to the diaconal clothes closet. but also through giving to organizations like World Vision and others so that those who have nothing will be able to have something in the name of Jesus Christ. And we see that when we uh he tells us there that we're not to harden our hearts from our own flesh and blood, you and I see this as directly relating on a day like this to the struggle for the sanctity of human life. Let's take a look at what that means in our current situation that we find ourselves in in 1989. I would like to suggest that abortion Is the ultimate violation of that last phrase of verse 7. Isaiah says that the fast that God accepts is to not turn away from your own flesh and blood. What is more a contradiction and violation of that spirit than a mother who would turn away from the flesh and the blood of her own womb? For her own convenience, because of a perhaps difficult situation, perhaps a situation that would even cause her to say, I cannot keep this baby But at least to give it to a home where someone who would love that baby would welcome it. What is more of a violation of this verse than to take the life of a child in your own womb? Because that is such a heinous, uh gross kind of violation Of all human compassion, our culture has had to be desensitized by the language that we use to describe it. And so we talk about terminating a pregnancy. Gives it a kind of an impersonal sort of ring, you know. We talk about the the child, the pre-born child, who if you view it through the modern means of uh Photography and the various ways they have to see the life of that child, to measure what it's able to do in the womb, to uh enable us to get out of our minds that that really is a human being Whose situation from conception to death is continuous without any qualitative change in it. Simply the development and the increase of the specializations of its organs and its consciousness In order to get that out of our minds, we talk about that child as a fertilized ovum, you know. Or we describe it as a fallopian and uterine cell matter. Where the one that I think is the richest expression of a euphemism to depersonalize the child is this quote from a book It calls it a very fragile one-inch long mass of differentiated tissue acting as a parasite within the mother's body. Now how's that to turn you against this little kid? I mean who wants to have a one inch long mass of differentiated tissue being a parasite within you? Sort of makes you want to rip it out to think of it, you know That's what we've got to do in order to take away the sting of Isaiah's words, turning away from your own flesh and blood. Now Roussel Uclaff, a French pharmaceutical firm, has produced a little pill, RU486. Just by taking the pill, no mess. You can simply abort the baby by pills. The struggle now is whether that will become a worldwide pill of unprecedented implications in the taking of pre-born lives. Let's get it straight. Abortion is not the unforgivable sin. If you've had an abortion sometime in your life, there is forgiveness for that sin in Jesus Christ. But it's not to be euphemistically washed away so that you can cope with denying the reality. Whether it's a friend of yours or someone in your family, we have to face the fact That abortion is turning away from your own flesh and blood. It is a hateful thing in the eyes of God. He forgives it because of the sacrifice of his own son. But you and I can never minimize its implications, no matter how many we do. The second thing which speaks to more of us, perhaps, in this room They say, as Christians, you and I, humbled before the presence of our God, must express ourselves in concern for justice and compassion for the helpless millions that are being slaughtered. The battle is getting ugly. Just this past week, I saw four articles and ads in Time and U. S. News and World Report on the matter of abortion. Among them was this full-page ad in Time magazine. The picture, man with a bullhorn there, and it says, Should a woman's private medical decisions be made by a man with a bullhorn? This by Planned Parenthood. Imagine how much this ad cost. Last time I knew these ads uh cost ten thousand dollars apiece. I don't know what they're up to now for just black and white. This ad uh portrays pro-life people as a bunch of wild-eyed maniacal fanatics who want to take over the country. They have no compassion. They simply want to ban abortions, no exceptions, rape, incest, or the life of the mother. There's no exceptions in these people They fight against birth control, sex education, and they bomb clinics because they're irrational. That's what it says. It portrays them as people who have not an ounce of compassion And then it says, we believe that abortion is a personal and private decision, not a chance to grandstand for political advantage. So, send your money to Planned Parenthood. so that we can maintain that right to continue within this country. Now how can you and I respond to that? What can we do They're planning, Planned Parenthood, National Organization Women, National Abortion Rights League, are planning to spend millions of dollars this year In maintaining the right for women to choose privately to abort at will the baby that they're carrying Well, we have to recognize the battle's gonna get ugly. But there are some things that you and I can do, some very exciting things. First of all, and I've listed them there, we can march tomorrow for life in DC. It's going to be very important, I think, tomorrow for the media and for the government to see whether this is a growing movement or a dwindling movement. I think in some sense they probably won't care how many people are there As much as what they will care about is is it more than last year or is it less than last year? They'll take the weather into account and all the rest of that. But they'll say, is this growing or is it past its peak and it's going to peter out? Where is the tide of national sentiment going? And if they see that this is a growing movement that is going for victory in this administration in this term, that will have a very great effect. on what we see happen in the next couple of years, both in the Supreme Court as well as in Congress. There is a bus leaving from Harper's Choice Village Center Very easy to get that. It's a very simple service provided by our brothers and sisters at Covenant Community Church. There's information in the bulletin. Just take a look, give a call, join us As we go down to the tomorrow, in order to express by our presence our concern for the sanctity of human life in this country. The second thing that you can do is you can commit yourself to pray regularly for Roe v. Wade to be retired or overturned during the Bush administration. I mean that very seriously. I think we have come to a place now Where we need to call for concerted prayer, perhaps as Isaiah says, with fasting, for the specific overturn. As we've recorded this in our prayer log for our Thursday morning concerts of prayer, we are claiming That God would give the overturn of this in this administration. It may be a now or never situation. There has never been a better opportunity than we have right now during this administration. to see this end. Justice Harry Blackman, who wrote the Roe v. Wade decision, has himself predicted that there's a very distinct possibility that Roe vs. Wade may be overturned during this administration. Time and U. S. News and World Report in this week's issues, both of them warn, they don't rejoice in, they warn against the possibility that Roe v. Wade could be overturned during this administration. And they talk about what the anti uh or the pro-abortion forces are planning to do about that. The court has last week, just the week before last, agreed to hear a case from Missouri. Which would make it very difficult for a woman to have an abortion, put a number of obstacles in the way. The Supreme Court has agreed to hear that case this year and to act on it. That is very, very significant for two reasons. Number one, because as one professor of law has said, there is no reason why they would hear that case unless they want to review the whole question of Roe vs. Wade. The case should be thrown out under existing precedent. So they're saying this is a bad sign if you want abortions to continue. The second reason why that's very significant is because the last time the Supreme Court acted on such a case concerning abortion The majority that had passed Roe versus Wade was 7-2. In 1986, that had dwindled to 5-4. Since that time, Justice Powell, who acted in favor of Roe v. Wade, has been replaced by Anthony Kennedy. He has not yet passed a decision testing where he stands. But many people feel that the last administration would not have nominated him if it wasn't fairly certain of where he would have stood on that Do you realize the implications of that this year in what the Supreme Court does with that one case concerning the state of Missouri? Do you realize what that could mean in future justices being appointed and the future actions of Congress during this administration? Do you see why I'm saying this is a crucial year? It is not a year to say, I am tired of hearing this. 16 years we've been talking about this. I am tired of the issue. This is the year, brothers and sisters, to press for victory. This is the year for us to act with redoubled effort, to pray and to fast and to seek God to turn this thing around Do you know that the National Organization of Women, National Abortion Rights League, are so nervous about this they are planning to send a million postcards to the Supreme Court concerning this one case. Now have you ever heard of anything like that in your life? Lobbying the Supreme Court of the United States for its decision? It's unprecedented. You don't lobby the Supreme Court! These guys are supposed to be unelected officials beyond lobbying. But they're saying we have got to show them that they cannot do this. Now what do we do in response to that? I don't think we ought to send a million postcards to counteract that. I think that needs to be exposed for what it is We need to pray that God would use that to boomerang against that effort, that the Supreme Court will be so turned off by such petty lobbying that it will act against it itself for that. We need to pray that God would overrule that. Because we are in a very, very significant time now. This is why it's important to march, to pray, to get on mailing lists Of abortion of right to life organizations such as Christian Action Council and Howard County and the Maryland Right to Life and these various things. Find out what's going on and then pray as the Holy Spirit enables you. to get involved in a couple of activities this year in strategic importance. And then to sign up on the sheet that we have outside. We'll try to pass it around the second hour. We'll be meeting back here for my report on the church. This is kind of State of the Union message here. We'll come back here and we'll pass that around. Take a couple of times to join up with your brothers and sisters up at the Hillcrest Abortion Clinic to protest that this year This is the time to act. But finally, concerning that, I think we also need to realize that this is not something That calls us to isolate pro-life concerns as if that was the only social issue. Our concern for justice and compassion means that we continue to remember the pornography, the racism, the homeless, the other social issues that press upon us. Here where we are as Christians. And I'm praying, you'll see it's in the session of prayer requests that God would raise up from within our congregation a task force that would lead us as Christian citizens, individual citizens. For public concern in strategic issues of justice and compassion. We need that kind of unleashed leadership within the congregation If you sense that God is calling you to that kind of a task, concern, pray, see me, talk to me about that. Let's see what God would put together. And finally, We need to see the results of the fast that God accepts. And quite simply, God says there that if this is the way your hearts turn, then your light will break forth like the dawn, your healing will quickly appear. And your righteousness will go before you, and the glory of the Lord will be your rear guard. Then you will call, and the Lord will answer. You will cry for help, and he will say, Here am I. What's that speaking of? It's speaking quite simply of healing and revival of the land. It's speaking of the fact that God's healing will come upon the nation. And that you and I will have the opportunity to see America turn from a materialistic, hedonistic, humanistic apathy. Back toward the principles of right and wrong based in Scripture and an understanding of a holy God. I believe that the United States is still in the balance of whether it's going to head in future years. into a dark ages and collapse. Whether it's economic, educational, there's lots of other signs that people are concerned about. Or whether in fact the Holy Spirit could turn around the destiny of this country to revival and a new renaissance. I believe the jury's still out on that, but I also believe that how we respond to the issue of the sanctity of human life is perhaps the most important, if not one of the most important, indicators of which way we will go as a nation. Let's pray Oh Lord our God, may we not simply be stirred now to realize that this is an exciting time. And that you have called us as your disciples to do something, but that Lord, you would work in each of us. To call us to that particular response that as your disciples you'd have us to make in obedience and love to you. As our hearts are humbled before you and our concern for justice and compassion. Lord, that we would see that this is not some liberal rhetoric, but this is the words of Isaiah the prophet. This is spoken to us by our God. I pray, Lord, that you would lead us each whether to rearrange our schedule and to come and join the march tomorrow. To join those who co-op the second Saturdays to picket at Hillcrest Abortion Clinic, to Set aside regular times, weekly, or more often, or whatever, to pray, to perhaps fast for your spirit to bring about an overturn of Roe v. Weed during this administration. To be involved in whatever ways you call us. Lord, we pray, speak to us by your spirit, not by the guilt of other people, but by your spirit. That we might see you bring about victory in this area for our nation. Forgive us our sin. Lord, give to us a return to the sanctity of human life before it's too late. In Jesus' name. Amen.