Turn to Psalm Hundred and Fifteen. On October the twenty-fifth, in fourteen fifteen, King Henry of England faced an impossible situation. Across the D-file at Ajancourt stood the French army, three to four times the size of his own weary army. Reese smiling there. She did the research for this along with the sharps. I have you know this is accurate. This army um overwhelmed the English. Besides that, the previous night uh there had been a torrential downpour. We can identify with that a little bit. But the British were not sheltered, and openly in the camp, men were talking about the battle the next day. being simply a hopeless sacrifice. Yet they committed their cause to the Lord, and King Henry led his men into what Winston Churchill has called the most heroic of all land battles that England ever fought, with the odds four to one on foreign soil. But the rain proved to be a blessing, for it prevented the French from using their heavy artillery. The French were better armored, but that only caused them to sink deeper in the mud and not be able to move. And when the battle was over, the British had lost about a hundred and thirteen men, but the French had lost over five thousand, including the flower of their nobility. At the end of that battle, the British army was called to kneel, as Psalm 115 was read aloud, which begins, Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to your name be the glory, because of your love and faithfulness. Centuries later, William Wilberforce, after years of weary struggle and prayer against hopeless opposition concerning his bill for slave trade in England. After the passage of that bill to abolish the slave trade, Wilberforce meditated in Thanksgiving on Psalm 115, verse 1, which says Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to your name be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness. What's my point? Simply that both of these men recognized that this psalm was not something simply for Israel. But it was something that was being experienced in their own lives. God's word was being made alive in their experience. I preached on Psalm 115, you remember, focusing on verse 3 back in February the 1st. And at that time I was calling on us to claim that verse, Psalm 115, verse 3, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. As we looked at what seemed to be an impossible situation. For God to provide $150,000 between then and June in order to make the second payment on the Lewis property I want to look again at that psalm this morning. This time I want to look at the whole psalm, and I want to examine its meaning And I want for us to see how God is making his word alive in our own experience. I want you to see first the hope of it, the credit, the lesson, and then God's purpose. Well, let's first of all read it so we know what we're talking about. Psalm 115, God's word for us. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us, but to your name be the glory, because of your love. And faithfulness. Why do the nations say, Where is their God? Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. But their idols are silver and gold, made by the hands of men. They have mouths but cannot speak, eyes but they cannot see. They have ears but cannot hear, noses but they cannot smell. They have hands but cannot feel, feet, but they cannot walk. Nor can they utter a sound with their throats. Those who make them will be like them, and so will all who trust in them. O House of Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and shield. O House of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He is their help and shield. You who fear him trust in the Lord. He is their help and shield. The Lord remembers us and will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. He will bless those who fear the Lord, small and great alike. May the Lord make you increase, both you and your children. May you be blessed by the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth. The highest heavens belong to the Lord, but the earth he has given to man. It is not the dead who praise the Lord, those who go down to silence. It is we who extol the Lord, both now and forevermore. Praise the Lord. Notice, first of all, in this psalm, the hope that we considered back last February. You see it there in verses 2 to 8. In verse two, you have the nation saying, Where is their God? And that implies that like Al Juncour or like uh Worber Force during the struggle for freedom in England for the blacks, uh Israel was in a hopeless situation It was the kind of situation, we don't know what it was, we don't know when this took place, and so we're not at all uh can't even speculate very much about the circumstances of it. But what we do know is that Israel at this time in their history was in the kind of situation so that when the nations looked at Israel, they would say, We don't see any evidence that these people follow a prayer hearing and prayer answering God. Have you ever been in a situation like that? Have you ever felt the sting of someone who could say in your family, Where is this God now in your life? But this God that you say that you serve and hears and answers your prayers, I don't see any evidence that he's at work in any kind of power in your life now. Perhaps you've been in a situation even recently where even though someone else wouldn't say that to you, you find yourself saying, Where is my God? Where is this God that I have testified to and stood like the four who just a few minutes ago said that Jesus was their confidence. He's their hope and their shield and the words come back to mock you. You say yes. Where is my God? Where is the evidence that he cares or is able to do anything in this problem that's overwhelming me now? And this is Colombia's attitude, isn't it? Colombia looks at us and they see us as a weak and paltry little group of people who have come because of religious tradition. And they say that the Bible's a myth, and God is a crutch for those who haven't outgrown their childish fears. Who are not like us, who are able to face life squarely without the need to believe in some religious higher power. Where is their God? says Columbia to Columbia Presbyterian Church. And our answer is, of course, in verse 3. Where indeed is our God? The reason you can't see him is that he's a spirit. And our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. We don't have to be intimidated by this question. You see this resounding answer from the psalmist here An answer of confidence, and then he spells out the contest, you see, in verses four to eight. And it's a contest between those who trust in what they see And in our day, whether in superstition or materialism, and those who trust in what they cannot see, the unseen one, the God who is in heaven who does whatever pleases him. And so they speak of those who trust in the things that they see, and they say they will become like them. And that means dead. And so you have a contest, you see. And that's the contest that's right here in Columbia and Howard County today. Where is their God? Our God is in heaven. Oh yeah? Let's see what your God can do. Here's what we trust in. I trust what I can do. I can see, says verses 4 to 8. I trust in my commodities, my investments, my house, my car. If I can't touch it and I can't see it, I have no interest in it, and I won't put my trust in it. That's the philosophy, by and large, of Colombia. Where is their God? And it's a mocking question But then we come, as we've seen the challenge thrown out, to the credit in verse 1. You see, first one is the foundation of this. Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory because of your love and your faithfulness. You see, this was the song of Israel. It was the song of England after Ajancourt. It was the song of William Wilberforth, and it's the song of Columbia Presbyterian Church. Our God's word being made alive in us. Not just for those back then, but for we today. Because After I had preached this in February, after everyone had given all that they thought they could give for us to make the first $155,000 payment, then in just the time of the spring. God provided another hundred and fifty thousand dollars for that second payment. In June, you remember that offering that we held where over $20,000 in cash came in. When we thought that everybody had given everything that they could give. And so our God is in heaven. And He does whatever pleases him. But now we need to remember that our song is not to us. Not to us, but to your name be the glory because of your love and faithfulness. You see, the realtor still can't believe we made that second payment And her statement is, you are an amazing people. You have a tremendous congregation there. And there's a temptation to believe that, isn't it? I mean, you know, there's some truth to that, I'll admit, you know. But isn't it tempting for us to say, yeah, you know, we are pretty good people? You know, we are we we pulled it off, didn't we? And that's why we need to come back and give credit where credit is due. We need to realize that we were the channels of what God did in that offering. And to say, Lord, not to us. Not to us, but to your name be the glory for your love and your faithfulness to us. But the story continues. God's word is continuing to be made alive in our midst. You see, this summer it became increasingly apparent that we were going to have to find another place to worship this fall. First of all, the plaza room's simply too small. That's why there's no kids here now, you see. I mean we've We've taken care of all the ones we can in three nurseries. And now then uh we don't even let the kids up through third grade into the worship. I mean we let them in, you can have 'em, but you know, there's a children's church the whole hour because we don't have enough seats. And we've talked about going to two services. but that tends to divide the congregation. It's a lot more work, and we just thought there must be a better way. And we prayed that God would provide a way. Another reason is that uh the stone house has become less and less friendly to us, more and more restrictions that they place, uh refreshments in the floor and the various other things. A third reason is that uh the Towson Center is no longer the Towson Center. You notice it's the Columbia Center for Arts. There was an article on it in the Flyer this week. That's now a museum And in the exchange of that, we lost three desperately needed roos for adult meetings in the second hour. In addition to that, a minor issue is that we found we were in violation of the fire codes with our nurseries, you know, and that didn't please us very much either. And And so we became convinced that we really needed to find another place. And it appeared that God was going to provide for us Centennial High School. That was a good place. It was close to the property. It had all the seating that we needed and all the classroom space But there were some problems with it. There was, for instance, no place to store anything, not even the hymnals. That means we would have to buy a trailer and a truck to haul our stuff in every Sunday and unload it and then pack it all up and drive it away to some place where we'd store it during the week. Besides that, uh, you're not always sure you can meet there Grace Community Church, which meets in Oakland Mills High School, was bumped twice this summer. They found out on Friday they weren't going to meet there on Sunday. And there were some quick phone calls made around Colombia. And there were a number of other small problems, the fact that it was outside of Colombia and various other things. But it looked like this was God's provision for us. There were not many other places we even saw as options. And the only one that was seriously pursued was Howard County Community College But Grace Community had tried Howard County Community College in the spring, and they simply said it's against our policy to be able to rent to a religious organization because of separation of church and state. We can rent it to everybody else, but we cannot rent to you. We cannot rent to churches. When Chuck contacted them this summer, he found out the policy had changed. Now they could rent to religious organizations, but it was very expensive and they weren't very interested in doing it, and they wouldn't provide enough rooms, and they're going to charge us quite a bit for the rooms, and there was not very much of a spirit of cooperation. And so Chuck reported that Howard County Community is not an option even though it was an excellent facility. But then two to three days after Chuck Lingslip had contacted HCC The president of Howard County Community College called the director of Smith Theater. And he said, I want you to solicit business for Sunday in Smith Theater. Oh. He said, we now want this place used seven days a week. I don't care who you run it to, fill it. Well, guess who came to the director's mind after that phone call? And so after arguing here for nine years. Next Sunday will be the ninth anniversary of our first worship service over in the meeting house. After nine years of HCC not being interested in running to any religious facility for anything. All of a sudden, after two to three days, she said, of our phone call, there was a directive from the president Find a church and fill it Sunday morning. There were seven other churches interested, but because Chuck had called two days before, she called us back. Now, not only were they going to provide rooms, they'd provide all the rooms that we need, and they're not charging us a penny for the classrooms. Smith Theater will seat 250 in the lower area. If you add the two rear sections, we can seat 450 people. That includes all of their sound system, their light system, a technician to be able to relieve John even to do all the sound work, to do the taping. Uh they will provide us the lobby for our refreshments. They will even put out three tables for our information for us. Nobody has to set up the chairs in Smith Theater. Let's hear an Amen. The entire attitude has changed one hundred and eighty degrees. And they're saying now you can have it. And the contract has been signed. We will only be here three more Sundays. Beginning October the eleventh, we will begin worshiping in Smith Theater until we build our own building. We have it for as long as we need it, and the price is the same as the Stonehouse. God has provided amazingly for what we have needed at this point. God's word is being made alive in our midst. But there was still one small problem. The problem is that we need three weeks for our laugh groups to be able to have a place to meet We need three rooms and we just don't have them here. And on a day like this you wouldn't want to be meeting outside. And so we uh prayed about that and we contacted everybody that we could think of Which wasn't a whole lot around this area. But we contacted particularly the Columbia Management to see if perhaps we could rent any of the office spaces above the safe way for those three weeks. We didn't hear back from them for weeks. You may recall that was a sessional prayer request some weeks ago. We still haven't hadn't heard back until this Wednesday. And this Wednesday, uh the person who uh takes care of that called me up and said, uh, what is this that you guys are looking for? And I said, We need three rooms for three weeks. She made a quick call, she called back, she says You can have three rooms, and what's further, we won't charge you a penny. You can have them for free. And so God is continuing to show his word made alive. in our midst. Now, I don't know about you, but you know, I get a lot of feelings when I think about that, and I think about the reality of our God who is in heaven And who does whatever pleases him. But as I think about that, I'm I find that I'm tempted To think that we must be special. You know, things go bad and I think God doesn't love me. He loves other people more, you know. Things go well and I'm tempted to think God loves me better, you know. And and that's our temptation, isn't it? We always think about God. God's favor or his disfavor in terms of our circumstances that day. So God doesn't love me. You know, Paul McCarl over at Lamplighter who set up the picnic for today is probably convinced at this point that he is not very much in God's favor today, you know. And we're so controlled by our circumstances. But when things go like this We not only say, God's in heaven, he does whatever pleases him, but he does it specially for us too, because he knows how special we are. And that's why we need to see verse one. Not to us, O Lord. Not to us. But to your name be the glory. Why? Because of your undeserved love and faithfulness to us. God's word is being made alive in our midst as he shows his power to us as a congregation. But there's more. Notice also that there is a lesson here in this Psalm, in verses 9 to 13. Verses 9 to 11 call on us to trust this God who's shown his power to us. O house of Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. You who fear him, trust in the Lord, for he is their help and their shield. You see, God has shown to these three groups, the congregation of God's people, Israel. The spiritual leaders, that's the house of Aaron, verse ten. And then he focuses on you individually who trust him. He's saying, Trust in him. He is your help and your shield. And so the message for us is as we see Jesus at work in providing for the needs of our congregation, then there is in this also a call to believe that He's at work in your life. You see, it's one thing to say, Yeah, that's amazing, that's dramatic how God answered that. You know, so great that we're worried that we'll be so comfortable at Howard County community we'll just want to stay there, you know. But you know There's a lot that God has done in that. But the problem is that we can look at that and still say, yeah, for the whole congregation he can do that, but not for me And that's why verses 12 and 13 are so encouraging. Because he says, the Lord remembers us and will bless us. He will bless the house of Israel. Sure, he'll bless the whole congregation. He'll bless the house of Aaron. Sure, he blesses the spiritual leaders. But he will also bless those who fear the Lord, both small and great alike. You see that? He's saying it's for all of us. Do you see that this Jesus, who has worked in such a powerful way as a congregation for us is also interested in working in your life individually. You see, it's not just for those whose Testimonies are written up in Christian biographies or who are celebrities on Christian TV. He says it's for us, verse 12. It's for small and great alike. That's you and me. He's saying that he's interested in working in our lives. Jesus Christ, when he gave his life as a sacrifice, gave that that your sin would be forgiven. That your sin would be removed, that he would give to you a new life in him, that he would take those problems from you, and he wants to show you what he can do in your life when you give it to him. You let him work through that life, both small and great alike. You who fear him, perhaps you do fear him. Perhaps you have a superstitious fear of him. Perhaps you have a dread of this God, and well you should, for He is the holy and righteous one, high and lifted up, who's able to both save and destroy as judge. But the call you see in verse 11 is you who fear him, trust in him. Place your trust in this Jesus who has given us life as a ransom. So that your sin would be taken away, and that in fearing him you would trust him and you would find him to be your help and your shield So that that problem that keeps you awake at nights and has kept you awake this past week You'd be able to trust to Jesus. Say, Jesus, if you can cause the president of Howard County Community College to of all the years that we've been here to make that call Right precisely at that time to make a change in the policy and provide a place for us to meet, then you can take this problem of mind too. Those fears that gnaw at you so that you bite your nails and you're distracted during the day He wants to take those fears. He wants to show his power in your life. You who fear the Lord, trust in him. For he wants to be your help and your shield. And then finally, the fourth thing we see is that God has a bigger purpose in all of this. And you see it there in verses 14 to 18. In verse 14 and 15, the psalmist says, May the Lord make you increase, both you and your children. May you be blessed by the Lord, the maker of heaven and earth. In New Testament terms, you see, the prayer to increase the house of God, Israel, which is the Church of God, is simply the New Testament Great Commission. What he's saying here is, may you see the Great Commission fulfilled in you, and your house, God's house, increase. This is the prayer. You see, God isn't simply providing money and facilities so that we don't have to set up chairs. What God is doing through all of this, he's you know, maybe he has that in mind, you know, he's taking a little pity on the setup crews, you know. But in addition to that I would suggest to you humbly that there is a greater purpose. The purpose is that in this contest to That Columbia and Howard County look and they say, Where is their God? And they say, There are narrow minded people who say that there's only one way to Jesus to God, and that's through this person, Jesus Christ. You're not wanted in the interface sense. And so we were kicked out of the interface center in Columbia, you remember a few years ago. But I said, where is their God? And we say our God is in heaven And hey, we don't have the political clout and we don't have all the money. In fact, the amazing thing about that money coming in is the indications are that the average salary of a person in Columbia Presbyterian Church is lower than the average salary of the community in general. Our God is in heaven, you see, and he does whatever pleases him. And therefore this God is not only doing this for our comfort and benefit, he wants Columbia and Howard County to see that there is a God in heaven. He wants Columbia to see that God works in answers to prayer. And in addition to that, I believe that he wants to provide a base of ministry for the Great Commission to be more successfully, more effectively accomplished through us as a body. He's providing for us far more than currently we need. But at the rate that we're growing now, it's possible that we will fill Smith Theater before we have our building built. Maybe we'll build the building and start to go to church at the same time, who knows? But God is stretching us. God is the one who's going before, you see. And he's saying, May the house of Israel increase. Because I do what I please, and my desire is to bring people to praise Jesus. To bring people that are your neighbors, people in Colombia now who could care less about Jesus Christ, to bow their knee before him and say, Not unto us. Not unto us, but unto your name be the glory. And you see, he adds a sense of immediacy and urgency to that in the last two verses. Because he says in verse 16, you do it right here. You see, he says there, the highest heavens belong to the Lord, but the earth he has given to man. See, God's saying, I rule the heavens, but I've given you the earth to accomplish the great commission on This is the realm that you're to subdue and to bring under submission in Jesus Christ. And so he's saying, hey, start where you are. I've given you this place right there in the middle of Colombia Now, I want you here in this place of the earth that I've given to you to see my power at work bringing people to Jesus Christ. And he has also a sense of urgency, telling us in verses seventeen and eighteen to do it now. For he says there, It's not the dead who praise the Lord. It's not those that go down to silence, it's we who extol the Lord, both now and for evermore. As Jesus put it in John chapter 9 and verse 4, I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day, for the night's coming when no man can work. And so the psalmist are saying, you see it, it's not the dead who are going to cause the house to increase and going to bring these praises to God It's we now who are living that God has given this commission to. It's we now who are concerned when the times are awkward and it's embarrassing perhaps to bring up Jesus Christ in the conversation. And to be able to faithfully, though you may think lamely, bear a word of testimony for the saving power of our Lord. Who wants to heal and forgive sinners and change their lives. But you say, I'm willing to do it. Why? Because he's answering praise the Lord. There's praise in my heart for what he's done. How can I have such a wonderful Savior? And not want to share the good news of what He's done and offers to people. And so I pray that this will be a challenge and an encouragement to us as a congregation. That God's word is being made alive in our midst. And I want this also to be a challenge and an encouragement to you individually, so that we see that balance of corporate and personal. As God works in us individually, we sometimes share that with the body to encourage all our hearts. There's other times like this morning when God has worked in a dramatic way in our body, and that's to share us individually in our own situation. To trust him and to believe that he's able to work, for he remembers us, both small and great alike. In the next hour, I'm going to spell this out in more detail. And I want to present there a paper that I'll give to you and a vision statement Of something that is so great that we will know that God will have to accomplish it if it's to be done. But I believe that God is calling us by his faithfulness to greater things. And then I'll spell out in that paper some of the specifics of what that will mean for the next year. And I would like us to interact on that and see that as a position paper to lead us, to give us a sense of where God is calling us to go as a congregation this year. And that as we go, we'll realize that it's not unto us. Oh Lord, not unto us, but unto your name be the glory. Because of your love and your faithfulness. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, I believe that there are some of us here Right now, who hear this and uh we're struck with the fact that uh there is a God in heaven. There is a God who does whatever He pleases And Lord, perhaps we're struck by that more than we've ever been struck before. And when we're honest with ourselves, we realize that we can't say that we have a personal relationship with you. We view you from a distance and if anything with dread. We fear you, but we do not feel close to you. We can't call you Father. We pray, Lord, that you'll speak to the hearts of any who are in that position now, that you might show them that you remember them. And that your salvation is for small and great alike. You don't just do great things for important people or large groups of people, but you're the God of the widow and the orphan. You have a God who remembers our fears and knows our deepest dreads and worries in our own life. You know those things that have kept us awake this past week. You want to take our sin. You want to apply the sacrifice of Jesus to that sin and forgive it. You want to take those problems and you want to show us what you can do with our lives when we give them to you. We pray, Lord, that you would speak to us as individuals now, that you would challenge and encourage us. For the fact that you're the same God today who showed your faithfulness to your people Israel when this psalm was written. Lord, we pray. Speak to us that our hearts might be drawn to you. Lord Jesus, may we come, as we spoke last week, to submit ourselves to you trustingly. And because you are such a faithful God. Our desire is that your name will get the glory because of your love, which is infinite. And your faithfulness, which endures forever. Amen.