Many of you have heard in uh this last spring about the uh sexuality report from the United Presbyterian Church. How many of you have had us say, no, that's not my church. That's not what we believe. Yes, I've had a few of those conversations too. And uh, you know, that report for a few of you who may not be aware of it that came out stated that all persons This is from the report. All persons heterosexual or homosexual, single or partnered, have a moral right to sexual expression. Maturity, not marriage, determines when teenagers are to enjoy intercourse. Well that report, you may know, was sent back for further study. They said we weren't ready for it. But it got lots of press. Not only the Presbyterians, the United Presbyterian is a denomination different from ours. Not only are they wrestling with this whole question, but so are many other denominations. The Episcopalians have a outspoken, openly gay feminist priest, a number of them. The Lutheran Church, there's a particular Lutheran church in San Francisco that has two lesbian lovers as associate pastors of that congregation. Many of you may know that uh just a few years ago here in the DC area, actually on Constitution Avenue in D. C. , there was A celebration of 2,000 gay couples joining together, exchanging marriage vows, and that was officiated in part by Reverend Troy Perry. who calls himself a Christian clergyman. Well, I think as we come to celebrate This Thursday, the Fourth of July, Independence Day, the day that marks the birth of our nation. As a nation while that while never Being able to call itself a Christian nation nevertheless was a nation that did openly boast an allegiance to the God of the Bible and to his laws. That uh between the steamed crabs, between the corn and the cob, you can get some and the hamburgers and the cookout and all those things which will be a lot of fun. And I don't want to be a party pooper. I think uh Thursday is a day to have fun, it's a day to celebrate, it's a day to be friends with friends and family. It's a time for us to be able to take off and to enjoy the great blessings God has given to us. Nevertheless, before that day, I think that it's a good time for you and for me to stop and to ask the question. Where is our nation now in the sight of God? Where are we as a nation? When we consider the tremendous changes that have taken place in the last couple of generations. Today I think it's safe to say, as a popular book, The Day America Told the Truth, states, that every one of the Ten Commandments are being routinely trampled and mocked. Lying is an accepted way of doing business in our culture. One-third of marriage couples are living in adultery and have no intention of stopping. One in five kids age 13 in this country has already lost his or her virginity. The average American today will have seven sexual partners during their lifetime. There was a Christian widow in the state of California recently. Who refused to rent to a couple who were living together and wanted to rent from her duplex. The state of California penalized her. They took her to court. In violation of the California Fair Housing Act. She was punished and she was told that she must rent to the couple whether or not she believed that it was right to provide housing for a couple unmarried living together. In Denver, Colorado, recently, a fifth-grade Christian teacher, in a two-to-one decision of the court, was told that not only could he not read his Bible privately, Quietly in his classroom while the students were doing other work. But he was ordered to take his Bible out of that classroom and not allow it to even be visible. For such visibility might be an endorsement of a particular religion. We've come a long way, baby, and where we stand as a country. Meanwhile, violent crime escalates in our country. We're told that we're losing the war on drugs. 1. 5 million abortions are performed every year, 4,000 a day. Racism is commonly acknowledged by those who are aware of it to be getting worse, not better. In most institutions, Ku Klux Klan has a number of active chapters in the state of Maryland. Greed is rampant. According to a recent survey, 90% of Americans say they believe in God, and yet 10% say that they believe He has anything to say concerning their private lives and how to live them. What a contrast. 90% of Americans say I believe in God, but only 10% believe that he has anything to say about how to run their lives. The privatization and secularization of religion. How long do you think that such a situation can continue and you and I enjoy a stable society as we know it. I think that question needs to be asked And if I were allowed, if the County Council of Howard County said, for 4th of July festivities, since you're a clergyman, we'd like to let you address us. I know what text I'd use. And I don't expect that they're going to call me. But just in case they do in the next few days. The one verse that I would want to share with them is the verse that I share with you this morning. Because I think it's a principle that speaks to us in God's Word directly to us in our situations. Proverbs 14, 34. The verse, Proverbs 14. 34, is simply this. Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a disgrace to any people. Now the first reason that I would want to call attention to this verse is the first point you have in your bulletin outline, and that is, who is the word addressed to? That is very significant in this verse. Who's it addressed to? You notice it's not addressed to anybody. This verse is not specifically addressed to Israel. A lot of verses that are used about America and repentance and the rest of that are really verses to Israel We have to be careful how to apply them. But this is a general principle. You see, righteousness exalts a nation. Just talking about a general principle. Any nation. Sin is a disgrace to any people. So this is a verse which is to you and to me. It's to America. It's as relevant here as it was there in Palestine. It's as relevant in 1991 A. D. as it was in 991 B. C. or whenever it happened to be written, somewhere around that time, or perhaps a little after that. And I want to show you that it makes a difference to you and to me if we believe this verse. It will make a difference in how you and I live. If we believe that righteousness exalts a nation. But that sin is a disgrace to any people. That brings me to the second point. The second thing I want for us to notice is what is the principle that's stated. What is the principle stated? It's a very simple one, isn't it? Even though it goes contrary to almost all popular and political opinion today. It simply says, righteousness exalts a nation But sin is a disgrace to any people. Very simple principle. And there it is, those are the blanks, righteousness. That exal it is righteousness that exalts a nation, and it is sin which brings it into disgrace. The key factor then that this verse says about America's future prosperity and well-being is not How strong a military defense we construct. It's not a question of throwing millions of dollars into education in order to improve its quality. It's not developing a sound uh economy so that we can compete in world markets. The most important principle The simple basic principle that will determine America's future is whether or not it forsakes sin. Whether or not it sees that God's word, which we have said is irrelevant to our public and private lives, we once again say is relevant to us. That this word is absolute and it speaks that there is a God who exists and he has a right to tell us how we are to live. We have lost that And so sin is a disgrace. And righteousness has not exalted our nation. You see again and again the principle in the scripture of these things going together. Righteousness and exaltation, sin and disgrace. For instance, this idea of righteousness and exaltation going together is spelled out in Deuteronomy chapter 28. In Deuteronomy chapter 28, the chapter begins. Fully obey the Lord your God and carefully follow all his commands that I give you today. The Lord your God will set you high above all the nations on the earth. All these blessings will come upon you and accompany you if you obey the Lord your God. You will be blessed in the city and blessed in the country. And then he goes on and on. For 14 verses there to speak about the blessings, the specific material, this world blessings that Israel will enjoy if they obey their God. These are summed up, these ideas and the Ten Commandments, obeying God, what it means to follow Him. And then you have God's blessings. You see a number of them listed. I listed some texts which speak of these blessings. response to Israel's following God. It's a general principle. Now it's it's generalized here in Proverbs 1434, but it was a specific principle to Israel. The other side of that, of course, is conversely, sin and disgrace go together. That's what this verse says. Righteousness exalts a nation. But sin is a disgrace to any people. These two things can't be separated. Sin and disgrace, righteousness and exaltation. The idea of sin and disgrace going together appear again and again throughout scripture. I've listed references there for you to look up on your own so we don't take the time now but again and back to Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight after the first fourteen verses speaking about how the blessings that Israel will enjoy if they in fact keep God's word. That's the Ten Commandments that had been stated to them just a few chapters before. God goes on then in verse fifteen and he says, However If you do not obey the Lord your God and do not carefully follow all his commands and decrees that I am giving you today, all these curses will come upon you and overtake you. You will be cursed in the city and cursed in the country. And then he goes on and on and on, paragraph after paragraph. 60 to up to verses uh 66, from 15 to 66, speaking about the curses that will come. And notice particularly verses uh 55 and 56. God says, the Lord will give you an anxious mind, eyes weary with longing, and a despairing heart. You will live in constant suspense, filled with dread both night and day, and never sure of your life. Anxiety that typifies so much of modern American life, God says, it's a consequence of the fact that you have forsaken me, of the fact that you have seen that my word is irrelevant to your life. And again, lest you say that, well, but that's speaking specifically of Israel. I've listed Amos 1 and 2 there. I did a series on Amos some years ago. Anybody who's around long enough to remember that, if you're not, let me remind you that Amos 1 and 2 speaks to a number of the secular nations around Israel. And there God says that he is going to judge those nations because they have seen his word as irrelevant. They have gone their own way as if God didn't matter And those who are not Israel, God says he's going to judge the nations by his standard. I think you and I sometimes are sold this bill of goods that God has two standards. He has one standard for Christians, He has another standard for non-Christians. God says, I have one standard, I have one character, I don't have two kinds of character, I'm not schizophrenic, I have one character for my family, and then I'm something else toward other people. There is righteousness and there is sin. One standard. God says he judges the nations by his standard. Sin and disgrace go together to who? Any people. See, there it is in verse 34. I'm not making that up. That's not something I'm doing to sort of bring in civil religion. God says that. Sin and disgrace to any people. And so this verse gives us a very simple principle, which if you and I believe that the Bible is true and that God is who he says he is. And that verse is as relevant to us today as it was when it was written to the Hebrews, perhaps 2,000 years, nearly 3,000 years ago. Righteousness exalts a nation. Sin is a disgrace. Do you know that word disgrace is used only one other time in the Old Testament? The Hebrew word used for disgrace there is the word that is used in Leviticus to describe how God looks at incest. Talks about a man. Who has sex with his sister, and he uses that word to describe what he thinks of it. It's a disgrace. It's a very strong word. Utter disgrace to any people. Now, the third thing to notice about the principle, then, is how would we expect to see that principle carried out today? How would we expect to see that today? I believe that there are two ways that we'd expect to see it. First is in the eyes of men, the judgment of history. I believe that righteousness exalts a nation in history, in the other nations' view of it. Interesting that we're never allowed to judge what a nation believes, but we certainly do judge how they behave, don't we, in history. And righteousness will exalt a nation in the view, in the eyes of other nations, and in the eyes of history. Our Constitution, when it was written, became an example, a moral example, as well as our whole pattern of life To the nations of Europe back in the end of the 18th century, particularly to England and to France. I think it was de Tocqueville who said after viewing America. Then America is great because America is good. And when America ceases to be good, she will cease to be great. America was an example of moral goodness in many ways, certainly not free from flaw, tremendous flaws, but was an example to other nations of a pattern. The flaws were there also. The other parts of American history, enslavement of blacks as a race. The Civil War, the lynching of blacks, the Southern, particularly resistance to the enforcement of civil rights These things are blots upon us as an example. It was the sin that brought disgrace upon America. And it's a disgrace when people look at those elements of our history. And so in the eyes of others and in the eyes of history, our righteousness to the extent that by God's grace it has been there has exalted us as a nation. Our sin, to the extent that that's been there and as a part of our history, has been a disgrace to us as a people. But secondly, beyond that, I believe that this refers to the judgment of God. Righteousness exalts a nation in God's eyes Sin is a disgrace to any people in the sight of Almighty God. In the seventeen twenties, About a hundred years after the establishment of the Plymouth Colony, America had become somewhat secularized and apathetic. Americans had lost, by and large, a healthy sense of their God consciousness. In fact, it was said that uh Puritanism begat prosperity and the daughter rose up to eat the mother. And so Americans were apathetic spiritually. Then in November of 1727, there was an earthquake in New England. An earthquake like New England have never known. An earthquake that, as one writer who witnessed it, said that made the land roll like the seas. We didn't have Richter scales back then, so nobody knows exactly where it measured. But the aftershocks of that quake lasted for nine days. People were sure that the day of judgment had come and that the world was going to be consumed. As a result of that, Jonathan Edwards preached a message called his fast message, calling people to fast and to repent. And in that message, Edwards acknowledged that the earthquake had a scientific explanation. But he also said that it would be of utmost folly to not see in that natural disaster the hand of God. calling his people to repentance. Let me quote from just one paragraph of that message. And notice how this message sees the principle of Proverbs 14. 34. He was actually preaching on Jonah 3, but it's the same principle. Edward said, if a nation or a people are very corrupt and remain obstinate in the evil way, God generally, if not universally, exercises these threatenings. God is more strict in punishing of a wicked people in this world than a wicked person. God often suffers particular persons that are wicked to prosper in the world and discharge them to judgment in the world to come. But a people as a people are punished only in this world. Therefore, God will not suffer a people that grow very corrupt and refuse to be reclaimed. To go unpunished in this world. New England was a people that Edwards understood as a corporate people. And so, in temporal terms of rewards and punishments, God was going to deal with them as a people, corporate morality could not win or merit eternal salvation. But it would determine success or the lack of it on earth. What does that say to us today? It really is only the utmost blinding and brainwashing of secularism, isn't it, that causes you and me to see the things that we're enduring today as simply natural disasters and catastrophes. To see the depletion of the ozone layer, the rising heat appropriate on a day like this, although in here you probably don't sense that quite as much. The rising of the oceans, the AIDS epidemic, and other sexually transmitted diseases. Are we naive enough to think that these things have only secular explanations? And that God's hand's not involved in this to call our attention to the fact that we have ignored his laws and his ways We've looked at what the principle is. Let's finally then move to how Amara can be can be exalted rather than disgraced. How can America be exalted rather than disgraced? How do we respond to this? Again, as I said before, it is not for us simply to marshal a stronger military defense. It's not to throw millions of dollars at education and provide new pilot projects based on the foundation of secular humanism. It's not by increasing our technology and becoming more competitive in the world market, developing a stronger economy and all the rest of that. It's important that you and I see that while these things have right and wrong ways of pursuing them, education and economics and all the rest of these are moral issues. It's not that the Bible doesn't speak to those. And we could speak to each of those in principles of Scripture. But the root issue of all of this is verse 34. Righteousness exalts a nation, sin is a disgrace to any people. Therefore, the only way back is for you and for me and for us as a corporate people to repent of sin. And to seek the righteousness of God in Jesus Christ. Those are the blanks there. Three steps I'd like to suggest back. And I believe that these steps are possible. These are not theoretical steps, these are not pietistic religious steps that have no meaning when you walk through those doors back out into the parking lot. I believe that these are absolutes and they are practical steps for us as a nation and will determine in large measure whether we move into revival and renewal. And a new renaissance in the history of America, or whether we slip into the chaos of a new dark ages. And I mean a barbarity that you and I probably could not imagine right now. The first step would be to fear the true God and his absolute laws. Not just for our neighbors to do that, but for you and to me. I'm convinced that you and I need to be more aware of how thoroughly secularized we have become. We have replaced the revealed religion of the Bible with the psychological, need-oriented religion of today. And I find this among Christians. as well as among totally secularized people. We don't realize that so much of what we say we believe is based on our needs rather than what the Bible specifically says. How many times have you heard a person say, the God I believe in wouldn't do that? The God I believe in would never restrict this or never forbid that, would never command this. And really when you think about it, isn't that almost a humorous kind of statement? I mean, as if the God I believe in determines what he's like, you see. I've decided that if God has a right to be God, then the way he needs to be, and what's it always based on? What I need as a religion. Rather than, I don't know what God's like. My mind is twisted and distorted, and I need to come to this book, and I need for God to speak to me and to reveal to me what in fact He is like. And that's the only way I'm going to know him. We need to realize that we have almost lost the sense of absolutes. Our culture certainly has. But you and me as Christians. are on dangerous grounds of losing really in our understanding the sense of a God who is really there, who speaks absolutely, regardless of whether we vote it up or down. We need to return to a sense of a God who is truly there and who speaks with absolutes, to forsake civil religion, need-based religion, and to follow Jesus as Lord, who says, take up your cross, take up my cross, and follow me. To follow that kind of a Jesus to recapture as the Church of Jesus Christ the sense of the priority of personal holiness. How much do we hear speak about the notion of walking and living holy lives as disciples of Jesus Christ today? We're so used to compromise that we think that we're doing pretty good to simply stand for him in some basic issues and say Well, I'm going to draw the line here, but no further. And then that gets pushed back and fuzzied. And we kind of begin to compromise. And I say, well, at least back here, but no further. And back and back and back the line goes. Until the notion of personal holiness becomes to us an embarrassment in our talk of following Jesus. We need to be those who are the vanguard of our society. In teaching unashamedly that there is a God who is there, and his laws still stand. Whatever reports on sexuality or any other area come out to follow the lead of the culture. Interesting to me how much of the response to those reports on sexuality, particularly the one from the Presbyterian Church, got negative press from unbelievers. Who basically were saying, look, at least if you're gonna say you're gonna follow the Bible, follow it. But don't mess around wimping out on saying that you believe this when everybody knows that that's not what the Bible says and it's just simply what everybody else practices. And so you and I need to take advantage of the fact that there still is within our society people who say, I at least respect the fact that if you're going to stand for an absolute stand for it, I still remember Many years ago when I was with Intervarsity, standing in a class, I got to teach in a class at the University of Maryland to present Christianity, a credit course. I was doing street uh witnessing and a guy invited me in and said that this course anything goes And so he said I'd probably get the professor to let you speak. And he did. He got me in there and I presented Christ to the class. And after I did, there were a bunch of heckling questions about that. And I still remember this one guy stood up And he said, why don't you give this guy a break? He's the only guy I've heard this whole semester that actually believes something. People respect believing something. And you and I need to take that and we need to press that on our society. The second thing is then we need to seek to practice it. And to enforce this law, to take seriously these absolutes, that they're not just for Christians, but that they're for all, whether it's sexual, Whether it's lying, whether it's greed, whether it's racism, economic issues, whatever it is, God's word speaks to these things. And then finally the last thing. And perhaps the most important in terms of our specific action now is that we need to recognize that we are hopeless on our own. So we need to turn to Christ for his righteousness. The Christ who lived in history and died on the cross and rose from an empty tomb and lives today. We need to believe that you and I cannot pull this off. But that we must pray for renewal and revival in our land. We have got to pray realizing that our backs are to the wall, brothers and sisters. We have got to pray, believing that the God who brought revival in dark times in the past can once again act to bring revival and renewal in our day. Revival or the disintegration of civilization. I don't think that our society can continue in the tenuous situation Hovering between Christian influence and secular influence, New Age influence, neo-paganistic influence, and all the rest of it, these things are dead enemies to one another. And you and I must clearly take our sides and realize that it can't go on with a kind of pitched battle in which both are striving for ascendancy and influence in American power. We need to realize our backs are to the wall as Christians. When are we going to wake up and believe that God has given to us the opportunity to pray corporately for renewal and for revival? There are signs that the Spirit of God is waking up his people. I would probably be much more pessimistic. I know I would. In fact, I would probably be feeling like Jeremiah and called to preach in a hopeless situation, except for the fact that there is evidence that the Spirit of God, independently throughout the country is raising up corporate praying in unprecedented ways to see that God is calling his people together, particularly in the areas of Los Angeles and New York City. All up and down from Boston and New York City, Philadelphia. What about here? Baltimore, in DC? Do we believe that God is going to work in raising up Christians who are going to believe? that corporate prayer will be heard of our God. I'll give you just a couple of examples. Southern California. Recently approximately 450 pastors gathered in Orange County, California for a pastor's prayer conference. The day was capped off by nearly 2,000 people attending a concert of prayer rally. These meetings set a new standard for united prayer in this region. And we're a prelude to the April twenty-seventh concert of prayer at the Anaheim Convention Center. I hadn't heard haven't heard yet how many attended that. in San Jose, California, saw its first citywide concert of prayer this past February. Several churches canceled their evening services to unite together on behalf of their city and for the world. The 3,000-seat auditorium could not hold the crowd. Many went to adjacent rooms with closed circuit TV, and some went to another church with separate leadership. In all, about 5,000 people showed up, uniting voices and hearts before God for spiritual awakening and world evangelization. That's in San Jose, California. Many spiritual breakthroughs are taking place now in New England, a place long considered dead spiritually. One reported that the mayor of Bridgeport, Connecticut, called for a concert of prayer on behalf of their city. The mayor of Bridgeport, Connecticut, fifteen hundred people showed up to pray. An average of one murder a day had been reported before the concert of prayer. One month later, no murders had yet been reported. Do we believe that God could yet work in our day? Do we? Do we really believe that? If we do, there's a way of showing that. This Thursday is a day off. And so we will have uh an opportunity. Nobody can say, well, I've got to get to work, you know, I can't make those concert of prayers that are Thursday mornings. 6. 30 to 7. 25 every Thursday morning, a group of us meet over at the Potter's house to pray. Want to join us this Thursday to pray for renewal and revival? Howard County, Maryland, in the United States. Do we believe that'll make a difference? Do we? Amen? Yeah, that's about the way it's been That's what we need to think about, brothers and sisters. I could get you to yell amen just because the second time always gets better results, but I'm not going to do that. I want you to think about that What about next Sunday? Next Sunday I'm going to show a video right here for anybody who wants to stay, because now we move into the summer schedule, no second hour scheduled activities. But we'll have a video right up here showing you an organization that has been mobilized simply for the purpose of calling America to prayer for renewal and for revival with our backs to the wall. And so at 1115, anybody wants to come down next Sunday, we'll be able to watch this video together. We're going to spend the rest of the hour. We're going to hear from Mike Smith a little bit about what God's doing in Eastern Europe, in contrast to here. And then we're going to pray. The balance of the hour we're going to pray. We're going to talk about then after that. What can we do to pray more? July 18th, Howard County Concert of Prayer at Mount Zion United Methodist Church. Joining with other Christians in Howard County. Will we be there to pray? October 25, 26, we're going to have an area-wide concert of prayer with David Bryan, the head of international concert of prayer movement. And we're going to pray, we're praying 4,000 people will gather from the Baltimore, D. C. area to pray for renewal and for revival. Do we believe that that is a priority? I want to suggest to you that our history, our future as a nation depends on whether Christians take seriously or not the opportunity we have to pray now. Let's join together in prayer. Lord, we realize right now that you are calling us as a people to pray. Lord, in many ways our backs are to the wall, but that's just when you like to work. When we are very aware that it is not by our strength or by our power, but by yours. Call us as a people to pray, to repent of our prayerlessness, and to join in prayer for Jesus' sake. Amen.