Last week we looked at Ephesians chapter 1. And we did it in the context, or at least with an introduction. of looking at a beautiful painting. And some of you will remember that I talked of what it's like to go to some place like the Metropolitan Museum of Art or the National Gallery of Art where there are So many paintings and if you're like me you feel compelled to run from room to room, looking at as many as you can, not really studying them, just glancing at them, hoping that you can remember what they look like at a future date, maybe reading the plaques next to them so that you can remember who painted what, when it was painted, and perhaps even why And then we recall that that's not what the painters intended, that they hoped that we would study those paintings and enjoy them, gaze upon them, get to know them well. And that that's what we need to do when we read the Scripture. Not just hurry through it, but study it, ponder it, enjoy it. Related to that museum idea, let me remind all of you, since a few of you have asked, that I mentioned specifically last week the Metropolitan Museum of Art, because it's the largest art museum in the world. And as I recall, it has something like two and a half million square feet of space in which it displa um displays paintings. And then I mentioned the Henry Frick Museum And I don't know the address for those of you who are wondering about it, but it is on Fifth Avenue. I don't think it's as far up as the Met, but it's a big mansion, but a small museum and certainly worth going to because you can go there and take your time and study the paintings and appreciate them. Last week we not only thought about paintings and museums, but more specifically as we read Ephesians chapter one. We looked at verse 8. You know, verse yeah, verse 8, where it talks about the grace that our God lavished on us. And we recognized that there were many things that we could look at in Ephesians 1. But that was one small word that was beautiful in and of itself and worth pondering why the Holy Spirit prompted Paul to choose it and what we could learn from it. This week we're going to do the same thing, look at the whole painting, and then try to focus our thoughts down to one section, and that section is going to be verse 19 and the few verses that follow as we look at God's incomparable power. Now, if you remember when we considered how God has lavished grace on us, we Reviewed that God's grace is lavish in its design, in its intent. God's grace is lavish in its degree, in the scope of what's being accomplished. And God's grace is lavish in the way God delights in giving it to us. Well, grace in and of itself is wonderful. But grace, apart from power, would not accomplish anything. Likewise, power, apart from grace, would be terrifying as we consider the true power of the Almighty God. So this week we are going to study the true power of the Almighty God, God's incomparably great power, but we want to study it in light of what we learned of grace and the way God lavished that grace on us. Now as we look at this big painting, how beautiful it is, and then try to look at small parts and consider words, special ideas. We also need to think of the overall. Think of the overall presentation Some of it's explicit, some of it I think we need to read into it. And I want to read now all of Ephesians chapter 1 and then make a few comments about what we see and hear as we read it. Hear now the word of God from Ephesians chapter 1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. To the saints in Ephesus, the faithful in Christ Jesus. Grace and peace to you from God, our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. For he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he predestined us to be adopted as his sons. Through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, in accordance with the riches of God's grace that he lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. And he made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfilment, to bring all things in heaven and on earth. together under one head, even Christ. In him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything, in conformity with the purpose of his will, in order that we, who were the first to hope in Christ, might be for the praise of his glory. And you also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession to the praise of his glory. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith and the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have not stopped giving thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the Spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which he has called you, the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints, and his incomparably great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms. Far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be head over everything for the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything. In every way. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, you who have been raised from the dead and who have been exalted. You who are Lord, who are our King, we praise you. We stand in awe of you For you are King of kings and Lord of Lords, and you reign in majesty because of God's power, because of who you are And you have given grace to us. Lavish grace. Help us now, Father. To understand these words, your words, that we might understand the nature of what you have made in us, of how you are working in us, and that we might worship you. Daily. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen I love this chapter. And I do get carried away with it. Because I thrill so to hear of the exaltation of Jesus Christ. That Jesus Christ, who died for us, is now reigning over all, over all authority and rule, power and dominion, and every title for the ages to come. And I hope that you will thrill at that and that you can thrill as we join together to study this. I think that that thrill is something that Paul is trying to communicate. Sometimes I think we get so caught up in Paul's intellect and in the importance of every word that he writes, because we know that it is God's word. that sometimes we miss the sweep of it. We miss sort of the brush strokes of the painting and the feeling that he has. You've all heard, I'm sure, that the chapter delineations in the scripture are artificial. It's not there the way the authors originally wrote it. They've been there, put there by the translators. And yet somehow when I read Ephesians chapter 1, I think at the end of verse 23, when Paul finished that sentence, I think He paused. I think he stopped, and I would say that whether he was dictating this or writing this in his own hand, that he stopped and thought of what he had just said, and he worshipped God. That's what we need to do. Now, why is it that we need to worship him? Why is it that our response should be awe and amazement? Because those are the feelings that I get from Paul. Well, we know that Paul believed that grace had been lavished on us, and that because of that grace he could pray that we would know God, that we would know the hope. that he has called us to, and that we would know our inheritance. And we know from earlier in the chapter that that inheritance is because we have been adopted as children of God. that we who are sinners have been adopted and that we have a glorious future ahead of us. But we may think as we read that of our And Paul says that we can because God's incomparably great power is for us. Now let's look at what that power is. We know as we read some of Paul's other letters, particularly Romans chapter 1. That Paul recognized that God's power is manifest and revealed throughout the world, and that all men know of God's power. They know Him and they suppress the truth. So let's remember how great God's power is, apart from his grace. We can read from Isaiah chapter forty. Do you not know? Have you not heard? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood since the earth was founded? He sits enthroned above the circle of the earth, and its people are like grasshoppers. He stretches out the heavens like a canopy and spreads them out like a tent to live in. He brings princes to naught and reduces the rulers of this world to nothing. No sooner are they planted, no sooner are they sown, no sooner do they take root in the ground than he blows on them and they wither, and a whirlwind sweeps them away like chaff To whom will you compare me? Or who is my equal, says the Holy One? Lift your eyes and look to the heavens. Who created all these? He who brings out the starry host one by one and calls them each by name, because of his great power and mighty strength, not one of them is missing. That is the God that is revealed to us in this world. And that is the God who each of us rejected, who the world has rejected. And that is the God who felt that that rejection was something that he would overcome, who reached down to us to save us. He saved us by demonstrating his power through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So the first blank that you have on your sermon outline. Which I don't have in front of me. That first blank is God's power has been demonstrated Let's look at verse 19 before we get to the demonstration of the power, because there's a series of words here that I think is worth our attention to Paul says that power, the incomparably, incomparably great power which is for us, is like the working of his mighty strength. There are three different Greek words in that sentence, all of which have a meaning related to power, and all of which together reveal the power that is of God. The first one, the working, is like the energy, the active power that God is exhibiting. And then It says his mighty strength with mighty having a connotation of the force that can flatten mountains that makes the valleys flatten All the force that can that God can bring to bear on the earth, and then the might, which is the limitless reserve of God's power and strength, like the ocean, that cannot be um overcome. They're limitless. That's the power that Paul is seeing and that he is then describing in the resurrection of Jesus Christ Now I think that sometimes we take for granted God's resurrection of Jesus Christ. The resurrection that conquered death, it was no small event because death was destroyed. Think of today and think of how our culture and our society deals with death. You've all heard the phrase which is trite by now that nothing is certain but death and taxes We say that as a joke, more a joke about taxes, but we make light of death because we don't know what to do with it. I believe that almost all of our fears are related to our fear of death. If you think of the headlines in the media, if you read the newspaper and magazine, You see people marching demonstrating about AIDS. You read of people's fear of aging. You read and watch the news as we wonder what happened is going to happen in the Mideast What will happen in Iraq. And it is our fear. Fear of the future, fear ultimately of death. And God has conquered that He has shown us that he is victorious. We read in Acts chapter 2, but God raised Jesus from the dead. freeing him from the agony of death, because it was impossible for death to keep its hold on him. David said about him, I saw the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I will not be shaken. Therefore, my heart is glad and my tongue rejoices, my body also will live in hope, because you will not abandon me to the grave, nor will you let your holy one see decay. And then he goes on to say, Peter, as he preaches, that Christ was not abandoned to the grave, nor did his body see decay decay. God has raised this Jesus to life, and we are all witnesses. of that fact. Christ was declared with power to be the Son of God. God declared to the world that he has conquered death, overcome death in the resurrection of Jesus Christ. That power is the incomparably great power which is for us in Jesus Christ. But God did not stop there. He exalted Jesus Christ. Hear the word of God again as we read. He exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and Seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given I could go on. It's so thrilling to think that our Lord Jesus Christ is reigning over all creation. Our Lord, who was manifest grace, who died for us, our Lord, who had been a dead body, was resurrected, raised from the dead. And exalted, crowned as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He is far above whom? It says here, he is far above everything. If we read the rule and authority, power, and dominion found in verse 21, it reminds us that Christ rules over all of the angels as great as they are. And yea, he rules over demons. and Satan. Some of you have read probably This Present Darkness by Frank Ferretti or Out of the Darkness These are books that are in some ways pop novels. I wouldn't call them great literature. They're not the greatest writing in the world. But I read them both and I enjoyed them both Because what they did for me was remind me of the power of evil. We may take it for granted, but Satan is a power We read in Jude that the Archangel Michael didn't take for granted how powerful is that the same thing. Satan was, and we shouldn't take it for granted. But we have victory over Satan. We have victory over evil. Because Jesus Christ has been exalted and sits at the right hand of God, ruling over all. Have you ever thought of the wonder of God's power and the beauty that God's power is? Linked to God's grace. Think of what it would be to be a lowly creature on this earth with Jesus Christ not being Jesus Christ with the ruler of this world. being evil. We would be terrified, quaking, and humble. And yet we have been called to be the sons of God Because the one who is truly mighty, who rules over everything, is also gracious and has called us to a glorious inheritance in the saints And then how long is Jesus Christ ruling? It says that he is ruling not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. He is ruling for eternity And that is our future, that we will be with him for eternity. What a wonderful future that it is. I have found over the last few months that when I lead worship, I always struggle with the question should I make the worship thematic related to what Alan is preaching about about or should I simply focus the worship on Jesus Christ? And what I find find myself drawn to over and over again is worshiping Jesus our King. Who remembers Robin Hood who was hiding in Sherwood Forest where Rich The Lionheart hearted was out in the Mid East fighting the Crusades and the Earl of Nottingham was trying to take over the area. So Robin was in hiding and he was, we think, maybe stealing from the rich and giving To the poor, which we don't really want to advocate, but he represented a lot of goodness. And he was in constant conflict with evil. And one day, as he walked through the forest, He saw some travelers. They were in rags, they were impoverished, they were dirty, and he w went up to them thinking that he might help them. And as he got close to them, he recognized And he fell on his knees and he took his hat off and he bowed, and he said, My liege, my lord. He recognized Richard the Lion. And he fell before him with love and affection, because it was his king, a king that he adored. That's the feeling that we should have about Jesus. Jesus, the Almighty, powerful King, exalted over all, that we can can turn to with affection, bowing our knees, bowing before Him, recognizing that He is our Lord. Lord. God's power, demonstrated, manifested in Jesus Christ, is also for us. So Roman numeral two is God's power is for us, as found in verse nineteen. Why is it for us? Well, as I said earlier, we can see reading the verses before that Paul is focusing his attention. on the idea that we have a hope, that we have a glorious inheritance that we cannot achieve on our own. It's a hope and an inheritance that we can only achieve or actually receive because of the incomparably great power of God. As it says in the outline, lest we forget, it was God's power that converts us. You remember last week when I was talking of God's design that we are dead and our sins made alive? The conversion of our soul, the conversion of our nature is nothing less than the resurrection of a dead man to becoming an alive man. We may think that we offered something, that we had something to do with it, but the classic illustration of God's power resurrecting a dead man is the story. And you may remember that Lazarus had been dead for many days. He was put in a tomb. Jesus came and wept. And then Jesus walked up to the tomb. He didn't move a stone. He didn't go in and lift up Lazarus and then breathe into him. Jesus stood there and called out, Lazarus, come forth. That is the power of God, even working through the proclamation of the word, bringing new life into a dead man. And that is the power of God which converted us Which brought us from death into life, as Paul writes later on in Ephesians chapter two. But God's power did not stop there. It is more than that he converted us and then left us to our own devices. He now works in us. Paul makes very clear that we are God's workmanship In Ephesians chapter 2, verse 10, we are God's workmanship created in Christ Jesus to do good work. God converted us and he is working in us that we might become all that He has in store for us. That we might become holy and blameless in his sight, as Paul wrote earlier in Ephesians chapter 1. He works in us to change our nature And then he works in us to protect us from the evil around us and to overcome that evil. That's why it's so wonderful that he's reigning over all, reigning over Satan, reigning over the dominions and authorities. Because in that reign he gives us the victory over that. Several years ago I was in a depression that was fairly debilitating for me And I felt very helpless. I found myself wondering if my life would ever change or if if I would ever change. And I was reminded that God is working in me. that I need to let him work. And at that time I had a favorite hymn. The hymn was Declare His Glory. It sounded in hymns two, a hymnal that we can't use anymore because we don't have have enough copies of it. But let me read to you the verse that meant so much to me. Our God is faithful. He will work within us, fulfilling all the purpose he has planned. The words that meant so much to me were He will work within us. Because as I read that day after day and studied it, I became aware, through the grace of God, So what that is saying is that God will work within us, despite us, despite what surrounds us. At that time a few years ago, I felt like God may want to work in me, but He's not going to be able to work in me. I'm hopeless. And then I would read that and it would say, God will work within us. God will work within you. And you can count on that. Because of the power of God demonstrated in the resurrection and exaltation. of Jesus Christ, because of the grace of God, God has chosen you to be his workmanship. And he will not let you stop him from What a comfort it is to know that he is working in us even now, changing us, making us more and more more sanctified more and more what he ultimately wants us to be when we are with him in heaven. And then God's power is also our future. We don't need to wonder if the hope and the glorious inheritance will ever really become ours. We know they will. We know that they are a certainty. Not because we believe in ourselves, not because we have so much confidence in what we can do, but because of the truth. And Handel's Messiah, near the end of the section of the life of Christ where he has died and raised Where after the solo that talks about the dead shall be raised incorruptible. There's another wonderful solo that's taken from Job chapter 19. I know that my Redeemer lives, and that in the end he will stand upon the earth, and after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God. I myself will see him with my own eyes. I and not another. How my heart yearns within me. I know that my Redeemer lives And because I know that my Redeemer lives, I can count on the future. I can count on what is ahead. I can count on the glorious inheritance. And The hope that God has given us. One other word about that hope in the future. I have had several jobs over the last few years. and I'm now an investment banker. And as an investment banker I put together deals for people to do, investments for people to make. And one of the phrases that is common in the investment world right now is And it's going to become more common with the uncertainty in the financial markets, is a preferred return. And a preferred return is a return that an investor will get meaning that they will have preference over another investor and if there's any money, it's going to go to the person with the preferred return before it goes to the other people. Now why is there a preferred return? There's a preferred return because there can't be a guaranteed return. Nobody can guarantee that there will be a return on a particular investment. There is risk. There is uncertainty. So what people do is they move from the idea of a guarantee to a preference. God hasn't done that. God has guaranteed something to us. God has guaranteed our future. Another part of the painting in Ephesians 1 that we don't have time to look at But which Alan preached on this spring was the idea that we have a seal, the promised Holy Spirit, this is verses thirteen and fourteen, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance And that Holy Spirit, as a seal and a guarantee of our inheritance, comes out of the power of Jesus Christ when he was resurrected from the dead. We have a guaranteed future because So now, what is our response? What should we do in light of God's lavish grace? In light of the incomparably great power that is ours, one word comes to my mind. Fill in the blank, write down worship. That's what we are to do in response to Jesus Christ our Lord Last week, I tried to talk about lavish grace in the context of Alan's sermon on contentment. Impose the idea that it is the very grace of God which is the foundation for our contentment. This week I want to say that it is the grace and the power of God. Which is the foundation of our contentment. It is the grace and the power of God which shows him to be a God so worthy of our worship that can enable us to be content Because this is an aspect of God, an attribute of God that we should worship not on a weekly basis, but on a weekly basis daily basis. We should look to him every morning, worshiping him for his grace and for his power. Worshiping the Lord Jesus Christ for who he is as he reigns over all. We should worship him frequently. We should worship him with ever more knowledge and enlightenment about who he is. And we should worship, as Charles Charles Wesley wrote. While the nearer waters roll, while the tempest still is high, hide me, O my Savior, hide. He has hidden Us. And as we worship him and gaze upon him, we will see that truth. And we will have a new contentment, a godly contentment, that will enable us to be that way despite our circumstances. circumstances, worshiping the gracious God who has given us an incomparably great power. Let's pray. I really feel searching for words, wanting to thank you for what you've done. for us. Wanting to thank you for who you are, for your very character and nature. Wanting to thank you for how you have reached down to us to share that. Lord help us to go forward with a new desire to seek godly contentment, knowing that you are working in us, based on the power. Which is incomparable and which is in Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.