Life seems to be getting more and more complex, doesn't it? It seems like uh the issues we deal with keep increasing. And it seems like the issues themselves become more and more complex. You pick up Time magazine, you read about Lebanon and Syria and Israel. And you wonder what kind of solution there could possibly be. And then you flip over to the next page and there's the latest on Central America. And you wonder who can ever unravel the rights and the wrongs what sort of a solution there would be there. And then you retreat into the United States and you find out, yeah, this is an election year. Can't even count the candidates. Try to connect the faces with what they stand for. Use all kinds of little mnemonic devices to remember who's the conservative and the liberal and which guy's liberal and what and conservative on what and Pretty soon you find out that you're lost in everything. And then you just go to the store to buy something. You want to just get a box of tissues. All you want is a box of tissues. The first thing you've got to deal with is it a generic box or do you want a brand name? And then you want one fly, two fly or three fly. Do you want a designer box or a plane box? Do you want to go color or do you want light? Do you want patterns or do you want flame? And the more issues that you're involved in, the more emotional energy you expend, so finally you just retreat. And you just give up the whole thing and you say, All I can do is deal with the basics in my life. I just want to shut it all out. My life is too complex. And all I can deal with is my family or my housemates, my Bible study, and the issues that I must deal with in my job and in my day-to-day living. And in such a context, to talk about foreign missions seems strangely irrelevant, doesn't it? Because you say, that's the world I'm trying to shut out. I'm trying to want to make my world more simple, and now you're talking about an issue I haven't even wanted to deal with. I mean that that's one issue I know I don't have to deal with. I don't have to deal with what God is doing in Taiwan and Korea and all the rest of that kind of thing. I can't even deal with what's going on in Colombia And so our lifestyles become so complex that we shudder to think that there's another issue that we haven't begun to grapple with, perhaps on a personal level, that we somehow need to think about. Well, if that's the case for you this morning, then I've got bad news and I've got good news. The bad news is that the Bible teaches it's not an option, whether we're concerned about world missions or not. You don't have an option to say, well, that's one issue I don't need to deal with. If you're a disciple of Jesus Christ, I'll show you this morning, you must deal with that. But the good news is, it's not an additional issue to deal with in your life. But rather, what I want to show you is it's simply a way of looking at life. It becomes a perspective that will free you up, hopefully, from the anxiety of here's one more issue to tack on to make my life more complex, but rather to see that the way Jesus saw the world Is the way I need to see the world, and that that's a perspective, not an additional issue. Last week we looked at the first chapter of Luke To discuss a moral issue. This morning we're going to look at the last chapter of Luke to consider a missiological issue. Myssiological is a fancy term that means missions We're going to talk, therefore, about Luke's version of the Great Commission. We'll often look at Matthew's version, but Luke also records a different version of the Great Commission. So turn to Luke chapter 24, and I want to read for you that first-resurrection narrative in Luke's gospel, in which he believes. The Great Commission on a different basis and context than the Linna Bathby reports. Let's see then what Luke says about God's concern for the whole world and about what our concern is to be. Luke chapter 24, beginning at verse 36, reading to the end of the chapter. Now you remember that this comes just after Jesus has walked on the road with the disciples going to Emmaus, and he has revealed himself to them. He's eaten with them and the disciples have gone back to Jerusalem. They told the disciples that they have seen the Lord, and now he's just come in, and they have just been discussing about the other resurrection appearances, and at that point we pick up the story in verse 36. While they were still talking about this, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. They were startled and frightened, thinking they saw a ghost. He said to them, Why are you troubled? Why do doubts rise in your minds? Look at thy hands and my feet. Because I myself. Touch me and see. A ghost does not have flesh and bones as you see I have. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. While they still did not believe it, because of joy and amazement, he asked them, Do you have anything here to eat? They gave him a print piece of brown fish. And he took it and ate it in their presence. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled, but it's written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. And then he opened their minds so that they could understand the scriptures. He told them, This is what is written The Christ will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and repentance and forgiveness of sin will be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. I'm going to send you what thy father has promised. But stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high. When he had led them out to the vicinity of Bethany, lifted up his hands and he blessed them. And while he was blessing them, he left them and was taken up into heaven. Then they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. And they stayed continually at the temple, praising God. What I want us to see from this text is that as you see in the bulletin, worldwide missions That is, reaching everyone, everywhere, with the gospel of Jesus Christ is vitally, first of all, God's concern, and then secondly, our concern. It's God's concern, and therefore it's our concern. Now, under Jesus speaking of it as God's concern in this text, you notice that all three persons of the Trinity are brought in. First of all, we see that it's the Father's purpose. For the whole world, as it's seen through the Old Testament. But never the scene, which we've just read about it now. Here is the risen Christ Jesus Christ, newly risen from the dead. And he stands there and their minds are so boggled and they're perplexed and they wonder if it's possibly a ghost. And he says, Touch me. See that I'm not a goose. They then to dispel any further down, she says, Do you have anything here to eat? And so he eats some fish and they touch him, they feel him, they see an eating, they see that fish that was on the table disappeared. They realize that he is really there. And at that point then, he reveals to them something very important about his own ministry. He tells them something about his life and work. You see it there in verse 44. This is what I told you while I was still with you, that everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses. The prophets and the Psalms. Not just in the prophecies, you see, but in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. He goes through the three major divisions of the Old Testament to show that he means the whole Old Testament spoke about them. Then at verse forty-four. Beginning then um excuse me, verse uh forty-five, beginning then uh To the beginning of the Old Testament, he opened their minds so that they could understand the scriptures. Probably took them through from the beginning to the end of some sort of a bird's eye view of how the Old Testament spoke of him. Don't you wish you could have been there? Imagine what that would have meant for your quiet times for the next few years, to just hear Jesus going through the Old Testament and showing the infallible interpretation This is what that passage means. Do you see how it speaks of me? And to be able to then take them through and show how all of it focused on him How the Father in his concern from the very beginning of the world was focused on Jesus to make world concern. You notice how he brings that together, as he then says in verse 46. He told them, now this is what's written, this is what the Old Testament's about. But the Messiah, the Christ, will suffer and rise from the dead on the third day. And the repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem Now we don't know what Jesus covered, but I know that there are, as you go through that thread of the Old Testament, many passages that speak of God's worldwide concern For the Messiah to be preached among all nations, that God's concern was never simply for Israel, never simply a local concern for his own people in one geographical area. But there's always a worldwide concern. You see the scriptures, just some that I've listed there for you to be able to take a look at. Just follow along the thread of the thought. As I consider this, we won't have time to look at them all, but just think, from the very beginning, in Genesis chapter 1, verse 1, the Bible opens, in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And then in verse 28, we read that he created man and woman so that they might be fruitful and multiply and fill all of the earth. Now, the missions leader, David Howard. In his book The Great Commission for Today, has this to say about Genesis 1-1, which I think we can often miss. He says that this verse is so well known that sometimes we miss its significance. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. That means that everything God created is within his sphere of interest. God did not create anything in which he's not interested. God created the heavens and the earth. Therefore, all the heavens and all the earth and everything in the heavens and the earth, including every man and woman that he ever created. concern him. That's the foundation of God's concern. You remember how then God destroyed the earth with a flood? And Noah and his family alone were left. The first command that's given them in Genesis 5. 1 after the flood is be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth is concern again for the whole earth. That's the significance of the Tower of Babel. Some people think that it's a story about how some maize people tried to build this tower and reach up into heaven. That's not what it's about. They weren't that stupid They were doing two things. They said that we want to make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered throughout the whole earth. God says, I want you to scatter and fill the earth. They said, not the boom, we're not going to do it. And so God says, Oh yes, you are. And in chapter 11, verse 9, we read that God confused their tongues so that they couldn't speak to one another and complete the building project. And what are they left to do? But to get with other people who speak like them and scatter throughout the earth. But as soon as they scatter throughout the earth, God then focuses in in chapter twelve, and he says, But now I'm going to select one nation. One man and from him I'm going to build a nation that's going to be the people through whom my line of redemption will follow. But he said that very mind of the demption and that very choosing of one people is never to be understood, is just for their benefit. Because he says in Genesis 12, 3 at the very beginning of that, in you shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. You go down to Moses, and it's the same story. Here's Israel, and they're captive in Egypt. And so Moses comes to Pharaoh and he says, Let my people go! Pharaoh says nothing doing in some plagues in Satan soon after that. And then at the beginning of the plague of the hala, Moses describes what's going on to Pharaoh And he says, God has said, for this purpose I have raised you up into power, that I might proclaim thy name and all the earth will see my power. In Exodus 9, 16. So that all the earth will see my power. You come down to Joshua, and it's the same thing. Joshua takes Israel from the wilderness across the Jordan River and the waters parted. And Joshua says, You remember when Moses did that and he parted the waters for you? And God has just done this again. He's doing it now for the same reason he did it then. And Joshua says in chapter four, verse twenty-three and four, He did it so that his name Would be proclaimed in all the earth. For the Lord dried up the Jordan for you, so that you had crossed over. The Lord your God did to the Jordan just what he had done to the Red Sea when he dried it up before And he did this so that all peoples of the earth might know that the hand of the Lord is powerful. You remember the story that we looked at in David and Goliath back in last November. You remember what David said when Goliath came with his challenge and he said, I'm going to make you a horse meat to feed you to the animals and the birds of the air. David says, You come to me with a sword and a spear. He says in 1 Samuel 17, 48, This day the Lord's going to hand you over to me, and I'm going to strike you down and cut off your head, and I'm going to give the carcasses of the Philistine army to the birds of the air and the beasts of the field God. So Israel will be saved? Yeah, that's involved. But the reason that David states there is so that the whole world will know that there's a God in Israel. God's concern again is a worldwide concern, so that the whole world will know that there's a God in Israel. But God will use his people so that his name will be proclaimed on all the earth. And that same David, when he writes the Psalms, begins Psalm 96, and all the nations worship the Lord. That psalm is a call for all the world. Sing to the Lord a new psalm. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Declare his glory among the nations and his marvelous deeds among all peoples. Psalm 117 is a call for all peoples of the earth to worship the Lord. Not just Israel, not just some particular people in one place. God's concern ever was, is, and continues to be through all the earth. Jesus said not just in the law of the Moses and Psalms, but also in the prophets. We don't have time to go through and trace the prophets. There it really gets rich. Just one example then. Isaiah in chapters 43 to 45 again and again makes the point that there is only one God in all the earth and only one Savior. And again and again he makes that point that all the earth must turn to me alone and be saved. And he brings that theme together in the climax in chapter 45, in verses 22 and 23. Where it says, Turn to me and be saved all you ends of the earth, for all and God, and there is no other. By myself I've sworn and by my mouth has uttered with all integrity a word that will not be revealed. Before me every knee shall bow I mean every tongue will swear. And they will say of me in the day, and they will say of me, that the Lord alone are righteousness and strength. All the world is to know that there is only one Savior. There is only one God. So Jesus says at the climax of his own ministry, But this was all written, you see, that the Messiah, for all the world, must suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and the repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all nations. Beginning, just beginning, here at Jerusalem. And so we see that it's not only the Father's purpose. Throughout all the Old Testament, we see also that it was Christ's concern that his work was a work that was to be proclaimed for all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem. But he suffered and died and rose again and bore our sin and took the awful punishment that was due to you and to me upon himself. So that forgiveness of sins through repentance and faith in His Word would be proclaimed not just here, not just for you and for me. But for all the nations, beginning at Jerusalem. He says that's also the Spirit's concern. Well you see, he goes on here to say Then that you are witnesses of these things, and I'm going to send you what my father has promised. But stay in Jerusalem, stay in the city until you've been clothed with this powerful on high. Well, what did the Father promise? He goes on to act. Chapter 1 and we read in verse 4, but the Lord there says that he was on one occasion eating with them and gave them this command, don't leave Jerusalem. But wait for the gift my father promised, clearly the same references we saw at the end of Luke. That gift my father promised, which you've heard me speak about For John baptized with water, but in a few days you will be baptized with the Holy Spirit. The promise of the Father is clearly the Holy Spirit. And what's the purpose of that? Verse 7 and 8. Verse 8 particularly, that you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you to be my witnesses, both here in Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, to the othermost parts of the earth. And so that's the Father's concern. It's the Son's concern in his work. It's the Spirit's concern in his power. That Jesus be preached throughout all the world. And God says clearly, that's to be your concern and mine. He says that's great, but that's to be God's concern. I mean, he's so big, he can afford to be concerned with the whole world. I mean, after all, he sees it all at once. He made it, you know. That's fine for him. But get serious, you don't really mean that I should be concerned for the whole earth. You don't really mean that in addition to all the things that I'm already not able to keep up with, I should add on the whole earth now. But I should be concerned for the whole earth that each country received the gospel and nobody to pray, I guess, alphabetically or geographically around every country and find out about them all. And I just can't do it Just it's impossible. You blow my circuits to bring up the idea. No, I'm not saying that you should be concerned for every country and you should be an expert in knowing everything that's going on throughout the world. I am not saying that should be your intention What I am saying is that you should be concerned to grow in your concern, because the disciple The word disciple means a learner. And if you're a disciple of Jesus, then you learn from Jesus, not only what he teaches. But what his concerns are. And if you grow as a disciple, you grow so that your concerns become more like his concerns. And my contention about you and me is that if you're saying this morning, I can't be concerned about the whole world. All I can be concerned about is my own street. I mean I can hardly be concerned about them like I want to be. Once I work on being concerned for my neighbors to come to Christ, then maybe I can be concerned about your. No, I'd say it doesn't work that way. If you are concerned about your street now, you probably are concerned somewhat about the world. If you are not concerned about the world, you're probably also not very concerned about your street. You see, I think they stand and fall together. It's simply a matter of perspective. Do I see a world that is lost without Jesus Christ or don't I? Do I see that all people ultimately will fall into two categories at the end of history? And that they will be those who, through the saving work of Jesus Christ and his mercy, will go to be with him forever? And there are those who without that, who have either refused by conscience and what they have seen a certain degree of light. Or have refused the gospel explicitly and will go apart from him into everlasting hell? Or do I see the world as so complex that you can't really think about it in those terms? But Jesus says that's to be our concern. Look at verse 48. Verse 48, he says, You are witnesses of these things. And what do these things refer to? These things refer to that message of the cross in verse 46 and 47. That the Messiah is going to suffer and rise from the dead on the third day, and the repentance and forgiveness of sins will be preached in his name to all the nations. Beginning here at Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things. But you know, We tend to see the world as so complex, with so many beliefs, that we think it can't be that simple. I mean you can't simply reduce it to saying, you know, everybody in the whole world simply needs to hear about forgiveness of sins so that they can repent and come to Jesus. You look at even the United States alone. There's 2,051 different denominations and religious groups. He said, in all of that confusion, surely it's not as simple as saying with Jesus Christ there's life, without Jesus Christ there is no life. And you know, the problem, I think, for us as evangelists in our day is not that theologically we have relinquished that conviction But I think that psychologically we're in danger of relinquishing. Theology tends to follow psychology. And so what we are finding is because of the complexity of our lives and because of the confusion of beliefs and the rapidly changing nature of beliefs. But while we still intellectually fall to the fact that everyone without Jesus Christ is lost and going to hell, that somehow there's a psychological tension in that, isn't there? It seems presumptuous to make such a brash statement. Just this week I had an interview with a flyer. They asked me why I think in the meeting house. And as I gave a list of the reasons for our meeting, the meeting house, one of the reasons that I felt compelled to list was that of evangelism. In fact, we're in a situation here in which there is an implicit kind of understanding that you live and you let live. And that in this kind of an arrangement, no one can be so presumptuous as to offer someone else the gospel of Jesus Christ because they're lost. And I said we live in a relativistic age in which we believe that there are absolutes, and that every one will stand under God's just judgment. But even as I told that reporter those things, I found in myself that tension that says, isn't this arrogant for you to tell this fellow that? I mean, what's he thinking as you say this? Yet I felt compelled, but I had to say it. But isn't there that that wrestling? Isn't there that sense of being presumptuous to think that I have a colour on the truth? For that's the greatest sin of our age. But Jesus says right here: you are witnesses of this one absolutely indestructible and imperishable and absolute fact. But without repentance and forgiveness of sin, your neighbors, your friends, your family, don't tell us going to hell. And you and I, dear, never compromise on that either theologically. Or psychologically. And if you and I begin to say, I don't really concern myself with the world, I can't even think about that I suggest to you that your concern for the cutting edge of the gospel for your next door neighbor will also diminish. Because it's a perspective, not an amendment. Notice second, not only is the message universal, but also his method, Jesus' method of giving that message will be universal. You see, he says there that this message is to be given to all nations. Now he's the master, and we're the disciples. And so look recorded as the context for that statement how in fact Jesus did that And you look through Luke's gospel and you see the perfect example of Jesus preaching to all Galatians. You notice in the very beginning In chapter 3, where his genealogy is given. It's interesting. Matthew is given for the Jews. You have Jesus Christ for Abraham. Luke is given with a particular concern to the Gentiles of the world. How does Jesus' genealogy trace? Back to Adam, not simply to Abraham. Why? In order to show us that Jesus is not simply a savior for the Jews. He's the Savior for all the world. He's the Son of Adam. He's the new Adam who's come for a new race to be established worldwide. And so you see Jesus then in chapter 4, verse 43, saying, I must go to other cities. I am not simply to preach here in Jerusalem. I'm not simply here within the Jewish cities. But also in the Samaritan cities, also in other cities. Secondly, you see that Jesus penetrated various elements of society. Now you and I tend to only see people like ourselves, don't we? We see people that are like us, and we tend to ignore people of other races, other economic standing, other strata of society. And we see those that are like us in a crowd. They're the ones that we identify with. And Jesus told us that his concern was far different Not only did he dine with Pharisees and fellowship with them, as the scripture gives us some examples. I have some that are listed there. But he also fellowship and aid with the moral people, those that you wouldn't quite in your neighborhood Those that you wouldn't want living next door to you because of the kind of parties that they would run, the things that they would do. You wouldn't want their kids playing with your kids. You wouldn't want their kids going to your schools. But Jesus fellowshiped with them because he saw them in the same way having a need for the Messiah, for the forgiveness of sins. Jesus also fellowshipped and associated with tax collectors, the stum of the society, those who were despised at that time. Because he saw that easy for the work that he was doing for them. He didn't simply associate with people of his own age. He loved children But he took children many times to him and showed concern for them to also share the good news with them. You see some examples And Sir Jesus saw people from all elements of society so that we would see again his worldwide, his universal concern. Not only the various kinds of society, the various geographical areas, but also the various cultures are crossed by Jesus with the gospel. Not only does he preach to the Jews, but also to the Gentiles, but also to the Samaritans, those who were despised by the Jews. To the Gentiles, even those more despised, you see him healing the servant of a Roman centurion and praising his faith. You see Jesus again and again crossing cultural barriers. In order to take the gospel to those who needed it. And if you and I are his disciples, who learn his methods, As well as his message. And you and I can't be disciples and simply copy his message, but ignore his methods And for us that means that there's going to be some sorts of cultural barriers that we'll cross. There are many cultural barriers right within your own street. All kinds of mini subcultures that have grown up that tend to isolate us so that we ignore each other because we're not interested in the same things. We don't have the same broad base of common interests. How many neighbors do you have that you say, I don't even know what to talk to that guy about? I don't even know what to talk to that woman about. We don't seem to have anything in common. One of the concerns that God has that He's demonstrated through Jesus. Was that he was somehow able to care for people enough to find something to talk to about? You ever wonder what Jesus talked to prostitutes about? How he was able to have tax collectors enjoy being with them He found something to talk about with them. He listened to. He cared for them in a way that they liked to be with them. And so he was able to cross those barriers. And so finally I offer to you my application of this then. Just three questions. First of all, have you yourself ever come to Jesus Christ and repented for forgiveness of your sins? There's no way that you can talk about sharing the good news of Jesus Christ to someone else if you yourself have never come and confessed that you deserve his just judgment. If you deserve all the judgment that Jesus Christ received in your place. And until you do that, you have no hope yourself. And I plead with you in the name of Jesus Christ, come, turn from your self-sufficiency, from your self-dependence, from following yourself. And come to Jesus Christ. Because He alone, no matter what your need is, this morning, I guarantee you, on the basis of the Word of God, it is for all the nations, it is for you. It's for senators of Washington some Shiites in the rest of the world and savages of Australia. It's the same basic message. And we all need it. Come to him. Secondly, do you feel God's concern, not just for America, but for the whole world? Do you feel this concern? Do you see Paul Satan in the Old Testament? And as Jesus brings it to a climax here, do you feel God's concern for all the world in a way that makes you say, Lord? I can't begin to have that kind of a concern now. But I want to begin to grow. I want to begin to understand. You see, what I'm saying to you is not, and please help us understand it, it is not But I want you to get on a bunch of missionary prayer lists and long lists and promise to pray for ten missionaries every day and all their needs and concerns. I would say that you simply cannot say the following. You cannot say, I don't care about the Church of Christ in Asia. I don't care about the Church of Christ in Africa. And I say, fine. You say you care about it, then yeah, I do care about it. But then translate that into something. And one very practical way is to begin by coming to the conference this next weekend. Say, ah, it's all a meetup for the conference. No, it's just appropriate to preach this which has been a concern of mine. for a number of months to give this message, to fit it in where there is a practical, concrete application immediately before us To take the time to drive to Silver Spring. They go to a church which is very easy to find, the first right turn after the beltway. That's all you gotta know. And to simply go down there on Friday evening and get an overview of what God's doing in the world. at least to our denomination. Let's see specific people, three or five people have been around the world, to come on Saturday And to find out what God's doing in a little more detail in a specific way so you can identify with that. And then from that to begin to work on how God speaks to your heart about some of the interests that will engender there. And to translate those into something, something observable, something by which your concern and your compassion for the world Church of Jesus Christ will be demonstrated. To begin to pray for somebody. outside of America. Beginning to be concerned to give to something that's going on in the church outside of the United States. To begin to find out about something outside of ourselves. We can't be as concerned for Columbia, South America as we can for Columbia, Maryland But we can be beginning to be concerned for something outside of ourselves. Because I suggest again, our concern for Columbia Maryland stands or falls. Bid they concern for other places in the world. I suggest that If you and I seek to protect ourselves and our sanity and emotional energy by reducing our world concern So that we'll protect ourselves, we will in fact not find peace, but pettiness. Jesus' concern was for the whole world. No and I are his disciples. Let's take one step to grow in that concern. Let's pray Third, we come and we do confess to you that our lives do seem so complex. Lord, there's just so much that we're being told so often that we have to be public. So many issues that we need to decide on. And so many things to read that we seem sometimes to be simply victims of a knowledge and media explosion. And Lord, we find ourselves wanting to protect ourselves and to draw in, and to be concerned only for the basics, and the basics center around us. Help us, Lord, to be free from the kind of anxiety that says, if I will begin to be concerned for the world, it can swallow me up. But to trust you, because that was your concern. Because you, Lord Jesus, said to us that we are witnesses of these things, not simply the message which is absolute and universal. But also the method which he showed us was a universal method of crossing cultural barriers to reach out to people with the gospel. And Lord, give us the faith that we believe that you can enable us, and that you will take care of us. And if through doing that, we will come to a deeper appreciation of your purpose in salvation. We will come, Lord Jesus, to love you more because we'll see how very full, free, rich is your work for all the world. You'll see how very true it is that you meet the deepest need of every kind of person. Holy Spirit, we will then begin to experience the fullness of your power, which is for us. We share the gospel not only in our own home, but are concerned for your power to be demonstrated. In the worldwide Church of Christ. Believe experience that deeper appreciation and that fullness of power as we open ourselves to those concerns which are applying your heart. And as we translate that each one of us into the activity that we can engage in this weekend. Though there may be some people who can't make that for good and valid reasons. We encourage you to speak to each heart here through this week about priorities and that. That everyone who can make it will make it. And through that be opened up to a greater understanding of what you are doing in building your church. Lord, we look to you for that. We look to you for your work in us. Because we know that we need to grow in this area. I myself need to grow, Lord. We all do. It's a way it is you to do that in us because we know from your word that that's praying in your name. Amen.