Dear friends, and I hope you can hear me. We have had opportunity to think about this sermon especially for a little over three and one half years And how in the around world am I expected to to tell you everything that is on my heart in the few moments that await us here? But we will see what God has for us together. Let us pray. Be pleased, O Lord, to demonstrate thy power And thy majesty, and thy sovereign will over us. Be pleased, O Lord. To be glorified and honored in our meditations, in the thoughts of our hearts In our very lives, for we ask in Christ's name. Amen. The outline that is before you the outline that is before you give you some idea of where I would be going if I had two or three hours. I simply cannot touch adequately on the various divisions that we have set before you. But I would like to give brush strokes, if I could, to the first portion, and then in a rather unbalanced, uneven treatment I would like to move to the latter portion of the outline. But before I do anything, I want to thank those who led the worship this morning, John Isaac, and I appreciate Tom's involvement with this and those who provided the music and uh the pianist she's hiding someplace. Anyway, I thank you so much. And I think John you made good selections on the hymns and the other portions. They fit right with what we're doing. The subject of the providences of God in our lives is a lifetime learning experience. I will be seventy in a matter of just a few days, few weeks perhaps. I am still learning. Dear friends, if you have quit learning, they had better measure you for your box. God is still teaching us. We are still growing In grace and in knowledge of our Lord and Savior I appreciate the fact that I was supposed to have uh delivered this sermon to you about uh three or four weeks ago. And I did. By illustration, I was not able to come. And Steve graciously at the last minute substituted for me. And I appreciate that so much. When we concern ourselves with the doctrines of grace, the providences of God are very real In the back of the hymnal, the confession of faith brings us in chapter 5 of God's Providence. I would urge you to read it. And if you can get a hold of a version that has scripture text to support it, read it. Mullover the passage. Now I can tell you one aspect of that characterizes the Westminster Confession of Faith that I wish were a little different. The Westminster Confession of Faith is an objective document. It does not speak as much on my subjective responses. As it does on the nature of the Lord God. That is characteristic throughout the entire confession. When we think in terms of the providences of God, we must then ask ourselves: who is God? This is so foundational. But it determines our entire perspective of God's providences over us and of his rule in our hearts and lives. On the back of the bulletin, you will find a list Across the top it says God is spirit, three columns, infinite, eternal, and unchangeable. Then down the sides it has rows. Being, wisdom, power, holiness, justice, goodness, and truth If you want to do something, take your pen and draw straight lines down and then row lines across. And what you are doing is to demonstrate that God is all the time everything all at once. You may not separate when dealing with the providences of God, which are part of his goodness down in the lower portion. For God's goodness consists of his grace, love, mercy, and providence. You may not separate his providence from his will. You may not think that God suddenly decides to do something. He is eternal You do not think that God must make it clear to you or to me why. Certain things in his planning come to pass in our lives. He is infinite. I may never understand, I will never understand God's ways in my life. But I may not separate what comes to pass from his wisdom and his power and his love and his justice and his holiness. God you see is everything all at once, all the time Theologically, that determines my entering into what ere my God ordains. It is right. Now, as we I I've simply mentioned that, that grid, because that's the theological foundation for anything that I may wish to set before you this morning. A theological foundation. Secondly, we go on in our presentation here. His his work of creation and redemption. I'm sorry I've jumped down. Excuse me. Who is God? You're gonna stay awake, I can see that, because you're gonna figure out how's the old man gonna stay with his with his outline here Ah yes. What is his providence? God's providence is his is his Will, his governing over us, his disposing all things, his control of all things, great and small From time through all eternity, everything is beneath his oversight and his power and his will and his mercy. Everything. Psalm 31, 15 has become so precious to me. My wife and I had that before us in the year 1988, and I did not know why it was so significant to me. Until the day after Christmas in 1988, and I lost my sight. My times are in God's hands. My times. Then, as I began to go through that valley, I began to understand A lot more of my times in his hands. And he's not done teaching me that yet. Not at all. So a couple of weeks ago I I fell. And in the process of that fall, I broke a bone in my leg. Well That too was part of the timing of my God in my life. Did not Job say, in the midst of his travails, Shall God not send us good things and Things not so good too. But must must he always be in effect a sugar daddy? No Not God, not God. His providence is over us Cause us to seek to know what does he have for us The understanding or the demonstrating of God's providence from His eternal viewpoint. As God sees it, this eternal plan in your life and in mine. It's eternal perspective. It isn't something that just began. You see, he's infinite. He is eternal. His plans and his purposes are in his own mind. For you and for me, in the life of his children. The purposes of our God's providence are for his glory. Therefore, the comfort of others. Therefore, my growth. The promises of God's providences Are very real and very precious in our lives. There's so many scripture verses that I would like to be able to read. To share with you. Oh, the Word of God speaks so loudly in our lives. Speaks to us in the page of Scripture. I have entitled our meditation, our thoughts that I would share with you this morning. God's pot and candle factory. Now you know who is God's pot and candle factory, don't you? Dear friends, I speak as one pot to another. You and I. We are God's Pot and candle factory. In the beautiful passage in Jeremiah, which flowed from Isaiah's similar passage on God being the potter and Israel being the clay There is the understanding that God will take and shape us. Ah, now if you press any illustration of scripture too far, you may distort it. Thus is it with the parables of our Lord. But if you take the broad brushstrokes of these illustrations, they are of immense help The shaping of the pot. If you've ever been to a pottery plant, and I have on numerous occasions, it's a fascinating thing specially prepared clay. Not just any clay. Specially prepared clay The twirling wheel. They haven't changed that The artful throwing of that handful of blob of clay upon the center of the wheel The spinning of the wheel at this precise speed that the potter wants He dips his hands into water, and then he begins to hold that blob of clay. And it begins to take shape and grows and forms. Keeps his hands moist. He reaches into the center of the top of that and begins to shape it. More water, more shaping, more water, more shaping, more speed, perhaps on the wheel. And eventually that assumes a shape and a form. Now, if the potter is not satisfied while that clay is still in that soft, malleable state, he can Take it off, wide all up, make another blob of it, draw it down, do it all over again. But what we have as we take this picture is that the vessel is finished. Then it is fired. And if you're going to make pretty colors on it, you you bring it out of the firing and you put paint on it and design and then you fire it again. And that sets the color to the pot. Now then, once in human society that pot is fired, it will never again be malleable. The clay is now too hard. It has been fired. It's brittle. It would break, but never again to melt. I was talking to my my wife about this problem, and I said, how can we handle this? And then Oh slow of heart and mind am I, it dawned on me. God's not like a human potter He can take what he has molded and fired and he can break it. And he can re-mold it. And re-fire it. He can shape us. Does not the scripture say that if any man is in Christ, he's a new creature? Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. He can shape us. He can mold us again. And oh, is that not the joy and the rejoicing of our hearts? Old things are gone. I'm a new creature. Now the emphasis on the pot Is not the emphasis on the container, but the content The potter is pleased to make of each blob of clay something different, something unique. That into that container he may pour of the contents that he wants there When I was younger, I had certain concerns. My career was very significant to me. My home, my marriage, my family were very significant to me. At this point in my life As far as I can tell, my career is pretty well behind me. I mean, how much career does somebody 70 have left? Well, my mother had 28 years more I don't know how much career I have left. God knows that And God is reshaping me and molding me and making me to know the emphasis is not upon the container. But upon the contents, what is this pot supposed to contain Oh, dear friends, this pot, this container, is to contain the fruit of the Spirit. Has your wife, mother, ever sat on the table a beautifully prepared bowl of fruit? A lovely salad composition, a fruit salad, garnishing it, making it beautiful When she presents that beautiful container, that beautiful pot of fruit, your mind is not so much on the container, pretty as it may be. Your mind is on the contents. So is it. Now that we're packing or uh nearly so Uh my wife is serving up food in interesting containers. But I see the food Well, I I see at it. She explains to me what's on my plate. I see this I don't see the container so much as I see the contents. And dear friends, that's the whole point. Of God dealing with you and with me. It's the fruit of the Spirit that is to come out in our lives And what is the fruit of the Spirit to be born in this pot? Love Joy, peace, long suffering, meekness, gentleness, self-control That's what the Lord wants out of this old 70-year man. That's what he wants as I go limping along life's journeys. That's what he wants out of me now. He wants a different emphasis on the fruit of the Spirit than what he showed. Before. If so, he reshapes my life. He reshapes your life That now he may bring out something of the fruit of the Spirit that he didn't bring out before. You see, the providences of God bring to pass in your life and in mine for his glory and for our good, and for a witness to others. Now that's where we change from Ah mycia, I didn't get my piece of pottery. Maybe that'll be there for the second hour. But you see my candle over here? Uh Oh yes. Pardon me while I the potter puts his hands into the pot of water. Have you ever been to a candle factory? I remember the first one I went to was on the halls of a mall in Clinton, Mississippi. And I was so impressed by the way these fancy candles are made. Now you and I are the candle factory. If the emphasis of the pot is the contents, the emphasis on the candle is witness bearing. Witness bearing. You're my witnesses, seen and read of all men as living epistles, so we're living witnesses for candles in the hands of our God. The hands that shaped us, the hands that molded us, the hands that tell us our times are there. Underneath are the everlasting arms that do sustain us in all our providential needs and circumstances. God's loving arms. Are under it all. Under it all. Don't ever forget that, friends It's tough sometimes. Would Elmer Dorstock like his vision back As my dear friend at Charlestown, who used to run the dining club, the dining room, and a very devout Catholic, would answer that with a simple statement: Is the Pope Catholic? Yes, Elmer Dorzbach would love to have his sight back. But in the providences of God, in his timing in my life. He has been pleased to remove from me most, not all, thank God, but most of this precious possession. That I took so lightly for granted and read with a flashlight under the covers in my bed, and some of those dumb things you did too. God took it. Will He give it back? I don't know. But I'll tell you something. Oh, the grace that He has given to me. Oh, the sense of peace and of joy. I would rather have that than I would have my full sight. again. Now that's not meant to be a melodramatic, heroic sort of statement, not at all. I simply share my heart with you this morning God has been gracious in his providence to give also of his mercy. And mercy is God's goodness to the helpless. Grace is God's goodness to the undeserving. Providence is God's goodness over all creatures and things, just people and nations, and nature. And God in his goodness has so dealt with me. Well, let's look at the candle because I'm supposed to be a witness to my God, and so are you. When this candle was made, it was made as a solitary yuna Started out with a string. Now a candle is a simple thing. It all begins with a piece of string. And it's dipped. And I looked at the bats, the big containers, the big pots of wax, colored wax. That the candle maker was using. He would take that string and he would tie it on a on a uh a little rod and he would dip it down into this Pot of warm wax, heated to just the right degree of temperature, just the color that he wanted, and he dipped it in And he left it there just long enough for that amount of wax to adhere to the string that he wanted on the string. And then he then he pulled it up and he took it over. And it was still warm, of course. He didn't touch it. And he put it in another vat. Another color And he left that there. And then a third and a fourth. And sometimes you can go back to the first one again That's how this candle, if you can see it, was made. It was made by a series of dipping actions. And the candle was warm at the time. He never touched it with his hand. He just dipped it with the strength and the stick. Now, do you see where I'm going? God has pots of wax Called experiences, called trials, called tribulations, called joys Call sorrows, call successes. God has these pots of wax And he dips us in long enough For that coat of wax to adhere to the coat before it. And we become in life the accumulation of God's providential dippings. Of God's providential preparations of our lives. But you know, the glory of this candle is that you don't just look at the last dipping, do you? No. While that candle is still soft, the candle maker takes a sharp knife And cuts into that candle. Cuts down the angle he or she wants Cuts the thickness he or she wants. And while that candle is still soft and malleable Having cut into it, he or she peels it back and now makes little curly cues, or however they wish to handle it. And leaves it that way. Takes now the candle and sets it on the table. Let's it get firm. Now, where even as the fired pottery fails of illustration, so the candle fails of illustration. Illustration if you stop there. God is a master potter. He can make a remold. God is a master handle maker. He can warm our hearts again. He creates in us a new heart, oh God. He renews the right spirit within us. And now he can dip us again. But when you are dipped into his various vats of wax, dear friend Anticipate the knife that's going to cut in and pull back And show you what you're made of. What God has made you of. But God Has brought into your life. And then, when now you are shaped and molded and peeled back. And therefore display for all to see. Now you're ready to be the witness Now you're ready to be that candle set on the hill, not covered up with a bushel. Now you can do that. That's how that candle's made, and that's the purpose of the candle. The candle's purpose is not to contain something. The pot's purpose is not to set off a light. The pot is to contain the fruit of the Spirit, the gospel of grace. The purpose of the candle is to witness what God has done in your life and in mine. Yes. Dear friends, you and I are God's pots and candles. You and I, by his grace. And I want to thank my God for his goodness to me In his providences, in his mercy, in dealing with me, we don't know what he is ahead of us I don't know that. But I know who goes before. My shepherd goes before me. He leads me and he guides me. And oh dear friends, how I thank him for the help May He has given to me. I don't know what Elmer Dorsbach would do without the helpmate he has given. And his wife Marjorie. We have been a team ever since we wed. Now I see her In a different light and in a different need. And I guess she sees me that way too. But this is part of the ongoing dipping activity. Of our God. May your marriage. Oh dear friends, I could only hope and wish for you that your marriage Will be as rich and rewarding and used of God as much as mine, ours has been. Let us pray. Lord, take these few thoughts, use them for thy praise and for thy glory. And may we see your hand in our lives. For Christ's sake. Amen But deeply in the vision and burden and desire of the people who run the ministries Now that means that you probably can't birth ministries as quickly out of your church as you would want to. I came to our church, and this is terribly important to catch. I came to our church in 1971. And we did not have outside ministries until 1977. It took us six years to create mindsets. Six years to create mindsets. And to be able to create mindsets, you must begin to read, you must begin to interact with people. and and to discuss with people the difference between message and methodology and ask them where God is burdening their heart. See people don't know where their hearts are burdened because they've always been waiting for the pastor to tell them what to do or the or the outreach committee to tell them to recruit them to do something. And you change, you say, wait a minute. What's God burning your heart to? People say, well, God, I don't have any burns right now. That's okay. That's okay. Because when the right set of circumstances comes together in your life and God gives you a burden, then we expect you to respond to it. And And if that's not happening right now, that's okay. Maybe you're bleeding and you need to heal. Take time to heal. And you can't dictate how much time that is in people's lives. Some people need a year to heal, some people need five years to heal. Maybe you're burned out. You need to rest. That's okay. You rest Maybe you don't know anything. You need to learn a few things. That's okay. Learn some things. But all we want to know is when you've healed, when you've rested, when you've learned some things, what are you going to do? Okay? But you take your time. This is an approach that says you have permission. Dimension two. What's the burden of your heart? And then you begin to fuel that burden by by making people aware of the child abuse problem, by making people aware of what what life of the endless convict is and and by making people aware of what people are up against when they're when they're um A homeless. I just saw a wonderful thing on television last night. I thought it was local, but maybe it was CNN, about a lady who has who is now following homeless families. Oh, it's in Los Angeles. Los Angeles they got they know of at least thirty thousand children in Los Angeles that are homeless and they're living in the parks. Consequently they can't get into the school systems because they have no immunization, they have no addresses, and so they're setting up people now who are following these families and they're giving them an education. Out in the parks. Well, there's people in our churches who could do that, but you know what they could do? While they're giving them an education, they could tell them about Jesus. These are the great opportunities of the church today. And so we can have people who see that to others. Let me tell you something about dimension too: that the media is on our side. The media is on our side. And people show these great problems. And you know what? If you have a challenge or a problem, And you don't have anything to respond to it, the result's going to be frustration. But if you have stimulation And you have in the middle delivery systems and opportunities, then the result is satisfaction. And what people need to be able to see in our church is that our church is a place that could respond to that problem, and I could do it as part of our church. I don't have to go into some other organization to do it. Now, to do that, they need the birthing process. They need to know who to go to. They need to be able to call the meeting to find out whether God's mind is working in the body at large. And if anybody shows up for that meeting, they need to have these four guidelines. Okay? Now you can make the guidelines different in your church, but in our church, these four guidelines. Guideline number one If you guys want to run this ministry in the jail, and you don't want permission from the pastors or the deacons to run this ministry, you know you don't need to get anybody's permission. You just need to find out if God's in it, call the meeting, if the people show up. You have to understand that you are you have these four guidelines. Guideline number one is don't ask for money. Anytime anybody asks for money for ministry, they get more accountability. You've got to know what's happening in that money. So you don't have to tell us how you're going to run that ministry as long as you don't ask for money. We don't care how you're going to run it, we need, but we trust you, okay? Number one, don't ask one. Number two, you must understand that when you start a ministry, you take on total responsibility. We're not going to train for it. We're not going to recruit for it. We're not going to tell you how to run. Because people are conditioned. They'll come to you and say, Pastor, I think we ought to do this ministry. And they're going to try to put the monkey on your back Don't let them do it. Okay? Make it clear that they understand that every tub in this Navy sails on its own bottom. Okay, you're gonna sail, you're gonna sail on your own bottom, kid. You're gonna do this ministry. Lock, stock, and barrel. Number three, stay out of moral trouble. If we hear of any moral problems in this ministry, we're going to don the mantle of the bishop come knocking on your door. Number four, stay out of doctrinal trouble. We're Baptists, we don't want you out there sounding like a bunch of Mennonites, okay? After all, the Lord himself was Baptist, right? Said that to a bunch of Nazarenes once and they said, no, that was his cousin that was a Baptist. He said that actually he was a Nazarene. So there you go. Now let me let me tell you here, let me show you uh uh the second book here for the individual. The idea of this book was to give it to people coming in, get them seeing themselves, me and minister, yes. A church down in Raleigh, North Carolina, we're going to close with this, has taken these birthing steps and they've changed them to fit their church and they publish them now on the inside cover. So when somebody comes in, they get a personalized copy from the pastor, and then on the inside cover, they have the list of the birthing steps. This is how dimension two is birthed. So let me show you how they did this. Somebody comes in, they give them a book that says, Welcome to Raleigh Bible Church. Because we feel the ideas presented in this book are so important, we present a copy to each of our new members. We're excited about the concept of the Church Unleashed and feel that it's a very practical way to implement the model for ministry we see in the New Testament. The author Frank Topa emphasizes that every Christian should be free to exercise the gifts he's received from the Spirit. to lead the body of ministry. We agree with that. You may be asking, what's the catch? What do I have to do? If you would like to receive the church's support for a ministry whether it be simple publicity and then they put in there or financial backing. Folks, I wouldn't put that in there. Because the minute you say financial backing, they'll never be able to think of anything else. Okay? So I I would leave that out. I would say, you know, we're going to cheerlead you. Okay? We're going to cheerlead you. Uh all we would ask is this. Now this is their list. It's a different list than ours. First of all, you need to be a member. That's fine. Your people are comfortable with With having to be a member, that's fine. Number two, run it by the elders for their approval. We need to have a letter explaining uh what you want to do and who's in charge. As Tilipa suggests, we let you take care of the details Folks, we never ask them how they're going to do these ministries. You know why? Because they don't know how they're going to do them. They've got to figure that out. You start the ministry before you figure out before you know how you're going to do it. Gang? Don't train people to go do these ministries. Have them go do the ministries and train them later. Okay, get the ministry started. This is a ready-fire aim approach, all right? So run it by an elder. Number three, design a ministry you can run See chapter 3. Plan a ministry you feel comfortable with. Can manage yourself. Stay out of moral and doctrinal trouble. Stay in contact with one elder, making him aware of what's going on so that we can keep the elder board informed. In other words, that's their list. You get a list that you're comfortable with. But I want to suggest dimension two is unlimited. It's birthed out of strictly the want-to of the Holy Spirit. There's a process, a birthing process that the church needs to be aware of. And when we open the next session, this afternoon, I'm going to finish this session and tell you that once that that birthing process takes place, they need to understand there's a support system that comes into place. How are these ministries accountable? What do we do to support them? How are they visible in the church? I'll explain all of that when we get back together this afternoon. Okay?