Self-image, self-worth, self-esteem, these are words that were invented in the last couple of generations And uh there have been many, many books written on how to cultivate a positive self-image so that you can succeed in life. The premise seems to be that if you have low self-esteem, you see yourself as a failure, you will act like a failure. And you will not succeed. You will not be a winner in the competition of this life. You need to have a positive self-image So that you are able to compete and you will be able to achieve success. It in the old days was called the power of positive thinking. Interesting thing is that recent research is showing that American school kids are generally lower than other developed nations in their math scores But they feel superior to the other kids. Hey, who cares how well you can do so long as you feel good about yourself, right? Well, um, it's kind of like Garrison Keeler's Town, you know, where all the kids are above average Uh I was looking at a contemporary book written by a fellow who uh is a pastor, claims to be a Christian, writing a Christian book for success, and there is a major section in the book on self-image. In fact, in this book he says the key to success is to see yourself as God sees you. How does God see you according to this book? He sees you as a treasure, a success, a winner, because you are a champion. Tell yourself that you are wonderful so that you will feel good about yourself and then go out there and conquer. Your self-image will either make or break you, so you must cultivate a positive, healthy self-image to succeed. Now I want to suggest that the book of Ephesians is very relevant to this topic, which is a topic that all of us think about. We think about how we feel about ourselves and all the rest of that. The Bible says that what is important is not a positive self-image or a negative self-image But an accurate self-image, which means a biblical self image. Now hold on to that thought I want to come back to it, but I want to step back for a moment to do just a brief review of last week so you see the context. Last week we said that the essence of the book of Ephesians is summed up in chapter 4, verse 1. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to live a life worthy. of the calling that you've received, or walk in equilibrium with that calling that you have received. In other words, be what you are. Be in your experience what you are in Christ. The commands of Ephesians chapter 4, 5, and 6 are all based on the facts of who you are. What you have that he's described in chapters one to three. So every solution to every root problem that you have is in knowing and in believing the gospel. Believe that? Let me say that again. The solution, every solution to every root problem that you and I have in life is your knowing and believing the gospel. And if you're here this morning and you're not trusting Jesus Christ as your Savior and Lord, you don't know and you don't believe the gospel. So therefore you don't have the solutions to the root problems in your life. How can you get that? I will get back to that in a few minutes. Hang on What I'm saying now is that uh as we said last week, as a Christian, it's helpful to learn the four postures of the book of Ephesians. I don't know how many of you did it. I know some people did, they told me about it. We sit, kneel, walk, and stand. Probably should have asked you again so I just feel good that you know that those were the four postures. Sit, kneel, walk, and stand. Get out of bed, sit on the edge of the bed Say, I am resting in the finished work of Jesus Christ. What I do today has no effect on how much God loves me if I am in Jesus Christ or in his favor toward me. That is settled in Jesus. Then you kneel and you ask God, Lord, help me to know more of your love and your power this day. Ephesians chapter 3, 14 to 21. Then you walk, you get up, and you walk into the bathroom step by step. Lord help me to put off that old way of thinking, to put on the new nature, the new way of thinking. That you have given to me want to do that step by step today, and they can get into the bathroom, you look in the mirror, and you take a stand I am going to have an adversary today that is going to want to tear me down, to doubt the gospel, to be distracted from Christ, sit, kneel, walk, and stand against the enemy. So those are the things we talked about practicing. I had one brother that emailed me this week and he said, I've tried it. For me, it's more like slouch, slump, shuffle, and stagger. Here's a brother who needs some help with his self image. We have to help him out there. Um so I want to say to him and to you, the rest of you, the gospel has good news to give you great confidence that you will be changed. That there is this good news of the gospel. But first, Paul gives the necessary bad news And if you don't understand the bad news, the good news won't be that good because you'll be wrapped up in how you feel about yourself trying to pump up your self-image. Remember, the goal is not a positive self-image, but an accurate self-image, not fantasy to affect your feelings, but reality, not denial But what is real practical help? Now in chapter one, Paul does a number of things we're not going to look at now. We're going to look at that in the spring. So I want to begin at chapter two in this overview that we're doing this fall. And in chapter 2, Paul begins by telling you what you are like. And this is the accurate picture as God sees it of what you and I are like and how we operate. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 1, as for you, you were dead in your transgressions and sins, in which you used to live. That's the first use of the word walk. It's not part of the seven We talk about the Christian walk. So there's actually eight times Jesus walk. But this is the say he's saying this is the way you used to walk, in which you used to live or walk when you followed the ways of this world and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient. It's not a very positive view there, is it? He's saying that the way you used to walk is that you simply lived according to the values of this world, which is me first. And spiritually, you were dead. There was nothing you could do to help yourself. In fact, it goes on in verse 3 and gets worse. All of us lived among them at one time, gratifying the cravings of our sinful nature. Following his desires and thoughts, like the rest, we were by nature objects of wrath. Objects of wrath That's not exactly a God sees you as something of that's wonderful and a champion and he feels really good about you Like the rest, we were objects of wrath. Then you come to one of the great biblical butts. I thought sometimes I'd like to preach a sermon on the two words but God, as you see that in the scriptures. But you see here, verse four, but God. But God Because of his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, made us alive with Christ even when we were dead in transgressions, it is by grace you have been saved. Those two verses and the ones following, you see four expressions of why he changed you. His great love, he was rich in mercy, his grace, and then verse seven, his kindness. He goes on and talks about three things that he did to you with Jesus. He made you alive with Jesus. He raised you up with Jesus. He seated you in the heavenlies with Jesus. All of these things, this was all, as he says in verses eight and nine, by grace Not of anything that you did. Daw by grace that you were saved, through faith. Not of any of your works, anything you did, but it was simply the gift of God. Not because you were so wonderful, so worthy, so irresistible. The whole focus of what Paul says is that it didn't it didn't relate To how beautiful you were, how athletic, what your IQ was, what your SAT scores were. Those were totally irrelevant We think of our self-image as so wrapped up in our performance, in our appearance, our capabilities. This is getting down to the root core you. What are you like? What is your heart like? And when you and I are honest about that, and we see a very ugly picture, the but God, but His grace, His mercy, His love, His kindness Raised us up, made us alive, raised us up, seated us with Christ. All because of his grace. Then he comes to the climax of this in verse 10. In verse 10, he says, For we are God's workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, to do good works, which God prepared in advance for us to do. To do is walk in them. So you see the contrast, verse 2, here's how we used to walk, here's now we're how we're created, recreated, renewed to walk The word workmanship that you have, either NIV or ESV, is the word, the Greek word poema. And that Greek word poema is the word from which we get our word poem. And it means a work of art. It means, you could translate it, a masterpiece. You are God's masterpiece. Created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. There's only one other time that that word is used in the New Testament. It's in Romans 1, verse 20. And there it's talking about creation. So when you read this word, you think of what God has created, what He has produced. When you think of creation, you think of the heavens, you think of the stars, the uncountable galaxies, the vastness of space. The power. You think of earth? You think of all the pictures you have seen of the beautiful valleys and mountains rivers and streams and seas, the vastness and the power of it, that's his workmanship. You think of animals, you think of the wonder, the different imagination, some that is awesome Some that is humorous, some things that make us smile, some things that strike terror into us. The wonders of his creation. Think of your own dog or your own cat. Even they elicit admiration as you think of how they perform and what they're able to do. And then think of your bodies. Think of your circulatory system. The ability of your body to reproduce cells in likeness to the others. How your systems repair Vincent La Molinera is so thankful that his body's not going to stay the way it is. There's an internal mechanism that produces healing. Our hormones and the amazing balance that they have, our brains, the wonderful ability, then our spirits and The ability to think and worship and create beauty and art, all these things God has created, that's his masterpiece. Notice in this verse, very interesting how you see an amazing balance between God's sovereignty and our responsibility in it. We are God's masterpiece created in Christ Jesus to do good works which God prepared in advance for us to do. Notice you have three statements of his sovereign work. The first word in the Greek in verse 10 is his. His masterpiece we are created in Christ Jesus. The focus is on what He has produced. You notice, secondly, that it's a new creation. We are God's workmanship, creation, masterpiece, created in Christ Jesus So there's the first creation that I spoke of, Romans 1. 20 refers to, but now Paul is referring to a new creation. He's saying what is even more amazing than the creation is the fact that God took arrogant people who decided that They were good enough in themselves. They just thought about themselves. I want to feel good about myself and and I want to be able to say that I have produced. I don't need a God. on whom I have to depend or God to tell me how to live or what to do or to worship him or to put him first. It's all about me. And God took that arrogant group of people and he created them, remade them. In Christ Jesus, out of mercy, grace, love, kindness. And so the masterpiece is what He did in recreating you and me. And then notice thirdly, it's Preparing in advance this new life, these good works which we're able to do He sovereignly prepared beforehand the good works that you do to equip you to be able to obey him, where you never would, every act of goodness That you perform every laudable thought, every kindness was prepared beforehand by the mercy and the grace of God working in your heart to produce that. Now you listen to that, and it may sound to you like that's pretty passive Maybe you're saying to yourself, You're telling me, Harris, that I'm just this rebellious blob that God has to rescue and work any good in me. That's what I thought, you know, that bitter Calvinist determinism. That's not what Paul says. That's not Calvinism. Because he also speaks of your responsibility. Notice how he blends right within that that he's Created you in Christ to do good works, which God prepared in advance for you to do. That is literally for you to walk in them. You walk. He doesn't walk. You are not a puppet or an automaton. You walk. But if it is a walk That is pleasing to him. It is a walk that he gave you grace to be able to perform. So he says in chapter 4 and verse 17, strong statement of your responsibility. He says there, so I tell you this and I insist on it in the Lord that you must no longer walk as the Gentiles walk. In the futility of their thinking. He's calling you to obedience. He's calling you to be responsible. Now how do you put these two things together? Let me offer to you an example that some of you have heard me give in the past, but maybe a number of you haven't, but if you have, it's still relevant. Think of these statements. Think of, well, think first of all of this room, wall to wall, floor to ceiling. This room is all that you and I are able to comprehend and understand. It is the full capacity of our minds. Okay? It's all contained within this room. There's other things beyond this room, but what we can understand is within this room. Now there's two ropes. That hang down from the ceiling. And on the one rope you read, you are his masterpiece. You are his new creation. He prepared beforehand any good works that you are able to do. On the other rope, you see, you must walk in those You must obey these things. And what you and I try to do is we try to take those two ropes and somehow tie them together. So that it makes sense. How is he able? How is he the one that has produced any goodness in me, but I'm responsible to do it How am I his masterpiece, and yet I'm the one that needs to walk in obedience to the good things that he's produced in me? Where's my choice? Where does his sovereignty end and my responsibility begin? And you see the the truth is That you cannot tie those ropes together. You hold on to both of them because above the ceiling, they are simply two ends of one rope in God's mind. It is simply two parts of a truth that you and I cannot comprehend, but in God's mind it is totally consistent. But you and I cannot comprehend how those truths fit together any more than a Dixie cup can contain Niagara Falls. So God gives you both these things. But God, rich in mercy In love and kindness, made you new. You are his masterpiece, because he remade you, all humans Are his work of art, because they're made in his image. Therefore, all humans are precious. But we are aware that we have defaced that image By living simply as he says in verse 2 and 3 to gratify ourselves and our own selfish cravings, but God made you new. And if you have confessed this and asked him to save you, then you have that dual awareness of your self-image. It's really a a threefold awareness. It's I have been made in God's image as something precious, a beautiful treasure that reflects his image. Secondly, I have defaced that image by walking in my own selfish cravings. I'm the object of his wrath, but God thirdly has made me new, raised me up, seated me with Christ, and I am his recreated masterpiece So you feel good, but not about what you have accomplished, but always as a trophy of His grace. Now, that is not a trivial distinction, because it is the difference between arrogance and humility. The world's way of seeking to produce a positive self-image inevitably leads to, if it is a positive self-image, self-righteousness, arrogance, pride. Because I'm something special, and therefore I can make certain demands because things center about me. For the Christian, it produces thanksgiving and worship because I realize that it's not about me, it's what God has done in me. That produces a life that is a living sacrifice of worship. Therefore, I am content. I am peaceful. I am able to step out on faith. Andrew is able to go from here and say, I will take the risks, I will do the things laying down my rights for Jesus Christ. Because I'm his masterpiece. By his grace, he has made me this. Therefore, it's only appropriate that my life is a living sacrifice for him. Totally different mindset. You see that distinction? So come. Walk with Jesus this week. Walk with him, seeing the difference that he makes in your life. And delight in the masterpiece He has made you and is now creating you to experience and become in your daily living one step at a time. One final illustration for you kids. It's kind of like practice. Maybe some of you are out for a sport. And you play soccer or football or something, or maybe you're practicing an instrument, a musical instrument, and you've really enjoyed that. And you hear Sean Lyons up here a few weeks ago playing and oh man if I could only play like that or you hear Jen Sigmund play or you hear Wanju Cole play and Wow, I mean it doesn't even sound like the same instrument. When I try to pick up the violin, I have scratches and sour notes and all those things But let's suppose that somebody showed you a video of yourself, and you are in the Meyerhof playing flawlessly. You are a masterpiece. So when you go back to your practicing, what do you think? Yeah, it scratches, it's this and that, but you know, one day One day I'm going to be playing at the Meyerhof, and I will play flawlessly. The Gospel says You are God's masterpiece, created out of a defaced image that was an object of his wrath, but he has now made you, his son, his daughter, a masterpiece. on which he has set his heart. From that he is saying, step by step, daily walk Become more like the reflection of that masterpiece that people here can see until that day when you and I will be flawless. Before Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Lord, we get so wrapped up in whether we feel good about ourselves. And other people's opinion, and we compete, and we compare, and we're in bondage And the gospel, in the most profound way, addresses one of the great root problems of our day. How to succeed and how that is related to how I look at myself The world says you'll never succeed if you see yourself as a failure. But failure is too weak a word. We're not simply failures, we're objects of your wrath because our whole lives have defaced the image of the precious creation that you have made for your glory. Lord, show us how we deserve to be cast out of your presence into outer darkness. Show us also the butt, the butt of your grace The butt of reasons that we could never grasp, for which you have set your love, your mercy. So that it will take all eternity for you to show the full dimensions of your kindness to us a million years from now. We will still be discovering more of the dimensions of your kindness. So, Lord, we want to walk with you this week. We want to walk as those who understand how we are that masterpiece, remade and recreated in Jesus. That we might walk, putting off the old nature, putting on the new nature, growing more intimate to you because we learn more of your mind. By cleaving to you more closely. Hear us, Lord, in this moment, as we give ourselves anew to you to understand that And to apply it in our lives this week. Hear us right now as we give ourselves to you. Oh Lord, who is a God like you Rich in mercy and grace and power to make us new Give to us a new mind that focuses not on ourselves but on Jesus. And find in that the freedom of living sacrifices. Here is in Jesus' name.