We're going to be looking at Revelation, and that right there means that we're going out into deep water, deeper than usual. It's a lot of symbol, a lot of mystery, a lot of strangeness. A lot of things that are confusing for us. We read about dragons and beasts, armies, angels. And it's not part of our world, is it? It's not something that we relate to the way we relate to cars, businessmen, bills, but yet it is a part of our world. So before we read from Revelation chapter 14 this morning, I'd like for us to take just a moment and to bow our heads in prayer. Father God, we do thank you that you are the God who gets glory and honor forever and ever. Father God, we praise you that you are the God who is surrounded by angels. You are the God who is given praise. Lord, all the time. And Father God, we thank you that we are called to praise you. Lord, we ask that as you open your word to us today, Lord, as we read from it, Lord, we ask that by the power of your Holy Spirit you apply it to our lives. Transform us, Lord. Help us to love you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Revelation chapter 14, verses 6 through 12. Then I saw another angel flying in mid-air. And he had the eternal gospel to proclaim to those who live on the earth, to every nation, tribe, language, and people. He said in a loud voice, Fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. Worship him who made the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the springs of water. A second angel followed and said, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great, which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. A third angel followed them and said in a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast and his image and receives his mark on the forehead or on the hand, He too will drink of the wine of God's fury, which has been poured full strength into the cup of his wrath. He will be tormented with burning sulphur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment rises for ever and ever. There is no rest, day or night, for those who worship the beast in his image, or for anyone who receives the mark of his name. This calls for patient endurance on the part of the saints who obey God's commandments and remain faithful to Jesus I remember when I first read that passage, I was confused. And what confused me wasn't the part about angels It wasn't the part about Babylon. It wasn't the part about wine of God's fury or adulterous wine. Those were images I kind of understood from the Old Testament. Little bit, enough to make sense out of it. What confused me was that last verse. I can remember reading that and thinking to myself, what in the world does that have to do with why I'm supposed to be patiently enduring? It's angels, quite obviously, talking to a bunch of people sitting on the earth. They're proclaiming the gospel to them, something that I, you know, I don't need to hear anymore, not really the way they need to hear it. And yet it does. It's not incongruous. It's not sitting there. The Apostle John, when he wrote his revelation, didn't have uh mind blanks and just fill in rosy little sentences here and there to to bring everybody back on board. It's there for a reason. And I want to, in introducing this particular passage, I want to tell you a story. And it's a story that we understand, I think. It's about a woman who was going off on a business trip. She was busy. She was hectic, a little bit frazzled, frustrated. You know, she had her purse, her briefcase, her carry-on luggage, she had all of her stuff, and she had her tickets in one hand, all perplexed and running through the gate a little bit late And on her way to the where she goes aboard the plane, you know how they had the little convenience stores there and the to you know to get you at the last minute or so you buy a little souvenir, she saw this cookie shop. And she'd heard about this cookie shop. It was a famous cookie shop, gourmet type cookies, and she said, you know, everyone who goes on this business trip at the office says you gotta get these cookies, so well I'm gonna get these cookies. So she buys a bag And she adds him along with her briefcase and her carry-on luggage and her purse and everything else she's carrying. She gets on the plane, she sits down, she starts to finally relax, puts on her seatbelt, plane gets up into the air, levels off. She's finally starting to wind down a little bit, and so she says, well, I'm going to try one of those cookies. So she reaches into the bag next to her and grabs a cookie. And it's good. And a guy sitting next to her reaches into the bag and grabs a cookie. And she's thinking to herself, what in the world is going on? Who is this guy sitting here just eating my cookies? And she figured, well, you know, some you know some people don't have very much sense of what's socially couth. She has another cookie and what do you know this geek takes another cookie? She has another cookie. And now she's not even enjoying the cookies now. See, now she's interested in getting her fair share. And this guy sitting next to her, he grabs another cookie and this goes on and on and this woman she's boiling inside. She's boiling inside and she's frustrated and she's angry and this guy's eating all of her cookies. There's one cookie left. And the guy kind of looks at her and this woman is thinking, oh my goodness, he is not gonna take my last cookie. Wouldn't you know it? He reaches into that bag, takes the last cookie breaks it in half and he offers her half. And that woman is angry. She takes the half a cookie, doesn't even taste, swallows the thing whole, kind of like one of those bow constrictors. It just goes down, doesn't even chew it. She's just seething inside, furious. She can't get a hold of herself. She can't even look over at the guy, the bum. So she says, I'm gonna do my work. She opens up a briefcase and finds her bag of cookies. See? Now I'll tell you what I could have done. This much I remembered from my notes. I could have just read some Bible verse about how our mouths are opened pits. I could have just read some Bible verse about how we are desperately wicked. I could have read some Bible verse and quoted some reformed theologian to talk about how we are depraved. But instead, that story, when I first heard it, demonstrated it to me. Because every one of us identified with the person whose rights were being infringed upon And we wanted nothing more than for some sort of justice to be meted out. And in that particular story that I told you, which you understand very well because it deals with cookies and airplanes Our hearts were exposed by the foil of that geek who has eaten her cookies And by seeing the goodness of his heart, we were able to see how ours are really not that good and in need of changing. And you may ask, well, you know, Bob, what in the world does that have to do with the first week of the missions conference, or what in the world does that have to do with Revelation 14? I'll tell you, I think it has to do a lot. Because here our hearts are exposed, I think. And as we read the story that we find in Revelation, and there's a story in Revelation. Not just in the entire book, but in chapters 12 through 14, we have what is called an apocalyptic history. And that's in apocalypses. That's a particular type of literature. The person writing the apocalypse, the revelation, would always take a break from all of the sevens or whatever their motif is running through the book and put it all into perspective. In chapters 12 through 14, we have a story, not about a business trip, but we have a story about the cosmos. About creation and about how God has interacted with it. We have a story in which the forces of good and evil are painted in stark contrasting colors We have a story in which everybody is put on one side or the other. The short story starts out when God's temple in heaven is opened, and John and the vision God gives him looks up and he sees a great and wondrous sign. A woman clothed with the sun. We've all heard that, and we just read that. And about the child who will rule with an iron scepter, straight from Psalm chapter 2. And the battle in heaven, the pronouncement about Satan being cast down to earth, about the dragon being hurled to the earth. Pursuing the woman, trying to destroy the child again, spewing forth the water, being defeated, and then determining to destroy all the children of that woman And the dragon stood on the shore of the sea. And we read about a beast. A beast that comes out of the sea. A beast before which the whole world is astonished, because he has all this power, he has authority And he's been given the ability to make war on the saints, even to kill them, to defeat them, to conquer them. And we read then about another beast coming out of the earth. Same power as the last one. Same power over you and me. And this one has the ability to persecute us again, financially, economically, to shut us out of the markets. We do not take his seal, his number, on our forehead or our arm. And as the people in John's congregations, the seven churches in Asia Minor, who get this letter, read this I want you to think for a moment how their hearts must have thrilled when the preacher read for them for the first time as they're hearing this story. Chapter 14, verse 1. Then I looked, and there before me was the Lamb. And I want you to think for a minute about the thoughts that must have run through their minds. They know who that Lamb was. John, the disciple who is so intimately connected to those particular churches, he's the one who identifies Christ as the Lamb. In the whole New Testament, Paul one time calls Christ the Lamb. That's in 1 Corinthians 5. 7 Peter one time calls Christ the Lamb in 1 Peter 1. 19. Matthew never does Mark never does. Luke never does. James never does. John, how does he introduce Jesus? First thing John the Baptist sees Jesus in John chapter 1, verse 29, and he says Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. In John's revelation, Jesus is called the Lamb thirty times. There's no question about who this is. The king has come. All of this trouble is over No longer will we be killed, no longer will we be persecuted, no longer will this dragon who's standing on the shore of the sea with his two beasts be running our lives, ruining our lives. It's done. Persecution's over. And not only that, he's standing on Mount Zion, and with him 144,000 who had his name and his father's names written on their forehead. And scholars and theologians have debated for 2,000 years now about who those hundred and forty-four thousand are. And I am just a very, very young man who has not even finished seminary. And I'm not going to propose to tell you who they are, but I'm going to tell you what I think. I think that we make a big mistake when we take that number and say that's 144,000 people. Because it's a number that means it encompasses a fullness. Stylistically includes completeness. And I think that we also make a mistake when we overlook the militant structure in which this shows up. The world is at war here. The world is at war. And when you go to the Old Testament and you try to figure out how they divided up their troops, did they have brigades? Did they have divisions? Did they have platoons? No, they didn't have any of that. They had thousands. They had thousands. In 1 Chronicles, we read about the thousands and the commanders of the thousands. David, in his military stratagems, is always talking about how his thousands did this or that. It was their name for a unit of troops. Not only that, but when we read this description, we have all this stuff that has confused people forever, and it's even still confusing. I don't suppose I'm going to settle things for once and all at all, and this isn't original by any means. But who are these people who go around singing songs and have not defiled themselves with women? Who follow the Lamb wherever he goes What was it that the Israelites did when they prepared for holy war? Sang psalms, and they kept themselves ceremonially clean. And how was that understood? King David and my notes, I remember these passages, so you can write them down and look them up later, but these are the right ones In 1 Samuel, you remember when David goes to try to get the bread for his troops because they're hungry? The consecrated bread? 1 Samuel chapter 23, I believe. And in verse 5, do you remember what he tells the priest? When the priest says, Why can I give you these men? And he says, Are my men not clean? Have they not been kept from women? As is always the case when I set out? Later on, this very same King David, in 2 Samuel chapter eleven, he's fallen in love with Bathsheba. And he sends Uriah to the front. But before he does that, he summons Uriah back to Jerusalem, as if to salve his conscience. Uriah comes to him, and King David says, Why don't you go home and be with your wife? And he finds out that Uriah, the godly man, did not do that, but rather slept at the door, not the door of his own house. But at David's door. And he brings Uriah in and says, What did you do? And Uriah says, Are not the ark and the men and the generals all intense? And you want me to go home and be with my wife? I would never do such a thing. But these people are set here, the army, the vision of Joel chapter 2, an army that is described as one that will I'm going to read this. They will be founded on the holy hill, Zion. It will be a large and mighty army, such as never was of old. And moving down to verse 11, the Lord thunders at the head of his army. And where does this army show up in Scripture? Nowhere, if not here. I just want you to think about the images that must have been going through these people's minds, see. Because this is John Wayne and the cavalry. This is the end to everything that stunk. This is the end to all the persecution, to the problems, to the heartache. This is an end to the enemies of God's people. All of the beasts, all the dragon, and all of those wicked people that made themselves accomplices in their dirty deeds. I want you to think for a minute about how you're in my heart would thrill to hear about the destruction of the wicked then. I want you to think about that Because basically, basically, I'm afraid that my own heart, I will speak only for myself. is one that is always looking for God's justice to be meted out to the wicked, and his mercy to be given to me. And then we get to our text. John in his vision saw another angel flying in midair. And why did he say another angel? Why in the world did he say that? I wondered that and I wondered that Nowhere else in this entire book, which is always filled with series, does he introduce an angel who is the first in a series with that word another. And I think there's a very good reason he does that. See, there is no angel per se that comes before this one. This is sure another angel, but in John's series is and we say, well, what's the first angel that we refer back to to understand this angel? We can either go back to these angels who are warring in heaven in chapter twelve, or we can go back to eleven to find the angel that blows the seventh trumpet. Neither one of them is particularly satisfying. They don't help us understand this text better. But I want you to think about angels in general. Because when we read the book of Revelation, what do angels do? They bring messages to who? To God's people. They comfort God's people. And they're agents of God's wrath upon God's enemies. And he's flying in mid-air. That's another very unusual, very unusual little Greek construct there. Shows up three times in the New Testament, all three in Revelation, the first time in chapter 8. There are three eagles in mid-air crying out, woe, woe, woe. And with each of those woes, an army comes and destroys the enemies of God. Except for the third one never cries. Whoa. Could this be the third one? Could this army be the third army? Could this be the end of everything? All the trouble? Could this be that day in which no man can stand described in Joel 2? I often wonder what it must have looked like in that congregation in Asia Minor, any one of them, any one of those churches, when John read what that angel said. Because John's vision goes like this. Then I saw another angel flying in mid-air, and he had the eternal gospel to proclaim. And how those people might have said the what? Did you say the gospel? You mean to tell me that after all this struggle, after all this heartache, after all of our rights have been infringed upon The angel's going to come and instead of you know sounding the trumpet that lets us all run off the hill and just have our justice, he's gonna give them the gospel There's a lot of commentaries you can open that will tell you that this isn't the gospel. And I don't know how in the world they can say it. So all gospel means is good news And when it shows up in the Bible, it's the good news about Jesus Christ. Not only that, but this is the eternal gospel. And how can something be good news to people who are sitting on the earth from every tribe, nation, language, and people? How can it be good news if it's not cynical? How can it be good news if it's not genuine? How can it be good news if there's no Christ? Throughout Scripture, we have messages summarized briefly, the great therefores, which conclude them. You know, we hear about uh Paul preaching for literally twelve hours and we'll have it summarized in a paragraph, so it shouldn't surprise us that we just have the great therefore of the angels gospel proclamation And what is it? The eternal gospel calls us to fear God and give him glory, because the hour of his judgment has come. I want you to think about our motivations for missions for a moment. Because like you, there are days when I long for heaven. Not every day, some days And there's days when I am motivated to go evangelize or to support a missionary because this is my thinking. As soon as all the people groups are reached, Christ is going to come again. Why does God send this angel? Not to haste the day, but because the day has come. Christ is there. He's on Mount Zion. And this is the last gospel call. This is it. And because Jesus has come, and because the hour of his judgment is here, the gospel is proclaimed. And it's proclaimed fully. Not only the good news, the gospel, a technical term for the message of Christ. But the means by which that's true. Look at the second angel's message. Babylon has fallen. Babylon has fallen Which made all the nations drink the maddening wine of her adulteries. Paul writes to us in First Corinthians fifteen when he talks about What Christ has done for us. He says, Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting? And we know that sin is the sting of death, he tells us in the next verse. I want you to think for a minute about how in Christ these things are defeated and conquered. That's what he goes on to tell us at the end of that chapter. Not only are we able to be united to God through Christ, but Babylon has fallen. The sins in your life and mine have been defeated. Satan is crushed. When Christ rose from the dead, Babylon fell. We no longer have to live in Babylon. It didn't even just stop there. All too often when we present the gospel, when we go out and do missions, we tell people about Christ. Then we talk about the emptiness of their life and how they don't have to live that way anymore, you know, stylized somewhat, but yes, as Babylon has fallen. But do we go this third step? A third angel followed them and said in a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast in his image, he too will drink of the wine of God's fury. And this is the message of the prophets from the very beginning. This is what Isaiah says in chapter 50, when he talks about how God has come and brought light, and we're to walk in that light. And then through Isaiah, it says, But for those of you who light torches and walk by the light that you've created to replace mine, this is what you will receive from me. From my hand, you will lie down in torment. This is what Isaiah says in chapter 57, when he says there is no peace for the wicked. And I'll tell you what. If I was out in the water and you threw me a life raft, if I didn't think I needed it, I wouldn't grab it. And in the gospel here, fully complains, not only is Christ presented, not only is sin shown to be fallen, But the plight of the person is made very, very clear. Very clear. There is an if. If you don't, if you don't fear God Know that this awaits you. How often that's absent from our own gospel presentations. I'll tell you when I think about this, and I think about how at the end, when my vindictive nature would rather be sated, and I think about this Gracious, gracious, merciful, loving gospel call. I actually would like for that to be in my lifetime soon. I haven't been married yet, haven't had kids, haven't experienced all the pleasures and joys of all that life has to offer. I've only been driving my Dodge Dart for four days now March 1 is coming up. My lacrosse season hasn't even begun yet. But I'll tell you, I think about my friends, my family. I think about the people that I don't know, the neighbors who moved in across the street. All I know is the guy that owns a house has a goatee. And I think to myself, wouldn't it be something if they could hear the gospel one time? Wouldn't it be something if those people who are shooting themselves over dogs could hear the gospel one time? Wouldn't it be something if the people that I really love, and yet don't act that way, because I don't share the gospel with them, were able to hear the gospel one time. Because it's a genuine gospel. And those people who respond to it, they are the eleventh hour, fifty-ninth minute, fifty-ninth second workers, our brothers and sisters. And here we see the heart of God and missions. Not so that he might come, but because he has. We see the heart of God in missions, and we're called to endure patiently. That's not something that is new. And this little story that we've had in chapters 12 through 14, after the beast out of the sea is described to us, the one who is given authority The one who is able to make war against the saints and to conquer them. In that passage we're told, He who has an ear, let him hear. If anyone is to go into captivity, into captivity he will go. If anyone is to be killed with a sword, with a sword he will be killed. This calls for patient endurance and faithfulness on the part of the saints. And here we're already primed because we're told that look, the world's going to hate you and do all kinds of things against you. Endure patiently. Endure the hatred of wicked people. Endure patiently. And then the king comes with his army, and then the angel comes, but it's the gospel. And we're told again this calls for patient endurance. And I think that it's all flip-flop there. Not only are we to endure the hatred of wicked people, but we are to enduringly love the wicked people. And for those of us who can take the challenge of revelation and see life as a struggle between good and evil, As a struggle which will be won by good, which will glorify God eternally, which will have Christ on the throne as he is now before everyone. We're shown that God is patient and enduring, and that we ought to also. How many times in the Bible do we read that God is slow to anger and abounding in mercy and love? Not once, not twice. I remember from my old notes that I'd listed at least seven times from just the Old Testament. And I don't even know if I finished looking but said that's sufficient. I know for us Reformed theologian, Peter really throws us a ringer. We're told that God desires none to perish, but all to come to eternal life. And what is described there is demonstrated here. Because it's the attitude that he has demonstrated in this one moment when he is the evangelist, and his angels are the preachers. Is it yours? Is it mine? Are you slow to anger, abounding in love? Are you like the lady with the cookies Do you desire none to perish but all to come to eternal life? Or will you be just as happy as that guy who lets his dog do the thing on your yard would you know not be in heaven with you? Are there people that you would just assume not share the gospel with? I had a professor in an evangelism class. Describe people who are antagonistic to the gospel and say they're not worth our time. I can't imagine that, because that's where I was. That's where you were. Every one of us who didn't know Christ at some point. We were this group of people sitting on the earth, and God chose to reveal Himself to us and by the Holy Spirit bring his gospel to our hearts. When Christ looked at the world, as we had a chance to, when Tom read us from the paper, as we have a chance to, when we hear, but woe to the earth and see. Because the devil has gone down to it and he's filled with fury. As we have a chance to leave here today and look at the world and look at the people. I think that if we're going to be faithful to Jesus and obey God's commandments, we need to be imitating them. And when Jesus Christ saw people like you and me, he was filled with compassion. Filled with compassion. And he sent out harvesters and told them to pray for more. Because the gospel is compassion. The gospel is love. And that's God's heart. We see it here. We're challenged by it. And we need to live it. And we live it by doing what these angels did. By preaching the gospel to everybody, by telling them that sin no longer has any hold or authority over them. And by challenging them with the thought that they need Christ. Because if they don't, there is no rest. But if they do, let's pray. Father God, we thank you so much that you loved us and had mercy on us. Father God, we thank you so much that you, by the work of your Spirit, brought us to life from death. Lord, that you saw fit to put our sin on Christ. Lord, that it pleased you to do so. And to give us his righteousness. Father, we ask that you give us his heart also. Lord, we ask that you give us your heart for people who are lost. Lord, help us not to see ourselves as people whose rights are infringed on and just learning to grin and bear it, but help us to see that and see it as an opportunity to patiently endure in loving them. And Lord, that means sharing the gospel. Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you that you died for us. We thank you that in your blood we have forgiveness of sins and eternal life. It's in your holy name we pray. Amen.