Let us open and pray. Lord Jesus, again in this morning we thank you first and foremost that you have been our rock and our redeemer. And that you continue to be both. And Lord, we do pray that you would open our eyes this morning and our hearts that we might see and hear what you have to tell us. And if you would through even the preaching of your word transform us, making us more and more your children, showing us more and more how we might preach you in what we think, do, and say. And Lord, we do pray that you would triumph, that you would accomplish your purpose of building And that you would use us as part of that process. As I said in the beginning, this this passage is used as a defense of capital punishment. It's used as a defense of the institution of government. But that's not the key purpose for which God gave this passage. It's not why God spoke to Noah. Let me read the passage, realizing that it begins sort of in the middle of his speech. But God says to Noah, You must not eat meat that has its lifeblood still in it. And for your lifeblood I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting Accounting from every animal and from each man too, I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. Whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God has God made man. And as for you, be fruitful and increase in number. Multiply on the earth and increase upon it At Bedrock, God is speaking to Noah about the value of life, particularly human life. That's important for us this morning because this is the celebration of the Sanctity of Human Life Sunday, as we mentioned last week and as was mentioned in the beginning of the service this morning. This is a week where we are forced to realize the contradiction between our new administration and all that that administration intends to accomplish And God's message about life. And so this morning, as as we look at this text, we need to see that it is God speaking to society about And so this message is in a in a way particularly appropriate to our government, to our church, and to ourselves. But we need to understand three things about this passage this morning, and they're on your outline. God conveniently worked it so they all begin with C. We need to understand We need to understand the context in which this conversation takes place. We need to understand the content that God communicates, and we need to understand the corollaries of this communication. What is the application for us? As we begin, we need to understand that this is a very unique conversation. You see, God has simply Eliminated the previous human society. Recognize the time in which this conversation takes place. The flood has just taken place. It is over with. God has judged sin. He has seen that society was found wanting. And if you look in chapter six, God speaks So the Lord said, I will wipe mankind whom I have created from the face of the earth, men and animals and creatures that move along the ground and birds of the air. For I am grieved that I have made them. Sin was so ripe that God said, I must destroy society. And now after he has accomplished that judgment, God is starting over and he's speaking to Noah. You need to see the parallel between this Conversation with Noah as the head of mankind, and the conversation that God had in the Garden of Eden prior to the fall with Adam. Genesis chapter Chapter 1. That becomes more clear as you begin in verse 1 of chapter 9, where he says, And God blessed Noah and his sons, saying to them, Be fruitful and increase in number. And then you recognize that at the end of this speech God says again, As for you, be fruitful and increase in number, multiply on the earth, and increase upon it. Giving a recreation mandate. And God brackets this conversation with those particular statements, I believe, to alert us to the fact that this is a new Mandate for the recreated society. God is speaking to Noah not just as another father, not just as another patriarch. He's speaking to Noah as the head of the new humanity. And he is re-establishing what he expects society to be like. He's giving guidance to Noah the same way he gives us And if we keep that context in mind, we can easily understand that this is not simply uh a focused passage for a believing family. This is for our government. This is for our society. This is for us as the salt and light in that society. society to begin to penetrate our culture. But moving on, we have to look at the content of what God is saying here. The overarching message of this passage is not that that man must die when he kills men. It's not that that the take It's not that there is a righteousness to government that we can defend and say that there must be some sort of over archival. Principle of organization. The point that God is making in this passage, from which the other corollaries come, is that life belongs to God and is sacred to him. Life belongs to God and it is sacred to Him. He shows that in a number of ways, but some of the ones that I want to highlight this morning is first and foremost through the judgment that he has just brought man through. Look at the grief and the pain with which God judged humanity He took upon himself the pain, he saw the sin, and it grieved and hurt him, so much so that he said, I'm going to wipe mankind out There is no hope. But what he does instead, because I believe humanity is so valuable to him, is he finds a righteous meaning He finds Noah and his family. And instead of completely obliterating humanity and obliterating any society on the face of the earth, or even going beyond Obliterating creation and deciding that it was flawed and needed to start over. God says, No. My purpose is to build my kingdom. And I am not defeated. I will rescue a remnant. And I believe underlying all of that is because human life, life That he had created for the purposes of fellowship with him and the establishment of his kingdom was so valuable to God that he said, I will not be defeated, I will not destroy it all. I will bring my people through. And so, in spite of his terrible grief at sin and at man He says to Noah to build an ark. And he brings Noah, his three sons, and their wives through the ark to safety. But he also shows in another place, in another time, the total depth of his love and value. And that's on the cross. For you see, he so values human life that he is willing to exchange for human life And while Jesus was human as he came, Jesus was not merely human. And God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever should believe in him should not perish, but have life eternal. That must be your understanding If you miss that, you will not understand why God does what He does to preserve And if you miss that, you will not understand how serious it is for us to pay for. You see, he says in this passage, whoever sheds the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed, and that places a value on life. And he says that that's because man is created in his image. But he goes In Christ beyond that, and he says, So much do I love man that his life is as valuable as mine. After the flood, God speaks to Noah and again confirms the esteem with which he holds human life. And he does that by showing the value of life in general and specifically of his concern for human life. He says in verse 4, but you must not Now the point of that is a lot of debate. Is he talking about eating the flesh of a living animal? There were practices that In that farm where where various people would take some of the hindquarter of an animal while it lived and would consume that flesh. The sense was that if you if you ate the very life force of an animal you gained in your own life force. That to eat the heart of a bold animal gave you its courage. Or to to to eat some of the lifeblood would give you some of its life and add to your own, strengthen and and extend. And so some people are saying that there's a sense in which God is Saying no, you you must not resort to those practices. But I think if you look at Leviticus, God clearly makes the point that that's not what he's saying. Because in Leviticus chapter 17 He's speaking about why the blood is so important. And what he says there is this Any Israelite or alien living among them who eats any blood, I will set my face against that person who eats blood. And will cut him off from his people. For the life The life of a creature is in its blood, and I have given it to you to make atonement for yourselves on the altar. It is the blood that makes atonement for one's life. Therefore I say to the Israelites, none of you may eat blood, nor may any alien living among you eat blood. Any Israelite or alien living among you who hunts any animal or bird, that may be eaten Must drain out the blood and cover it with earth, because the life of every creature is in its blood. That's why I have said to the Israelites, You must not eat the blood of any creature, because the life of every creature is in its blood. Anyone who eats it must be cut off. God's saying in this that He owns life He says, the life is in the blood, and I give it to you. But he gives it for a purpose, and only one purpose, and that purpose is to make it In this time period, the sacrifices in the temple, the tabernacle, and the high places prior to the temple and tabernacle were given because the life of that animal atoned for our sin. In a picture of Christ pouring his blood, his life out for us And God's saying in this passage here to Noah, in a way that Noah would understand that life belongs to God. It is not ours to dispose of indiscriminate. And he goes on and makes clear that even more important than animal life, even more important than animal life is human life. Because God God gives the animal for food. I don't want to deal with the corollaries of animal rights this morning, although this is a passage that you ought to go to if you struggle with that. But what God says is, animals are for food, but any animal or man that sheds the blood of man must be judged Clearly, humanity has a higher value to God. And God states that the reason for that value is because He has made us in His image. He has made us fit for fellowship with Him, to relate in a way It is through us that He will establish His kingdom, and we will come to glory to worship Him Regardless of what happens to the animals, we are suited as his children to worship God. And God says that he is the defender of human life. It is he who will demand an accounting. It is he to whom we must give an account when life is taken. But not only does God tell Noah that we must not indiscript God is telling Noah this morning something that we as the church must hear. He commands Noah As a representative of humanity to multiply Mark. That brackets this whole speech. And he's not simply saying that numbers are what is important. He's speaking of the quality, and we'll get into that in a few minutes. But we have to understand that one of the things that we as the church have done in our battle for the sanctity of life is we have given over much Much of the high moral ground because we battle with the do's and the don'ts and we don't show the compassion of God. What's God up to? God is showing his purpose for mankind is to establish society and build the kingdom of God. He's speaking to Noah as the federal Head of humanity who is responsible as that head to establish society which will reflect God's kingdom. And for us this morning that has serious corollaries. We have to look at what God has said here and take it and apply it to us today. What does it mean? Well, first and foremost, we have to continue to maintain what is the point. The point is that life is safer. And if we keep that overarching point in mind as we look at what God is saying, then there are certain things that must be speak loudly to us this morning. The first of which we're very clear on. We're very clear that we must not indiscriminately take life And this week we've been focused on the fact that abortion is a heinous sin. Euthanasia is a heinous sin. We must not talk about Tolerate it. We know that message well. You see, there are times when life is to be taken, and it is not God speaking to Noah saying that anyone in any way, accidental, intentional, or otherwise, who takes life must give their life. What he's saying must be understood in the context of the rest of Scripture God Himself institutes capital punishment for crimes other than the taking of life. And so as we understand this passage, it must be must be limited in the context of what he says. He says that sin is so wretched that it demands judgment. That judgment is your w And he gives pictures of that in the Levitical Code, where things ranging from adultery to rebelliousness to homosexuality To negligent taking of life, to intentional taking of life, all demand a capital punishment. But in the hands of of God's representatives given as judgment for what God declares is capital sin. So the point here is that life cannot be ended Yes, there is a defense of capital punishment. No, he's not saying that if you as the agent of God God's justice shed man's blood, that your blood must be shed. He is saying that life is a Critical value to him. So as we look at our society today, we have come with many reasons to defend the taking of life that God God does not acknowledge. Two of the classical defenses for abortion is that privacy overrides life. God says no Privacy is not a justifiable defense for the taking of an unborn life. You cannot, according to Scripture, defend that. The quality of life is not a justifiable defense for the taking of either unborn or infirm life. One of the dangers we're seeing as we open the doors to our own reasons for the taking of life is that those reasons begin to multiply as quickly as rapidly. We find all sorts of excuses to do what we want. And it boils down to selfishness, to sin. You see, God is saying in this passage that life has such an incredible value to him. And for those of you who are parents, you can think of this value as God looks on it. Think of your children. Is the important thing what your child Can or cannot do that determines the value of their life? Would you like someone to judge the quality of your life to the point where they decide whether or not you You're still fit to live. Or whether or not it's still positive for you to live. Would you like someone to decide for you when you should die The doors are open. As we move from abortion to euthanasia and a redefinition of euthanasia, And assisted suicides, we move into the world where we must justify our existence or face the possibility of death As Dr. Kavorkian is able over and over again to give people help to kill themselves, as we talk about assisted suicides in order to make Death painless simply because we no longer desire to live. Or perhaps in a not too distant future it's too expensive for our estate And we're draining all the money. Or perhaps because we don't want to face the pain of death. of illness that it's right for us to die. You have taken and added a reason for death beyond which God has given We cannot take life without the due process demanded by God's judgment on the basis of those Issues that he has determined justified yet. We can't. But God not only is speaking to us this morning and speaking to Noah and speaking to us saying we must protect life, he's not only saying that we have taken and added reasons for taking life that he does not condone. He's saying Speaking beyond that. And he's saying to us this morning that we must protect the quality of life. We must positively promote life. We must positively Look to eliminate the burdens and the cares and the concerns of those who are suffering around us. You see, we've given over the high moral ground And we have allowed people who are in pain to remain in pain without expressing Christ's compassion. To the point that they see their greatest hope in taking their life It is a blinding condemnation of humanity and the church that one of the best reasons that people have for euthanasia is that they don't want to hurt me anymore. And we remain silent because we have not feared and we have not acted We must care for our fellow humans because they belong to God. They bear his image and life, their life is sacred to him. Whether they believe or not. Most appropriately, we must care for those inside the church. And God defines religion. In James 1:27. By saying that this is pure and undefiled religion, to visit the widow and orphans in their distress. We have widows and orphans Orphans amongst us. Maybe not literally, in some cases, literally widows. I don't know about orphans, but we certainly have people with suffering and hurt here amongst us. Who need us as their brothers and sisters to help bear their burdens. And we don't need to look beyond, but we must in order to be busy. We do not need to look beyond our ourselves in order to fulfill all the time that we've got in caring for one another. But we must look beyond ourselves because we are the body of Christ to minister in this world. One of the greatest applications of this might be through the ministries we hope to build in our new facility as we reach out to those who are non-Christian single parents, as we reach out through the crisis pregnancy centers to care for those who need our financial and emotional help. As we care for those children who need to have someone to give them a role model because they have either a mom or a dad, but not both. There is tremendous work to be done that we must be a part of. take a moment's break here. I want to let you take a moment to pray and ask God what does he say? Is there is there an action that you you have to take as a result of what you're hearing? Is there an attitude change that you need to take because you've been so narrow focused, and rightly so, on the issue of protecting That we haven't promoted the quality of life. Let's just take a moment. We must move beyond We must broaden our focus and we must have hearts that are burdened with compassion. Christ looked at Jerusalem In the city that would kill him, and he wept with compassion, for they were lost, and they needed a shepherd. I think we need, and I need, and I'm certainly not immune from what I'm preaching this morning. I struggle myself with how much I do or don't do. But I think we need to broaden our perspective and be less But I don't want to shorten the time on this last point that I think God wisely brackets this conversation with. Because what he says here is that That we must responsibly bear life. He begins by saying, Be fruitful and increase in number and fill the earth. And he ends by saying, As for you, be fruitful and increase in number, multiply. on the earth and increase upon it. This morning as I share it, I wanted to point out that he's not doing what our government now is saying Through the school boards, through Planned Parenthood, through all the issues where sexuality is simply glorified and enjoyed. He is not saying that we are to With wild abandon, focus on our sexual nature. Because again, the same way he's not saying that any taking of life demands judgment. He's narrowing us in the context of what he says elsewhere. And what he says elsewhere is that our sexuality is a glorious thing to be And what God is doing in this passage is pointing out as He Rebuild society that the fundamental building block of society is a family. And that if we have a hope in our strategies of dealing with our society Society, it must be through the family. And I think perhaps the most glaring issue is For us in this entire passage is that a family. Are we being the role models that Paul spoke of two weeks ago as we looked at Philippians three? Where his point is The point was we are to follow his model as he shows us Christ's life lived out. And you recall that we needed to have a human role model. Model to know what we were to do, how we are to live in light of what Christ has done for us. And you fathers are the The prototypical role model for your children. You mothers are also a prototypical role model for your children. You need to be a loving Husband and wife and a loving parent in order to protect your children from the onslaughts of our culture. And the best thing you can do or take from this morning is isn't even focusing compassionately on the people who hurt. The first and foremost thing you must do is be a loving father and husband And be a loving mother and wife. Our children need affirmation. Our children need to be taught. They need And we're the primary source to teach them. It's our responsibility We have the responsibility to show them how to live and who God has transformed us to become. For those of you who are single, Parents, you're not alone. Or you see, God hasn't simply given a biological family and said that's it. Because Noah wasn't simply the head of a family, he was the head of a culture But even before that he was the head of the people of God. We are a family. And as we baptize children up here on this stage, we as a family take an oath. That we We will encourage one another in the teaching and raising of our children. So if you're thinking that you've escaped the threat this morning because you're single Or if you're married and don't have kids, or if perhaps you're even yet living in a home with your parents. You have an estate. We are a family. And we have committed ourselves To raising our children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. And our job is to protect them, to be a role model for them. And each of us Has a way of doing that that is unique to us. That's got to be our first priority. That's what's coming here when God talks about protecting, promoting, and multiplying the quality of life. There is so much here that I I don't even want to give you the thought that that you've explored it all. And so I'm gonna end in just a moment. But I want you to take this passage and I want you to stew over it. I want you to think about The scriptures are clear. God values life. But this is not simply a proof text for capital punishment, for government. Or anti-abortion. This is an overarching command that must be part of our life. That must be our focus as we look at life. Yes, this is given to our government because it is given to Noah as the head of society. Yes, it is given to our church because it is given to the people of God with Noah But it is also given to each of you because it was given to NOAA as an individual as well. Reflect upon the things God is telling you about yourself. What attitudes must you change? What actions must you take? How must Heavenly Father, you who are the awesome Creator, you who possess life. If you can make And us, Lord, help us, empower us that we might focus upon the value of life, that we might be challenged to know that it must go beyond simply verbal protection that we must act, that we must go to those who are naked and hungry and do more than say, be filled and warned We must care. Show us this week how to do that for those among us, how to do that for those outside us. But most of our Lord to do that for the families that you That we might be men and women, boys and girls who love our God and who love his people And who treats you with the dignity and respect that you deserve by showing that dignity and respect for the life that you treasure. Lord, change us. Who sees this live?