If you have a copy of the scripture, I invite you to turn to Psalm twenty-two. As Brother Rick mentioned, we're looking at Psalm 22 today in our summer series on the Psalms. And specifically then this month we've been looking at the psalms that are explicitly Telling us about Jesus Christ. All of Scripture speaks to who Jesus is and what Jesus has done on behalf of His people, sinners. But there are some psalms that are much more explicit. And this one before us today is one of those. I've stood before you before and acknowledged this fact about myself, and that is I I kind of like to know the end of a given drama before it takes place. I'm able to watch a rebroadcast of the O's game if I know that when they are down by three runs going into the fourth, That a two-run shot and a grand slam and several RBI singles will put them in a position to win against the Oakland A's. I don't want every novel and every movie spoiled for me, however, but I do like to have that reassurance, that tendency within me to be reassured that everything is going to turn out all right. There's a strong desire that when the tension of the plot is high and our hero has been painted into a corner that seems too confining. To know that it's going to be okay. We want to be able to rest easy at some point in the drama, or at least not to worry about the ending. Knowing that resolution is on its way despite how high the odds are stacked against a positive outcome. That's my tendency. Psalm 22 is for us today, if that's your tendency. You see, you and me and everyone on the planet and everyone across the ages Is in the midst of a great drama. The greatest drama. The greatest story ever told. It's why we gather weekly. as Christians to celebrate and to look with close scrutiny into this ancient document called the Bible We need to catch a glimpse, albeit through the foggy lenses of our frail minds, at the great story of what God is doing. From creation to consummation. All of history is his drama. It's his story. The sweeping narrative of the Bible from beginning to end is the story of how God has created all things out of nothing and all very good. And the special part, the pinnacle of his creation, mankind, made in his image, rebelled, actually had the audacity to rebel against our Creator. And to claim autonomy, a law unto ourselves And the fall of man is a tragic part of the story. But we see the scriptures uh Graphically depicting the problem of our rebellion, but also progressively uncovering God's remedy. That God has made a covenant with man. He's made a covenant, a promise with man, first glimpsed in the garden when he describes that the seed of the woman would crush the head of the serpent, the tempter. And then very clearly made to Abraham that Abraham, his offspring, would be like the numbered like the stars in heaven, like the grains of sand across the desert floor. The offspring of Abraham would be many. The covenant is referenced throughout the law given to Moses, the prophets, the priests, and the kings given to Israel. We find the ultimate fulfillment of the covenant in Jesus Christ our Lord. That's who we've come to worship. You know that if you're here in a Christian church, we're going to preach Christ. We're going to celebrate Jesus, his work. We're going to encourage the younger generation, the next generation, to know him and to love him and to follow him. The older generation is going to continue to grow in their understanding of who he is and what he's done. The story of the scriptures describes God's expanding covenant people. Comprised of every tribe and every nation, every tongue, all walks of life, rich, poor, young and old, until that glorious consummation of the story Where ultimately the creatures that God has created and the creatures that God has redeemed are brought to live with him face to face In fellowship the way it first was. That's a great story. That's a great drama And that's the drama you and I live. I like how the Westminster Confession of Faith puts it. You know, we're a confessional church. And our confession says it this way in chapter 7 of God's covenant with man. The distance between God and the creature is so great. That even though rational creatures are responsible to obey him as their creator, yet they could never experience any enjoyment of him as their blessing and reward except By way of some voluntary condescension on his part. Listen, which he has been pleased To express by way of covenant. God is pleased to bridge the gap that the distance between us and Him by way of a promise The covenant. I think if we're honest with ourselves, Randy just prayed this. If we're honest with ourselves, we don't see the great distance. Between ourselves and a holy God. We have no good concept of how far apart we are as His creatures and sinful at that. But we know that it's great, and we catch glimpses of the distance when we see our sin before us. So, to understand the overarching message of the Bible, we often focus on the middle of the story. The life, the death, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. We preach Christ and Him crucified. The Son of God who loved us and gave himself for us. That's a wonderful message Psalm twenty-two is that message of the Bible encapsulated in thirty-one verses. It's a crystal clear focus on Jesus Christ, the lamb who was slain, and the lion who reigns supreme. It's a Psalm of David, it's written by a real king and the real nation of Israel at a real time in human history. But it is so much more than that. It is a prophetic psalm. It points forward clearly to Jesus Christ. His sinless life, his sacrificial death, and the soul-freeing resurrection of Christ from the dead. I'm going to read Psalm 22 in just a moment. I want to pray before I read. Because I want to read this scripture and I want For at least this moment in time, for us just to allow God's word to wash over us. It's the water of the word. To see the story Again, the first 21 verses, the tone of this psalm is fairly desperate. There's a dialogue between the psalmist and his God And then in verse 22, I want and I pray that we hear the tone shift and we see the triumph of this song. So let me pray for us and ask God's blessing on the reading of this. His word. Father, I pray that you would help us now. We pray we join, I joined together with Randy. That you would, Lord, preach Christ to our hearts today. That you would show us, Lord Jesus, the beauty of your holiness and the wonder of your sacrifice on behalf of sinners Lord, help us now to hear your word, to help me to preach your word and give our hearts response. Give our minds clarity and give our lives the uh will to live for you all the days of our life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen Psalm twenty-two, a psalm of David. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel, and you our fathers trusted. They trusted, and you delivered them To you they cried and were rescued. In you they trusted and were not put to shame. But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind. despised by the people, all who see me mock me. They make mouths at me. They wag their heads. He trusts in the Lord. Let him deliver him. Let him rescue him, for he delights in him. Yet you are he who took me from the womb. You made me trust you at my mother's breasts. On you was I cast from my birth and from my mother's womb. You have been my God. Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. Many bulls encompass me, strong bulls of Bashan surround me. They open wide their mouths at me like a ravening and roaring lion. I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a potchard. And my tongue sticks to my jaws, you lay me in the dust of death. For dogs encompass me, a company of evildoers encircles me They have pierced my hands and feet. I can count all my bones. They stare and they gloat over me. They divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast screen. Lots. But you, O Lord, do not be far off. Oh, O you, my help, come quickly to my aid. Deliver my soul from the sword. My precious life from the power of the dog. Save me from the mouth of the lion. You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you, you who fear the Lord. Praise him, all you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel, for he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. And he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard when he cried to him. From you comes my praise in the great congregation, my vows. I will perform before those who fear him. The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied. Those who seek him shall praise the Lord. May your hearts live forever. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you. For kingship belongs to the Lord, and he rules over the nations. All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship. Before him shall bow all who go down to the dust, even the one who could not keep himself alive. Posterity shall serve him. It shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation. They shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn. That He has done it. He has done it This is God's word for us today. May God grant us a blessing as we hear it unpacked just a little bit now. We've seen over the past uh three weeks the mission of Jesus Christ clearly expounded on from Psalm two and Psalm sixteen and last week from Psalm one ten. That's not an exhaustive list by any stretch of the imagination of how God's word points us to Christ. And his work. But what I would like for us to do with Psalm 22 today is see that this real Psalm of David Through the lens, through the eyes, through, if you will, the mindset of Christ as he hung on the cross for your sins and for mine. Acts 2, Peter speaks about David prophesying about our Lord. He quotes directly from the Psalms concerning Christ. And we see in Matthew 27 and Mark 15, Jesus Himself, our Lord Himself. In the midst of the crucifixion, where he is purchasing for his people by his shed blood a substitutionary atonement. The weight of all our despicable thoughts and words and deeds thrust upon his sinless shoulders, he feels the full force of God's holy wrath, and at the ninth hour Jesus cried aloud with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakanai, that is my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? He's quoting Psalm 22. We know that Jesus was an amazing scholar at even a very young age. At the age of twelve, he amazed and astounded the teachers. teachers of the law. He knew the scriptures, and he knew that in fact he was the Messiah of whom the scriptures taught. This psalm may be as close as we get to see a small part of what was on his mind when he hung on the cross in our place. You see two great divisions in this Psalm, one verses one through twenty-one, and then verses twenty-two to twenty-five. They're divided in your outline as simply the humiliation. The grief, the humiliating grief of our Lord, and then the glorious triumph of our Lord I mentioned earlier that the first section can be viewed as a dialogue. It's a a why. Why me, yet you. You see in verses one, the why lament of being abandoned by the Father. In verse three and five, three to five the answer that the psalmist gives, yet you, Lord, are the one who delivers Israel. But I am utterly abandoned. In verse six we see another why questioning. Why am I experiencing intense humiliation? at the hands of my enemies. In verse 9, yet you, yet you are the one that I've known since infancy. You provide security in the covenant nurture. Why? In verse 12, am I subject to intense physical suffering to the point of death in verse 19, yet you, but you, O Lord. You're the only hope for anyone who faces the enemy of death. You see the dialogue back and forth. This is what's going on First, that he was abandoned by God the Father. My God, my God. Are there any other words more chilling than this from the cross of Christ? There's many that are encouraging. He looked to John and he said, Son, behold your mother, and mother, behold your son. He cried out from his humanity, I thirst to fulfill prophecy. He committed his spirit to the Father's hands and gave up the ghost. But in this cry, there is a Desperation and a despondency and a grief that probably can't be spoken by us. We've never experienced this kind of abandonment. But he did. It's an intense why We've experienced something of this. Have you ever experienced that feeling? It seems as if the entire world is turned against you. You're alone, you're isolated, it's just you, then take that feeling and exponentially magnify it. Because that's what's going on in this abandonment. The cry goes up day and night, and the silence of no response is deafening. And you can feel the distance You can feel the distance that we talked about before. This is the distance being spoken. This is the distance that was laid on him. This is Christ in our place being punished. As a covenant breaker. This is what's going on. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why do I cry out to you day and night, and yet you do not answer? It's the feeling of unimaginable shame Of being exiled, of being isolated. See verses 3 to 5 there. They The Israelites had been exiled, they'd been disciplined, but they were not put to shame, he says. Always faithful to the covenant God was. But Christ is now experiencing the horror of what it means to break covenant with God. Unimaginable shame when he stood condemned in our place My sin, my law breaking, not his, never his, in view. The abandonment by God the Father. He also incurred intense humiliation. Intense humiliation. We derive our dignity from the fact that we are made in the image of God, and when God is absent, and when God is utterly absent. Our image, our self-image is abysmal. The abandonment that the psalmist experienced drives him to despair of even himself. I'm a worm and not a man. When feeling the weight of our sin, the cry is: I am nothing, I am undone, I am worthless, there is no good purpose to me. That's weight. That's heavy. The abandonment feels and is exacerbated. It's made intensified by the venom that he's assaulted with. Your whole life is a sham. You trust in the Lord, let the Lord deliver you. Let the Lord rescue you if he delights in you. There's a mockery that we probably have not really encountered either in our faith. You're the one that claims to be God in the flesh. And you're hung on a cross outside the city gate, shamed publicly, and facing the dust of death, empty. Vacuous, isolated, alone, despondent. This is worsened when he remembers the security and the comfort of covenant nurture That's verses 9 to 11. At my mother's breast I knew you were my God. From infancy, I've always known that you are my security, you're my protection. You're my provider. You are my God. And now he is far, far from him. Picture the little child in the playground. Picture the little child in the playground suffering the torment of large bullies. Bullies that taunt and picket the child. They surround him and they call him things that we wouldn't say to a rabid dog. They rip on his family. They tell him that his parents never loved him. He doesn't belong to them. Until that day the child has always known the protection of their parent. They've always run to those strong arms proteins. Comfort and reassurance and peace. But when the taunting of the bullies is at its zenith, the child cries out for help, looks around, and there's no parent to be seen. He's utterly abandoned and alone. This is the distance that was shouldered by Christ for us, for sinners. For what we do in our glib selfishness I felt that. I trust that you have too. The arrogance of believing we know best. He was inflicted with humiliation, but he was subjected also to severe suffering. Many bulls encompass me. The roaring and ravenous lion, the dogs have encircled me. I don't know if you're familiar with the summer phenomenon on the Discovery Channel called Shark Week. Or not. But every so often we've catch a Shark Week episode, and the thing about Shark Week is you can always see somebody sitting on the back of a boat with an Australian or New Zealand accent telling you that sharks Are attracted to blood. And if you throw a whole bunch of chopped-up fish in the water, you can get a whole bunch of sharks to attend to that. And they call it a feeding frenzy. The psalmist employs the imagery of these savage beasts in order to get the physical suffering into these brains of ours. The images are rich and graphic. The bulls of Bashan, verse 12. Bashan was an area that's now uh known as the Golden Heights, but it was known in that day for lush. There is some massive foe here. In Isaiah chapter 2 and verse 13, Bashan is symbolic of man's pride and his self-reliance When the Bashan oaks are referred to there among the other cedars and the uh the other uh trees that set themselves up in that imagery against the reign and rule of God. The ravening and roaring lions evokes the strength and the deadly intent of enemies who gang up in a pride of hungry lions against the psalmist. The dogs in verse 16, one more beast that's added to the mix of images. The dogs of ancient Israel could never, ever, I know I'm going to offend some here, ever be called man's best friend. They just didn't keep dogs that way. There was no dog that curled up at the end of the sofa to watch TV at the end of a good day of playing Frisbee in the park. These dogs traveled in packs and they they licked at the sores of the wounded on the side of the road and they ate what they could from The beggars, we see those images in the New Testament clearly laid out that these dogs intended malice. They're scavengers. They have little regard for anything other than their next meal. They're self-centered. The weight of the combined attack has made the psalmist thirsty and his tongue is stuck to his jaw and he's straining. The piercing of his hands and his feet leave him completely vulnerable to whatever malice intent his assailants want to afflict inflict. Rather than elicit pity or some sense of compassion from the surrounding crowd, what prompts rather is wicked gloating and a ramping up of the attack against him. They actually heap it on. When they see that he can't get to them in an apparent victory. And then they take his clothes and they cast lots, they divide them, like spoils of war. In those violent video games, you take your victim's stuff after you've conquered them and you spread them out and you Drop the coins in your basket or whatever the thing is that you're trying to accumulate. It casts lots for his clothes right in front of his eyes I want us to picture now Jesus. Jesus suffering in your place. I want you to think about a sin that you've committed. I want you to think about a sin that you've been confronted. on. I want you to think about a sin that you currently entertain and keep handy for your comfort and your delight. Now picture Jesus on the cross for that sin. Suffering in our place on the cross, fulfilling the requirements of the law on our behalf, appeasing the wrath of God, purchasing forgiveness by shedding his precious blood. He encounters the feeding frenzy of the mob mentality. They called for his crucifixion. They wagged their heads. They cried out. He saved others. He cannot save himself. He's the king of Israel. Let him come down from the cross now, and we will believe him. He trusts in God, let him deliver him now if he desires him. All from Matthew 27. For he said, I am the Son of God. From the cross, our Lord saw them cast lots for his clothing. They exposed him to the elements, his mouth dried up, and his thirst was unquenchable When he called out, I thirst, they brought him sour vinegar wine. The weight of his body on the cross suspended by the outstretched hands and the pierced feet Cause him to feel every bone and his body and his joints as they stress to the breaking point. He is preparing himself for the dust of death. And he cries out to the Lord. Before him he sees the graphic fulfillment of Psalm 22. Do you see this? Our Lord sees what's going on, and it is so clear that he is fulfilling Psalm 22, but not just the first 21 verses. He's not just fulfilling the graphic and grief-stricken humiliation of the suffering servant. He is, in fact, fulfilling the glorious triumph. Of the covenant keeping God. That's what's happening right before his eyes. He feels the hatred spewing forth from the humans that have assembled And he feels that his entire existence, something that he's never felt or experienced before, the abandonment of the Father, he feels that covenant-breaking distance. He's never committed a sin, and yet he feels the full wrath of God against sin. He's never known what it feels like to have guilt. Grip your body and make your stomach twist in knots. But he feels that in a way that we could probably never experience. He feels all of that, and he cries aloud, and he knows of what he speaks as he quotes Psalm 22. He experienced the punishment for covenant breaking. God made him who knew no sin to be sin for you. And for me, so that we might be in him the righteousness that God requires. This is the glorious drama that God is unfolding for human history. The story that we were talking about at the beginning of the sermon, God redeeming for himself a people, a glorious people. Eager to do that which is pleasing to him, eager to do things that demonstrate God is powerful. God is the Redeemer. God is the one who forgives and saves. The God that reveals Himself to us through His Word today Will be terrifyingly victorious over his enemies and graciously benevolent beyond all imagination to all that he chooses to call friend. That's the message. That's the story. Friend of God. Christ's glorious triumph then is laid out, and I've I've broken it out in three ways. The fullness of the covenant in view, the fruitfulness of the covenant in view, and the faithfulness of the covenant in view. The faithfulness of the covenant is on the psalmist's mind. It's on our Lord's mind. When he thinks about God making that promise, it was in fact him who makes the promise to Abraham. It was in fact him who delivered the law to Moses. It was in fact him who anoints the kings in Israel. And it was in fact him who took on flesh and was born as a little baby. in the line of David to the mother Mary, so that he might be the one of whom the prophecies speak. It may have appeared that there was defeat on the cross from a world-limited point of view, but quite to the contrary, all that was necessary to pay for our sins. Was accomplished. The Lord knew goodwell, and that's the cry of the psalmist in verse 19 But you, O Lord, do not be far off. Oh you, my help, come quickly to my aid. You have answered. The power of the dog will be nullified, the mouth of the ravenous lion will be shut tight, the horns of the wild bull will not ultimately claim its victim. Not today, not that day, not ever. That's the triumph of the cross. In that public spectacle of humiliation, he was shaming the principalities of the world. When our sin was nailed to him, he triumphed. over death and the grave. And that was displayed powerfully on the third day when he rose from the dead. The faithfulness of the covenant was in view. God will fulfill his promise. The fruitfulness of the covenant is in view. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. All the offspring of Jacob glorify him. Stand in awe of him, offspring of Israel. Do you see the fruitfulness of the covenant of you? When Abraham was called out there, it was a singular offspring used. Your offspring. And Abraham at that time didn't even have a son. But Paul tells us through the letter that he wrote to the church in Galatia that the offspring is Christ. And we who are in union with Christ are this glorious offspring. That's God fulfilling the promise of the covenant. The fruitfulness of the covenant, the mocking crowd, is exchanged for glad-hearted worshippers whose lips and hearts are filled with praise. The temporary devastation of being abandoned. Having his face hidden from him is replaced with a lifting up of his face. You see that there He has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted. He has not hidden his face from him, but he has heard when he cried to him. This is God at work. To redeem you and me. Think about that for one moment. You know, only you do And probably not to the fullest extent that we should or can, you know that distance between you and the Creator. And Jesus. Jesus knew it fully. And he paid the price. The one who was shamefully scored and Scorned and sacrificed now receives undivided devotion. And greater still, we're no longer his enemies, but now we are called brothers. Family defined as the ones who fear the Lord. You see that? That's the fruitfulness of the covenant. It's it's it's Triumphant. And then we see the fullness of the covenant. It's not just for that generation. It's not for the generation of David. It's not just for that first century Of the Jew and the Gentile who are mixed together in that first century church and the God's New Covenant people. It's for all those yet unborn. It's for us. It's for you. That's what Jesus is doing. That was what was on his mind when he hung on the cross. The psalm begins with one voice crying out in abandonment. It ends with all the families of the nations worshiping before the Lord. There's some interesting concepts in this passage. My vows I will perform before those who fear him. During a time of distress, a vow was made before the Lord. And then when the Lord showed himself to be faithful and fulfilled his promises, that vow was recognized before the assembly. They gave testimony. To the God who had answered their prayers. This is the picture of the spread of the fame of God's name. All types of people worshiping him. Until one day ultimately We gather at the wedding feast of the Lamb, and we see him face to face. Right now we worship him by faith. We can't see God. We have his word and his spirit, and that is the way that God has intended to communicate to us At the Last Supper between Jesus Christ and his disciples before his crucifixion, he held up a cup of wine and he made it clear that he was about to seal the covenant with his blood. Drink of it, all of you, he said, for this is my blood of the new covenant which is poured out for the many for the forgiveness of sin. And then he said this in the promise to return: I will not drink again of this fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it anew. With you in my father's kingdom. You see the story? It has a consummation. It has a glorious and triumphant end. The message that comforts our soul when the distance between God and man is sadly realized once again as accurate accusations come our way is the same message that we proclaim with bold humility For the rest of the world. When condemnation and the fear of judgment threaten to undo us, we rejoice in the message that our elder brother has accomplished and applied. He has done it. We can't do it. But he has. And he invites all to come to him. We sing a song of response in just a moment. The song of response is part of Christian worship so that we can lift our voice in the congregation singing praise to the one who has saved us. We give our hearts an opportunity to marvel at Christ again. And can it be that I should gain an interest in my Savior's blood? Died he for me who caused his pain, for me, who him to death pursued No condemnation now I dread. Jesus and all in him is mine. Amazing love. How can it be? That thou, my God, shouldst die for me. Let me pray for us. Lord, help us please to Sing with hearts filled with the wonder of God who would die in our place. To marvel at you once again, Lord Jesus, to know you, to renounce wickedness and our sinful ways, to cling to you for forgiveness. To be clothed by you in righteousness and to proclaim that message To one another in the congregation, but Lord, to the world. This world needs to know you. Make us your witnesses. Thank you for the power and the authority that you have said is yours, that you will go with us even to the ends of the earth And we will be your witnesses, Lord, by your grace and in your strength. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.