As we begin this first Sunday in looking at uh mission into the world that God has called us to, we are looking together this morning. Jeremiah chapter 29, where we see and learn of God's plan for mission. But it is not lost on me at all that God's design that our middle hour speaker Pastor Richard brought to us the mission that he is on to reach with the gospel of Jesus Christ as a missionary, the very people. Under whom God sent his people in this passage into exile. That is Babylon, Persia. And uh it is not lost for me that God is telling us about what He is doing in the world. And He wants us to see His plan for mission. That is far greater than we could imagine or design ourselves. So this morning we're going to look at together in terms of God's planned permission is Jeremiah chapter 29. Verses 1 to 14. And then after that, I'm going to begin us with a little bit of brief history as to what leads up to this chapter 29. Hear now God's word. This is the text of the letter that the prophet Jeremiah went, sent from Jerusalem to the surviving elders. Among the exiles, Anzo the priests, the prophets, and all the other people Nebuchadnezzar had carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. This was after King Jehoiakim and the Queen Mother, court officials, the leaders of Judah and Jerusalem, the craftsmen and the artisans had gone into exile from Jerusalem. He entrusted the letter to Elassah, son of Shaphan, to Gemarah, son of Hilkiah, whom Zedekiah, king of Judah, sent to King Nebuchadnezzar in Babylon It said, This is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says to all those I carried into exile from Jerusalem to Babylon. Build houses and settle down. Plant gardens and eat what they produce. Marry and have sons and daughters. Find wives for your sons and give your daughters in marriage, so that they too may have sons and daughters. Increase in number there, do not decrease. Also seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile. Pray to the Lord for it Because it if it prospers, you too will prosper. Yes, this is what the Lord Almighty, the God of Israel, says do not let the prophets and diviners among you deceive you. Do not listen to the dreams. You encourage them to have. They are prophesying lies to you in my name. I have not sent them, declares the Lord. This is what the Lord says. When seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will come to you and fulfill my gracious promise to bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper you and not to harm you, plans to give you hope and a future. Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you. You will seek me and find me. When you seek me with all your heart, I will be found by you, declares the Lord, and will bring you back from captivity. I will gather you from all the nations and places where I have banished you, declares the Lord, and will bring you back to the place from which I carried you into exile. This is the Word of God. Thanks be to God. Pray with me. Heavenly Father, we pray that now you would open our eyes that we might see wondrous things in your word. That you would equip us with a vision and an understanding of your method and your plan for mission. Help us, we pray, to see what you are doing through this your word, even for us today. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. God's plan for mission is incredibly upside down When we think about how shocking it is that what is said here in this passage is actually said. Because What we have written for us here is Nebuchadnezzar's first going into Jerusalem in 598 and bringing a group of exiles. We learn in the first opening verses. verses three and four that God in fact uh allows and sends into exile through the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the leaders The artisans, the intellectuals, into exile in Babylon and taking them out of Jerusalem, where God was worshipped, where Israel found its place of hope. It's a place of peace. Literally, Jerusalem, the city of peace. And so here God is taking them from a place where He alone is worshipped into A nation and under whose finger there is polytheism and rampant pluralism And it is in this place, in those conditions, that God unfolds His plan for mission. How ironic, and yet how applicable to our own day! Where the Church of Jesus Christ around the world finds itself, not in a monotheistic situation where God of the Bible, Jesus Christ, is worshipped and praised, but rather in a polytheistic and pluralistic world. Where Christianity is not the dominant narrative, Christians do not run the highest place of intellectual pursuit. Christians are not in power. But how then is the Christian church, and how are Christians to live in a pluralistic, polytheistic world? Some would have us believe that in fact the answer would be if we can just return Christians and Christianity to it to the controlling place. What we find here is that God had a different plan for Judah, and perhaps He has a different plan for us. It's being able to see what God's plan is for mission, not only here, but also in our own day. So, to be able to do this, we need to see the prophetic drama. The drama that was playing out between two prophets, Jeremiah and Hananiah. Secondly, we're going to look at the meaning of Jeremiah's message. And then finally, the motivation for this mission. The prophetic drama, the meaning of Jeremiah's message, and the motivation for the mission. First, the prophetic drama. Without an understanding of the background of what precedes chapter 29, little of what Jeremiah says is going to be very shocking. So we need to appreciate that. So we need to see this drama that was happening between Jeremiah and another prophet, Hananiah. So to do that, we need to see that they had dueling visions. Dueling theologies that ultimately would yield a true prophecy. So let's look at this dueling visions as we see this prophetic drama play out. This section of Jeremiah covers chapter 26 through chapter 29, but it was principally in chapters 27 and 28 that we see the dueling visions of these two prophets. These two prophets were prophesying their visions in Jerusalem. And the country of Judah had just been taken into exile. We know just by the message that Jeremiah gives that they had not really yet begun to build families and really gotten involved in exile because they didn't they were now being instructed to build houses. So we know this is early on in the exile, after 598. And then ten years later in 587, nearly ten years later, 587, Jerusalem will be completely sacked by Nebuchadnezzar. So here, they've just been exiled. And so you have a new king on the throne in Judah, Zedekiah. And up comes Hananiah, who says, Here's what is going to happen in the name of the Lord. In two years, the exile will be over. God will defeat Nebuchadnezzar. He will throw down Babylon as our oppressors. I encourage you to pray towards that end and to even participate in rebellion against this horrific nation. In two years, the exile will be over. Well imagine the encouragement and positive nature that found in the king's courts. Two years. And we will be back. We will be restored. Mm-hmm. But then there's Jeremiah. Jeremiah is a, if I can say this, a hard man when it comes to prophecy. He is Has no fear. In fact, he's cheeky. And that yoke symbolized the fact that the nation of Judah was in exile and that they would remain there. And his prophecy was that the nation of Judah would stay in exile for 70 years. Haha. Now we've got a problem. The one prophet says two years, the other says seventy. They've just gone into exile under a foreign enemy nation. Who do you think they were tempted to believe? I know who I would have been tempted to believe Two years sounds a whole lot better than seventy. Here's the problem, however. At the time in which those prophecies were being uh given to the people, the people had no point at no No ability to determine who which one is actually speaking for the Lord. They didn't know yet. What they did know was that in Deuteronomy 18 God says that if a prophet prophesies in my name and that prophecy does not come true, then it will be his life. He will die. At the point of these prophecies, they don't know yet. So between chapter 27 and the and just before the beginning of chapter 29, two years transpire. And in that transpiring time, these dueling visions also ramped up the drama. Hananiah to bring out the drama of his vision. To ramp up the hope of the people, he took the wooden yoke from Jeremiah's neck in public and he broke it in two. As a symbol of what was getting ready to happen to Babylon and the return of the people. Jeremiah would not be had. Jeremiah left and came back. This time, instead of a wooden yoke, he put around his neck an iron yoke. And he says, You can't break this And the iron doesn't represent the power of Babylon, it represents the will of God. And he then calls Hanani out and says, you're a false prophet. You are lying to the people of God. You're not prophesying peace. You're prophesying war. And I say to you, what you say will not come true. In fact, you will die as a result. The two years end. Hananiah's prophecy that he had given in the name of the Lord was found wanting. It didn't come true. And we learn just before chapter 29 these words. Therefore, this is what the Lord says, Jeremiah says, I want, he says, I am about to remove you from the face of the earth. This very year you're going to die because you have preached rebellion against the Lord. And then verse seventeen, in the seventh month of that same year, Hananiah, the prophet, died. The people of God now have seen whose prophecy Was true, and who was speaking for the Lord. Because embedded in their dueling prophecies are dueling theologies. Hananiah says, This is not what the Lord would want. This cannot be good. He was looking at the geopolitical situation. And is essentially saying, are you kidding me? This is the people of God under this foreign enemy nation. That can't be good. We cannot flourish. But he was dead wrong. Because he had interpreted in his theology of God that God's will is contingent on who is on man's throne. Who has the power on earth? Instead, Jeremiah comes and says, No. God's will is not thwarted by who is on the throne. In fact, just the opposite. God will even use the one on the throne. To achieve my will. In other words, the theology is who's in control Man's vision or God's? And only time would tell, wouldn't it? And that's the reality of true prophecy. Only time will tell. And as we look back at this passage and as we see the progressive revelation that in fact What is prophesied does come true according to Jeremiah. But at this point, as one commentator, Walter Brugeman, said this in regard to true prophecy, he says this. True prophecy is the capacity to say the right thing at the right time, a capacity not exercised By prophets of optimism, nor voices of despair You see, Jeremiah was not a prophet of optimism, nor was he a voice of despair. He was speaking for the Lord. Who said this, that that which you see is bad, I tell you, you will flourish if you seek me. I have a future for you, but not by your design, but by mine. He's also one who lays out here for the nation of Judah. This bold implication because of this drama. And it's this. Not only is the Lord in control, because we learned from verse 4, I'm the one who carried you into exile. So it's God's determination of what he's doing in the nation of Judah. But the other implication is this there is power and weakness. Judah had already been in power. Israel, once the united nation, had been the most powerful nation by God under King David. And Solomon, its glory days. But what happened when it was in power? Did it seek the Lord? No, inevitably, over and over again throughout the Old Testament, is the cycle of God bringing Israel restoration, but it would use God's Restoration as an opportunity to worship false gods and false idols. So when they were in power, their influence went to pot. They didn't worship the only wise God, they worshiped something else. But here we learn that maybe being in power according to man is not the place of strength. Maybe being in exile is. Because maybe there the people of Judah can be arrested from their thinking That in fact, maybe what the Lord is doing is not about trying to make us a strong nation, but about making his name and restoration known. And maybe it will take our humiliation for us to learn dependence on this God who is in control, who is sovereign over kings and presidents. Supreme Courts and representatives, governors and state houses. Maybe we can learn That the most influential that the people of God and the Church of Jesus Christ can be is not when we are in cultural power, but maybe when we're out of cultural power. Because maybe, like the people of Judah, we can be arrested from thinking that our dependence on the Lord is determined by who is in power, humanly speaking. But maybe the Lord has a different plan. And that plan is to restore the Church of Jesus Christ and those who belong to Him, but by His design, not by the plan of man. It is a powerful implication, but one that we must wrestle with. And it comes out of this incredible prophetic drama. I encourage you, go back and read it. It's a great read. But then, if you want to hear a personal testimony, go and read Daniel. Because at the very same time that this was being prophesied, guess who was hearing the prophecy? Daniel. And where would Daniel end up? Daniel would end up as one of the most powerful men in Babylon. who had the ear of King Nebuchadnezzar, and he, Daniel, would make the name of the Lord great. It's a powerful thing. But then back to Jeremiah. He has a message. What is the meaning of the message? We see the meaning of the message in verses 5 through 9. It's two things. The task of shalom and openness to God. The task of shalom and the openness to God. The task of Shalom, you'll see here, he says, verse 5 again, build houses, settle down, plant gardens. And eat the produce. So far so good. Marry, multiply. Always a good message. Have children? Make sure they're married. Also a good message. And then he says this, and here's where he tells us about the task of Shalom. It isn't just about building our own personal household. Our own personal economies, our microeconomy in the midst of exile. He means that our microeconomies Of these exiles are meant for the purpose. He says it here. Verse six: Increase in number, there do not decrease. Also seek the peace and prosperity of the city to which I have carried you into exile When he says to seek the peace and prosperity, peace and prosperity are actually two words that are part of a whole word that Hebrew uses with one word, and that is shalom. Shalom has within it more than the concept of the absence of conflict, which is typically how we understand the idea of peace. Shal But biblical understanding of peace, shalom itself, has a much deeper, richer meaning, and that is emotional, relational, economic. Well-being, spiritual well-being. And so he says to these exiles, the task of Shalom means to increase. Yes, literally increase in number, but as you do, you're to do so for the purpose of serving me by serving and seeking the shalom of Babylon. And then he uses this interesting word. He says, seek the peace. That word seek has an aggressive connotation. It's not passive. It's not as though the exiles are to increase in number and seek the shalom of Babylon because they're waiting for Babylon to come to them. No, to seek the peace and prosperity means we began, they were to ask questions, if you will, of the city into which they were in exile. What are the needs? Where's the brokenness? Where has sin caused brokenness? Where are the challenges? And the people of God are called to increase, to do so for the purpose of representing God, faithful to him, by seeking the shalom. And bringing the love and the peace and the grace and the mercy of the biblical God to their neighbors. To the inhabitants of the cities where God had put them into exile. That is a profound message to a people who've just been told you're going to be in exile for 70 years. And the task of shalom has within it the idea of increasing For God's glory to seek the shalom, the well-being, representing God of this nation, but it also means, notice, avoiding decreasing. How could they decrease? Many writers have written about this particular text as they've written about the biblical gospel and the idea of mission for the Church of Christ. And they've often talked about this reality, the temptation for the people of God when they hear the message, To seek the peace and prosperity of the city for the sake of Christ, that there is the temptation to decrease, and that decrease looks like two things: either accommodation to the culture around them. or separation from the culture around them. Those are often seen as the only two options. But the reality is that they were tempted to that possibility That it's very easy just to wall off from the the nation of Babylon who don't worship God, who do not acknowledge Him, or Worship him and to say, but we're going to do it here in our own biblical God enclave. That's the one temptation to separate. But accommodation is the other thing. And that is, like Judah had done in the past, just to become like the people around them. But we know that God says here they are to seek him, and that they are to do so in a biblical way. And to do so at the same time is there to seek the peace and the shalom of the nation. But what does that look like? What does not falling into accommodation look like? It means that we begin to ask, what is our purpose for being here, Lord? And let me apply that now. What is our purpose? What is your purpose for living in the neighborhoods where you live? Do we live in the neighborhoods and and pick our county and pick our city because well that's where the good schools are? Is that our motivation only? Do we build big edifices and call them churches so that we can have really cool programs so we can invite people in and say, see what we're doing? Do we start ministries only to feed ourselves and to serve ourselves? Oh, how tempting that is. But when we do, we're accommodating to the culture. We're simply saying, well, we're going to do that which feeds our consumption. Not asking the question, how can every one of the ministries of Columbia Presbyterian Church How can every single one of our ministries begin to seek the well-being of Columbia and Howard County? How can our ministries meet the brokenness and address it? How can we escape The mirror that is always so tempting to look in when we think about our careers. Why do we work at APL or why do we work in Washington or Baltimore or Howard County? Why do we work in these places? simply to so that we can prop up our middle class lives and then sprinkle a little bit of Christianity on the side with a couple of Christian books, good Christian music, some good Christian seminars? In other words, is our Christian faith Merely an accessory to an already well-lived middle-class life? Or has God called us here for a purpose? To avoid both accommodation, where we simply become like everybody else, meeting our own ends, but also avoiding separation, where we build high walls. And we don't engage. It's not easy, don't get me wrong. But it's also very easy to fall into both of these. But the Lord says there is the task of Shalom through the lips of Jeremiah that he's calling Judah to. But how? By what means? It's right here in chapter in verse 7 at the end of it. And then again in verses 13 to 14, what does he say? He says, pray to the Lord for it. Meaning, pray to the Lord for Babylon. Pray to the Lord if you're a Christian for Howard County, Baltimore, DC Anarundel County, Carroll County, pray to the Lord for its brokenness. Pray to the Lord that it would be restored by the grace and the gospel of Jesus Christ. He then says in verses 13 through 14, you will seek me, or he says, Then you will call you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will listen to you. By what means then is the The meaning of Jeremiah's message laid out. It begins with prayer. Jeremiah knew that. We need to know that. Because in prayer, a wrestling happens. Am I simply asking God to simply meet what I want, but in prayer I begin to find out that what I want needs to be opened with open hands, and maybe the Lord needs to show me what He wants. It begins through pray, prayer, prayer for this community, just as he was calling Judah to pray for the community where they were in exile. It's an openness to God because in prayer we make ourselves open to God's story. His plan for mission and not ours. But again, I you might say, but yes, okay, but what does it look like? Give me some rules. There aren't any rules. Yes, there are the Ten Commandments. There's the law of Christ of love. Yes, those are those. But you're not going to find a book in the Bible that says, what does it look like to be a Christian engineer? What does it look like to be a Christian who's working for the United States government at Fort Meade? We're not going to find that book. But what we will find are principles and a heart. That wants to seek after the Lord and say, Lord, you show me what it means to pray for my cubicle partner, for my next-door neighbor, who doesn't know you, who doesn't worship you. How can I share my life, my shalom that you have given to me with them? You see, in the middle of the fall this year, I know I'm running out of time. Sorry. Stick with me. In the middle of the fall, there was this whole debate about the traditional definition of marriage. You remember, right? Regardless of where you sit. You remember the debate? Okay. You remember how also people wanted to tell us how where we eat needed to be politicized? Yeah Chick-fil-A. Support Chick-fil-A if you support traditional definition of marriage. Don't support Chick-fil-A if you don't. And to all of that, to all of the voices, and I might say, all the false prophets. They want us to believe the lies of what God may be doing. Little did we know, right at the center of that Chick-fil-A debacle and craziness was the president and the the beginner of Chick-fil-A, Dan Cathy. Dan Cathy Look for the cell number of the president of the number one protest group against him and his restaurants He found the man's number, he called him up, and he said, Can we get together? And throughout the fall, they had a series of meetings. And a series of conversations. The end of which would end up with a photograph on the sidelines of the Chick-fil-a bowl. Where everybody was focused on two football teams going head to head, but little did they know on the sidelines something else was meeting together. But not head to head, but arms around each other in a picture that went viral on Twitter. It was a picture of Dan Cathy. With the man who was the president of the group that had most seriously protested against him. And then that man, after all was said and done, wrote an article about the the conversation that happened between him and Dan Cathy. There are many things he says, but this is one. He says, throughout these conversations, Dan expressed a sincere interest in my life. Wanting to get to know me on a personal level. He wanted to know where I grew up, my faith background, my family, even my partner. In return, I learned about his wife, his kids, and gained an appreciation for his devout belief in Jesus Christ and his commitment to being a follower of Christ more than a Christian. Dan expressed deep regret and genuine sadness when he heard about people being treated unkindly in the name of Chick-fil-A, but he offered no apologies. For his genuine beliefs about marriage. Do you see what happened? Dan Cathy moved into this man's life And never once changed his views about his the biblical definitions of marriage between a man and a woman. But neither did the other man make any apologies for his definition of marriage, that it is not just between a man and a woman. But they sat down together and they shared their life, and Dan Cathy did so through the gospel of Jesus Christ. And then he put his mouth where his money is. Or his money where his mouth is. Sorry to mess that up. There you go. He then went into all of their generous and their 501c3 giving. And they then stopped giving to any organizations who were vociferously protesting groups, even the ones represented by this man that he had gotten to know. He didn't change his definition. He didn't change his beliefs. He didn't stop talking about Jesus Christ. Nobody gave him a book of the Bible and said, here's what you do in the conversations. He simply sat down, if you will. And said, tell me about your life, and I will tell you about mine. Principally, I will tell you about my Savior. That is the picture. But it's going to look a whole lot different with those who call Jesus Christ Savior as you lead your lives. But nonetheless, I'm guaranteed that He has a story to tell through you. And it's not one of accommodation and it's not one of separation. It's one that is open to God in prayer, praying for those around you. I have to hurry. Here it is. What's the motivation then? Why? Why should we hear this message of Jeremiah? Why should the people of Judah hear the message? It's given to us in verses 10 through 14. And it's this. There's the hope of restoration. God says. This is what the Lord says, when seventy years are completed for Babylon, I will come to you and fulfill my gracious promise to you and bring you back to this place. For I know the plans I have for you, declares the Lord, plans to prosper y'all, by the way, it's you plural. Plans to prosper you, not to harm you, plans to give you hope in the future. Yes, God cares about you individually, but I will tell you, He cares about individuals in the community of God's people. He has a plan for y'all. He has a plan for us. And that plan is restoration. That's what he was saying to Judah. In other words, what he said verses earlier, which was the task of Shalom, he's now giving him the promise of Shalom. What motivated, what animated their task of Shalom is to recognize it's built on God's promise. God's promise to bring peace. To them through his gracious covenant promise of love. And I say this the motivation. Was because what Jeremiah knew that it would only be through the Lord that that yoke Of iron, that burden of oppression could be removed. You remember what I said, how the Yoke of wood was broken by Hananion, then Jeremiah replaced it with the yoke of iron. Not because it represented the power of Babylon, because it represented that God's will is what it is, and God will do what God will do. Only He can remove that yoke. Because he's the one who's brought us into it. What is so amazing is you begin to see this pattern in chapter 29, you begin to see it's a great biblical theological theme. That we see ultimately fulfilled in Jesus Christ. When Jesus came from the Father, what does he say to us in Matthew 11? Come unto me, all who are weary and heavy laden, for I will give you rest, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. You see, here's the reality. That promise of a hope and a future would find its ultimate fulfillment, not in the return to Jerusalem, but the coming of Christ. And instead of sending us into exile because of our sin, Jesus Christ would go into exile on the cross. Exiled from fellowship with the Father. And on that cross, he would take from us the yoke of iron, which is sin, take it upon himself, though he was without sin. And he would give himself, as we are getting ready to celebrate the Lord's Supper, this body, this blood for you. But now watch this. It's why did Jesus do that? Because he knew that in going into exile, the Lord had a promise and a future for him that he would be raised on the third day over death. And conquering sin. And then he would rise at the right hand of the Father, and he says to us, I have a promise, I have a future, and a hope for you, for I will return and make you my own. Every knee shall bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And we will be returned to the great city, a new heavens and a new earth, and at its middle, the true Jerusalem, the city of peace. You see, when we come to celebrate the supper, we are celebrating in active participation, in symbol, what God was telling Judah. I will send my son into exile for you, so that I can free you. I can forgive you. If that doesn't wow you, if that does not electrify you, maybe it's because you're not convinced of your most central problem, and that's the reality of sin. And maybe it's been thinly veiled by the pursuit of a middle class life. But my message to you this morning is one of shalom. That you will never find well-being in any economic class. You will never find true well-being in any neighborhood or any city. You will only find well-being when it begins and it ends in Jesus Christ. Come to know Him today. Renew. Let us renew together our faith that God's plan for mission may be radically different than ours because He's writing a much bigger story than we could ever imagine. Let us pray that He will make us open to it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we pray you would make us open to what you are doing. Help us to see that in fact you have a purpose for your people to make you known, to seek the shalom, the prosperity, the peace of this community around us. Lord, help us to seek and to know sin and its brokenness in this community, Baltimore and Washington, and how you might be calling us. To seek its well-being in your name, for your glory, through the power of the gospel. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.