Uh a few things that Robert probably didn't tell you. One of them was um that with the um the fellowship that started in our house, um We we did not have room or we did not have let me put it this way, we didn't have enough chairs and so we borrowed chairs from their house. And and so uh every Sunday they were waiting for us to to borrow chairs from their house. And um And and the other thing um it probably uh didn't tell you is that we were so much looking forward to having them uh come back last year when Andrew got sick, uh because uh Robert had become dear to me and um about two weeks before they they came back uh we got the news that um they were not gonna come back because um I I do not have um any other person helping me in the ministry. and and Robert was um very helpful to me. So with Andrew getting sick, um Um that was not easy for a family. Um but God knows his plans. He has his plans, his plans are always the best. And then the other thing he didn't tell you is that he said he witnessed the um the burning of the fetishes of my father. But he is actually the one who preached. Um it not just to go to witness but uh he gave uh the Lord's word and challenged the people also to give their lives to Christ. Um So um Robert has been a true brother to me in many ways, especially in the ministry in Nairobi. Um my topic this morning is um I I saw that you had it um broken down for you in three points and um I I discovered that I had to when Robert told emailed me and and asked me what my topic was, he wanted me to give him um a three point summon And I I prob normally don't think that way. Um I I I don't think in in one, two or three point but um you have them Um and and this is basically my sermon, um, because I I feel this is God's agenda uh for the world. Uh not just for America but everyone included God's agenda is that He includes everyone in His plans of salvation And I know that there are people who are here this morning and they're gonna hear the same thing uh because I'll be basically uh trying to share the same thing that are shared this morning. And I know that you have great uh preachers, you have great pastors in this congregation, and this is not um a new message It it's probably new in the sense that it's coming from a different person. But I know the message is not new because it's in the scripture. And I said this morning that I I wanted to take you from Genesis through Revelation in in the twenty minutes that I have. Um and some did not believe me, but I wanna do the same thing this this morning again. I want to take you uh from Genesis through Revelation and try to show you God's agenda for the world. Uh but before I get to Genesis twelve, everything starts in in Genesis one. Uh God's agenda there is to create, and this is what God does. He creates And Genesis 1 tells us that everything that God creates is good. Um He says, let there be and there was, and everything that He created was good. and and and it was pleasing. In fact in his eyes everything uh that he created was perfect. And he puts um man in his created creation to take care of it um after creating man and woman in chapter two of Genesis and then um He tells them to be obedient to his word and and of course it did not take long before Adam and Eve disobeyed God's word. And chapter three uh talks about the fall of man. And uh what that sin uh did, not just to Adam and Eve, but also to the whole creation. Everything that God had created uh was affected by that sin. And that's why we today have to to work so hard to earn our bread and um this was because God's plan did not go as he wanted and as he wished in Genesis um chapter one. And and so Chapter four what we happen is what happens in chapter four is because of this sin in chapter three, um we see sin in fact coming Not outside of the family, but inside the family, where the children of Adam and Eve are the first ones to be affected by this sin. And so these are the consequences of sin that we find um, even today in every family. And that's why there are always quarrels, there are always fights. Uh it's it's because of this sin in Genesis chapter three. And there's no cure for this. Um For this sin. In fact, Jeremiah poses up a very good question to all of us. Who can know the heart of a man because it is deceitful. It's only God who can know the heart of a man. It's only God who can know your heart and my heart. Um even myself. I don't understand myself sometimes Um and that's why people have problems with me, uh, because they um I don't understand myself. Um and of course Uh even Paul talks about uh the consequences of sin in Romans chapter seven. The things that I want to do, I don't do them. And the things that I strive to do, the things I work hard to do, those are the things that I cannot do This is um this is the reality of sin and this is what sin has done not just to to me um But to all of us. Or maybe the Americans are different. Maybe they don't fight against, you know, each other. Maybe it's always peaceful in the house uh because there's always the love of God. But um in my home because of this sin um I'm always pointed uh to that reality of this sin in me. Um but this is as a result of uh the consequences of this sin in chapter three of Genesis and then uh from uh chapter five we begin to see the lawlessness and um and the flood in in chapter seven and how God begins to uh to make different plans uh after the fall of man that he caused Noah and his family again in the family Noah and his family to uh begin a new creation. Um And it doesn't seem to last you long because um as as you know very well, um since you I know you love to read the Bible You know that in in Genesis chapter eleven there's confusion of languages. Uh that there was there seemed to be just one language in the whole wide world and everyone seems to understand one another. But because of sin in Genesis three Um God could see the ego of the self-centeredness in in human beings, whereby human beings are saying, Let us make something for ourselves Not for God, not to please God or to worship God with what they want to do, but let us make something for ourselves. Again, uh sin is always wanting the first place in our lives. And uh but this was not God's plan. God's plan was not to create mankind, to rule himself, but for God to rule and to govern what he had created because he is the creator of everything. And so in Genesis chapter twelve, which is uh the passage I gave, um actually We clearly now begin to see God's agenda for the world. That in Genesis chapter 12, verse 2, he tells he comes to Abraham And tells him, I will make you into a great nation, and I will bless you. I will make your name great, and you will be a blessing. I will make you into a great nation. And the word actually for nation is not just one specific nation, it is not just Gentiles Uh, but it is actually all nations because in Genesis chapter eleven we see there are different languages. And so how is God God going to fit all these languages together? All these people who cannot understand each other anymore. And God says, I want to create uh a new kingdom. For myself. And in this kingdom I'm going to include only those people whom I love. In fact, that is um what he tells uh Moses In Genesis, um uh rather in Exodus thirty-three, nineteen, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy. So God's kingdom is going to be completely different. Not the way human beings would envision or want it to be, but the way God wants it because this is his agenda. Agenda is to have um a kingdom for himself whereby he is going to call people from every nation and tribe and so When when God appears to Abraham in Genesis chapter 12, verse 2 and says, I'll make you into a great nation. It's actually a nation that includes all languages. that uh we find in in um um in in Genesis chapter eleven. All these people groups are going to be now part of God's agenda because this is the way God wants to establish his kingdom. So God is disappointed in his creation in Genesis chapter one and begins to make efforts uh to actually um uh after the fall to create or recreate a new kingdom whereby this new kingdom is only going to be um composed or filled with people that he loves, people who love one another. But of course because of sin we know that uh this is not always the case that uh when God expects that there will be love toward one another even in the family, that this love toward one another is not there. When God expects us to love those who are outside of the family This also doesn't come because of the same nature in us. So in fact to the point that even Paul is asking in uh Romans chapter seven, where does my help come from? My help comes from God. My help comes from Jesus Christ. This is God's plan for for his creation. And and so beginning with Genesis to the end of the scripture, the end of the Bible, it's filled with um sections all over of God trying to establish his kingdom where he's gonna be calling people from every tribe and nation. And um there's also a reference that I like to mention in Isaiah chapter two. whereby God as he continues calling people to himself, um, it's actually becoming clear that even in the last days, the mountain of the Lord's temple in Isaiah chapter two Verse 2. The last days, the mountain of the Lord's temple will be established as chief among the mountains. It will be raised above the hills. And all nations will stream to it. All nations. And God is now in this process of calling all nations, people from every language. every nation to himself. They are all streaming to worship the Lord Jesus Christ because he's going to be the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. in God's kingdom. This is the kind of kingdom that God wants. In even in Psalm 71, it it talks about the kings, God calling kings to himself. and all nations to come and worship him, because this is what the Lord um desire. The Lord desires it is to to call these people to himself. Again, uh in the New Testament, Ephesians chapter two. um it becomes apparent that even um the hatred that continues to happen between uh different groups of people, God wants us to be reconciled one to the other. And this is uh something that he shows us clearly as he did with uh the Jews and the Gentiles, who remained um enemies for years and years, um as as we see in Ephesians chapter two. 11. Therefore remember that formerly, you who are Gentiles, and these are the nations again, you who are from the nations People from Africa, America, you know, those excluded from the Jewish um um the Jewish tribes or the the Jewish uh nationhood. They are the the nations. These are the people that God is calling to Himself. And he says, therefore, remember that formerly you who are Gentiles by birth and called and circumcised by those who call themselves the circumcision that done in the body by the hands of men. Remember that at that time you were separated from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel, and foreigners to the covenant of the promise, without hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, who once were far away, had been brought near through the blood of Jesus Christ. The blood of Jesus Christ reconciles us, both Jews and Gentiles. And Gentiles again is the nations here. For he himself, Jesus Christ is our peace. who has made the two one and has destroyed the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing in his flesh the law with its commandments and regulations. His purpose was to create In himself, one new man out of the two, thus making peace, and in the one body to reconcile both of them to God through the cross by which he put to death their hostility. And we expect that this hostility has been done away with because of the sinful nature that still remains in us And because of our desire for God to forgive us, not just once, but continually, this hostility is always in us. And that's why even in the family, even in close friends, even in uh um uh those who are married, you know that this this hostile spirit, this hostile heart is always in us because of the sin nature that we find in Genesis three. Not just the sin nature but the sin that still lives in us So if it were not Jesus Christ who comes to give us peace, um I don't know what kind of a world that it uh would be that we are living in. But Jesus Christ comes to reconcile us first to God and then to um And that that the Gentile, the Jew and the Gentile should also be reconciled one to the other. And this is God's agenda. That He wants us also to be reconciled toward one another It's not just that God loves us and we say, Hallelujah, God loves me. All this great sign is for myself. But it's God's God's purpose that Everyone else also is included in part of his kingdom because this is his agenda. Uh that uh he wants um people from every nation and tribe to come to him And so God's purpose is to create or rather to recreate again because his his plans of of of of mankind in Genesis one failed. His plans now is to recreate a new kingdom. And and we know that this kingdom is going to be filled by people who love Jesus Christ. And again, uh in Revelation chapter seven Um beginning first nine, we are reminded of how God is calling people from every nation, tribe and language to Himself. to build his kingdom. And you know what? Even the last book of the Bible And the last chapter still has something to say about God's creation. Has something to say about God's plans In in ch Genesis uh Revelation chapter 22, verses 1 and 2. Then the angel showed me the river of the water of life as clear as crystal Flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb, down the middle of the great street of the city, on each side of the river stood the tree of life bearing twelve crops of fruit, yielding in its fruit every month, and the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations Amazing, isn't it? That God's plan is to create a new kingdom for Himself. And that we are going to be part of that creation. We are going to be part of that God's plan. We're going to be part of God's agenda for establishing his kingdom. And that God wants to use us in his plan of salvation. God wants you to be part of what he is doing among the nations. And that sometimes you don't even have to leave the US to do that. Because your next door neighbor happens to be from another ethnic background. Yes. We are all going to be part of God's great plan of salvation. Because this is not my idea, it is God's plan. It's his idea. It's his great agenda of salvation, of establishing his kingdom. But you know what? It's not as easy as I probably may have put it that, you know, we become a Christian and everyone is a brother or sister in Christ. Because I know in reality that is not the case. And the Bible, the scripture itself realizes that because of our sinful nature, there are always things that hinder us from making that one step. To tell someone else about this love of God. Because those are the people who are included in God's agenda for the world. For me, and I can speak for myself, um and the ministry that I'm involved in Kenya is that Um I think I said this morning that we have Indians in Kenya. The Indians came in Kenya over a hundred years ago. And and because Kenya was a British colony, uh, they were brought there by the British government to to work on the railway. But then after finishing the work, uh many of the Indians became Kenyan citizens, so that we have fourth and fifth generation Indians today who consider themselves Kenyans in every right, like every other citizen of the country, uh, because Kenya is their home and not India. They they have uh uh many of them have nothing, very little to do with India. because that's not their home. You know, fourth, fifth generation, uh, they don't have much. But, you know, the parents, um, their parents did have something to do more with India than they do have today And and so these Indians um as Kenyans uh are they are expected also to play a crucial role um in in in in our system, in our government. But the problem is because we the Africans, we the blacks are the dominant culture in Kenya And and and we don't like the Asians. Um we hate them, we think they are corrupt, um, we think that they are paper citizens and not true and genuine citizens of the country and we think that um they should park and leave. In fact some of our politicians have said that. They should park and leave and go back to India, uh where they came from. Um and this um this talk has encouraged many of us Kenyans uh to hate the Indians even much more uh because of this talk from our leaders, uh that they are corrupt, um, they only use us to enrich themselves And and that's all they're interested in. They're interested only in making money and and not us as people. And uh to a big extent it's actually true uh that we uh many times do not see eye to eye with the Indians in Kenya and every time there are riots, they are always the five to victims uh of violence and uh their shops are always uh looted quickly before they close them down uh because of this animosity and hatred between us and the Asians uh well you you hear me say Asians and Indians. It's it's we use both terms but um the reason is because um when Indians came to Kenya, Kenya India was one country. Um And and today India is not one country. We have Pakistan and India. So these are two countries and so the word we use in Kenya is Asian. Um, but you know, basically all of them came from India when India was one country. Um I think you should understand me in that sense. So this hatred has continued uh all these years, all these generations, uh between us and the uh and the Asians. And And and so even when the missionaries came to reach us, also over a hundred years ago, um uh we many of us got converted so that today we have On paper, statistically eighty percent of the country is Christian. Um but we say, you know, the The born-again Christians say we have about thirty percent confessed Christians in Kenya. But what I wanted to say is that Even when the missionaries came to reach us, um and many of our people got converted, and many of our churches um uh got packed every Sunday with uh us worshiping Lord and and praising him. uh you would rarely, hardly see any Indian in our churches uh because we don't like them, we make it uh uncomfortable for them. And and because of this we have never bothered to reach them, uh until today. And um And then now we have fourth, fifth generation Indians who many of them, some of them have become Christian and they have come to challenge us and and this happened to me about five years ago when one of them uh attended our church which was predominantly black, uh, he came and and challenged us and said You Africans, you're preaching about Jesus Christ. You think that we are corrupt. You think that we are bad. You think that we are paper citizens. You think that we need to pack our things and go back to to India Which is true, you said. But you have withheld the love of Jesus Christ from us. And that was what broke my heart. And and I began to pray and ask God, but God, where do I begin? Um, you know that we don't like these people. I don't even know any Indian to begin with. What can I do? And God, through this prayer, uh pointed out clearly to me that I should pray and I prayed and through this prayer uh God kept on pointing to me that I should pray for five Indians And I prayed for th for those five Indians and within four four months God brought them to me, one after the other. With those uh four five Indians we we started a fellowship in our living room. And through the ones that came, um we we got to know their their friends and relatives and we were able to reach them. because reaching to an Indian is actually very, very difficult. It's not uh Indians are very uh community oriented. Their social life it demand that um uh because we are all Indian that we support one another. Um and and this is this is this is a cultural thing. I'm not saying that it's good or bad or What I'm saying is that this is their culture, that they support one another, and they are always there for each other. They will find a wife for you. They will do everything for you, even if you need money for business, they'll own that money to you, interest to free, to start your own business and then pay it back. So everything is done within the family and it's very difficult for somebody like me to come and have any impact or get to to get to know them. Um but God was gracious um to me that uh he provided these uh five Indians. uh which for me was a confirmation from God that it it was not out of guilt conscience um that I wanted to do this. It was a confirmation for me from God that this is my plan, this is my great plan This is this is the plan the plan I have for the for the whole world, not just uh for me, uh, not just for the Indians. But it's my great agenda to bring all nations to myself And I have to use somebody. And and and I began to discover that that somebody was me, even when I was telling God, uh, it's difficult, I I cannot do it uh, you know, our relationship and and so forth, etc. All the kinds of excuses that human beings like to make. I was making those excuses, but every time God kept on pointing his finger, you know, at me, um Well maybe God doesn't have fingers, but w once he begins to speak to you, um, you you have no uh doubt in your mind that it is actually God speaking to you. So God confirmed all this to me that he wanted to use me uh to reach the Asian uh people Why? Because Asians worship a different religion. They worship a religion. And I have come to discover that they have over 330 million gods. Not that they worship all these three hundred and and thirty million gods together But almost every household has a God in the family. A God that they worship, a God that they um they ask for everything, material things especially, and blessings. And I knew that we do not worship a religion. We worship a person. We have a relationship with a person. Jesus Christ. And this concept as I came to discover is not not there in the ancient culture or thinking that one can have a relationship with somebody or that somebody could die for you as Jesus Christ dies for us. That concept is not there. And Christianity is the only religion If you can put it that way, the only religion in the whole world that has somebody we call God who loves us so much and comes to us. And because of the relationship, the broken relationship in Genesis 3 that I pointed out, that Jesus Christ comes to make peace between us and God. And that by trusting Jesus Christ our sins are forgiven and this relationship, this broken relationship, is restored. And we can talk to God as our Father. And we can address our problems to this God. That doesn't exist in the Indian culture. Because you make a God for yourself. And then you worship this God. So the concept of a relationship is very difficult, but I know that God is at work even as I speak. Of gathering people from every nation and tribe to himself. Because this is his agenda. This is his plan for the wide world. That all people come to himself And I had the benediction today from Matthew 28, from every nation, tribe. God you all making disciples of every nation. So it's not just one specific group of people that God is interested in. So that we that we don't get consumed in that. But God's plan is to bring people from every tribe and language to Himself, to worship Him, to praise Him. This is the love that God has communicated to us. And we have, as his children, we have we have his word. We have this love. We have his blessings to share with our lost neighbor. maybe from a different ethnic background, about this great love of God. Because it is God's great agenda for the world to bring all people groups to Himself. That is going to be his kingdom where we're going to worship him and praise him forever and ever. Amen? Let's pray. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for your great love to us. Thank you for The way you demonstrate from Genesis through Revelation of your great plan of salvation to all nations, to people from every tribe and language. To bring them to yourself to establish your kingdom. Lord, we know that through your great And abounding love, we are part of that plan. And I pray that Lord you would help us to make that great step of faith. And tell someone else of your great agenda for the world. So that they too might be included in your kingdom Thank you so much for loving us. And we know that once we catch Your love. The fire in us cannot stop. It has to grow. We have to share your love. With everyone else. Thank you. We praise you and thank you.