Well, this past week, most of us threw away our 1996 calendars, right? This simple act that we do every year is One way of reminding us how brief our lives are and how quickly, how swiftly they're moving along. Whereas Henry Wadsworth Longfellow once wrote, It is not till time with reckless hand has torn out half the leaves from the book of human life to light the fires of passion with. That man begins to see that the leaves which remain are few in number. Or in the words of Psalm 103, Verses 15 and 16 that we have been looking at last week and then again today. As for man, his days are like grass. He flourishes like a flower of the field. The wind blows over it and it is gone, and its place remembers it no more. Last week we looked at the context of these verses, the larger context, and saw that uh Psalm 103 is a psalm of praise to God for his great compassion. The heart of that Psalm is verses 7-18 divided neatly into two halves of six verses apiece. Verses 7 to 12, God's great compassion to us as guilty sinners. described in the dimensions of space. Distance, verse 11, as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him. His love is compared to the distance between here and the farthest reaches of the heavens. For verse 12, As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. As we think back on all the regrets and the wish we could have done differently of 1996, God has placed that as far as the East is from the West, infinitely far from us. In all of our failures. And then verses 13 to 18 speak of God's compassion to us, not here so much in terms of being guilty sinners, but frail mortals. As we're aware of that, the beginning of a new year, time moving so quickly on. Here, God's compassion, not in terms of distance, but duration. Our lives are so brief, and his compassion is eternal. Last week we looked at the context more broadly. This morning I want to look at the comfort of this more specifically. And you say, why do you speak of comfort? Well, because I don't know about you, but for me, verses 15 and 16 are very sobering. I like to think my life's just going to go on and on. You know, it's kind of hard to imagine the world existing without me. And when I look and see that I am in fact just a blip Within the scope of history, then if you're like me, your heart cries out for comfort. And so the first point in the outline that you see there about our comfort is the need for the comfort. Our days on earth are so soon over. As this psalm puts it, our days are like grass. We're like grass that's here today and mown down tomorrow, gone. We're like a frail flower that the hot Blasting wind of the east blows over it, and in the morning it's fresh. Fresh, beautiful bloom in the dew. By the afternoon, it's curled and faded and dead. God says that's the way your life is. That's the way my life is So soon gone. A number of you have lost a parent in the last year or so For someone close to you, and feel particularly keenly these words of how brief life is. And we need some comfort as we recognize the brevity of our life. I lost my mom four years ago this month, January 1993. That year I cleaned out her house of fifty years of memories and possessions. Some of them were precious, some were insignificant. Sometimes it's an insignificant possession or memory that can leap up and startle you with a significance. Gives unexpected meaning. It was in December 15th, 1994, over a year after I had cleaned out my mom's house Then I was in the shower and opened a new bottle of shampoo that she had bought and had never used Suddenly I was overwhelmed with grief, remembering her buying that and never getting to use it And I wrote a meditation on Ceylon Selectives. Let me read it to you Today I opened a new bottle of shampoo for my mom. I thought how casually she must have taken this from the Acme shelf and put it in her basket. Just another item to use. How many bottles of shampoo had she bought in her life? But what if a little voice had whispered, You will never get to open that. You will have no need for it You will be dead before you finish the bottles that you now have. This bottle will sit Will still sit sealed in your closet while you pass from this life and stand before your Creator to be judged. Are you ready? And I thought, are there things that I have already bought that I will never have need for because I will depart this life before I get to use them? Am I ready for that day? Are there things you have bought that you will never get to use? Are you ready for that day? Mom always said, don't be morbid, Al. Let's not talk about that now. And now is too late As for man his days are like grass. He flourishes like a flower of the field. Wind blows over it and it is gone. And its place remembers it no more. You notice the end of that verse? Its place remembers it no more. I'm still thinking of my mom. Some of you have lost loved ones, and you think how vividly you still remember them. But it's a chilling thing to actually think how soon we are forgotten, isn't it? I've told some of you the story in the past of Howard Hughes, one of the most influential, richest men on earth. Who after his death in one of his casinos, in honor of his memory, they set aside one minute of silence. And after the one minute to the second was up, the gamer at the table said, He's had his minute, roll the dice. So much for the memory of Howard Hughes. But you say, but at least my family will remember me. Well, for a while. Let me ask you something. How many of you can tell me the names of your great grandparents? Fellow by the name of Gordon Dalby runs a lot of men's seminars. He generally starts those seminars By having the men introduce themselves, I am so-and-so, the son of so-and-so, the grandson of so-and-so, and the great-grandson of so-and-so. He says that about 70% of the men can name their grandfather. About 30% don't know who their grandfather is. And less than 10% of the men at all the seminars that he's conducted can name their great-grandfather. The place remembers it no more. The wind blows over it and is gone. And its place, its family. Those closest down through the line, remember it no more. You see now why we need some comfort? And so what does the scripture offer to us here? Go on to the contrast and see that The psalmist contrasts those verses with the fact that in verse 17, the Lord will remember us forever. But from everlasting to everlasting, the Lord's love is with those who fear him and his righteousness. With their children's children. Don't miss that one simple point here in this verse in contrast to verse 16. The wind blows over and has gone its place, remembers it no more, but, contrast, from everlasting to everlasting, the Lord's love is with those who fear him. Beyond the love, there is the simple fact that we're never out of his mind. He never forgets us. He remembers us forever and forever. And of course, even more than remembering us. Point two, point one, of course, the Lord will never forget me. Point two is his covenant love is with me forever. From everlasting to everlasting, the Lord's love. And that word love is that rich biblical term for his faithful covenant love. That is with me forever, for those who fear him. This is what we've been seeing in the book of Ephesians. Do you remember in Ephesians chapter 1? We saw in verse 4 that he chose us in him before the creation of the world to be holy and blameless in his sight. In love, he has predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ in accordance with his pleasure and will, to the praise of his glorious grace. Which He's freely given us in the one that He loves. From before time, from before creation, there never was a time when the Lord did not have you in mind. It's a staggering thought, isn't it? Before there was a world, eternally before anything existed, before Adam, God had you in mind. He knew you and he loved you. That's what this says. He chose you in eternity. To set his love upon you in Jesus Christ. And that love will continue on to eternity. Ephesians chapter 2. In verse 6, we've seen again and again God raised us up with Christ and seated us with him in the heavenly realms in Christ Jesus In order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace expressed in his kindness to us in Christ. You see that in all the coming ages He'll continue to unfold to you and to me the incomparable riches of his grace. Continue to display it. From eternity to eternity, the Lord's love is with those who fear him. But if you're like me, you can read a verse like that, and there's still something missing. Because you think back on 1996, you think about what you're like, and you hear that The people speak about the Lord's love, and it seems like something that's somewhat glib and superficial. Interesting, isn't it? How we can talk about God's love for us. And then walk out and tomorrow feel so much like orphans and so unloved. Why is that? Because I think we don't make the connection between what we're like and how He can love us. You see, the point of these verses, you see, back in verse 14, where it talks about how he knows how we're formed. He remembers that we are dust. It's that word dust that triggers, verses 15 and 16. Dust speaks of the curse. Thus speaks of the fact that Adam and Eve turned their back on God's love, and they decided that they would live life the way they decided to live it. Independent. Wanting their eyes to be open, to explore, to do things on their own. And so God said, from dust you came. And to dust you will return. Dust is a symbol of the curse, the symbol of the fact that our days are so brief. And so when God says that his love is upon, his covenant love is upon those who fear him, he is leading to this addressing of the fact that you and I don't deserve that love. And when you're honest, if you really think back on this past year, if you're the kind of person who keeps a journal, for instance, or somehow reflects on your life. And you look back and don't blame shift, don't minimize those things that in this past year you've done that have failed. Your husband, your wife, your kids, your parents, your friends. And look at all those ways that you have been petty The ways that you've been self-righteous, the ways that you've gossiped about others behind their back. Those ways that you've been lazy and sought simply to please yourself rather than to take the effort to think about someone else's need Those times when you simply indulged your own pleasure, at the expense or cost of someone else, when you've been absolutely thoughtless and selfish. And self-centered. You and I say, How can he love me like that? That's why he adds the second part of verse 17. He says, and his righteousness with their children's children. Now what does that mean? You notice it does not say your righteousness. It says his righteousness. What is that referring to? Follow me. This is going to require some thinking and following of a train of thought and I want to urge you that I think it's worth it because I think it can affect the whole way you look at 1997. So kind of bear with me for a few minutes as we look at what this word means, particularly in this context. The third point that I want to make here is that his righteousness is with me forever. And that's the basis for his love being with me, and that's the basis for the fact that I will transcend mortality. Perhaps Psalm 24 can help us at this point in understanding what that word means. Back in Psalm 24, the psalmist raises a very similar question. In verse 3, he asks the question, who may ascend to the hill of the Lord? Who may stand in his holy place? In other words, who is acceptable to God? Who is the one who is able to be accepted in his presence? And then in verse four, by the way, in in verse three, that idea of standing in his holy place Yeah, the idea there is uh the same kind of idea of Psalm 1, uh that there will be those who in that last day will be like the chaff which the wind simply blows away, they're gone, they disappear, they're consumed As opposed to those who stand in his holy place. Those who are accepted, those who are in his presence and welcomed in that presence to stand. Now, who is it that's going to stand? In that day when we all stand before our Creator and our Judge. Verse 4: He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to an idol or swear by what is false. It sounds like he's saying there, the person who lives a righteous life. Verse 5, he will receive blessing from the Lord and vindication from God his Savior. Now that word vindication there in Psalm 24, verse 5, is the same word that you have in Psalm 103, verse 17, translated righteousness. He will receive blessing from the Lord and righteousness from God, his Savior. That righteousness in Psalm 24 means the declaration from God in that day That this person has met all the requirements of God's standard and therefore is able to stand in his presence. He has clean hands and a pure heart. Therefore, whether you have bought something that you'll never get to use. Whether your life will end in 1997 or 2007 or 2017 or beyond, all of us will stand before the Lord one day. And will hear either the vindication, that statement, you are declared righteous, you have met my standards, welcome into my presence, or The statement of condemnation, not vindicated, you have not met the standard, your hands are not clean, your heart is not pure, depart from me. Into everlasting torment reserved for the devil and his angels. And brothers and sisters, there is absolutely nothing more important Than knowing which declaration we will receive. In Isaiah, Isaiah uses this idea of righteousness. And he speaks of that coming from the Lord. It's a righteousness that is the Lord's righteousness. Very interesting use. And he combines that idea with the idea of salvation. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 46, in verse 12, Isaiah says, Listen to me, you stubborn-hearted, you who are far from righteousness. I am bringing my righteousness near. You and I are not righteous. Our hands are not clean. Our hearts are not pure. We look back over this past year and we're full of shame and regret. Not that we've done everything wrong. Say, boy, this guy's pretty hard on us. No. There have been things that we can look back with pleasure, delight. But if we're really honest, we're far from having met God's standard in this past year, aren't we? Aren't you? Isaiah says, You who are far from righteousness, look. God is saying, I am bringing my righteousness near. It is not far away. And my salvation will not be delayed. I will grant salvation to Zion and my splendor to Israel. God saying, I'm bringing righteousness and salvation. Salvation is Yeshua. I am bringing Yeshua and I am bringing righteousness. So, Isaiah chapter 45. The last couple of verses, just before that, they will say of me, in the Lord alone are righteousness and strength. All who have raged against them, against him, will come to him and be put to shame. But in the Lord all the descendants of Israel will be found righteous. And will exalt. Somehow, Isaiah is saying, I am going to be found in him with his righteousness. How do I get that? It's not stated. But that's the hope. And so in Isaiah 51, you read in verse 5 and 6, My righteousness Draws near speedily. My salvation is on the way. My arm will bring justice to the nations. The islands will look to me and wait in hope for my arm. Lift up your eyes to the heavens. Look to the earth look at the earth beneath. The heavens will vanish like smoke, the earth will wear out like a garment. It's all going to come to an end, and its inhabitants are going to die like flies But my salvation, my Yeshua, my salvation will last forever. My righteousness will never fail. So, Psalm a hundred and three says, His righteousness is with children's children. How do I get that righteousness? And the answer is given to you and to me in Romans chapter 3. Look again in this context. At what Paul says about God's righteousness. In Romans chapter 3, beginning in verse 21, he says, but now a righteousness from God. Now this is this is an objective righteousness. This isn't your righteousness. In fact, he goes on to say it's a righteousness apart from the law. It's not a righteousness that you and I attain. By our clean hands and our pure heart meeting his standard. A righteousness from God, apart from the law, has been made known to which the law and the prophets testify, just like we read in Isaiah. This righteousness from God comes how? Through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. There's no difference among any of us, you see. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified. That word means declared righteous. declared having met the standard of God's righteousness and are justified, declared righteous, same word, freely. By his grace, through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus, God presented him as a sacrifice of atonement. How is that gained? Through faith in his blood. He did this to demonstrate his justice. Because in his forbearance he had left the sins committed beforehand unpunished. Old Testament sins had not been dealt with. He did it to demonstrate his justice at the present time, so as to be just. God never compromises one iota his justice. When he says, my love continues to you forever and ever, it never overlooks one single sin that you've committed. He is absolutely just But he is also the one who justifies those who have faith in Jesus You see, when he finishes in Psalm a hundred and three, in verse uh eighteen, he goes on to say His righteousness with their children's children, with those who keep his covenant. The idea is that this is in fulfillment of the covenant. For in the covenant you and I recognize that we do not have clean hands or a pure heart. But there is one who did. Jesus. And Jesus was declared righteous. And when Jesus was declared righteous, he exercised the privilege that he had of inheriting the covenant. And all the blessings of that covenant, the kingdom of God, to lay aside that right, and to take your sin and my sin upon himself. And to die in your place, so that he got your record and you got his righteousness. Now, brother and sister, do you know what that means? It means when you look at 1997 You know exactly right now how God will grade this next year of your life If you are in Jesus Christ this morning, you already have an A plus You already know that God will hold nothing of this next year against you. You already know that you have the objective righteousness of Jesus Christ And therefore, you're free to live this year out of that assurance. Not struggling and scratching and clawing and hoping for God's smile, but having already received his righteousness Knowing that that is the basis for the fact that His love continues upon you forever and ever. You're freed to learn how to please one who loves you so much. Do you see the fourth point here? This is only for those that see that righteousness being worked out into your life right now. For those who keep his covenant and remember to obey his precepts, that's not giving grace with one hand and then withdrawing it with the other. What that's saying is simply if you have his righteousness, and you notice also, parents, that that righteousness is to your children's children. It is a righteousness that you and I claim in the covenant for our children to belong to them, because God's intention is to bring them to righteousness also. That when you and I rest in that righteousness, then inevitably God works out that righteousness in our lives. We want to please him. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning and you hear me state, God has already given you an A plus, a statement of perfect as a record of his that stands before him at the end of this next year. You don't say Great! Man, that's terrific. Now I can go sin anywhere I want. Boy, that's terrific. Man, I don't have to worry about this. Boy, what that's out, you really relieved the burden from me. Man, that is great. Here I was sweating, and I had to read that chronological Bible, and I'd have to talk to people about the Lord, and I'd have to start dealing with some of this sin. That's great. They didn't have to worry about that at all You see, Romans 6 says, if that's your attitude, hey, more grace than more sin, Paul says, you don't understand new life in Christ. Because new life in Christ delivers you from sin, and as a new creature in Christ, you recognize sin not only dishonors, but it harms you. And you hate sin. And so the freedom is to say, I am freed up to become more like Jesus, having already had the statement of his judgment passed upon me and dealt with. That's completed. It's like taking a course. I know I'm already going to get an A in the course, and now all I have to do is just concentrate on learning the material because I want to know it. Makes it fun, you say And so now you are able to enter into 1997, with the days of eternity ahead with a compassionate Father. But if in your heart you have sensed a freedom to sin, let me warn you. Three times over, he says in this psalm, in verse 13, he has compassion on those who fear him. In verse 17, the Lord's love is with those who fear him. Verse 11: So great is his love for those who fear him. Don't presume upon the love of Jesus Christ. It's for those who recognize how terrible sin is. And are like a hamster in the palm of a master. Now, the hamster, if it's got any sense, knows you could crush that little creature by squeezing it. And so the hamster fears to sit in the palm of your hand. But if you've shown that hamster through weeks and months of feeding it and petting it and loving it, That it has nothing to fear from you. It can rest, but it always rests knowing you could crush it. That's what Psalm 103 is saying. We live in fear of God, not the fear that says, I have to fear for what he's going to do, but always knowing: He is God, I'm the creature, I have the righteousness of Jesus. I am safe. But I'm safe from the one who could snuff out my life in a moment. And he is now my compassionate father. As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. And that compassion in this next year may be a compassion that sometimes is easy to see, or sometimes it's not so easy to see. One of my kids, second daughter, kind of a lead foot in the car. One time recently she was riding on the Pennsylvania Turnpike. And it was a tractor trailer that you wanted to pull out and pass that pack tractor trailer and get along, you know. And another tractor trailer in front pulled out And so they were two of them. It was two lanes at that point going her direction. And so here's these two tractor trailers doing 50 miles an hour, and neither would pull ahead. And one would just stay there, you know, and you know, and she pulled one lane and try to go the other lane, try to get past, couldn't get past, blew the horn, oblivious, nothing Finally, after about three, four miles, as she was going past, she saw eight state police cars with about 20 cars pulled all over. The drivers of the tractor trailer couldn't communicate with her, but they were saying, we're gonna save you, babe And she went past and she said, Oh, what a picture of mercy. I was so frustrated. I didn't see it as mercy until afterwards. I have a friend who just about a year ago was driving through some crowded area of downtown and there was a car in front and They were frustrated trying to get through the traffic, and just a moment later the car in front went through the intersection at a car at a high rate of speed. ran a light coming the other direction, hit the car right directly in front of her so hard it instantly killed the driver in front of her. A moment later that would have been her. In fact, it hit the car so hard, ricocheted off of her car and injured her. Hidden mercies, his compassion. Because of his eternal love is upon you in Jesus. Are you ready to live this year out of freedom, expectation, delight? Let's pray. Lord our God, we want to trust you. We want to rest this year in the righteousness of Jesus. And know that that righteousness is sufficient. We've already been judged for this next year. You hold nothing against us. You've given to us the perfect record of Jesus. Teach us, therefore, this year how to live in greater faith, walking in the Spirit in freedom. As we recognize that you, the God who has made us and will judge us, are our compassionate Father. Lord, we delight to see what you will do this year. In Jesus' name. Amen.