And I've chosen as my text to do that Luke chapter 2, verse 10. Out of the passage that you just heard Ken read. Let me again read simply verse 10. But the angel said to them, Do not be afraid. I bring you good news of great joy. That will be for all the people. We find you're one that would be disoriented if you didn't have three alliterative points here. You see it's good news That's of great joy, that's global in its extent. What I particularly want to focus on this morning, though, is That idea of the gospel being good news, of great joy, and the fact that it's global. The word good news that's used there is really the word uangalizamai. I announce to you good news. It's the word uangalizamai from which we get our word evangelism. It's literally I evangelize you good news. And it's important to remember, as I've called attention to a number of times in the past, that that word evangelize or evangelism is not a religious word in the Bible. It simply is a word that means to declare or announce good news. It's the word that the Greeks would have used in and was used when they announced uh the newscaster announced a victory in battle It's the word that would be used if Tom Brokaw or Peter Jennings said that Saddam Hussein has opened up all his hidden places and has capitulated to our demands. And now uh we don't have to have any more conflict. You know, that would be evangelism. That would be good news. Well, we need some good news, don't we? I mean, if you've been listening to or watching the news, there's probably a hunger in your heart for some good news. Most of this past year has been dominated with the news about President Clinton and Monica Lewinsky. Has things deteriorated through the months and then the issuing of the star report and the reactions to the star report. And then the impeachment proceedings and the partisan nature of the impeachment proceedings, the people that you would hear speak. I mean I did interrupt my Christmas music to listen to that. Ah. Boy it was so good to play a carol afterwards. But you know, to hear all that and then you know, you switch and you hear about the bombings in Iraq. And it's not even just that, you know, then you can go to Kosovo or North Korea or the troubles in Russia. It's really important for us in hearing and understanding the Christmas story to realize that as the shepherds sat out on the hill that night watching over their sheep, That their world emotionally was not all that much different. The person who was reigning over them was King Herod. King Herod quite literally would make President Clinton look like a hero. Herod killed his own children. And he was accountable to nobody but the emperor. And he didn't care. The land was utterly divided between the pro-Greeks and the anti-Greeks. And the only things that those two parties had in common was their mutual hatred of Herod. So the shepherds could have been discussing politics. And how bad things were living under the Roman oppression with no hope of deliverance, and disappointment after disappointment in their political leaders. Or like you and me, they could have been talking about their personal struggles, their personal disappointments. The things that they wish were different in their lives from what they were. Broken relationships Problems in families. Who knows? But we know that their hearts were like our hearts Worried about the future, feeling a certain amount of shame and failure about the past. But all of a sudden, there's a light, a bright light, and this powerful figure comes and appears before them, and they are utterly terrified Everything else they've been talking about all of a sudden vanishes from their mind, who is this guy and what's he going to do? And so his first words are to them are, do not fear Be not afraid. I am announcing to you some good news. Hey, give us some good news. Good news of great joy, which is for all the people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior who is Christ, Messiah, the Lord. The angel is announcing that Messiah has been born, the one who is going to be the hope of Israel, the one who is going to change forever the course of history, the one who is going to deliver us. Now Luke does not seek to unravel to us the mystery of the incarnation. That mystery you and I can barely begin to fathom. It'll take the other side of glory in a few thousand or million years of that to begin to delve into the mystery of incarnation. But what Luke does do when he says good news of great joy is to pick up Old Testament images and prophecies and figures, and he shows how Jesus fulfills that hope. That in that term, particularly, Jesus is good news. What I want to do for you this morning in these few minutes is to take just four of those images. That's why I had to give you the three alliterative, because there's these aren't alliterative and there's not three of them. There's four of them, okay? But it's what Luke talks about. And I think if you read the first chapters of Luke and Matthew with these things in mind, it can help you in celebrating Jesus' birth in a deeper way. First of all, Jesus is good news because he is the new work of the Spirit. That's the first thing. He's the new work of the Spirit. Jesus' birth is the beginning of a new creation. You recall how in Isaiah 42 we talked about it was the Creator God who stretched out the heavens and spread out the earth who was going to bring the servant who was to rescue his people. When you go back to the original account of the creation in Genesis chapter 1, you see that in the beginning, the creation was darkness and chaos. Genesis 1 verse 1. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, and now the earth was formless and empty. Darkness was over the surface of the deep. Very mysterious language of what is going on there's a dark sense of chaos. But then Before you have the statement about God beginning his creative word, creating light and the creative work of the sixth days You have this very interesting statement, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the waters. Did it ever occur to you that the angel Gabriel uses that same kind of language when he announces the birth of Jesus? You come to Luke chapter 1. When the angel describes this one whom bear Mary is to bear, the son of the Most High, who's going to rule over the throne of his father David, whose kingdom will never end, and Mary asks, How's this going to be since I'm a virgin? The angel's response to her in Luke 135 is, the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. Will hover over you. It's the same kind of idea that you have in Genesis 1. 2. The Spirit is about to do a new work of creation. And so the bringing of Jesus into the womb of Mary is described in terms of creation This one who is going to come is going to bring the new heavens and the new earth that Isaiah 65 begins to unfold for us. He is the one who's going to remake you, to give you a new heart. If you trust him, he's the one who gives to you a new nature and the hope of being totally remade into the image of Jesus on that day when he returns. When you and I will enter into that new kingdom that He will establish. That's why Paul prays in Ephesians 1. 18 that the eyes of your heart would be enlightened. so that you'd be able to see the hope that God has given to you, the riches of his glorious inheritance for the saints. That inheritance of the new creation that God has made for you. That's good news. You see? You know, nudge somebody, yeah, that's come good news. Enter into that, brothers and sisters. Rejoice. I give you, bring to you good news of great joy, which is for all the people. He goes on secondly to describe how Jesus is the new Moses. He's the new Moses. Do you remember back in Matthew chapter 2 in verses 13 to 15, you have Joseph The husband of Mary. Angel comes and speaks to him in a dream and says, Take this child to Egypt, because there are those that seek for his life. And so Joseph, a man of dreams, like the Joseph of Genesis, goes down into Egypt because of his dreams, goes down to Egypt And there Jesus lives for a brief time. And Matthew says that that is to fulfill the prophecy. Literally the word, the Greek idea is to fill up. The prophecy of Hosea 11. 1, out of Egypt I have called my son. Why is that? Well, because if you look at Exodus chapter 4, don't do it now, do it later. I wrote it down so you wouldn't forget it. There it is, Exodus 4, verse 22 and 23. God says Back in the time of Israel's bondage, that Israel is his firstborn son. Therefore he says to Pharaoh, Let my son go. When the angel Gabriel spoke to Mary of this new creation, he goes on to say in verse 35: So that the Holy One to be born to you will be called the Son of God. God called Israel, his son, out of Egypt. Gabriel says, there is coming now the one who is the true son of God. And he too will come up out of Egypt. Do you ever notice the parallels of the Exodus and the Gospels? Moses The deliverer of God's people is sought for as an infant by a secular king to destroy him so that he will not live. Jesus is sought by a secular king, Herod, to be destroyed, that he might not be a rival to his throne. Moses brings the people up out of Egypt in an exodus from their bondage. Jesus in Luke chapter 9. In verse, uh the transfiguration, in verse 31, talking about his departure from Jerusalem, his crucifixion, describes it as his Exodus. Uses that word. And so Jesus is describing that he is going to bring his people out of bondage through an exodus. What's the connection? How did they leave Egypt in the bondage? Do you remember? It was only through the judgment, the death of the firstborn son of Egypt. All the firstborn sons. Israel was protected and preserved because of the Passover Lamb. The Bible teaches that Jesus delivered his people in the Exodus. by himself being that firstborn son and bearing the judgment of his people. He is our Passover Lamb So whatever you've done in your life, up until this moment, whatever the shame, whatever the guilt, whatever the regrets, Jesus comes as the Passover Lamb to bear your sin. So that God cursed him on the tree, and as one who came God in the flesh, he was able to bear the sins of all those who trust him and look to him for salvation, including you this day. If you will look to him and believe, he becomes your Passover Lamb. He becomes the one to take away your sin, not simply a bondage from circumstances as Egypt. But the internal spiritual bondage in which God frees you as his people, amen? That's good news of great joy. But Moses, while he brought the people out from bondage, could never bring them into the land because of his own sin. And so Jesus thirdly is the new Joshua. He's not only Moses, he's Joshua. You remember in Matthew chapter 1. In verse 21, you read, the angel says, You shall call his name Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins. The word Joshua means deliverer. The word Joshua is simply the Old Testament term for Jesus. The term more literally is Yeshua. And so in Matthew 1. 21, in Luke chapter 1, verse 31, not 35, you see there should be 31. You are to call his name Yeshua, the deliverer, Luke chapter 2, verse 21. They circumcise him and they name him Yeshua. And why is that? You see in Luke chapter 10, I bring you good news of great joy will be for all people, because today in the town of David a Savior, a deliverer, has been born to you. Yeshua. The deliverer, the one who doesn't simply bring us out from bondage, but he brings us into the land of promise. He's the one who brings us into God's kingdom with all the blessings of adoption of his children, those who are in a personal relationship with him. You have that promise of the new land to look forward to, that new creation. Whatever the circumstances in your life this morning, there's the hope Yeshua, Jesus, is bringing you into the land. He's leading you into that land of glory, that land where there's no death, no regrets, no sting. But even while you're here, he rules as the new David. And that's the fourth image. He's the new David. What was David? David, you remember, was the shepherd who became a king. In Luke chapter 1 and verse 32 and 33, the angel says, Concerning this one to be born, he will be great and called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will never end. And so when you come to chapter two, you read about the census of Caesar Augustus. It was first initiated during the time that Quirinius was probably first, the first of a couple of terms of governor in Syria. And then in verse 4, the Joseph then therefore, because of this, went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem. to the town of David. God uses a secular edict for all of history to record that Joseph is of the lineage of David, from whom the Messiah must come Because he belonged to the house and to the line of David. And who is the message first proclaimed to? Shepherds get the good news. Because this is the true shepherd who comes. The true shepherd for you and for me. No one, no one has ever cared for you like Jesus cares for you. Not in your pain or your disappointment. As you look at Christmas coming this Friday and you think of all those things that you would like to substitute as tangibles. For the spiritual hollowness, for the relationships, the dread you have of getting together with certain members of the family, perhaps. Certain things that the holiday season brings on with greater poignancy, of those that have been lost, or of things that aren't the way you wish they were. And the angel comes to remind you the good news, the great joy. There's a shepherd for you. Jesus was born to be your shepherd. To care for you is that one who doesn't break the bruised reed or snuff out the smoldering wick, but comes near by you, Emmanuel, God with us. God with you, not only as that personal shepherd, to tenderly fan the flame of your faith to encourage your heart in his promises and presence. But also the shepherd who is king, the one who comes to rule a new kingdom, a kingdom which he will rule that will never end. The kingdom of his, as we saw in Isaiah 42, perfect rule of justice and mercy. His Mishpat is perfect rule. And so the good news of great joy is that the Messiah has been born. He who is To begin the new creation as the new Moses, the new Joshua, and the new David for all people. Not just for Orthodox Presbyterians here in the Ministry Center, but for all the people. This offer is made in Howard County To Jewish people, as well as Gentile people, to all the people young and old, rich and poor. Of all races and ethnic backgrounds. The message comes: the Messiah has been born. God is beginning his global kingdom, his rule over the nations through Jesus. This one born in the manger. The fact that that is the good news, despite whatever the circumstances, came home to me with particular force. Just this week, as I was reading Tom Bauma's report of the trip that he and the team made to Albania just a couple of weeks ago. Albania, a nation that suffers great deprivation. Ten years ago, it was the death sentence by law. For you to acknowledge that you believed in God, not just in Jesus Christ, just if you believed in a personal God, that deserved the death sentence in Albania. And here, ten years later, Tom Mama receives an invitation from a student group. Come on over and preach the gospel. And so he and a team went over there a couple of weeks ago, and there are about a hundred students that came. Of those hundred students approximately, 70 were believers and 30 were not believers. Come because of the relationships and the interest and what this Christianity and what this gospel is and what is this good news that you Christians talk about Of the 70 who were Christians, 20 of those had become Christians in the last month. That's how the gospel is running. With such openness and power in Albania now. Twenty of them, just brand new believers. Tom talked about one conversation with a girl who talked about how As she grew up as a little girl, her grandmother used to talk to her about the living God when it was illegal to do so. And Tom said, well, how did you become a Christian? She said, this year I came to school At the university, and the first people that I met were Christians who shared with me the good news of Jesus Christ. And within the last month, I've given my life to him. And they were rejoicing. Now, what was the circumstance of this conference? There was no heat The temperatures were severely, bitterly cold with high winds. Tom preached in a parka in all the messages, no heat, with the wind blowing through the walls. No water. What water they had was ice cold and undrinkable. And they had a bottle, take in whatever they had. The food was icy cold because the plates were icy cold. There was only electricity for a few hours each day by the hotel generator because there was none offered by the government. But the tone of the conference was, Tom says, they were rejoicing in the good news of Jesus. Now, you know, I don't know about you, but that puts me to shame, you know? Here we sit warm and comfortable with all we have and we say, say something interesting about Christmas. And here's these brothers and sisters in Albania, and they've never heard it. And to them this is good news, a great joy. Who cares if it's cold and we can't drink and we've got to run around in our park is Jesus has begun the new creation. He's forgiven me of my sins. I trust him as my heavenly Father. Yeah, that's good news of great joy. Well let me finish with the words of somebody who has been a couple times to India, Trisha McCary Roots. And she wrote in one of the trips that she took there of an experience that she had that I think helps to make the point that I'm seeking to make better than I could make it. So let me share it in terms of her words. She says, From the moment I climbed into the beat-up taxi at the airport, Calcutta consumed me. The soot of diesel fuel permeated my lungs, burning my eyes and throat. Darkness and despair marked the faces that I chanced to glance at as we drove by. The stench of sewage and sickness filled my nostrils, turning my stomach inside out. We arrived at Mother Teresa's headquarters, a nondescript horseshoe of buildings with only a small sign over the main door. A nondescribed several ministries of the missionaries of charity. A home for the dying, hospice for AIDS patients, a home for abandoned and crippled children. They were all within walking distance. So we headed for the children's home, a dismal six blocks. I walked quickly behind someone else on our team, my thoughts disoriented, my emotions disconnected from reality. Children left unattended lay on the sidewalk, no signs of playfulness in them. Sick adults slept on pallets hovering near death. The clanging noise of taxis honking, people selling their wares, and children crying assaulted my ears. Overwhelmed I looked straight ahead. At the orphanage, they go upstairs and The ward of some of the hopeless cases lay in prison-like cribs, she says, dozens of blind, deformed, palsied, diseased babies. Their heads shaved of discouraged lice, bed stained with urine, body scantily clad. She picks up one little child who slobers all over her cheek and clings to her as if she was her lifeline to never let her go. After an hour or so there We walked back to Mother Teresa's place for evening prayers. Sounds of holy singing filled the chapel as the nuns knelt in worship. The sounds of the street leaked in through an open window behind me. I could smell the stench and feel its oppression at my back. But inside the chapel, the light of Christ shone and brought a sense of repose to my soul. The time to leave came far too soon. I did not want to go. I did not want to leave the serenity and purity of that place, knowing what lay beyond its walls. I began to weep as our team members quietly exited one by one. Finally it was my turn. I stepped out into the filth of the city, and everything in me cried to escape. I could feel the darkness closing in, the dirt permeating my skin, hopelessness screaming in my ears. We quickly summoned taxis and traveled a few miles for dinner. The hotel restaurant was an oasis of beauty. It was almost impossible to believe that we were still in the same city. After dinner, a few of us found showers in the pool room. I stood under the hot water, trying unsuccessfully to wash off the smell of Calcutta. As our plane departed, my heart was heavy. Though it was middle of the night, I could not sleep. I tried writing in my journal, but was overcome with tears. I looked out the window into the darkness, deep sobs rising up within me. And then God spoke with gentleness and truth. He reminded me that when he came to earth, he left the purity of a holy heaven to enter the horror of a sin-saturated world. The stench of death and hopelessness in the streets of Israel assaulted his senses from the very beginning. He embraced a darkness he had never known before. It settled in his pores. It burned his eyes. He could not wash it off his body or remove its painful effects from his flesh. Every breath he took filled his chest with the burning fumes of man's depravity. I wept with both pain and gratitude I saw my sin like filth that settled on my Savior's skin I thought of his long, lonely nights with his father, and I wondered if he ached to go home. He had no beautiful oasis to escape from the despair of humanity. I saw him day in and day out touching the downtrodden, healing the sick, blessing the broken, while the soot of a fallen world assaulted his holy countenance. I love Jesus because he came. He came full of grace and truth to dwell in a land of legalism and lies. He released his royal heritage to serve those whose rebellion must have repulsed him. Holy God was made in human likeness. The price he paid to spend 33 years in this squalor is beyond my comprehension. And yet he did not rush through, staring ahead, ignoring our need. He did not leave prematurely, though the choice was always his. He did not shy away, but fully embraced a world full of darkness. Christ incarnate is Jesus rubbing shoulders with the dinginess of diseased humanity Christ incarnate as Jesus taking my filthy face in his hands, praying for me, embracing me, healing me. This both troubles and comforts me. It is grueling and glorious to live with such a truth. At times I'm consumed. I love the incarnate Christ. I love Jesus my Lord. Simply because he came for me. Let's pray Were earth a thousand times as fair, beset with gold and jewels rare, and the five years. She yet were far too poor to be a narrow cradle, Lord, for thee. Oh Lord, in this quiet moment, between the rush of the last week And all of the commitments, the activities, and the busyness of this next week. Speak to us in the quiet of our hearts. The good news of great joy, which is for all people, even for you and me. That Jesus came, the new Moses to deliver us from our bondage, the new Joshua to bring us into the land of glory. The new David to rule is the shepherd king who cares for us in tenderness, but rules with absolute authority in his justice and purity. In that new creation. In which you have established a place for us who believe. Oh Lord, may there be no one here in this room who would miss out On that inheritance, on that hope, because of their unbelief. Lord, speak to us, each one of us, that we would see Jesus before us. That we would run to him and embrace him. He who is our good news, who gives to us great joy. For you, Lord Jesus, our Messiah. How we love you because you came for us.