Was nineteen ninety-six what you had hoped it would be? I mean, are you at your goal weight? Are you doing the exercises at the level that you hope to be doing them? Or perhaps more significantly, are you in the Bible more than you were before and what you hope to be in nineteen ninety-six? Do you feel like you know Jesus any better now than you did a year ago? Has your prayer life grown? You feel like your faith has grown. You're able to trust the Lord. More now than you were able to a year ago. Do you feel like you can look back on 1996 and think of specific answers to prayer? That God has done in your life so that you're more convinced of His power and of His trustworthiness You feel like you pleased the Lord more this year than you disappointed him? If Jesus was sitting next to you, In the seat right beside you. And he was evaluating 1996 with you. What do you think he'd be saying to you? How do you feel about those ways that you've messed up and disappointed him? What do you think that he thinks of you and how he looks? Not only at those misplaced priorities, but as you think also of the ways that you simply walked the other way when you knew. The way that he wanted you to go. Those times when you were simply rebellious. Those times when you delighted in sin. Doesn't that affect the way you look at this next year? You carry that burden along Or what about this next year? What's your hope for it? You take all of that from this past year and you look and you see the days that are ahead of you, not only of this next year, but The days that remain to you for the rest of your life, do you feel like you have a better sense of your priorities now? This next year, I think I've got a handle on what my priorities ought to be. I came across a very interesting item in the Sharper Image catalog to help to fix our priorities. It's called the personal time life clock. You take this clock for a mere 9995, plus shipping and handling, of course, and you program into this thing your age and your gender. And it will tell you the number of hours, minutes, and seconds statistically that you have remaining to live. You set this thing on your bureau every morning and you get up and you look. You know, in my case, it's something like I've got two hundred and nineteen thousand four hundred and fifty-eight hours. 29 minutes and 45 seconds. Now it's 44. You know, there it is. I mean, you watch your life, you know, dribbling away. In fact, it uh it tells you, just in case you didn't know, that the average person living in America today. Has 2. 4 billion seconds to live, beginning from the time they're born till they die. You have 2. 4 billion seconds. On the average, you have many more, you may have less. Just also to help you along, it's got 150 motivational messages programmed to flash on periodically to encourage you to make better use of your time and of your life in the seconds, hours, minutes that are remaining to you. How much would that help? You think that'd really get you in gear? I don't know. I know for my wife, she has said this has been a very reflective year for her, raising some really difficult questions. Like, how much should I work for our retirement? And how much should I simply be available for ministry within our congregation You know those kinds of questions that you ask? How much should I pursue education and how much should I simply be available for my family? Opportunities to grab versus making my life simpler. All of these kinds of struggles and priorities And it really is determined by our basic system of beliefs, isn't it? By where you believe you'll go when you die. What will happen to you? What do you really believe will happen at the moment of your death? Do you believe like Dr. Kaborkian? You will rot. He says, that's all that will happen. Nothing more. Or do you believe that there is a literal heaven and hell? And that if you're trusting Jesus Christ this morning, that when you die or when he comes to receive us, That you will go to spend all eternity with him in a place where there will be no disappointments, no disease, no death. That simply his presence and delights forever and ever and ever, and that the way you live now is investing, somehow affecting the quality of that life. Forever and ever. And yet we're so seduced by the immediate, aren't we? So seduced to get approval. To be a success, to just move up a little bit higher in our career or whatever the aspirations, the people that we respect to have their respect. That they'll look up to us, if I can just get a little bit more, work a little harder for right now. Be more available to the Lord later on. Things can change in my life later. Right now I'm locked in, you see. I don't really have many choices. Right now I'm locked into certain things How fleeting and how fanciful, how deceiving is all the power of this world Gary Bauer tells a fascinating story about that. Gary Bauer, you know, the head of the Family Research Council. He used to work for Ronald Reagan in domestic affairs and had an office right in the White House down the hall from President Reagan He said at that time his boss was Donald Regan. He said Donald Regan was a man who understood power, and he used that power to intimidate everyone around him. Everyone was terrified when they were called into Regan's office, perhaps to be dressed down, to be rebuked, to be chewed out, because he could intimidate like no one else that Bauer knew. Gary Bauer says one day he was home with a flu, running a fever, watching CNN, and he saw on CNN To his amazement, that Donald Reagan had just been fired. His boss had just been kicked out. Bauer, knowing the politics and what things would be like, said he knew things would be in chaos at the White House. So even though he had a hundred and two fever, he got into his car, drove into the White House in order to be there for what was going on. And he said, just as he pulled up to the White House, out of the White House walked Donald Regan carrying his boxes. He said, here is a man that two hours ago was one of the most powerful men in all the world, and now could find nobody to even help him clean out his office. He had been fired because he had irritated Nancy Reagan. And that was the end of him. He found out that he lost his job by watching the same CNN program that Gary Bauer watched. That's how he knew that he was out. Gary Bauer said so much for the security of this world's power. What is it that you're looking for, aspiring to? In 1997. Two questions that I want to put before you this morning. First of all, how can you live with a clear conscience, thinking of the ways you've messed up, the disappointments? And all those deficiencies of 1996, and how can you get a better sense of your priorities in the light of eternity for 1997? I believe these two questions are precisely addressed by Psalm 103. We're going to be looking at that Psalm for the rest of this morning, and then next week. In particular, I want to focus on verses 13 to 18. This morning I want to look at the context of those verses more broadly, and then next week I want to look at the comfort of those verses more specifically. So let's hear God's word. Let me read this to you now, Psalm 103. Follow it. And we'll look at a bit of the structure of it in order to see how verses 13 to 15 fit in. To the larger message of this psalm and how it addresses us at the beginning of a new year and the end of the old Praise the Lord, O my soul. All my inmost being, praise his holy name. Praise the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgives all your sins and heals all your diseases, who redeems your life from the pit. Who crowns you with love and compassion, who satisfies your desires with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord works righteousness and justice for all the oppressed. He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the people of Israel. The Lord is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love. He will not always accuse, nor will he harbor his anger forever. He does not treat us as our sins deserve, or repay us according to our iniquities. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. For he knows how we are formed. He remembers that we are dust. As for man, his days are like grass He flourishes like a flower of the field. The wind blows over it and is gone, and its place remembers it no more. But from everlasting to everlasting. The Lord's love is with those who fear him, and his righteousness with their children's children. With those who keep his covenant and remember to obey his precepts. The Lord has established his throne in heaven, and his kingdom rules over all. Praise the Lord, you his angels, you mighty ones who do his bidding, who obey his word. Praise the Lord, all his heavenly hosts. You his servants who do his will, praise the Lord, all his works, everywhere in his dominion. Praise the Lord, O my soul. Well, I want to call your attention to some structure here in order to give to you a sense of the meaning. You see, because the Bible is not simply men's word, but God's word, every detail is perfect. And often the clues to the meaning of Psalms as well as other portions, but particularly the Psalms, is in the structure of the Psalms. Sometimes It's relationship to other psalms before and after it, sometimes the verses within the psalm. And this is a good example of both of those. Psalm 101 to 110 are a unit. You may want to note that, mark that down. It's very helpful in understanding what's going on there. The unit is like concentric circles or frames. Psalm 101 parallels Psalm 110. Psalm 101 parallels is the aspirations of David the King. This is what a king should be like. Psalm 110 is the fulfillment of Messiah the king who fulfills those aspirations. Psalm 101 and 109 are linked together as individual prayers. Psalm 102 and 108, Psalm 103 and Psalm 102 and and 109 and Psalm 103 and 108 are linked by both being prayers, excuse me, praise to God for His great mercy. For instance, if you look at Psalm 103, verse 11, for as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him. And then look at Psalm 108, verse 4. For great is your love, higher than the heavens, your faithfulness reaches to the skies. You see a link, obviously. So as you look at Psalm 103, within this larger picture, Of God the King, prayer to the King, praise to the King. In Psalm 103, in that psalm of praise, perfect praise, You also have a number of frames, concentric circles, a structure to it. For instance, did you notice when I read that that Psalm that uh in a halt Psalm 103 verses one and two parallel verses twenty to twenty two. In verses 1 and 2, you have three calls to praise. They're all personal. Praise the Lord, O my soul, O my inmost being. Praise his holy name. Praise the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Then in verses 3 to 5, you have the reasons, those personal benefits that the Lord has given to me Then you have verses 20 to 22, a global call to praise. Praise the Lord, all you his angels, you mighty ones who do his bidding, who obey the Lord, praise the Lord, all his heavenly hosts. You as servants who do his will, praise the Lord, all his works everywhere in his dominion. Three more calls to praise. These are now global calls to praise And then to wrap it up with that number of salvation seven, there is a seventh call to praise at the very end. Praise the Lord now back again. O my soul. Perfect structure. You see, this is God's Word, and so every detail is perfectly arranged. Now, verses 3 to 5 give the reasons for the personal call to praise. Verses 6. Talk about the global reasons. God's compassion to all of his people. Even there, you have a couple of more frames. In verses 6 and 19, you have the character of his reign. The Lord works righteousness and justice for all the oppressed. Verse 6, verse 19. The Lord has established his throne in heaven, and his kingdom rules over all. So there again you see it's another frame, it's another bound to pull together, so that what you see is that with all these things now, verses 7 to 18 are the heart of the Psalm. So when you read the psalm and you see those things, don't look at them as well, why does he bring this in here? What? Link them, you see, they're all related to other verses. And in verses 7 to 18, you have 12 verses divided into two exact halves of six verses each, verses 7 to 12 and verses 13 to 18. In each of these you have a statement of the compassion of God's rule, which is stated in verse 7 and 18. He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the people of Israel, and he goes on to speak of his. compassion to God's people as, and here's the blanks that you see there, as guilty sinners. Verses 7 to 12 talk about God's compassion to you and to me as guilty sinners. That deals with 1996. Then in verses 13 to 18, he speaks of his compassion to us. In terms of our being frail mortals. In verses 13 to 18, you have a statement of the brevity of life. And then how God sees us in the light of our being frail creatures who have a short time to live. And that deals with our priorities in the future. And we're going to focus on that next week. But I want to put that in context a little bit for the remaining few minutes here this morning. In terms of God's compassion to us as guilty sinners, in verses 7 to 12. Notice what he says. He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the people of Israel. The Lord is compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, abounding in love. He will not always accuse, nor will he harbor his anger forever. He does not treat us as our sins deserve, or repay us according to our iniquities. For high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him. And as far as the East is from the West, so far has He removed our transgressions from us You notice that verses 11 and 12 of that section conclude with a statement of the vastness of his compassion and grace to you as a sinner. Two pictures are given, and they both involve distance to speak of the vastness of his grace to sinners. The first one is in verse 11. The distance between heaven and earth. For as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is his love for those who fear him. I've reminded you many times before. I got a Christmas card from Doug McElroy says that out in California they don't get nearly enough astronomical illusions in the sermons out there. Doug would love this. Again, I've reminded you many times, the speed of light, kind of the speed limit of the universe, is 186,000 miles per second. 186,000 miles per second. You know, when I think of all the miles that I have driven, I thought about that this week. From the first car I owned to the cars that Kathy and I have owned together, and so what we have both driven together, plus what I drove in cars I owned before I was married, I've driven about 600,000 miles at both of us. Light travels 186,000 miles per second. And so it travels over three times every second what I've driven, excuse me, in three seconds, a little less than four seconds. Light goes the distance that I've driven my whole life. You could go to the moon at that speed in two minutes. You could go to the sun 93 million miles away in eight minutes. You'd come to the end of our solar system at that speed in about five hours. At that speed, it would take you nearly or something over four years, about four and a third years, to get to the nearest star outside our galaxy. Hurtling along at that rate would take you a hundred thousand years to get to the other end of our galaxy. That's just our neighborhood. And beyond that, you have billions and billions of years to go to the universe that is known. Now that, brothers and sisters, is the dimension that God uses to describe his love to you. He says in verse 11, for as high, think of those distances, he says, as high as the heavens, the furthest reaches of heavens, are above the earth. That's how great is my love for you. And he said, but not me, Lord. I've messed up 1996. There's things I'm ashamed to think about when I look back at this year and the years before it. And so he precisely addresses that in the next description of his love. For he tells us that his love is not for those who deserve it. His love is for those who precisely do not deserve it. But are given it by his grace and compassion in Jesus Christ. Verse 12, the second dimension, as far as the east is from the west. So far has he removed our transgressions from us. Every transgression of nineteen ninety-six. And every part of all the rest of your life is included in that verse. If you fear him This is not written to say that if I have no regard for spiritual things, for the authority of the Bible or Jesus Christ and his rule in my life, that I can just claim some glib Santa Claus kind of cover all, no fault, kind of grace. Verse 11 says very clearly that his love is for those who fear him, who take him seriously. who hate their sin because it's offended him. But he says, if you're in that position this morning If you look back at that sin and you're sorry for that sin, and you hate that sin because it's offended your Savior and it's offended the God who's made you, then he says, As far as the east is from the west, he has removed that sin from you. Now perhaps you've heard Me or others describe how significant that particular direction is. You see, if he had said as far as the north is from the south That is a definable distance. It's somewhere between 11 and 12,000 miles, I believe, from the North Pole to the South Pole. But how far is it from the east to the west? Wherever you are, you can go further east. Wherever you are, you can go further west. There is no limit to east and west It is an infinite distance. It continues on and on and on. And that's exactly what God is saying. He says, as far as the east is from the west, no limit. You can calculate it. It's further than the heavens above the earth. That's how far I have removed your sin, not simply from me. God who has made you, but he says, that's how far I have removed your sin from you. When he sees you in Jesus Christ this morning. Your sins of 1996 are not held against you. He has removed those as far as the east from the west. Amen? Rejoice in that, brothers and sisters. It makes all the difference in how you live this next year. You see, because if you can close out this year with a clear conscience, if you can close out this year saying, God does not hold against me, All the things that have disappointed me and disappointed him about this past year, then I'm free to enter in with a clean slate into the new year. And so in verses 13 to 18, he speaks of his compassion to you as a frail mortal. Twice more he uses that phrase to those who fear him. Notice, verse 13, as a father has compassion on his children. So the Lord has compassion on those who fear him. Not those who don't take him seriously, but on those who recognize that they are creatures. He's the creator, the judge of their lives. The one who stands to look at the end of your life and says, this is what is important. In all the opinions of every person that you cringe before now. Everyone that you're desperate to please and have their approval, and all of those will stand as you before the throne, and you won't care one snap of a finger for any of their opinions. The only one that will matter is the one that you fear on the throne. And he says, as a father, has compassion on his children. So I have compassion on those who fear me. Verse 14: For he knows how we are formed. He remembers that we're simply dust. And then he elaborates. As for man, his days are like grass, he flourishes like a flower of the field. The wind blows over it and it's gone. His place remembers it no more. But From everlasting, from eternity to eternity. There was never a beginning to God's awareness of you. And of his love set upon you unto eternity. There will be no end to his awareness of you. And of his love set upon you in his presence. The Lord's love is with those again who fear him. Who recognize that He is Lord and that our lives are lived in His presence. And his righteousness with their children's children, generation to generation, with those who keep his covenant. Not perfectly, but keeping the covenant as Old Testament language, not only for obedience to his commands, but also the trust in the sacrifices that pointed to Jesus, the one true sacrifice for sin. For those who keep his covenant and remember to obey his precepts And so while verses 7 to 12 speak of the vastness of his love to guilty sinners, verse 13 to 18 speak of the duration. Of his grace to us as mortals. See, he uses space To communicate the vastness of his grace, and he uses time to communicate the duration of his love. And so, on the backside of your outline there, in verses 11 and 12, as a sinner I realize I never need to fear condemnation. Verses seventeen and eighteen, as a mortal, I never need to fear death The New Testament will elaborate on that. We'll look in more detail next week at verses 13 to 18. But the New Testament goes on to speak of how you and I do not fear condemnation and death. Because God sent his son born in the flesh that we've just celebrated, so that he bore my condemnation and he bore my death. Therefore, since his work was perfect, there is no more condemnation left for you. There is no more death for you. So let me finish with these two questions. If your life were to end in 1997, would you be ready? Not everybody who is with us here. Not everybody who was with us in the beginning of 1996 is still with us at the end of 1996. If your life were to come to an end in nineteen ninety-seven, are you ready? To go be with the one who you believe because of Jesus Christ has taken your condemnation and your death, and therefore You do not fear holding up your record before him because Jesus' record will be held in your place, and his love will be upon you forever and ever as high as the heavens are Above the earth? Are you ready? Are you sure? Don't go into 1997 without a clear assurance of that. And if you are in doubt, put on your gray slip. That we can get back to you and make sure of that. Then the second question. Are you able? To look eagerly to this next year, to live fully alive because those two basic fears Have been removed from you. The fear of condemnation and the fear of death. You know that you're forgiven, verse 12. And you know God's purpose for you, verses 15 to 18, in the brevity of your life, to live according to his covenant, enjoying his eternal love. You believe that you're locked into a pattern that can't change? Perhaps in getting your education, establishing your career? Or perhaps further along and getting money for the kids for college, getting the kids on their way, where the kids are grown and you feel like you're tired. In whatever stage of life there is the temptation to feel like I am locked into a pattern that cannot change. But, brother and sister, if you really understand the freedom of your forgiveness in Jesus Christ. And what it means to live this new year with His love upon you, living simply in the light of that love, saying, Lord, I want to be available to you. Then God can lead you into new priorities, which will lead you into a new experience of His reality in this next year. Let's pray Lord, we confess that for many of us, as we come to the end of a year and look toward a new year, We feel discouraged by the last year, the ways we realize we've disappointed you, disappointed others, and disappointed ourselves. Lord, I pray that this word from you will come in a power that I could never bring with it. That you would speak to our hearts Of the reality in Jesus Christ, our sins have been separated from us as far as the East is from the West. They do not haunt us. We come before you with a clear conscience in Jesus Christ at the end of this year. You do not hold this year against us. We rejoice in that in Jesus. Lord, if there's anyone who cannot have that hope because they are not trusting your finished work, we pray. That you would disturb them profoundly until they have no rest, until that is settled with you. And Lord, we pray that we who feel locked into patterns Could right now in this moment make ourselves available for new changes, new priorities to break in upon our lives To live in the light of your love and of your grace, to know your reality in new and profound ways in our living in this new year. Hear us. As we speak to you the desires of our heart for that. Lord, you are able to do all that we ask. Hear us in the name of Jesus. Amen.