Wayne. Well, it's good to be in the house of the Lord this morning. And uh wanna thank uh CPC for your uh uh partnership and engagement with uh the Salaam Center. Uh Balm uh was uh Coming alongside to do this uh project final push. We probably have a couple very tired uh Demolition workers in the house. I see Jeff here and I think Josiah here. But we are very grateful for your partnership. Yeah, so uh as uh as Wayne mentioned, I I got the choice of this particular, I was chosen for this passage And um I I think a couple of things. Paul said uh to the elders in Ephesus, I have not hesitated to preach to you the whole council of God. Uh and so that's our job. And uh uh you can pray for me. We're gonna pray right now as uh we enter into this Lord God, you uh commended the Bereans in Acts for being a people uh of no of more noble character. For they received Paul's word with great eagerness and examined the scriptures every day to see if what Paul said was true. God, we come to you this morning. We come asking that you would give us a passion for your word. to to understand your word and that we would make sure that what we hear from the pulpit or whether we uh from teachings uh that God we would be a people uh like the Bereans who would examine the scriptures And so Lord Jesus help me with that the words of my mouth and the meditations of my heart and the studies and reflections would be pleasing and acceptable to you and Holy Spirit. Give us a love for you and your word that we might have great peace, and we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So we've been working through 1 Timothy, the final letters of the Apostle Paul to his young lieutenant Timothy, who was sent to Ephesus, to the church of Ephesus, that uh that they might know how to live and to conduct themselves as God's household. His embodied temple, the pillar of truth in the world. You are the pillar of truth in the world. And so we see that uh it's a fight. Uh it's a good fight. And Paul calls Timothy to be faithful to this good fight where he reveals the character and the practices of what makes healthy churches and leaders. As you think about our text today, I think about Paul's words to the Corinthians, where he said, he came to them in weakness, fear, and with much trembling. as he proclaimed the gospel, even as his resolve was to focus on Christ and him crucified. He likewise tells Timothy to be strong in the grace in Christ Jesus as he teaches. And I appreciate those thoughts for today. I have uh the calling and the challenge to expound and teach a passage uh uh and topic as one teacher said was at the top of the topics that has provoked outrage, anger, tears, and shouting and disappointment. gender roles in the church. Please pray for me. Yes, as we approach this text, I think this contains some things that Peter was thinking about when he wrote 2 Peter chapter 3. 16 when he mentions Paul's letters. His letters contain some things that are hard to understand. which ignorant and unstable people distort as they do the other scriptures to their own destruction. And so context is important. for discerning the heart and the essence of a text. So we will begin reading the preceding passage that Pastor Stan addressed some weeks ago. Let's start with. Verse 1 of chapter 2. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgiving be made for all people, for kings, and for all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all which is the testimony given at the proper time. For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am telling the truth. I am not lying. A teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. I desire then that in every place that men should pray lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling, likewise also that women should adorn themselves in respectable apparel. with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire, but with what is proper for women who profess godliness with good works. Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness. I do not permit a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, rather she is to remain quiet. For Adam was formed first and Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor. Yet She will be saved through childbearing if they continue in faith and love and holiness with self-control. This is the word of the Lord. Rodney Stark, professor of sociology and comparative religion, notes the significant role of women that women had in the growth of Christianity. In his book on the rise of Christianity, how the obscure marginal Jesus movement became the dominant religious force in the Western world in a few centuries, he says Amidst contemporary denunciations of Christianity as patriarchal and sexist, it is easily forgotten that the early church was so especially attractive to women that in 370 the emperor Valentinian uh issued a written order to Pope Damascus uh the first requiring that Christian missionaries cease calling at homes of pagan women. Stark said most recognized that Christianity was unusually appealing because within the Christian subculture women enjoyed far higher status. than did women in the Greco-Roman world at large. And Stark outlines how in the Greco Roman culture men greatly outnumbered women, mainly due to female infanticide. That is drowning or discarding female babies upon birth, which was largely practiced by all social classes. But the Christian community Condemned female infanticide as well as treating women as property or children or divorcing wives at will. Condemning infidelity, holding men to the same standards of chastity, condemning polygamy, reject it, and uh discouraged pr prepubesant girls to get married, which was a common practice. But in the Christian community, women were protected, honored, esteemed, and held prominent roles in the church And he quotes Wayne Meeks from his work on the first urban Christians. Women are Paul's fellow workers as evangelists and teachers. both in terms of their positions in the larger society and in terms of their participation in the Christian communities. Women broke through the normal expectations of female roles. The Apostle Paul tells Timothy for the church to pray and to pray for the leaders and all those in authority. that believers might live peaceful, quiet lives in all godliness and holiness. Why? Because the passion of God who calls uh who Paul calls our Savior is that he wants all men, all women to be saved as they come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and mediator, the man Christ Jesus. So he is calling the church to be a praying church in worship. to be a Christ-witnessing gospel advancing church. This is the big idea here in this text. He is calling this Ephesian church to practice prayer and worship in a way that exalts and attracts people to knowing Christ as Savior. It is important that we don't miss this big idea. And calling in this chapter as we attempt to unpack some of the more challenging and confusing text around some distinctives of men and women in worship. But the main thing here is that Paul is calling both men and women to gospel-advancing worship. Gospel advancing worship is Christ-centered worship. And here I believe the Apostle Paul calls men to pray in Christ-centered humility. He calls women to pray in Christ-centered modesty. And he calls men and women to worship in Christ-centered partnership. This is the big picture, the big calling that People would see and experience Christ in our worship as we interact as brothers and sisters in Christ. Dr. Rebecca Eklund is uh and was a worshiper at Faith Christian Fellowship where I pastored there. Dr. Eklund is the Associate Professor of New Testament theology at Loyola University, of whom I have had I have huge respect for about her Christian faith and her scholarship. I met with her to talk about this particular passage. And I mentioned that I know that on this subject we see things differently. You take an egalitarian position. I take a complementarian position. But I said, I am so grateful that you are a worshiper at faith in our midst. But before we talk about this passage I wanted to know, you know, how did you come to Faith Christian Fellowship and why did you keep coming back? And she said, it was the welcome I experienced. It was the hospitality I experienced. She said, these people really love Jesus. And they really love the city. And these people are committed to reconciliation, which I think is an essential part of the gospel. And so Dr. Eklund had experienced this authentic faith. and the presence of Jesus. And she is a person that her gifts are encouraged in in that church. And I was really honored that she remained and is continuing there, even though she has a different position on this particular subject But as we approach these most controversial verses in Paul's letters, it will be important for you to know something about the hermeneutical approach or the principles of interpretation that we will use to help us understand what we believe we are saying to the readers uh for today. The principle of interpretation is what is called the principle of harmony, believing that God is the author of the Bible, that he does not contradict himself. We expect to see that there's underlying consistency, a natural harmonization, so we interpret each text. within the total biblical text. And in this case, it would be wrong for us to read or interpret this text about the role of women without talking or taking into account the rest. of the scriptures which present a fundamental assertion of the equal value and the dignity with men as divine image-bearers of which we read today in Genesis 1 and 2. Therefore, every notion of gender superiority or inferiority is ruled out from the start. And second, we must seek to apply the principle of history. that God always spoke his word in particular historical and cultural settings. Ancient Near East Old Testament, Palestinian Judaism in the Gospels. Greco-Roman world with Acts and Paul. No word of God was spoken in a cultural vacuum. Every word was spoken in a cultural context. The divine word became flesh and dwelt among us. God invades. God condescends and speaks to us in our world. The challenge and the problems of interpretation for us is this. What eternal truths transcend culture and applies to all cultures? What are the universal and normative uh and what is culturally particular, local, trans transient, and changeable. How do we distinguish between them? This is the call and the challenge of believers and Bible teachers who are seeking to be faithful in handling the Bible. What are eternal truths that transcend particular cultures and what are transient and changeable? You need to know this, that godly, sincere believers and scholars come down on different sides of this passage who believe in the principle of harmony and history. We need to be careful to guard our unity with our differences with respect and love. This framework for handling the scriptures is different. from what we might call literalism or liberalism. Literalism enthrones or makes eternal and authoritative the cultural forms expressed in the Bible. It belongs to the Word of God and is not to be tampered with. Some call this rigid literalism. In our passage today, they would read this passage and say, men must always lift up their hands when they pray. And women must never plait their hair with wear pigtails or jewelry. And under no circumstances, women should never teach men. It is sinful. On the other extreme, liberalism dethrones or dismisses both scripture and cultural forms. Such scriptures and cultural forms like our text were only spoken to people long ago and is not And it's totally out of date and irrelevant. Nothing is eternal. All is cultural. We have evolved to a more mature place, they would say. One commentator says of this passage, all the things in this chapter are mere temporary regulations to meet a given situation. So, in our attempt for both applying the principles of harmony and history, let's dive in. First, Paul calls men to pray in Christ-centered humility. I desire then that in every place the men should pray, lifting holy hands without anger or quarreling. What Paul began to address in the first half of this chapter, he continues in the second part. Here he focuses on appropriate behavior of men whenever the church assembles for worship. Here he specifically calls men to be men of character in their worship and public prayer. Paul reminds them of hindrances to the gospel witnessing prayer, anger, and quarreling. Anger, this is not about righteous anger over injustices. Here it is destructive anger, the impulse towards violence, a passion towards punishment and wrath. the losing of one's temper. Quarreling is arguing, debating in a deconstructive way. The qualifications for elder in the next chapter uh are called that they should be men not violent but gentle, not quarrelsome, not a striker, not a bruiser. Ready for a blow, but patient, not a brawler, not contentious, looking for an argument. So Paul is consistent. At first reading, I was trying to wrap my head around how men can be uh how men can pray with pride-filled violent anger or demeaning quarreling. But Paul is calling worshiping men to be men of humility, of sincere faith and repentance, to be men of godly character and what they are, that that what they are in worship. is what they are the rest of the week. This is this is what will attract people to Jesus. King David says in Psalm 24, who may ascend the hill of the Lord, who may stand in this holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to an idol and swear by what is false, he will receive blessing from the Lord and vindication from God our Savior John Stott said this. It is obviously inappropriate to approach God in prayer if we are harboring resentment or bitterness against him or other people As Jesus himself insisted, reconciliation must precede worship. Matthew 5. 22 Jesus says, But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment. And anyone who says, you fool, will be in danger of the fire of hell. So disciples are to pray, to love their enemies, to pray for those who persecute them To forgive your debtors because your Father in heaven loves his enemies and forgives all who uh all who forgives all of our debts Lifting up holy hands can be one posture for prayer, but the scriptures give us other appropriate postures for prayer too. David sat before the Lord. Sometimes bowing down, sometimes kneeling before the Lord, falling on our faces and lying prostrate are all expressions of postures for prayer, sometimes walking, sometimes talking with God, like Enoch in Genesis 5. 24. Enoch walked with God and then he was no more because God took him away. So the normative thing that Paul is getting at here is that he's talking about the call to a life of holiness, of love. of peace accompanied uh that should accompany our prayers. Paul is calling men to pray with Christ-centered humility And then Paul caused women to pray in Christ-centered modesty. Likewise also that women should adorn themselves and respect Respectable apparel, with modesty and self-control, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly attire, but with what is proper for women who profess godliness with good works. What you need to see here is Paul is continuing his thought on prayer. From how men should pray and worship. To how women should pray in worship. He says in like manner. A commentator Walter Leafield says that the word order Paul uses assumes women's prayers in worship. When he used the word likewise and and proceeds to describe how women should dress when they are praying, with modesty, self-control, godly character that produces good work. Again, Leafiel says, whatever the case may be as to women praying, it is clear that the main goal of the instruction is not to command the act of prayer, which is already given. but the demeanor of both men and women while praying and worshiping. Now for us this might not seem radical. Now, women praying publicly in worship service with men might not seem radical in our day, but when you compare it To the synagogue service of the time, according to James Hurley in his book, Man and Woman in Biblical Perspectives, he said women could not attend those services. It says, like slaves or miners, but they were ushered in separate sections in the worship, in balconies away from the men, and their part was strictly receptive. They could not read the scriptures or pray publicly. The act of praying in worship with men was very radical. When you Read Acts 1. 14. That is a radical culture breaking of the kingdom. They all join together constantly in prayer along with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus and with his brothers. Or in act or in Acts uh 146, or it says Paul's acknowledgement of women praying and prophesying in worship in 1 Corinthians 11. and every woman who prays or prophesies. Paul is talking about women in worship, women praying in worship. And is calling and in his calling, uh, he's calling to guard their witness of Christ in worship, to be Christ-centered and not with inordinate expensive clothes or appearance-centered. Paul is not speaking about condemning hairdues, all hairdues and braids and gold wedding rings and jewelry and nice clothes. Paul is talking about expensive and excessive attention By the way, I was thinking about Ezekiel 16, where it talks about how God takes Israel, you know, and uh as this As a thrown out girl and raises her and blesses her and then dresses her and his and she becomes uh his bride uh with fine linen, uh covered with costly uh garments adorned with jewelry. God did all of this. So God is not against um uh jewelry and uh in even fine clothes, but he's the one that dresses us. He is the one that adorns us. And the challenge that we find here with men who we you know we live in a competitive world and Uh uh we often get our dignity from our competition and uh the one-upmanship and stuff, and uh and there's a lot of pressure on women uh in terms of their appearance. And so Paul is addressing those things here. Apparently the plaiding of hair at the time Paul wrote was a huge thing in Ephesus. in other places and had uh been taken to elaborate ends to attract attention. Paul here refers to the elaborate hairstyles, which were very fashionable among the wealthy. and also to the styles worn by uh courtesans. The sculpture and literature of the period make it clear that women often wore their hair in enormously elaborate arrangements with brazen curls interwoven or piled high like towers decorated with gems or gold or pearl gems every inch. So making a shimmering screen of their locks. Roman poet Juvenal who died in 130 in his satire six comments, the attendant of a woman will vote on the dressing of her hair as if a question of reputation or of life were at stake. So great is the trouble she takes in quest of beauty. With so many tears does she lead, with so many continuous stories does she build up high her head. Uh I mean I think sometimes you've heard of you know church fashion shows. I mean this is Paul is saying, no, this is not this is not the place Paul is calling both men and women to praying and worshiping a way that elevates Christ. I like Eugene Peterson's paraphrase on this, and I want women to get in there with the men in humility. before God, not obsessive priming before a mirror or chasing the latest factions, but doing something beautiful for God and becoming beautiful doing it. And finally, we see that Paul here calls men and women to worship in Christ-centered partnership. Christ-centered partnership. Let a woman learn quietly with all submissiveness. I do not permit a woman to teach her to exercise authority over a man, rather she is to remain quiet. For Adam was formed first and Eve and Adam was not deceived, but the woman was deceived and became a transgressor. She yet she will be saved through childbearing if they continue in faith and love and holiness with self-control. There's a lot in this These couple verses. The wounds from the misuse and misinterpretation and misapplication or misapplication of this passage are very deep. Taken out of the context of the harmony and the history of the scriptures or isolating them by itself does great harm and damage. Yet in their context with the harmony and history of the scriptures, I believe that there is teaching here that is true, good, and beautiful. Uh Hurley said it again before he addresses this, uh which I embrace my conclusions will not please everyone. It is my hope, however, that none will feel that violence has been done to the text of Scripture. That's my prayer here. Before we try to get at what Paul might be saying, we need to think about the larger context of Scripture where it speaks about the participation both in word and deeds of women. So the Presbyterian Church in America, which Columbia Presbyterian Church is part of, produced a 52-page PCA report paper on women serving in ministry. uh several years ago. And it says there women are invaluable assets to Christ's church. From Hulda the prophetess in 2 Kings to Mary the Theok Theotachus, which is Mother of God in Luke 2, and Phoebe, a diakonos, a co-laborer of the Apostle Paul in Romans 16, their ministries are breathed into holy writ As examples of faithful service to God and his people, Paul praised women for their assistance as he planted churches, Udia and Syntheci uh contended at Paul's side in the case of the gospel of Philippians 4. He lauded Mary, praised Junius as outstanding among the apostles Tryphena and Triphosa and Persis were commended who worked hard in the Lord, Romans 16. Paul commended women and noted their prophetic ability during church service since in 1 Corinthians 11. The point is that women were not just serving with good deeds but with but they were serving with good words speaking and teaching gospel truths. Priscilla with her husband Aquila explained and instructed deficient Apollos in the way of God more adequately in Acts 18. And with Priscilla's name first, she was presumed the more prominent teacher. When the Holy Spirit was poured out at Pentecost, Peter says, This was the fulfillment of God's kingdom breaking in. And he quotes Joel 2. In the last days, God says, I will pour out my spirit on all people. Your sons and daughters will prophesy, your young men will see visions, your old men will dream dreams, even on my servants, both men and women, I will pour out my spirit in those days, and they will prophesy. And we see in Acts 2 and 1 Corinthians 12 rates the gift of prophecy above the gift of teaching. When I was at faith, uh the elder uh an elder's wife Ann Malloe, a chairwoman of our Christian Education Committee. uh she uh created a couple slides uh that referred to uh uh women's services in the old testament and you can see the list of Miriam and Deborah and Ruth and Amy and and the various practices, the various participations that they had, uh Hannah, Abigail, uh the Shunammite woman, uh Huldah, Esther, and then in the New Testament We see uh continuation uh with Mary and um Martha, and you can see you know they're functioning in various leadership roles, prophetic word, knowledge roles, wisdom, and service and mercy roles. So, with these realities of women's prominence and participation in the rest of the scriptures, what could Paul mean? Well, the PCA report says that these versions of Paul both liberates and restrain. First century Greek and Jewish cultures generally considered women mentally inferior. They judge women's education as a waste of time at best and a cause of temptation at worst. The Mishnah advised men not to talk with women frequently. Lest they bring evil on themselves, neglect the law, and inherit damnation. Paul believed otherwise. Jesus believed otherwise. He did not rank the capabilities of one's soul based on gender. Paul rightly understood that women were image-bearers of God and they should learn. And they should be taught. When Paul said that women should learn, that was a radical cultural departure of that day. Some women are esteemed image so women were esteemed image bearers who could learn and they should be instructed And all the rest of the scriptures tell us of the prominent participation in service speaking, instructing, and prophesying. So what could Paul mean? that he is restraining here. What is Paul restraining here? Well some scholars suggest that Paul has given his personal opinion that it is not authoritative. Like personally, I don't allow, which lacks really any sense of universal imperative. Or Paul is directing his instructions only against noisy disturbances and interruptions. Or that Paul is correcting those women who were domineering over and usurping authority, alluding to the prominence of priestesses. from the temple and which was actually, you know, in Ephesus. This is in Ephesus. And so you had very prominent uh priestesses uh in Ephesus you had uh really the worship of Diana you had the worship of uh art art of of women uh as as uh in the temple worship. And so we find that now with the church, uh particularly as it's gone into the Roman culture uh that uh the big question is uh you know how do men and women reflect together the dignity and the image of God um and so All of these would suggest the instructions of Paul. Some would say that they are only culturally specific. But this is what Kathy Keller, this is Kathy Keller, this is co-founder of Redeemer Church in New York City with Timber husband, uh, who herself was on her way to ordination, uh, and she came to adopt the view that men and women have different roles in marriage and ministry, but she considers a gospel witness as an a g and she a gift. meant for our good. And she says in her book, Jesus, Justice, and Gender Roles, a case for gender roles in ministry, she says, what is forbidden to women in 1 Timothy 2? And by extension, 1 Corinthians 14 is authoritative teaching, some kind of teaching that carried with it authority not found in other allowable forms of oral discourse. Because this has already been linked in 1 Corinthians 14 with judging of the prophets, and is followed immediately in 1 Timothy 3 by discussion of the qualification of elders. She said, I find it not only plausible, but unavoidable to come to the conclusion that women were being enjoined to silence. Forbidden to participate, and a function reserved for elders alone. Those men tasked with judging personal and corporate faithfulness to the apostolic deposit of truth. And she continues and says the teaching is called authoritative for two reasons. First, it was final judgment of truth versus heresy. Second, it came with the power of discipline. That is, the power to remove from the church body anyone who taught in defiance of the approved apostolic oral tradition. And ca and and Keller says, where does this leave us regarding the role of women? Quoting Hurley, she says, the passage does not in any way stand in opposition to 1 Corinthians 11, which specifically presumes that women will speak to and pray and to prophesy in the church. Nor is it in conflict with the teaching of chapters 12 the fourteen which assumes the various members of the body of Christ will all participate in the corporate meetings. Paul therefore affirms the use of speaking, teaching, prophesying gifts, and other forms of critical service. along with public prayer and worship. What Paul appears to be ordering is a kind of teaching authority and spiritual oversight that is reserved not just for any man. But for those who are called to be elders, of which he provides qualifications and guidelines in the next chapter. And it's important to note that there is nothing in the scriptures that says such men are smarter. or wiser or more gifted in teaching spiritually or morally stronger or superior in any way. Paul angers it in the order of creation. He says the only reason is for Adam was formed first and then Eve. And when he notes that Adam was not the one deceived, but that it was the woman, he is not letting Adam off the hook. Eve maybe was deceived, but Adam was responsible in the fall. Romans 5, 1 Corinthians 15, because he failed his role as covenant keeper and federal head. Eve was deceived, but Adam disobeyed an explicit command. His was high-handed sin. If anything, the fall tells us that men tend to be morally weaker and spiritually passive. There is a uh many of you remember Elizabeth Elliott, the former missionary to the Aka people. She said in a class where she was teaching on gender roles, with particular reference to uh men, she said, I would be a better pastor than most of you. I have better gifts of speaking and counseling. I have more self-discipline and maturity And I'm probably more motivated, etc. However, God did not call me to use my gifts in that r in the role of pastor. So they would be flawed if that's how I chose to use them. I submit my gifts. He's given uh to me back to him and let him determine how I should use them. For me, uh so much of my spiritual life uh has been impacted by uh Johnny Erickson Tata, uh who was from Baltimore. Uh Johnny was my young life leader at Randall Sound High School. And uh Johnny, uh, you know, she be she dove in the Chesapeake Bay and broke her neck, became a quadriplegic when she was 18. I remember going to a ligonier conference where she spoke among esteemed theologians like R. C. Sproul and John Piper. But when she mounted the platform, I remember her saying, I stand here or sit here speaking under the covering of my elders. And then she spoke. And when she spoke, hand down, it was the most powerful uh delivery of uh the message in that conference, at least in my perspective. My life in my ministry and those so many around the world have been so touched by her gifts, her speaking gifts, her teaching gifts, her theology of suffering. Women, Kathy Keller says, should have the fullest possible use of their gifts and access to ministry in every area, save the one that we can tell that Scripture has said clearly is not open to women. Dorothy Sayers, writer, English writer, she says, perhaps it is no wonder that the women were the first at the cradle and the last at the cross. They had never known a man like this man. There was never uh there never has been such another, a prophet and teacher who never nagged them. never flattered or coaxed or patronized, who never made arcs jokes about them, never treated them with either the woman, God help us, or the ladies, God bless them. who rebuked without quarrelsomeness and praised without condescension, who took their questions and arguments seriously, who never mapped their sphere for them, never urged them to be feminine or jeered at them for being female, who had no axe to grind and no easy male dignity to defend. who took them as he found them and was completely unself-conscious. It's one of the reasons key reasons why the early church took off in such a radical way and was so attractive to women. The challenge and the responsibility of those of us who claim a complementarian view of gender roles in the scriptures, how do we reveal the character and practice of Jesus and encourage a robust and gracious practice that fully affirms, supports, encourages, empowers our esteemed and gifted sisters in the fulfillment of their callings for the advancement of the kingdom. And all people, that all people would know and love Jesus. Uh and you know, for me, uh the the greatest influencer, encourager of in my life as a is my wife Maria, uh co-founder of Faith Christian Fellowship, co-founder of Baltimore Antioch Leadership Movement, and I have to confess that I have to just repent uh for not uh being uh the kind of husband often that I should be uh and treating and cherishing her and you know falling into like roles that really uh are not not helpful. And uh just thinking about the early years that faith uh well You know, the typical thing is the man is like out and the woman is at home and I'm not saying that, you know, that that shouldn't Yeah, there's no places for that. But when uh when you find that your your roles um well this is what she said I was like Cinderella. If I worked harder, I might get to go to the ball. Who was the better dancer? Fred Astaire or Ginger Rogers? Ginger Rogers. She had to do everything, but she had to do it backwards and in high heels. When I met a potential uh publisher for Maria's book, the man said, You you married up, didn't you? I said, Yeah, I married way up. If there's any strength to my service, it's because of Maria's care and love and forgiveness of me. But quickly at the end here, verse 15, what does this mean? Yes, she will be saved through childbearing If they continue in faith and love and holiness with self-control, well, it can't mean that women will come safely through childbirth. Like, you know, she will escape all pain and peril. Since pain was promised and not and sometimes death happens to godly women in childbirth. It can't mean that a woman will be saved through motherhood. That is totally inconsistent in the scriptures The only sense is that women will be saved through the birth of the child. That women will be saved. Through the birth of the child. We all get saved through the birth of the child, which came through the most honored of women, Mary. You know, as we come to uh the Lord's Supper. Um There's only one passage in all of the scripture uh in the instructions of Paul that uh