Please be seated. Well good morning, CPC, and happy new year. I am uh full disclosure, I am all hopped up on Dayquill. So uh what that will mean over the next half hour, we'll find out. I do want to encourage you, if you greet me after the service, we're going to be doing knuckle bumps today. And kids, I know I love to hear what you've learned from the sermon, but and I still want to do that, but But uh but no hugs. Um I don't want to infect anyone with whatever it is that I've um picked up here If you brought your Bibles with you today, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 10. This morning I'll be reading for us beginning with verse 13. Let us pray. Almighty God and Heavenly Father, we come to your word and Lord, we are so thankful that you are a God who reveals yourself to us in written form. In a way that is translatable, that can reach every culture, Lord, in every century on every continent. What a blessing for us to have it. Personal copies of it that we can read on our own, that we can read together, that we can reflect on in groups and meditate on privately. Father, we acknowledge that your word being read in public Lord's Day worship is a blessing like few others. It is a means of grace. And so we humbly ask that you bless this reading of your word to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows. And as much as it is strengthening and encouraging, because it echoes the truths of your word, we ask your blessings on that as well. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Luke chapter ten, beginning with verse thirteen, the word of God Woe to you, Khorazin. Woe to you, Bethsaida. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre in Sidon They would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. But it will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you. And you, Capernaum, Will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades. The one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you rejects me. And the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me. This ends the reading of God's Word. It was 10 or 12 years ago, maybe 13. I was climbing the 40 steps, concrete steps. Up to the practice fields at Medea Creek Middle School where the Oak Park Varsity Lacrosse team had its practices. I was the coach. And uh Those steps were a bear. When you get into your fifties and have to climb forty steps, your body lets you know when you reach the end. And I got up to the top and I walked about fifty yards to where the team was gathering, starting to get suited up. Practice was going to start in fifteen minutes. And I was really surprised to hear them quoting Jonathan Edwards. And they were quoting Jonathan Edwards. With loud bombastic voices, you're going straight to hell That's a paraphrase. Turns out in their English class they had been reading Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God, and the English teacher had encouraged them to take turns reading portions of that sermon And really trying to capture the ethos of the Puritan fire and brimstone. And I had a great opportunity to talk to the boys, young men, about that sermon, which I know well, and perhaps some of you do also. And I was able to share with them some things they didn't know about Jonathan Edwards. Some of us have seen that picture that has been abused to the point of being a caricature caricature of the of the the Puritan preaching like this with a bold. Anybody remember that picture? You've seen it before? Yeah, that's George Whitfield, not Jonathan Edwards. Jonathan Edwards was, by firsthand accounts of his early preaching and the preaching that he delivered at the time of that sermon, Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God. He preached with a frail voice. He was not a bold man. He read his sermons because he was nearsighted with trembling hands. And he wept a lot. And I had the piece of paper all folded up with the practice plan for the day, and I took it out and I unfolded it and I said, hey. Take this now, Zach, and uh why don't you hold it right up to your face and then weeping with a trembling voice read those same words And all of a sudden they hit different. Very different. Fortunately, I was well known in the English department at Oak Park Public High School. uh because I use a lot of uh metaphors and similes in coaching. So they had one big display on the wall of Coach Bob's uh isms And I was able to say, hey, you know, you you're you're getting this a little wrong with Edwards, and they changed the way that assignment was implemented from that point on When you come across a verse like this, woe to you, Korazin, woe to you, Besseeda, what is the tone in which you hear those words? Because that word woe is not a word that is declarative of vengeance or justice. It is a word that in one syllable embodies deep remorse. and profound regret. Jesus has just sent out the seventy-two. And he says something to those missionaries on their way out that he says in other places in other contexts, at least one other that we know of in Matthew. This same passage, more or less word for word, woe to you, Corzin, woe to you, Besseda, is occurs in a whole different location in Matthew's gospel. Not because the gospel writers couldn't figure out where to put it, but I would submit to you that all great speakers who have made an impact on history say the same thing more than once. I hope to be remembered if I am remembered at all, for only a couple of things repeated many times over. You are loved by God, you are forgiven of everything. Jesus had certain things that he said again and again and again. One of the things that he expressed at least twice, perhaps a dozen times. How great was his regret that Korazin and Beth Seda had not received his message. There's not an angry delight in the demise of towns. Whole populations going to Hades. Rather, there is a sadness and a sorrow He longed to gather them, but they would not. Words he speaks over Jerusalem as well But when we as the church come to a passage like this, and we're reminded that when Jesus sends people out to do ministry, he is equipping them not only to declare peace, but also to declare God's judgments. when people do not receive the message of the gospel. We're given in this passage here a couple of warnings that have to accompany a faithful gospel ministry. Whether that is a ministry that springs forth from one individual in a private ministry or a personal ministry, or whether that's the corporate ministry of a church or denomination. Or a mission board. And that idea that the gospel is a warning, as was Established earlier in the service when the passage from Ezekiel was read, that Ezekiel himself was a watchman declaring a warning. That warning has three things that this text brings to our mind. The first is that there will be a judgment Now, I remember another occasion in California. I was doing some research at California Lutheran University on the preaching of John Calvin. And California Lutheran University is not a place that is well known for its, well, to summarize, their religion department at California Lutheran didn't have a single professing Christian on the religion department. It was long past its Christian heritage. And I can recall I I was getting articles that were hard to find using their ATLA database and the research library and there was very kind to me. And uh but but she said, you know, Paul never actually mentioned hell. I said, oh. Well, did he talk about God's judgment? Well yeah, but he never actually mentioned hell. I said, Well what does that mean? Well, the Apostle Paul is sort of the apostle of the church and didn't mention hell. Perhaps we shouldn't make that big a deal of it. And I asked her one question. I said, well, did Jesus? Jesus scarcely delivers a parable. Without invoking two great outcomes to life. You're at the banquet or you are not. You're in the outer darkness or you're in the light of his presence. You are in heaven or you're in hell. In fact, you could say that few things were more important to Jesus of Nazareth than your eternal blessedness. And that meant one thing and one thing only, that you were in a right relationship with him, and you had been forgiven. And that is the thing that appears to matter the most to Jesus Christ. That people understood that the kingdom he came to proclaim was a kingdom that was eternal. It was of heaven, and it was not of this world, and was not temporal or temporary. And here in this passage, when he talks about how tragic and how sad and how lamentable is the rejection of places like Bethsaida and Corzin and even Capernaum, He says that in the judgment it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon, and that Capernaum, who thinks they are heaven-bound, will instead be in Hades itself. You see, this idea of the judgment lies at the very heart of the deep regret Jesus of Nazareth has for those who do not respond to his life and ministry correctly. And there's two things that we as the church today have to be particularly reminded of. You see, there are two things that are gaining a lot of traction, even in evangelical Christianity in the West, perhaps even in some of our spiritual imaginations. One is the idea that, well, at the end of the day, really everybody's going to be in heaven. These warnings against hell are really just a desire to make us want to know God better, but God's not really going to do that. Well, not according to Jesus. Jesus right here says that Capernaum will be brought down to Hades. Right here he says it will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon, two notorious pagan cities. Than even for Bethsaida and Khorazin. See the notion of universalism Is rooted and grounded in our human imagination that wants there to be, at the end of the day, no judgment at all. And that's not what the Bible teaches. And that's not what Jesus Christ came and preached. He preached that indeed there will be a judgment. There will absolutely be a judgment, and sheep will be separated from goats. Those who have received and accepted Christ will be separated from those who have rejected him. And that will be a permanent final sorting that will be of unspeakable tragedy for those who did not repent and turned to Jesus. Annihilation is also something that has become popular. The idea that, well A loving God couldn't send anyone to hell, so what he's going to do is if people aren't going to go to heaven, he's just going to annihilate their souls, if you will. They're just going to stop existing. And I want to demonstrate from this text that that also is not a viable alternative It will be more bearable in the judgment for Tyre and Sidon than for you, Besseda and Khorazin. If they both alike share in the annihilation of their being, the cessation of their existence, How is it more bearable for one than the other? See, the Bible clearly teaches that there are degrees of judgment in hell. Clearly teaches that. For those of you who are interested in following that more, I'd encourage you to pick up Shed. That's S-H-E-D-D an American theologian from the last century who wrote uh wrote about last things, and he's got a wonderful chapter on that. It's as wonderful as a chapter on hell could possibly be. It is carefully biblical. And I want to observe to you, especially if you're a guest here today, that as Christians We are not called to like everything that the Bible teaches. And that is very important to say. We struggle with doctrines that we don't like. And we have been conditioned as a culture to put such a great stock in our feelings that we feel something is wrong, therefore it must be wrong. That is not how I live my life as a theologian. I can safely go where the Bible teaches. Whether I like it or not is irrelevant to the truth. Deep down you know that's the case. Whether you like the tax code or not, you still have to write the check. Your defiance of reality in favor of your Emotional well-being ends poorly in every arena of your life. And it is absolutely deadly when it comes to theology. I don't like the doctrine of hell, but I love the holiness of God. And I preach the doctrine of hell because I am under very clear orders to preach what the Bible has said. I grieve over the fate of friends and even family who have gone into their eternity without knowing Jesus, as far as I can say. But I dare not for a minute imagine that my feelings on the matter have anything to do with what is actually the case. God forbid that I loved the doctrine of hell. God forbid that I rejoiced in the eternal damnation of fellow image-bearers of the living God. But God forbid also that I either ignore or downplay the significance of this doctrine that looms so large. in the public ministry of Jesus of Nazareth. For him it was of absolute importance. That his auditors understand that their eternal destiny absolutely depended upon whether or not they received and responded appropriately to the message he came to demonstrate and to declare. And when we allow other things To superimpose themselves over eternal matters, or to take up more of our agenda than things that will last forever. That's tragic. And that's foolish. And in fact, that's cruel. Because if I really believed That people who go to their deaths without being forgiven of their sins by the living God through the work of Jesus Christ, if I actually believe that. How can I watch people go to their deaths without being warned? How can we do that? How can churches go so long without mentioning hell? I'll give you a little thought experiment. This week, just randomly select Ten sermons from you could randomly select a hundred sermons from good churches, different churches. And how many of us even mention hell when Jesus could scarcely speak without mentioning it? Do we preach like Jesus did? Do we focus people on the reality of eternal things that is so unspeakably real? That it should occupy our energies, our imagination, our hopes, our dreams. There will be a judgment. And the Church of Jesus Christ must remember this and it must declare it to the world. It will be jeered at, mocked. You will be hated. If someone says to you, so are you saying I'm going to hell if I don't accept Christ? And you dare to answer yes, you will be despised. But yet you will have spoken the truth, hopefully, like Edwards did, with trembling hands and a note of sorrow. Hopefully, like Jesus did, by expressing a deep woe, a deep lament. That someone could forego such a blessed opportunity, and for what There will be a judgment. A second warning for the church today, for those who are among the 72 and are sent out to every nation, tribe, language, and tongue. Rejoicing in the mighty works of God are not sufficient for that day of judgment. Woe to you, Khorazin. Woe to you, Bethsaeda. Now Khorazin is not mentioned in a single one of the Gospels. Khorazin is all three of these towns that are mentioned, Bethsaeda and Capernaum and Korazin, are all located on the northern edge. of the Sea of Galilee or Lake Gennesareth, depending on how your Bible atlas calls it. The Jordan River. flows into the Sea of Galilee on the north and flows out of it on the south. And right there on the north you've got on the eastern northeastern corner you've got Capernaum on the northwestern corner of it, you have Besseda, and right above Capernaum, across the small mountain range, you have Korazin. We don't know what Jesus did in Korazin. We know that he taught and and he did. signs and wonders in all of the towns of Galilee, that would have been one of them. But we don't have recorded any specifics there. But that's not the case with Beth Saida. Beth Saida is where he fed the 5,000. Bethsaida is a place that would have been very familiar with the mighty works of God. And Bethsaida, as far as we know, especially from the other gospels. received and reacted to the work of Jesus with amazement, with awe With what appears to have been respect, if nothing else. Let's move down, and you, Capernaim, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades. Well, Capernaum in the Gospel of Matthew, chapter 9, verse 1, Capernaum is referred to as Jesus' own town. And in fact, if you look at the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, and Luke in particular, Jesus uses Capernaum sort of as a home base. Capernaum is the place where after Jesus is first rejected at Nazareth, right after his baptism, right after his wilderness temptation, when he first begins his public ministry in chapter 4 of the Gospel of Luke. Nazareth rejects him. He goes to Capernaum and he's received. He does two things there. He casts out a demon while preaching in a synagogue, and his authority is noted. And gloried in by the people of Capernaum. And then later he goes to Simon's house and heals his mother-in-law, much to the amazement of everyone. Later, it is in Capernaum that he heals the centurion's son. And again, the reaction of the crowds is wonder and appreciation and delight. But one thing is missing. Notice what Tyran Sidon would have done if they had seen these mighty works. For if the mighty works, verse 13, if the mighty works done in you had been done entire in Sidon. These paragons of pagan lack of virtue, they would have repented sitting in sackcloth and ashes. Rejoicing in the mighty works of God are not sufficient if repentance is lacking As we move through the account of Jesus' teaching in places like Nazareth, places like Capernaum, places like Beth Seda. One thing we didn't ever come across was the repentance of the people listening to Jesus. In the Gospel of Luke, this is the first occurrence of the word repentance. The word that is used throughout Matthew and Mark as the summary of the preaching of Jesus, repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Without repentance, no amount of appreciation for Jesus or his ministry or his wisdom or his works. Will do you any good at all on that great day of judgment. Without repentance, it would have been better if you had never heard the name of Jesus of Nazareth. It'd be better if you'd been raised in Tyre and Sidon, because to him who is entrusted, much, much is expected. You have heard the name of Jesus. You have heard about his holiness, his love, his mercy. And he has called you to come to himself. Won't you come? And that means one thing: repent. Turn from sin to salvation Turn from depending on self to relying upon Christ. Turn from defending all of your often horrible decisions. To trusting that God in Christ is merciful And can redeem even the worst situations you've gotten yourself into. There will be a judgment Rejoicing in the mighty works of God are not sufficient for that day. And we must not reject God. That's the third great warning. It matters very little to me. I can now say that I'm in my more mature years, and granted that's a relative term. But I'm certainly more mature than I was in my 30s or 40s. Been around a bit longer, experienced a little bit more, good, bad, and ugly And it has come to mean increasingly little to me if I'm thought well of. It's really not relevant. And I want to encourage you, dear Christian, to grow into that. The one who hears you hears me. It's not about me, it's about whether or not I have humbly spoken the words God has already said, and whether or not Christ may be genuinely heard through what I say. As I'm moved by his spirit, taught by his word. There's no room for me. And the one who rejects you rejects me. And Jesus again is talking to the 72 he sent. This is his summary of the situation after he's declared the lament. It says to you who are going out on the field, the one who hears you hears me. The one who rejects you rejects me. And the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me. Ultimately, this is about God doing his work through frail, broken, fallible people like you and like me. And therefore, as I declare a sometimes heavy message that might earn me the scorn and ridicule of a sophisticated modern world, it matters not one whit. And it would be a beautiful thing if I could say truly that I could care less. I care less than I did in my 30s. But I care not little enough. At the end of the day, the one thing that matters is that people do not reject the God who so loved the world that he gave his only son. that whosoever believes on him might not perish, but have everlasting life. And do you see how that verse, John 3. 16, is a photo negative in a way to this? The one who hears you hears me, and the one who rejects you rejects me, and the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me. The God who so loved is the one who sent Jesus Jesus is the one who is accepted when his message of forgiveness of sins is heard. And the glorious outcome of that is life everlasting. You shall not perish. As we begin a new year, we have an opportunity to go back and rethink the foundations, the first things, the great principles that direct and inform and shape our life. And for me, every year I go back to thinking about the gospel and the things that really matter. The things that really matter. Are the souls of men and women, boys and girls who desperately need to know Jesus Christ and to hear the offer of forgiveness and the invitation to repent? Those are the things that matter forever. And I'm not saying nothing else matters, but how much does it matter? Mission drift is a common problem in agencies and churches and organizations all around the world. Mission drift is what happens when you have an organization that exists for one purpose, but there are other associated purposes that help the original mission That begin to erode the competence of the organization to accomplish its first mission. Let me give you an example. Since I already took you on a little field trip up those 40 concrete steps to the Medea Creek practice field, What is the objective of a varsity lacrosse program in the public high school system? Anyone know? To win games, thank you. Every athletic director I've worked for, and I've worked for three, has said your job at the varsity level is to win games. At the J V level, it was always in each of the schools where I coach, it was to teach the sport. The varsity program exists to win games. You're doing what it takes to win games. At Now there are a lot of things that contribute to a culture where you win games One of those things is what we in the Oak Park community came to call taco nights, where we'd have the entire lacrosse team and family and friends and everybody over every Thursday for tacos all year long. That was very important to create the culture that would contribute to winning the game. But if there was a game on Thursday, do you think we canceled the game to eat tacos? Oh no. No tacos for you. You're gonna get out there and you're gonna bleed and you're gonna cry and you're gonna sweat and we're gonna win another game Because first things come first. And we as the Church of Jesus Christ, in every iteration of it, from here to the far side of the world. must remember that the first thing for us in the great mission we have been given is to make disciples of all nations And disciples are made when people hear the gospel of Jesus Christ, are offered forgiveness, and are invited to repent. That is the spark. That begins the fire of the Christian life. Everything else is important Nothing else is essential. And I want you to think about that and give me pushback. Nothing else is essential. The thief on the cross will be with you in paradise If someone heard the gospel and repented and put their trust in Christ, however immature they may be in Christ, they will be with you in paradise. Now we are never to think that we can be perpetual babes in Jesus because of that. Because it is his will for us to grow. But that proclamation of the gospel and the invitation to come to Jesus is absolutely non-negotiably a part of the ministry of every faithful church. And where it is absent, ultimately so is grace. Increasingly so is truth. And ultimately, life is absent as well. This year, I want to invite you to pray for your pastor. Not that I get over this cold or flu or whatever I've got, but pray for me that I would keep in mind the unspeakable glory of the gospel and the Indescribable value of the individual soul who needs to have their sins forgiven, and who we are called to invite to repentance. Make that your absolute priority, the objective to which all the other lesser goods that you are so faithfully engaged in Pursue. Pray for me and pray for us By way of application, I want to invite you to consider three questions. First, do you think about the grief Jesus has for those who do not know him? If you love Jesus, you are grieved by those things that grieve him. If you love Jesus, you're delighted by those things that delight him. This is such common sense that it doesn't require elaboration. When Jesus says, woe to you, woe to you. He is expressing lament and he invites you to share that grief and labor with him towards rectifying that great Lack of faith in repentance by faithful ministry and diligent prayer. Secondly, will we call others to repentance that they might have life That's a bold move. It's a bold move to let someone know that hey it It doesn't matter what you think about me or whether or not we agree on all these other things. What really matters is that your sins are forgiven, are they? Are you accepting the offer of Christ's death in your place, or are you insisting upon dying for your own sins? Because, friend, that death is forever. And in a sense, hell is simply being given what you insisted upon. It is an existence without God. Forever. Will we call people to come out of that? And lastly, a question that's very close to my heart for each one of you. Have you repented? Have you come to Jesus Christ unconditionally saying, I am a sinner, I'm not worthy, I am I'm wicked, I'm depraved, I'm self-centered. But Lord Jesus, I've heard your invitation from who knows how many pastors, friends, parents, uncles, aunts. Kids, and I would like to repent and turn to you. Will you forgive me of my sins? There's not an exact way that needs to be worded. But the heart of repentance must be there for your true life to really begin. And it is the stated goal of my ministry and of this pulpit to present that offer, that summons, that Creator mandate that you come and live by repenting and believing in Jesus Christ. Who declares his great lament over all who deny that invitation? May it not be any of us, amen. Almighty God, we thank you for the fact that you have invited us to come to you. And Lord, we thank you that During holiday seasons and beginnings of a new year, we're able to think and reflect on those things that matter most and matter forever. And Lord, we thank you for the power of your gospel that speaks to the depth of our brokenness and invites us to come and find ourselves in you. Lord, it is our prayer that this year, 2026, will be a year of revival in your churches throughout Colombia. Lord, that every church where your gospel is preached in Colombia would be would be filling up with people. who acknowledge you, O living God, and put their faith in Christ and learn how to walk by your Spirit. And Father God, we pray that you would bless each and every one of us. Bless us this year with a renewed commitment to rejoice in those things that cause you joy and to grieve those things that cause you sorrow. That we might be gospel-sensitive people who are therefore gospel-declaring people. Help us not to forget to add the invitation to Christ to all of our ministries. Lest we have bath water with no baby, or truth with no light. Father, bless us. Make us like yourself. Fill us with the joy of your presence and that joy that comes from being redeemed. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.