The uh word of God with you several months ago, uh the Lord led me in my heart uh to this passage in the uh book of Hosea, chapter one, verse two. to chapter 2 verse 1. So I'd like for you all to turn with me there now within your within your Bible to uh Hosea chapter 1 verse 2 to chapter 2 verse 1 Please uh follow with me as I read this uh uh passage of the uh word of god. When the Lord began to speak through Hosea, the Lord said to him, Go, take to yourself an adulterous wife and children of unfaithfulness, because the land is guilty. of the vilest adultery and departing from the Lord. So he married Gomer, daughter of Biblaim, and she conceived and bore him a son. Then the Lord said to Hosea, Call him Jezreel, because I will soon punish the house of Jehu for the massacre at Jezreel, and I will put an end to the kingdom of Israel. In that day I will break Israel's bow in the valley of Jezreel. Domer conceived again and gave birth to a daughter. Then the Lord said to Hosea, Call her Lo Ruhama, for I will no longer show love to the house of Israel, that I should at all forgive them Yet I will show love to the house of Judah, and I will save them, not by bow, sword, or battle, or by horses and horsemen, but by the Lord their God. After she had weaned Lohuhama, Gomer had another son. And the Lord said, Call him, Lo on me, for you are not my people, and I am not your God. Yet the Israelites will be like the sand on the seashore, which cannot be measured or counted. In the place where it was said to them, You are not my people, they will be called sons of the living God. The people of Judah and the people of Israel will be reunited, and they will appoint one leader and will come up out of the land, for great will be the day of Jezreel. Stay of your brothers, my people, and of your sisters, my loved ones. I have always been fascinated whenever I study the Bible of certain biblical transformations, what I like to call transformations, not just reversals, but the way that God takes one thing or concept or person and by the power of his might transforms this into something else. Uh and in fact the Bible is filled with these type of transformations. Uh when you read the Bible at certain points, it i he says that in order to be the first in his kingdom you must be the last. To be the greatest, you must be the servant of all. He says that we were once lost, but now found, that we were once dead, but now alive Now I always find these uh these transformations within the Bible such a fascinating thing. And so this morning, what I'd like to do from the book of Hosea share with you two uh transformations at least that I see within this passage. The first is a transformation from the condemned to the child the object of God's wrath and judgment, and being now changed into the object of God's love of being in fact his child. Now the setting for the uh book of Hosea and the time or the historical time setting within for the uh book of Hosea is one that I'm sure that we're all familiar with. Um Israel several centuries before had been freed out of slavery, out of Egypt. Um but as right from the get go, it things just didn't look too good for this nation of Israel. They immediately fell into idolatry into sin, doubting the power of God. And this, in light of a number of miraculous powers and demonstrations of God's power before them Uh the ten mighty acts of God to free them out of slavery, the uh presence of God that was with them in the pillar of fire and the pillar of cloud, the the parting of the Red Sea, such a uh spectacular Old Testament act of redemption. Um the way that God provided manna and quails for them in the wilderness, all of these acts uh that demonstrated God's goodness, and yet Israel still fell into sin And so they fell uh so deeply into sin that they were rec unrecognizable as the people of God. After their initial conquest into the promised land and after they settled into the land of Palestine, you would think that maybe now They would finally start mending and turning their ways. But that's not what happens. They start to fall even deeper into sin. So God, what does he do? He sends judges Judges who will now redeem Israel and uh free them from oppressing nations around them. After that you would think that now Israel will finally turn around. But no, they still fall deeper and deeper into sin. They in fact reject God as their king and ask for a worldly king like all the other nations to now rule them. And so God still in his graciousness gives to them a king, a king after his own heart in David. And now that Israel has transformed from a nation into a kingdom, you would think that now They would finally embrace the Lord. But no, they still rebel and sin even deeper and deeper, um, rebelling against the Lord, to the point where even the Israelite kings become a problem themselves. Uh we read the book of Hosea and at the time of Hosea's life, what you read about is now the brink of Israelite exile out of the promised land to be conquered by a foreign nation. Hosea, uh being the prophet of God, is called by God to now re preach a message of repentance to his people to call them back into repentance to be restored in their relationship with God. But in fact Israel at this point has fallen into such deterioration religiously in their relationship with God that they could not be recognized as the people of God. Now Hosea I find to be a very fascinating um person within the Bible, a a very unusual prophet who was told by God to do a very unusual thing in terms of his personal life. He is told to marry, but not to marry an ordinary wife. He has children, but he is not allowed to give them ordinary names. And in fact, when you study the life of Hosea and his personal relationships and his family, what you start to see is that this earthly relationship is just a reflection of some deep spiritual truths that reflects the relationship of God with his people Israel. When you look at the naming of his children, it's very telling right away in terms of that spiritual truth. In verse 4, Hosea is given a son, and he is called by God to name his son Jezreel. He is not given the luxury to choose his own name He is not allowed to pick any name that he would like. He is given the name by God for his son. Now I have four children. And I hope that's going to be it for a while. Um we have four children and uh I have three boys and a girl, and each time we've had one of these children, it's always been a struggle to pick out a very nice name. And you know, I'm sure you parents can understand, you don't want to just pick any name. You you think about it, you pray about it, you have options and you kind of weigh what might be nice and what might not be so nice and and you come up with a name that you think is just fitting. Um, you know, if we ever have a fifth child, Lord willing in the way far distant future. Way far distant future, but uh if The Lord blesses us with a fifth child, and if he happens to be a boy, you know, I don't know what I'm going to name him. Uh I I have run out of options. If it is a girl, then I know exactly what I would name her. But if it's a boy, I'm not altogether sure. But what I do know, I don't think I'm going to name him Jezreel. Um it's like uh naming your son murderer Lee, or I it just doesn't make sense to to do something that dramatic or traumatic uh to a child. But yet that is the name that Hosea has given to give to his son. Now there are two things about Jezreel that we need to know about. First the Hebrew etymology, the word Jezreel means God scatters. And in the Old Testament, the idea of scattering is actually a form of covenantal curse. In the Old Testament and the flow of the Old Testament is always for God to bring his people together, to to bring the uh twelve tribes together and it in a unified conglomerate whole. In fact that was one great struggle. uh that the the nation of Israel had throughout the entire Old Testament to have some type of unified identity. And so the idea of now Israel working against that, now being scattered as opposed to being brought together, is in a sense a covenantal curse. Not only that, we are given a reference in the passage in verse 4 And five, to a historical event with King Jehu of the northern kingdom of Israel. Now Jehu was a king who came to power uh right after the reign of King Ahab, who was one of the wickedest kings uh within Israel at that time. Now Jehu, to consolidate his rule as king, gathered all of the sons and the descendants of Ahab and essentially had them massacred in the valley of Jezreel. This he does so that there be no challenge to his authority now as being the newly established king. And so Jezreel, the place in the valley of Jezreel, becomes a place of massacre. A place of bloodshed it is remembered now for this historic event of degradation and of sin. This is not the name that you may want to remember to give to your child, but yet nonetheless that is what Hosea is called to give for his son. His next child in verse 6 is a daughter, and again he is given a name for her, the name Lol Ruhama, which in Hebrew means no mercy. Uh he has given a third child, a son, in verse nine, and again he has given the name, he is not allowed to choose, the name Loami, which in Hebrew means not my people. And at this point You can almost see the progression within the naming of the children. Jezreel, which can almost argumentatively be made as being a decent name. to Lo Ruhama, no mercy, now to the absolute pronouncement of covenantal curse in Loham Not my people. This is a reversal essentially of the covenant that God made with Moses on Mount Sinai, where where In some you could say that it is God saying, I will be your God and you will be my people and we will be united together as one. Essentially a marriage covenant. And now here the language of not my people is breaking that bond. We are reading here now a very extreme low point in the relationship of God with his people Israel. But yet, in the midst of all of this darkness, in the midst of all of this sin, and in the midst of all of the muck within this chapter, there is a bright light of hope. And you see that in the first word in verse 10, the word yet. This is a yet of hope. This is a glorious yet, a majestic yet. This is a gospel yet. You see, up until this point from verse two to verse nine, What you are reading about is God's judgment and wrath being poured out upon the people of Israel in the naming of his children. But from verse ten to the uh chapter two verse one, you are now reading about the grace of God, the mercy of God, the love of God that is now being poured on upon his people. It's as if that verse and that word there in verse ten is like a pivot point that now transforms everything that you read about previously into something else. In verse Uh eleven, what you read about there is it's saying that the people of Judah and the people of Israel be reunited and a a reversal, a transformation of Jezreel God scattering. Now here God is saying that they will be brought together. They will be united together as one Even the idea of Jezreel being a place of curse in verse 11, it says that this will be a great day. It will be great, will be the day of Jezreel. In verse chapter 2, verse 1, you read, there the sisters being declared my loved ones, the reversal, the transformation of Loru Hama. In verse uh chapter two, verse one, in that same verse, you read now the people of God being declared my people, a reversal of Lola Me, not my people. And in fact, in verse eleven before that You read now this declaration where the people of God are now being declared sons of the living God. We have now moved from the condemned to the child. We have moved from those who were the objects of God's wrath, as Paul called it, to now being the objects of God's love. We are no longer to the object of condemnation. We are now the objects of the loving Savior who calls us child. How is this possible? I mean, what is the foundation that God can allow this type of transformation? He in his holiness must punish sin Sin was committed, so he cannot arbitrarily just simply forget about the sin that was committed. When you read verse ten, there is that phrase there that the Israelites will be like the sand on the seashore, which cannot be measured or counted. This idea of being the sand on the seashore that that is so numerous that cannot be counted is really an allusion to the covenant that God made with Abraham back in the book of Genesis. And that covenant is the great, great covenant throughout the entire Bible. When you read uh verse eleven, it says that Israel and Judah will be united together under one headship. and that uh they will come up out of the land. Now this imagery of coming out of the land is really a prophetic image of the nation of the people of God being brought out of captivity in Babylon. But that imagery of being out of the land is really uh brings back to uh mind the imagery of the Exodus of Israel was brought out of the land of Exodus uh of the land of Egypt, excuse me. And so here you have two reminders of the amazing grace of God. You see the only reason why we can go from Jezreel To being united. The only reason why we can go from Lo Ruhama to being loved ones, the only reason why we can go from Loami to now my people is because of the gospel. It is because of the amazing grace of God. Now we will read the New Test or the Old Testament and we read about the the degradation of Isra of Israel and we think to ourselves, boy, you know The Bible's really right in condemning them. They really were wicked people. And we somewhat identify ourselves outside of that. But you want to know something? And this I think I shared with someone at one point. Um, this is the reason why I am so passionate about studying Old Testament scriptures. Is because when I read about Israel, the Old Testament, I am reading about myself. When I read about the failure of the Israelite king, that is my failure. When I read read about the the failure of Jacob and the way that he so connivingly tricked his older brother for his birthright and how he was so deceptive to people around him. This is me. This is my heart. This is a reflection of who I am. You see, we were all Jezreel. We were all Loruhama. We were all lo Ami, and it is by the grace of God that we have now been transformed into children of the living God. You see, we who were Jezreel are now united together. In fact, Jesus became Jezreel for us, so that we can now be declared great. Jesus became Lo Ru Hama so that we can now receive mercy. Jesus became Loami. So that we can be declared my people. The great transformation of the Bible is really based fundamentally upon the gospel. And this is the reason why the lost can be found. why the dead can now be made alive. In fact, the Apostle Peter and the Apostle Paul both make allusions to this in 1 Peter chapter 2, what Pastor Steve Green was preaching on last week, when Peter says there that the The corners the the that Jesus is like a rock that was rejected, but this is the foundation on why we were once not a people, but now we are a people. Once we did not receive mercy, but now we receive mercy. Alluding here to Hosea chapter 1. So you see, because of the gospel, we can be transformed from the condemned of God to now the children of God. But there is a second transformation within this passage that deals specifically with Hosea himself in light of his relationship with his wife, a transformation from his grief to now his glory. You know, uh we we we read Hosea and um we can't help but to almost pity this poor man and what God uh called for him to do. You know when when I first studied the book of Hosea, I was in college And uh being in college I was a young single guy dreaming of that one great day when I would get married. You know, and I had this image of my future wife. And not just me, but this is uh I don't know if this is what single people do here in the East Coast, but in the West Coast, this is about the only thing single college people used to talk about. And so we would gather together. I had a friend in college who uh wrote uh down the alphabet from A to Z And he would come up with one uh attribute that he was looking for in his teacher watching just go down the entire list. This is a man who was clearly upset. with getting married. And you know, we oftentimes do that. And I'm sure the single people here and those of you who are married when you were re single can perhaps recall that moment when you really dreamed about that The that moment when you would meet that that that that significant other, you know, your your soulmate for life. You know, that person that you have just been waiting for, that you are now going to be wed to, and now be united together um as one. And you know, if I were to use my sanctified imagination, I'm sure Hosea himself, perhaps as he was growing up, did the same exact thing. But With his prophetic call, every possible dream that he had of a loving marital relationship was now shattered. He is told to marry But he essentially he has married he is told to marry a wife of harlotry, of unfaithfulness. The Jerusalem Bible uh in their translation tr uh has a very vivid picture when it says, go marry a whore, because the people of God are whoring themselves against me as a way that the Jerusalem Bible translates that. The imagery is very stark. The imagery there is very, very dark uh uh depressing almost. Um and in this relationship from verse uh chapter chapter one verse two what you see is that the relationship of God and Israel is just A an image of Hosea's relationship with his wife is just an image of God's relationship with Israel. It's as if God is bringing Hosea into his own heart to experience what he is experiencing. God almost saying to Hosea, you know, it hurts, doesn't it, to give yourself to an individual wholeheartedly, to give your soul to this person To give your heart, your emotion, your mind, to give everything that you've got, just to have this person now hurt you, bring grief to you slap you across the face, essentially spit right into you. It it hurts, doesn't it? Doesn't feel good, does it? You know, we look at Hosea and uh we we at times at times really pity this man, but no, I would submit to you this morning. that Hosea is not a man, uh a cursed man. He is not a cursed man whom we should pity. In fact, he's the opposite. He is a blessed man whom we are to be encouraged by, and the reason I say that is because Hosea, perhaps more than anyone else, can understand the breaking and the sorrow of God's own heart. You know, now we pray as Christians regularly, and I hope at least I do, uh, that we will be more like Christ, conform to the image of Jesus Christ, as Paul says. um to love what he loved, to hate what he hated, to to have the passion of Christ, the mind of Christ To have the heart of Jesus Christ. And you know, when it comes to the blessings, we'll embrace that wholeheartedly without any questions. We will take the promise of forgiveness of our sins. We will take uh the redemption that is ours in by faith in Jesus Christ. We will um embrace the doctrine of justification by faith alone in Christ alone. the doctrine of glorification and that eternal spiritual body that is waiting for us by faith in Jesus Christ. We will embrace all of these things and we will take that But the one thing that we have a hard time accepting, if not the glories of Christ, is in fact the sufferings of Christ. And I'll tell you now That to have one without the other is to not know Jesus. And the reason why is because that is not the life that he lived. That is not the life that he lived You know, Hosea here is given a tremendous blessing to be able to enter into an understanding of the heart of God. And I'm talking about a type of knowledge here that comes that you cannot read about it in a theological textbook on the doctrine of God. Something that cannot be encapsulated within mere words, something that cannot be uh recorded using some type of uh hu humanly earthly recording device. He is given an understanding and a sense of intimacy with his Lord at a level that not everyone is given an understanding to. And this is the reason why Peter says in 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 12 to 12 to 16 there, he says there that When we endure struggles and trials like this, that we shouldn't be surprised as if something sub something unusual is happening to us. He says, in fact, we need to rejoice because we are participating in the sufferings of Christ. Paul later on and says in Philippians chapter 1 verse 29 that it has been graciously given unto you to not only believe but to also suffer for his name. The Greek word there, forgive, is actually is the Greek word ekshariste. The root word there is the Greek word choris, and that is the Greek word for grace, where we have come up with the name Charis, Carissa. all these other derivatives to capture the idea of the grace of God. Of course we will name our children this because it's such a wonderful life-giving concept in terms of God's mercy and grace But Paul is saying, it is grace to you, not just to believe, it is grace to you to also suffer of Jesus Christ, the sufferings of Jesus Christ. Paul says in Philippians chapter 3, verse 10, that I want to know Christ and the power of his resurrection and to share in the fellowship of his sufferings. Because Paul understands Very clearly that to have one and not the other is not to have a holistic understanding of who Jesus is. And Paul was a man who desired to have such intimacy with his Lord. He was a man who desired to have such union with his Savior that he did not just want to take the pleasant things. He wanted to know Jesus in his entirety, in his glory as well as in his suffering. You know, if this is true, and the gospel can do this If it is true that the gospel can transform our grief into glory in this way, if it is true that the gospel can transform us from being the condemned of God to now being the children of God, I will ask you, Christians, as the psalmist says in Psalm 42, why so downcast, O my soul? Put your trust in God. Put your hope in God. If we put our hope in God, for those of you for some of us, perhaps we will for the first time go from being the condemned of God to now being the children of God For some of us who are struggling with unbelievable torment that cannot be described with words, perhaps if we put our hope in God, we will be transformed from our grief now to glory. You know. When I was in college, I um I grew up more or less with not with a non-believing father and a believing mother. Um, I can still remember um and and they're so alive to me in my mind, images of my mother just begging pleading in tears, sobbing at the feet of my father to just come to church, anything to get him exposed to the gospel. Um and so so moved by that and as I was growing in my own faith in my relationship with the Lord, my own father's salvation became more and more of a a burden to me. And so one day in college I lifted up a very simple but very bold prayer. I asked the Lord to do whatever it takes to break my father's heart. Whatever it takes. If that means that we have to go bankrupt and my father does very well for a living, if that means that we have got to lose everything Our house, our home, cars, everything. Whatever it takes, God, do what you need to do in order to break his heart. You know, we have to be careful what we pray for because at times we do in fact get what we ask. Uh a short time after that, my father uh invested into a uh certain business in Tucson, Arizona, which is about a ten hour drive from Los Angeles where uh I grew up. This investment started to go so badly that he was required it it required for him to drive out to Tucson every single weekend uh Friday evening to come back uh Sunday morning so he can go to work uh Monday morning. Uh and he would do this every single weekend for four years. Uh needless to say, it just took its toll on him physically. I mean he was s extremely stressed. Everything that he owned was poured now into this business. Everything. He uh poured his own business into this investment in Tucson. Uh our home he took a second mortgage out. Uh our cars now, everything essentially that we owned was now in jeopardy of being lost. Um, as a result of all the pressure and the stress, my father uh uh went through a very dramatic and traumatic heart attack that nearly took his life. Um and after four years of this, I spoke with my father and he said to me that he believed that God was doing this to him for a reason. That perhaps that God wanted him to see That there was not everything in life deals with money. That in fact God wanted him to return back to the church. That God wanted him to repent of his ways. You know, my father now, I can say in all honesty, I can say wholeheartedly, with unspeakable joy in my heart, is a born-again Christian He is now an ordained deacon at his church. He now leads a cell of his own there that he has no idea what he is doing, but yet he is happy to do it. My father invested into these little mini coach vans. Not the not the mini van, but it's sort of like a bus, a mini bus He invested in one of these for his church so that people can take comfortable mission trips down to Tijuana, Mexico to share the gospel with people down into Mexico. I love my father. He is an inspiration to me on the way that uh the Lord has transformed him. But when my father confessed his sin and finally turned to the Lord, do you know what I said? I said to myself, God has turned my grief into glory. You know, the Lord, by the power of the gospel, can do the same exact thing for you. You who perhaps were once the condemned are now a child. You who once perhaps are struggling, or in fact perhaps even now are suffering in glory or in grief, can be now transformed in to glory, and you can experience what Peter calls a joy unspeakable, full of grace and truth. A joy that just cannot be bottled in within your heart, a joy that has to express itself in shouts and acclamations of joy where you want to do nothing but to join in in some great anthem of praise with a cosmic choir of angels. that is declaring their praises on high to the living God for what he has done to you and for you by the power of the gospel. You know, God gives to us in this world very unusual gifts, it seems. They don't look like gifts because they are covered under a morass of suffering, of pain, and of sin. But truth of the matter is, these are very precious gifts. These are loving gifts. These are gospel gifts. And the task before us as we continue in our journey on this road that we call life is to look beyond. The obscure, so that we may encounter the omnipotent. To look beyond devastations. So that we may see the divine, not to be just caught up with earthly catastrophes, but to always point our eyes to the living, eternal Jesus. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for Jesus Christ, and we thank you for all that He has done. Not only, Lord, have you provided us eternity with you. Father, you love us enough to transform the pain that we go through in this life into glory. I don't know, Lord, what goes on in the private lives of each and the individual that is here Each family, Lord, that is even represented, Father, I can only assume have their own share of struggles. Whatever they might be, O God, I pray that you may do a miraculous thing. To do, Lord, what it is impossible for human uh for man to do, Lord. May may you, O Lord, by the power of the gospel be pleased to transform. Help us, O God, to point our eyes, to look always heavenly towards you, and that through that you may, O God, bring a joy unspeakable into our hearts. And so, Lord, be pleased to hear our prayers, and be with us, for we pray these things all in Jesus' name.