But I I want to say to uh the worship team, I hope that you are praying for the worship teams of this church. Because one of the hardest things to do when you're leading in worship, or for the preacher, is to worship Because you're so focused on the logistics of the service. Are the instruments in tune? How does my voice sound? You find yourself looking back on worship from the perspective of how did it go? Was it good? And you very subtly end up being one who is an observer of worship, not one who participates. So please pray for the worship teams and for the preachers who bring you the word that we too might not just lead in worship, but that we would also be among the worshipers. It is great to be back with you. I want to take an opportunity to say this is building on last week's sermon. Where I'm taking just a couple of weeks here to set, if you will, a trajectory Of what I think is most important for not only the ministry that God has called me to here at CPC along with a pastoral team, but to remind us of what is the vital foundation a foundation for the vital church. Last week we looked at a vital church is one that is Christ-centered. This week we looked that a vital church is also one that not is just Christ-centered but gospel-driven That may seem like an elementary or easy truth, but I will tell you as a church grows As we are in the process of looking towards a finished building and going through all the changes It is very easy to drift away from being gospel driven Do you know that you can be a church, that we can be a church so driven by activity and ministry that we can forget why we're doing it to begin with? In our Christian lives, why do we obey? By what power? It is the power of the gospel. So let's look this morning at Hebrews chapter two, verses one through four. The preacher writes this letter to these Jewish converts to Christianity at Rome. And he tells them of their greatest danger, but also their greatest strength. Hebrews 2, chapter, verse, and the verses 1 through 4. We must pay more careful attention, therefore, to what we have heard so that we do not drift away. For if the message spoken by angels was binding, and every violation and disobedience received its just punishment. How shall we escape if we ignore such a great salvation? This salvation, which was first announced by the Lord, was confirmed to us by those who heard him. God also testified to it by signs, wonders, and various miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, distributed according to his will. Pray with me. Our God, our help in ages past, and our hope for years to come. We ask you in these moments, as you have met us and inspired us by your spirit and truth to worship you, We pray also that by that same Spirit you would make this word alive to us It is not because it is itself not alive, it is because our ears grow dull of hearing and our bodies grow lethargic And we drift. But Lord, we ask you, by this great salvation The gospel of Christ, the power of God, enable us to be gospel-driven anew this morning. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. A couple of things I want to do as you look at your outline this morning. Uh you need to see where it says the the Christian's greatest danger and the Christian's greatest strength. For some reason my family, both my father and during the Korean War and then my uncle during the Vietnam War and into the 70s both were heavily involved, more my uncle Bob as I knew him. was very involved in the National Reconnaissance Office of the United States. He was a Navy man. I remember going into his office festooned with all these amazing patches and and awards and they meant very little to me. But as I grew older I began to just be incredibly awed by what he had accomplished. And one of the things that he taught me about the issue or about the practice of reconnaissance is we often think, and those of you who are involved in the National Security Agency and others kinds of agencies this will make sense. But to me, learning it, it didn't make sense at first. But then I I learned it. And it is this reconnaissance is not just about trying to spy out where the enemy is. It is that. In fact, reconnaissance is supposed to go out and be very high above and to be able to look with satellites and airplanes, drones and the like to be able to assess Where is the enemy? How is he equipped? Where is he maneuvering? And that is just one part of reconnaissance, my uncle told me. The other part is not only assessing What are the strengths and the weaknesses of the enemy? But what then and how then should we shape our strength and shore up our weaknesses to meet this danger, this threat? The preacher here is, if you will, going on a reconnaissance mission. And he wants us to see through his eyes what he sees. He sees what is the Christian's greatest danger. But he also brings us to what is our greatest strength. I want to say by way of acknowledgment that I am incredibly indebted to Pastor Joe Novenson. who a few years ago spent time in my home when we lived in Florida and then did a retreat for our church and then over the years as I've learned from him much of what you hear this morning was the heartbeat of his ministry and I learned it Listening and watching him. But what I want to do this morning as we look at the Christian's greatest danger, I want to remind you of the context. Do you remember last week we looked at the context into which the preacher was preaching? Hebrews 10, verses 32 through 36. Here again, he says, Remember those earlier days. Now he's bringing them back to a he's reminding them of the day in which they had first been persecuted. And he says, Remember those earlier days after you had received the light. when you stood your ground in a great contest in the face of suffering. Sometimes you were publicly exposed to insult and persecution. At other times you stood side by side with those who were so treated. You sympathized with those in prison and joyfully accepted the confiscation of your property because you knew that you yourselves had better and lasting possessions. So do not throw away your confidence. It will be richly rewarded. You need to persevere so that when you have done the will of God, you will receive what He has. promised. So he takes them back and he says, Do you remember that first phase of incredible suffering, how you stood. And you didn't just stand, you also stood in service to others, caring for others. But now don't throw away your confidence. That is Christ. As we looked at last week. He holds all things by the word of his power. And he has made a purification For sins and is seated at the right hand of God And his being seated means he is victorious. Do you remember I said that? And if he is victorious, if he is seated, that means we can stand. Don't lose your confidence. But then as he unpacks the letter, you'll see the next series of verses, Hebrews 3, chapters 7, verses 7 through 8 and 15. So he says, So as the Holy Spirit says, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts. As you did in the rebellion during the time of testing in the desert. He's quoting here from the Old Testament, referring to their forefathers, how they hardened their hearts, and he says here, as As as has just been said, today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as you did in the rebellion. Then Hebrews chapter 4. Chapter five and chapter six, you'll see these series of verses. See if you see a theme here. Let us therefore make every effort to enter that rest so that no one will fall By following the example of disobedience. Chapter 5, verse 11. We have much to say about this, but it is hard to explain because you are slow to learn. In fact, though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you the elementary truths of God's Word all over again. You need milk, not solid food. And then finally, look at chapter 6, verse 12. We do not want you to become lazy, but to imitate those who through faith and patience inherit what has been promised. Now going back to Hebrews chapter 2, verses 1 through 4, do you see the context? And so when he says in verse 1, we must pay more careful attention, therefore, to what we have heard so that we do not Drift away. What I want to show you this morning is how he's telling us what our greatest danger is, and it is This. First, what is the danger? The danger is threefold. First, drifting. It's right there in this text. Drifting. Now what he's doing there in the Greek, he's drawing on, and in fact this word drifting is the only place that we find this particular word in the New Testament. It is a used often, most often in their context, as a nautical word, referring to a boat drifting along in the current. What kind of effort does it take to drift? Thank you. You're awake. There you go. Yesterday I was riding my mountain bike for the first time in the McKeldon area of Potapsco Valley State Park. And as I came up on rather quickly on a rather sharp cliff overlooking the Potapsco River I was met by frolicking and laughing, and there was a family, a father holding these rafts. It's not much of a river. But there's this enough enough of a spot where there's just a very slow current, and he just had they were all tied together, and they were just hanging out in the water. But as you watched, you could barely see from the bank that there was any current at all if you were just looking at the water. But by looking at them, you see that the whole family was just kind of drifting. This idea of a boat drifting means its anchor is not on the bottom. And it doesn't take any effort to drift. It's being drawn by a current. Sometimes the current we can see, sometimes it's a current that is not outside of us, it's a current inside of us. If we were to look at the scriptures, we see throughout the scriptures, we see the kinds of currents that have taken away the great heroes of the faith. Consider David, the current of lust. Consider Peter. The current of fear and impatience We were to take just a moment, and I were to ask you to seriously consider what areas in your own life And here I'm talking specifically about sin that works like a current on the inside of our hearts. James speaks of it. It's desires that well up within us, but they're not always sinful in and of themselves. But when they reach such a feverish pitch that they will draw us any time something draws us away from a Christ-centeredness What begins to happen is a imperceptible and very slow, sure drifting. And these sins go from being something which we once thought was unacceptable to something which is quite acceptable. So drifting is one of the dangers But as I explored these other passages with you, there are other dangers that also serve right alongside drifting. It is also dullness. We heard it in these verses, particularly when we hear in chapter 5, verse 11. We have much to say about this, but it is hard to explain because you are slow to learn. The idea of slowness to learn, the word slowness translated there is a dullness. And when something is dull, it picks up again here in chapter 6, verse 12. We do not want you to become lazy. When something is dull, it is picking up on this image of The body which is not moving, it has become lethargic. The limbs, hands become heavy. It's like waking up out of a really deep nap. For some of you, that's like on Sunday afternoon, right? And you were napping really deeply and then suddenly the phone or the cry of that child You wake up and you feel like you've been you were buried six feet under and it just or I know. You know when you're in the middle of a dream and you want to move but you feel like you can't move, but in the dream you're trying to move, but it feels like It's that the body, the limbs, are so heavy. The concern here for this preacher is that they have become dull. Lazy, doing nothing. Though they once did respond to suffering and persecution With looking to Christ and the power of the gospel, they have grown dull But there is a third part of the danger it too shares with the others. It is a word used over and over again in these verses which we explored. It is the idea of hardening. In that context, it was the same word which would have been used of those who handled clay in construction. That when you use clay and you've already formed it and you leave it alone in the sun, what happens? It hardens. But does it harden because you've done something to it? No, it hardens Once it's left alone and there's no fresh water, there's no one trying to craft it and and make it into shapes, but when left alone, it will harden. That's the whole idea here. That the preacher is saying that when you drift, when you become dull of learning, when you become lazy, your heart Becomes something that is no longer being formed by the power of the gospel, focused on Christ, it slowly but surely becomes hard. And nothing can penetrate it. So that is the Christian's greatest danger. There are so many others that Hebrews points out, but these are three prominent ones, drifting. dullness and hardening. And if I were to take one word of this generation of our age, it could be summarized in one word, one response. Some of you are already there before I can say it. It's this. Whatever. How many parents have heard their children say whatever? How many children or students have used the phrase whatever? Seniors, you know who you are. It's the whole idea of what whatever that encapsulates the whole danger for the Christian. But beyond that, the danger is not just that we've fallen into a whatever response to the gospel of Christ. We must note that there are consequences. And here the writer of Hebrews says, not only do you grow in danger of the losing your own heart and soul and missing out on the power of Christ You also must know it will not go unnoticed. What does he say? He says, verse 2, for if the message spoken by angels was binding, and here he's referring back to what he said in chapter 1, verses 1 through 4, the message through the prophets. For if the message spoken by angels was binding, every violation and disobedience received its just punishment, pointing back to how God disciplined and punished his people. But now watch. He says, how shall we escape if we, and here's a great word, ignore Picking up on that same idea of those dangers which we just spoke of. Ignorance not in the sense that you didn't know it. No, you know it, but you don't think it's effective anymore. It's not working for me, God. Let me try it for a moment. And he says, if we ignore, he says, how much more then? If we ignore this such a great salvation, this salvation which was first announced by the Lord was confirmed by those who heard him. He's saying that if their forefathers, Israel, were punished for their ignoring the word, the warning, the gospel, the grace of God, the love of God, how much more will we escape punishment if we ignore such a great salvation? Who was he writing to? Was he writing to a group of people who had not been converted? He's writing to those who had professed faith. And he saying to them, Be careful that you do not ignore such a great salvation. Now, here I must acknowledge that this I think is one of the central reasons why so many people want to at least dismiss Jesus and the gospel. Because of verses just like this. They say, you see, there are two things about these verses that I can't stand about Christianity. Number one, it's exclusive. This whole thing of Jesus saying I'm the way, the truth, and the life, what is going on with the exclusivity of Christianity? I cannot abide by that. But secondly, they would say, this whole wrath and punishment thing. But I I want to make the argument and address it for just a moment that I know exactly those arguments because those were the arguments I used against the Christian faith. But what is so interesting first about the argument against exclusivity of Jesus in the gospel, that we only receive salvation through Jesus Himself. is that we all stand for and live with exclusiveness every day. Think about it with this analogy. If you were an invited guest by way of invitation to someone's wedding. You know what it's like to receive that invitation. It was sent to you by the bride and groom, sent to you, invited. If you don't receive the invitation, how do you think you will be treated if you just show up and try to food up? It's an open bar. All right. I think I'll go into this wedding. Yeah. Well, first of all, we know their invitation, well, they didn't have one. But but whatever they had was a forgery. But we all look, how could they? Not only was it a security problem, how could they? What were they thinking? What were they going to say? We know that we live with these kinds of exclusive invitations, and if you're not invited, you don't belong. But when we apply it to God, we get all uncomfortable. Jesus says, not that I am a way to God. Not that I'm a way to know the grace and love of salvation. I am the only way, the only truth, and the only life. So we at least must be willing to take the scriptures at their own terms. It can never be seen as Jesus is just an option. He is it. But not only that, we must also say, what is the argument against wrath and punishment? Well, let me say this: in an age of Facebook, how do you treat those that you ask to friend? And they don't friend you. Be honest. If you've invited someone and thrown for them a very incredible party and they are to be the honored guests, and you sent them an invitation, and the whole party is so that they may enjoy the celebration. And have them enjoy all the benefits and blessings of their friends and you send them the invitation, but they don't show up and you ask them later where that you weren't there. And they said Eh, whatever. We know. Would you be angry? Yes, you get angry if somebody posts something on Facebook that you don't like. I'm not a Facebooker, that's why, but I hear these kinds of things happen. I am a Twitter user, and I do know things people say things about each other on that. And we get angry about that. And so we say, however, that in fact that Jesus and God are not allowed to be exclusive, though we apply ourselves to all kinds of exclusivity. God is not allowed to be angry if we ignore such a great salvation, and yet we get angry when our relatively speaking small pride is wounded. We flame up in anger. We don't want God to be God. We just want to allow we want Him to allow us to be God. But let me say, I don't believe as I know my own heart, as I've known with those who do not believe, and who struggle with doubt and questions and so forth, I can't help but come to this conclusion. I'm not saying it's all of it, but most of the time what is behind exclusivity, what is behind the anger the the rejection of the fact that God will punish It is really the fact, underneath it all, it's this. We don't want what Jesus really offers, and we know intuitively what he's doing. And here I want to share a quote from my friend Zach Eswine. When Jesus preached, people resisted. Human resistance was due neither to Jesus' lack of contextualization nor his failure to use the communication media of his day. Jesus was resisted, and I believe is resisted by an abiding irreverence lingering like roaches within the walls of the human heart. We don't want Jesus because we know intuitively when we receive him. He will change everything. And we say to God, nope, that's okay. Everything is just as fine as it is. But the invitation here is this: that while this statement in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 3 is very heavy. That we cannot escape judgment and punishment if we ignore such a great salvation. You must see that within that sentence is itself Not only the one fist of the gospel that it tells us that if we ignore, we will face his wrath because of sin, it also tells us the other fist of the gospel, which is God's amazing. Grace. In that phrase, great salvation. So the preacher very quickly moves from the Christian's greatest danger to the Christian's greatest strength. The Christian's greatest strength here in these verses is encapsulated for us. This is such a great salvation. That is another way of announcing the gospel itself. But what is the gospel? The gospel is the announcement of the good news of Jesus Christ. That we before a holy and righteous God are sinners beyond our own ability to save ourselves. And we are not just sin, we are not simple because of what we do. We sin because of what we are in our nature. But that's the one part of the gospel. It's the bad news. But you can't have good news without the bad news, and that's the bad news. But the great news is that Christ, as the preacher says in chapter 1, verses 1 through 4, he has come to provide purification for sins. This is the gospel. In that one phrase, purification for sins, are all the great doctrines that we have in so many wonderful ways expressed in the Westminster Confession of Faith. Which is the reflection of the doctrines that we have in Scripture, it is such great things like justification, sanctification, glorification. He has provided purification, a cleansing through his body and through his blood, that we may know the love of God. But here is the key. He's preaching to those who've already received faith Do you know what he's telling us then about ignoring such a great salvation? About ignoring the gospel? It is this: the gospel is not just the front door. To God's house. It's not the gospel is not just the threshold. It's not the ABCs. The gospel is the A to Z of the Christian life. The gospel in what I just said is referred to over and over again in the New Testament as that which encapsulates not just how we come to know Christ. But how we ought to live with him. It is not just a message, it is the person. It is not just a person. The scriptures tell us, Paul tells us in chapter one of Romans, one of the great phrases that I memorized early on as a Christian. It is these words, Romans chapter 1, verse 16. I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it is the power of God for the salvation of everyone who believes. First for the Jew, then for the Gentile. That word there, the power of God, the word power there is the word dunamis. It's the same family, the same root word as we get the word dynamite. It is the power of God. It is the dynamite of the Christian life. The gospel isn't just something we receive and accept, and then we move on with the rest of the Christian life. It is everything. And it is the only power that we are driven by to what? Work against the drifting, to work against the dullness, to work against the hardening of our hearts. How do we resist the drifting? We resist the drifting by coming again to the gospel. And I believe that the most dangerous thing that he highlights here is that he's preaching to a group of people who've been converted by the gospel, but who now treat the gospel as something that can be set aside or it doesn't work. Let me say again, there is not a problem in life, there is not a challenge. that you will face, whether young or old, and regardless of your condition, employed, unemployed, whether you you're looking for a house like Kate and I are, as we've come into this situation not knowing how in the world life will go in Maryland. It is so easy to return to the things that make so much sense to us, to keep from drifting. Well, Lord, okay, the gospel is for my eternal salvation, but for this All this ground stuff, the everyday stuff, Lord, we've got that under control. And what I've just done with that very subtly is that I'm saying that the gospel is for spiritual stuff, not for the everyday stuff. I'm drifting. I'm becoming dull. And if we allow that kind of thinking to enter into our marriages, to enter into our parenting, To enter into our working. If we say that the gospel is just for that spiritual stuff, but all this other stuff is something else, then we're saying that the gospel isn't enough. The antidote to the danger that Christians face is the only strength by which we are saved and which we live. It is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so I need, you need, the reminders of those who've gone before us. Who've taken the word which God has written, which is being preached to you this morning, and we must return to it. But let me say, God gives you the tools. He gives me the tools. He gives me the power, the gospel, the dynamite of God so that I might live with Christ. But while he's given me the dynamite, he's given me the tools, guess what? I can't sit on the couch and just think it's going to happen. Right? It's it's like God inviting us into the dining room. I've made the food, I've provided the ingredients, I've set the table. But we're like in there in the living room going, Can you bring me a TV tray? Can you bring it a little Do I have to get up? It's not going to happen passively. Drifting, dulling, hardening happens passively. If Jesus has given us the power to get up off the couch And has set the table and has given us the power to walk. We still gotta walk. Amen? And I'm sorry to be pleading with you, but I know my own heart That frankly, I just want God to plug me into his divine USB cord and say, Can you just download it? Do I really have to exert energy? Yes, because he exerted the energy through his son, who came as a man to die on a cross To give us the power of the gospel, to receive the feast of the gospel. And we need to be reminded of it every day, as Luther said, because I forget it every day. I close with this. I took a quote from St. Augustine speaking about Psalm 139, and I did it in my own little way. I just cut into a card and I have it on my desk, and he says this of Psalm 139. O Lord my God, tell me what you are to me. Say to my soul, I am your salvation. Say it so that I can hear it. My heart is listening. Lord, open the ears of my heart and say to my soul, I am your salvation. Let me run towards this voice and seize hold of you. Do not hide your face from me, let me die so that I may see it. For not to see it would be death to me. He's using the word the gospel And pleading to God, Lord, let me run to you. Open my ears that they may not grow dull. Break my heart that it will not be hardened. Lord, make me mindful of the currents That lead me away from you. And by your power, don't let go of me. Let's pray Heavenly Father, forgive us for our drifting But we thank you for bringing it to our minds again this morning of our greatest danger. But our greatest strength is the gospel itself. Lord, the problem is not your gospel. The problem is that we are tempted into thinking it's not enough. But Lord, open our eyes to the gospel anew this morning, that we may run with your strength To the gospel and grace of your providing, that we may be satisfied and gospel-driven. In Jesus' name. Amen.