This is the last message as Tom mentioned to you on the last verse of Ephesians. I looked back and saw that I began this series on February the 11th, 1996. This So that's how long I've gone through. It took a year out for prophecy when 2000 was coming, but that's still a long time. In fact, the first Sunday that I began Ephesians was the first Sunday that Helen Phyllis Wilson visited CPC. And they decided to really know a church you should probably stick with the first series that the pastor does, you know. So uh Hal's been an elder for about three and a half years now and Phyllis's been treasurer for more than that, I think. I checked with Hal this morning and he said they'll probably hang around for the next series also and then he'll retire. It's been a long time. But let me also promise you there are things to come. There is life after Ephesians. Next uh week when we have the Lord's Supper service, uh I will um tell you what I'm what book I'm going to preach next. And I do hope and plan to both begin and end that next year in one year. So um now I want to give you an opportunity at that time also for you to share um what the book of Ephesians has meant to you and anything either from the series or just from God's Word from Ephesians. in order to encourage the rest of us. So be thinking about if there's anything that you would want to share that God particularly has uh spoken to you about through this time. I know a lot of you, um, for a lot of you, there there never was CPC before Ephesians. How many of you have started coming to CPC since I began Ephesians back in ninety-six, all right? So about looks like a a little more than a half. How many of you so we just mentioned the rest of you just didn't vote? How many of you were coming to CBC before I started Ephesians All right? About the same number. So it looks like about and that's what it was in the first service too, about fifty-fifty. So there's about half of you are pre-Ephesians and half of you are post-Ephesians And as I say, there is life after Ephesians, so we'll all start on the same page in the next series, kind of reset, you know. It's uh time to finish it. Paul ends as he began. Talking about grace and peace, as Tom read in chapter 1, verse 2, he says, Grace and peace to you from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. He ends by saying, Peace and grace to you from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 23, peace to the brothers and love with faith from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. And then the verse we're considering this morning, Michael, let's get that up there. Grace to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an undying love. It's appropriate, isn't it, that he ends this whole letter with grace, because um, in a sense, that's what the whole letter has been about. It's about grace I want to look at two things about grace this morning, what it is and who it's to. Those are the two things that a believer on his heart as he gives you verse 24. What is this grace and who's it to? First of all, what is this grace that he's speaking of? The Greek word for grace is karas, and uh that's significant because it's very closely related as you listen to it to the word for joy, kara. Kara is joy, caras is grace. So caras is what gives you joy. That's the basic root meaning of it. Grace, caras, is what produces joy or delight. And uh as the word was used in the Greek it it developed so that it came to mean the favor and goodwill. from someone who mattered, particularly someone with authority over you, a ruler or a king If they were favorably disposed toward you as opposed to angry with you, that word to describe that was caras. And that brought you joy because uh, you know, kind of well, you know, I um had their favor. As it began to be used in the New Testament It took on a slightly new meaning. In the New Testament writers, they added the notion of what is undeserved And that came because Karas Grace became contrasted with the law. The law is what you deserve. The law speaks justice. And as you and I look at God's law, we realize that in every case, at every point, we don't measure up. And so what we deserve is God's judgment. We deserve through his justice to be condemned. And then the New Testament writers then used charis, grace, in contrast to that. God is favorably disposed to you as in contrast to the law. So you have law and you have grace. Now, again, the uh antithesis is what you deserve. And here is where you kids can help us adults, because there's nothing like a kid to know what is fair, right? Just listen to you guys play for ten minutes and you're gonna hear somebody yell out, that's not fair! And you all know it's fair, don't you? And you all want what's fair, except when you're in trouble And then you want mercy. And so it's away with all of us, isn't it? You know, I want from the Howard County police that they be just and that they be fair. Except when one clocks me doing 45 going down Thunder Hill Road at the 25 mile an hour zone. Here goes the lights again. As soon as I talk about my sin, there it goes. Well, you know, at that point when he pulls me over and he says, I've decided to give you a warning instead of a ticket. You better believe I don't say. That's not fair. You gotta give me a ticket. That's what I deserve. I'm full of joy Because I've gotten grace. You see? You've all experienced that kind of thing, you know? You don't get what you deserve, and so it produces joy. Well, that's the idea of grace. But you see, that's really not grace in the way the New Testament described him, because it'd be a little closer to grace if in my speeding down Thunder Hill Road I had run down his son And then when he came up to the car, I punched him out and got into his patrol car and took off in it and wrecked it in the getaway. Then he comes up to me and says, That's okay, Alan, I forgive you. This is just a warning Go in peace. That's grace. That's a little closer to the way we've treated God and what He has done for us. And so when Paul says In this word grace, the word grace appears ten times in the book of Ephesians, between 1, 2, and 624. So 12 times altogether. And Tom read a couple of them in chapter 1, chapter 1, verse 7, when he says, In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. In accordance with the riches of God's grace that He lavished on us with all wisdom and understanding. And remember we saw when we studied that verse, that that means With all his understanding of who we are and what we're like, and all his wisdom, he still lavished on us grace and forgave us all of our sin. And that is the first of three kinds of grace that you have in the book of Ephesians. There's three kinds of grace the Bible talks about, and they're all in Ephesians. First is saving grace. And then there is serving grace, and then there's sanctifying grace. Grace that saves us, the grace that talks about the gifts that we use to serve, and the grace which builds us up in Christ. First, saving grace. Talks about that in chapters one, two, three. Talks about having God having chosen us to be blameless. In his sight, how he has set his love upon us. Talked about that a little last week, you know, this summer. I was reading about South Mountain, which is Just a little west of Frederick, South Mountains, where the Appalachian Trail is, so probably a number of you have been on that, as I have a number of times And I remember reading uh that uh geologists uh think that the South Mountain was once as high as the Andes Mountains, much, much higher than it is now. Over the period of time, it's just gradually, inch by inch. Raindrop by raindrop, tumbling stone by tumbling stone, been worn down. And I thought when I looked at that, before South Mountain was worn down when it was as high as the Andes. God had me in mind. And if you love Jesus, he had you in mind. He'd set his heart on you. In fact, before the mountain, he'd even been pushed up and made into a mountain before even the world had been created, before the mountains were brought forth. Ephesians 1 tells us he chose us And predestined us to be as children, blameless in his sight. And in order to really appreciate and understand what grace is, you have to understand what you deserve The reason that grace produces joy is because you know it is in such contrast to what you deserve. And so you remember in chapter two, he reminds us. In chapter 2, one last time, you remember he says, as for you, you were dead in your transgressions and your sins in which you used to live when you followed the ways of this world. and of the ruler of the kingdom of the air, the spirit who is now at work in those who are disobedient? You were prompted and pushed, fertile field for the temptations of the devils, Satan. The ruler of the kingdom of the air, he was prompting you and found you and me all too ready to succumb to his suggestions. All of us also lived among them, all the rest of the sinners who were following, gratifying the cravings of their sinful nature, so you and I were following the desires and the thoughts. So self-centered. Like the rest, we were by nature objects of God's just wrath. That's what we deserved. That's where we were. And yet he goes on to say, but one of the big buts of Ephesians that we've looked at Because of his great love for us, God, who is rich in mercy, didn't give us what we deserved, but he made us alive in Christ. Even when we were dead in transgressions, it is by grace that you have been saved. And yet you and I so resist the notion of grace, don't we? You see, the Bible clearly teaches grace is for helpless, depraved people who have no good inclinations, like you and me. But we think The grace is for good people. No, I don't. No, yeah, you do. No, I don't. Yeah, you do. Let me prove it to you. Let's suppose I said to you that I've heard that a pastor in the Maryland area a couple days ago visited John Muhammad, the sniper, in jail. He came to him and he talked to him about the gospel, about what Christ has done for sinners. And lo and behold, John Muhammad has repented of his sins and he's believed. The sniper is a Christian. And God no longer holds his sins against him. He has the righteousness of Christ exactly the same as you and me. And we will be with him in heaven. How do you feel about that? You rejoice? One more has been brought into heaven? What do you say? Are you crazy? That guy? He doesn't deserve to have. Wait a minute. Oh yeah You see, we still have this vestige in us that says grace is for people like us. It's for good people. It's not for people who are dead In their transgressions and follow the way of this world utterly self-centered, even to the point of cold-blooded murder toward innocent victims But that's grace. Grace is for a John Muhammad, as well as for you and for me We resist grace. I remember reading about a pastor who was preaching about grace, and in order to make his point, it was uh Christmas season. And so he had this big, beautiful point sodium plant right up there by the pulpit. This was this was exceptionally beautiful. And people commented, wow, that is full, beautiful, great, yeah, yeah. And so at the beginning of his message, he said, I want to demonstrate to you that God's grace is free. Now, anybody who wants this pointsettia plant for free, come up and get it. Now you think be a stampede, you know, oh yeah, yeah. No, nobody moved. And so he waited. And waited. Come on, I'm really mean it's free. Come on get it. Finally this one woman put up her hand. She says, Okay, I'll take it. Great said, I made my point, now I can go on and apply it, and then she says to her son, Go ahead, you go get it He said, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Can't have a substitute. Gotta be you. Come up. It's for you to take. So she didn't take it. Passed it up. So they said, come on, anybody want it? Some wise kid, you know. Not like anybody at CPC. Some wise kid there said Everybody laughed. But nobody moved. Some girl said, Can I get it after the service? He said, no, now is the day of salvation. Now you must come and get it. And he said, I began to marvel at the power of passive resistance. Kept waiting. He said, I started being sorry that I had ever thought this thing up. I didn't think I was ever going to get to the sermon. Finally a woman who was in the back who was a visitor he'd never seen before Put up her hand and she said, I'll take it. And she ran forward before she changed her mind. She grabbed the thing and she went back and sat down. He said, Oh, finally. And then he made his point After the service, everybody leaves. The woman comes back with a porinsettia plant and she says, I really couldn't just take this thing for free. So she said You know, here and she jams this piece of paper in his hand and runs off with the points that he had planned. He looks down, there's a ten dollar bill. It is so hard to receive grace, isn't it? You know, we always think it's gotta be something I contribute, something I add, some little thing that that saves a little vestige. Of my self-respect. And Paul's taken six chapters to say to you again and again and again, It's free. There's nothing you can do. saved by grace. And that grace is so incalculably rich. After he says in verse 6 that he's raised us up with Christ and seated us hidden with him in the heavenly realms. It's in order that in the coming ages he might show the incomparable riches of his grace. Expressed in his kindness to us in Christ Jesus. For it's by grace that you've been saved. Someday Jesus, the bridegroom, is going to come. And he's going to gather all those of you here who love him. He's going to take us to that long-awaited wedding feast. And we shall feast and delight and have the time of our lives. And you know what they say, then after the wedding, you have the honeymoon, and everybody says, but then the honeymoon's over. Yeah. That's just that's kind of like a parable for her saying, oh honeymoon's over. But there It just gets better and better after the honeymoon. Because what he's saying in chapter two, verse seven, is that in the ages to come he will display, and the word that's used in the Greek Is a superlative with a super on the on top of it. It's literally the super surpassing riches of his grace. Age after age, we will find that every good delight of every good desire of your heart, God will Himself With his exceeding creativity, satisfied beyond your wildest imagination, to show you how rich is his grace. But it only brings you joy when you understand that it's so free and how little you and I deserve it. And so Paul goes on in chapter 3. He uses the word three more times there. In chapter 3 and verse 2, he says, Surely you've heard about the administration of God's grace. It was given to me for you. That's the administration of the gospel. He develops that in verse 7. He goes on and says, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace. Given to me through the working of his power, although I am less than the least of all of God's people, this grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles, that is, to the heathen. The unsearchable riches of Christ. You have two ideas of grace there. First, it's the gospel message Verse 2, and then in verses 7 and 8, it's the privilege of being able to proclaim it. So it's the message and it's the privilege. Paul says, even though I was less than the least of all saints, God gave me this privilege, and that brings us to the second use of it, serving grace. Serving grace is God's pleasure to use sinners like you and me to proclaim him and to build others up in Christ Isn't that amazing? He could have used angels, but he doesn't. He uses you and me in order to bring him glory. He uses you and me to bring other people to see Christ and to grow in Christ and to love Christ. And so when you are meeting in your cell and you offer some word of encouragement, ministering grace. We have a conversation after the service with someone. We remind them of some gospel truth or promise You're serving, ministering grace. Chapter 4 goes on and distinguishes that. You know, in chapter 4 he it said that in the first six verses, that you and I are all saved by grace in exactly the same way. You are saved by grace in the exact same way that Paul was saved by grace. You have the same righteousness of Christ that he rests in. Then you have another one of those big butts in Ephesians chapter 4 verse 7. But to each one of us grace has been given As Christ apportioned it. Now that's a unique and distinctive grace. That's the gifts that God has given to you. That unique constellation of your personality and your spiritual gifts That make you indispensable to the body. You say, no, no, I'm not indispensable. Yeah you are. No, I'm not. Yeah you are Let me prove it to you again. You don't believe it? Paul said, I'm the least of all saints, and I was given this privilege of proclaiming the unsearchable riches of Christ. If you're less than the least of all saints, you've got a problem. Because that means you're not a saint. So even if you're the less the less than the least of them, and you're still there Then just like Paul, your ministry is by grace. It's not because you're such hot stuff. It's not because I got so much to offer. God uses you, you and me, as we're available to Him to serve the graces that He has given to us. Amazing to think that if you were here yesterday for that fall festival, that that glorious display of Celebration of fall, all the fun things we had kids going around all crazy costumes and Steve Green looking like an Old Testament prophet or something. I don't know what he was. But all the stuff that was going on yesterday, if you invited a neighbor To come. And you've shared the gospel with that neighbor. You just brought them along. God's using you to do that. He uses you as he uses me in our halting, inept, silly little ways that we because we love him Grace, he says, to you who love our Lord Jesus with an undying love. That grace of serving him, he says, is available to you. There it is. And then finally he uses this word grace in the third way, sanctifying grace. Sanctifying grace is that grace that produces growth in Christ-likeness. And that really is what the whole book and the whole series has been about, isn't it? Chapter 4, verse 1, pivotal verse. We looked at right from the beginning. As a prisoner for the Lord, then I urge you to bring your life into equilibrium with the calling you received. You receive the calling by grace. You'll live it out by grace And so the whole series is about that. We often live as if God saved us from hell and then gave us a list of rules to live on our own. And that's not New Testament Christianity. New Testament Christianity is a relationship by grace in which you and I serve by a gratitude for a grace that is so undeserved. And so even when Paul says in chapter 4, verse 17, So I tell you this, and I insist on it in the Lord, you must no longer live as the Gentiles do. The futility of their thinking, that's not law, that's grace. That's saying that God has something better for you than what you've known and what you could ever contrive in your own sinful, foolish, self-centered thinking. Now it begins to display that. Gives you a couple of examples Now these are examples you may not notice because in the English it's not the word grace, but in the Greek it's grace. For instance, in chapter 4, verse 29, he says Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only that which is helpful for building others up according to their needs, so that it may benefit those who listen. Literally, the Greek is to give grace to the ones hearing according to their need. To give grace. So Instead of bickering and cutting down, gossiping, criticizing, acting competitive, you ever been in those kind of situations? Walk away from some conversations you feel like you need to take a shower, your heart's heavy, just been so full of bickering, criticism, competition, gossip Paul says, as the gospel works in you, you don't indulge in garbage talk. That's literally what the unwholesome is. Garbage. Unwholesome garbage talk. But rather, you see, you give grace through your words to the people that hear you. And you do that because there's grace in your heart. And that grace rules rather than bitterness and criticism. That's what he goes on to say, verse 31. Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger, brawling, and slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, even those that have hurt you and wronged you. Forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. You know the word forgive in the Greek is the word deal graciously with. Same word. It's a verb form. And so what he's saying in verse 32 is be compassionate to one another, dealing graciously with each other, just as in Christ God dealt graciously with you. The whole letter is about ministering grace. And when your heart is amazed at the grace that God has given to you. There's something that works in you that you say, I'm free from the bondage of the bitterness, and I want to minister grace. Isn't that amazing? Experience that? God does that. It's what he works in you. I don't want to cut that other person down. I don't want to put them in their place. I'm not the Holy Spirit I want to minister grace, kindness. And so from beginning to end, begins the letter. Grace to you. And peace. Ends the letter. Grace to you. But now notice the second thing, who the grace is to. You notice that it's not for everybody. He just doesn't say grace to everybody who's hearing this, but there's a particular category of people. Grace to all who love our Lord Jesus Christ with an undying love. Sad to say it, but that's not everybody in this room. You are not all the recipients of this grace. Do you love Jesus with an undying love? Or do you endure the messages and having to be here and Maybe you're even here voluntarily, but you're not about to give your life over to Jesus and have him control it and rule it. There's some of you You need to step out and come get that poinsettia plant. And you're resisting. You're sitting there and you're dug in. Gotta live my life on my terms. And you will get exactly what you deserve from God. Purely in his justice. And I so long that you know his grace. That you receive his grace, you experience his grace. He offers to you grace Grace, forgiveness, new life. And so he describes who it is That gets this life. It's people who love Jesus. Now it's not if you love Jesus, you get grace. It's grace to those who love Jesus as defined, that's the category. The grace is is just what produces in our heart the love for Jesus. In chapter two he had said after by grace you're saved, he said, for it's by grace you're saved through faith. And that's not of yourselves, it's the gift of God. Not of works, lest any of us should boast. So from beginning to end, it's God's grace at work in you But do you see you can look and you don't have to go through this long complicated list and say, Well how do I know I'm a Christian? What about this? What about that and all these things? Paul boils it all right down here and he says, Do you love Jesus with an undying love? If you love Jesus, you will be different. And if you love Jesus, you will know his grace. Notice he says with an undying love, that word undying is the word imperishable. It's used in 2 Timothy 1. 10 to talk about immortality as opposed to death. It's used in 1 Corinthians 15 four times to talk about imperishable bodies and imperishable kingdom, everything imperishable when Jesus comes back. And I believe that it implies through that that this love is a love which is tested. He doesn't just say, all who love our Lord Jesus. Period. He says with an undying and imperishable and unquenchable. A love which simply cannot be destroyed. A love which is tested. And your love and my love for Jesus is tested. I was reading somebody this summer who said, no person can really grow and be mature in their relationship with God who has not faced squarely their disappointment with Jesus. And she was talking about Mary, whose brother had died, and Jesus decided not to come for two days. And she couldn't understand it. But you couldn't stop loving Jesus. There's been things that have happened in your life. Prayers unanswered and ways that you've wondered, God, why are you doing this? And I don't understand that, and this doesn't make sense and doesn't square with Ephesians, it seems, but But you can't stop loving Jesus, can you? You don't figure it out. One day you will. He'll tell you, he'll explain, and it'll make sense. But Paul says, right now you live by grace. And you live with a love that cannot be quenched. You learn by that grace to sit in him and kneel in him and to walk with him and to stand with him. Even though in your heart everything about you and me resists grace. Let me close with one last illustration from Ephesians. Bruce Larson wrote in his book The Passionate People about an experience he had had one day sailing in the Gulf of Mexico. He was sailing off the coast of Florida and he he anchored by uh little desert island there and he and his daughter and her friend were collecting shells and they were so uh absorbed with uh finding these unique and beautiful shells that they didn't notice a sudden change in the weather and all of a sudden he looked up and said The sky had become black, the wind was beginning to pick up, and within a matter of a minute it was beginning to pour rain. The wind was whipping along and they ran to the cove where the boat was, and the boat was already being dragged out to sea. Told the girls to stay there, plunged into the surf. Swam after the boat, and after a few minutes he realized the boat was being pulled by the wind much faster than he was swimming, and he was never going to catch it. And so he turned around to try to head back to land, and he saw to his horror that he had been carried out much further than he thought. The wind and the waves and everything were against him, and he thought, This is my last hour. I am going to drown. He said, at that point I did two things that were sensible. I took off my sneakers and I prayed. He said, after I prayed, I was able to calm my heart enough to assess the situation and realize what I really needed to do was float. I wasn't gonna freeze, I just needed to float. And so he said he began to concentrate on that. He was able to float. In fact he floated for two and a half hours. until a boat came along, found him, and rescued him. Can you imagine the joy of seeing that boat come out of the still pouring rain and the fog and the storm with all the waves about him He's gonna be saved. He's gonna live. He's not gonna die. And here's somebody to rescue him. And so he comes up and he's pulled onto the boat and his heart is full of joy But he said two things immediately diminished my joy. The first was that the captain greeted him on board by saying, My gosh, I've never seen such stamina in an old man. The second was, he said, I realized I looked pretty silly. I did something really stupid. I didn't let the anchor out far enough and I let these girls and I endangered us all and You know, if this boat hadn't come along, maybe I would have been able to continue to float and I would have gotten back there on my own and nobody would have known and found that in his heart he began to r resent his rescuers Because they had shown him in the rescue of what a fool he was and how much he needed to be rescued. I live like that every day. Don't you? On the one hand we affirm grace and our need, and on the other hand, something in the side is always saying, I can do it on my own. I can do I can make it. I'll do it on my own, please. I don't want to be humiliated. I don't want to be seen for such an inept, helpless, pathetic creature that I really am. And so we lose the joy of grace. Because joyful Christians are those who revel in the grace of God to rescue and sustain and use sinners like you and me. To live and to bring them glory. Let's pray. So our Father, we come to you now as poor, weak, helpless sinners. And I pray, Lord, if there's anyone here who Has continued to resist your grace and says, Lord, I'm just I'm not going to come and humble myself, that you would break through that foolish, stubborn heart to show that grace is their only hope. To come and freely receive the gift of eternal life through Jesus. And Lord, that you would teach us to live out of grace, live by grace. Resting in it, sitting in it, kneeling to perceive it, walking in it, and standing by grace day by day. In what you have provided for us, Lord, we ask you to teach us even this week in our own need. To rejoice in grace and live by grace in Jesus' name. Amen. Did you ever wonder what happened to the Ephesians in the years after they received this letter? We're going to look at that next week.