If any of the families missed that announcement about uh your children going to children's worship, feel free to um take them now. A couple of uh housekeeping statements and announcements as we get started. Uh if you're a bulletin watcher, um a couple of things. Uh the um The questions that I've put in as in lieu of outline this morning are not in any particular order. Stephen in the sound booth is going to try to put them up when I get to them, but give him um And the other thing is that in the bulletin it says that immediately after the sermon we'll go to the installation of our new officers and in fact we're going to sing a closing song, Rock of Ages, when I'm finished You'll catch that because the closing prayer will take us right to that. And then we're going to do the installation. So just um go with the flow. So um I'm Wayne Coke, one of the ruling elders here, and it's my privilege to open the word of the Lord this morning. Just by way of announcement, you see in the back of the bulletin that our new senior pastor who has been called and has announced to his church that he's coming here and is partway through the prospect. process of Presbyterianism will be joining us on January 7th for his first sermon as our senior pastor and his ordination here. or installation here, excuse me. Until then, our interim preaching team that we've come to be familiar with and love and be so well fed by of Matt Bowling. uh who will be preaching next week and then uh the men from the Baltimore Antioch Leadership Ministry, uh Craig uh Garriott and Stan Long will continue to feed us by God's word. In the month of November, that will be sort of a Holy Spirit-led best uh hits kind of series. And then in no in December you'll get an advent series that they've put together and talked about. So that's the plan. When it appeared that um CPC might need to fill the pulpit for a longer period of time, the elders started talking about, you know, what will we do? And we said, well, you know, we can preach, so let's put together a series of sermons so that if we had a period of time. uh which by God's grace we don't, uh where we needed to fill the pulpit, we could do that in a coherent way. And so we talked about doing a series on seeing Jesus in the Old Testament. Seeing Jesus in the Old Testament. It's a theme to which we owe a debt of gratitude to the late Dr. Timothy Keller, who attributed it to his seminary professors at Gordon Conwell. But of course we know from the scriptures that this actually comes from our Lord Himself, who on the road to Emmaus after his resurrection started with Moses and the prophets. and explain to the disciples where he could be seen in all of the scriptures. So that's the concept of the series that you'll never hear. And and the series begins because the Moses and the prophets begin in Genesis. And so when we started talking about this, I started thinking about the first part of Genesis and Genesis chapter 3 came to mind as a place where we can see Jesus. And then I saw that our pastor candidate, Bob Birkus, was preaching from exactly the same text. We were away and I said, well, that's it. I won't be preaching my sermon until I listened to what Bob said in his sermon. And again, an excellent sermon that had a completely different facet. of this text in mind. And so Bob, as you may remember, reminded us that the faith in the Word of God was first demonstrated when Adam believed God and named his wife Eve, the mother of all living. Instead, what I want to look at in Genesis chapter 3 is how this informs our relationships. This is a passage about shame and grace. And I found as I've meditated about it, it's done quite a bit in my thinking about how we interact with one another and how we view God. Last week Tito um had a very good story that I appreciated about a woman, an unloved wife, you remember if you were here. Her husband said she was ugly, didn't love her. But she had a prompt. Remember when she got in the elevator to go up to her rooms and she looked in the mirror, that was her prompt. And she looked at herself and she said, You are beautiful. You are loved in Christ. We need that kind of prompt in our spiritual walk to remember that we are loved so that God's love will compel us. so that we will love our neighbor as ourselves. And so I'm hoping that as you think in a fresh way about seeing Jesus in this passage, that will be a prompt for you and that it will help you. um in your spiritual walk. So with that said, let's go to the scripture, which begins Genesis chapter 3 with verse 6. I'm sorry. Verse 4. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, And that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loinclaws And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman that you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock. And above all beasts of the field, on your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain and childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be for your husband, and he shall rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread, till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skins and clothed them. This is the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Lord God, we still need our eyes opened. Not so that we'll know everything that you know, but so that we'll know you and how you treat us with such grace. Know that we're loved so that we will see Jesus and what he has done to rescue us. So come, Holy Spirit, and dwell among us and teach us this hour. For your name's sake, we pray. Amen. So there are a couple of good ways to read a passage like this. One of them is as biography. Adam and Eve, we are taught we're historical people, and so this actually happened, and the account tells us something about how it happened and lets us put ourselves in their place like any good biography. What would I have done under these circumstances? How would I have felt? What would I have said and so on. But the first people who actually heard this passage and read it were a different group of people. These were the children of Israel in the desert. Tradition has it that Moses wrote these words down, and so it would have been read to those people who also were learning something from the text that was being read to them because um this was new to them as well. But in this setting there's a little more depth to what's going on. We can look at some of the aspects of this text as metaphor, as something that we're learning from. And so we'll do some both of those as we go into the text. Matter of sin was new, wasn't it? Nobody had ever done this before. Adam and Eve were breaking new ground, and they had no idea how God was going to react to what they had done. And in a very similar way, the children of Israel out in the desert, they didn't know very much about God. They had been brought up under the Egyptians. They may have had their traditions, but they had just seen the power of the universe strike dead thousands of Egyptians in ten days of horrific plagues. Now they were spared from those, but they saw what happened. And then they saw the mightiest army on earth wiped out in one second by the waves rolling in on them in the Red Sea. And now this God was thunder and lightning from Mount Sinai, and they had to be asking themselves, who is this? This power of the universe, this Yahweh. And where do I stand in His presence? How can I stand in His presence? How can we thrive and have shalom with this power? I wonder the same thing sometimes myself, don't you? How do I fit in? How do I stand? What's my status with the Lord? And I can guarantee you that our unchurched friends and neighbors and colleagues are asking that question. They may not put it in those terms, but any thoughtful person knows that there is a power in the universe and they're not it. There is a God and it's not them. And so they have to wonder, you know, what does that mean for me? What makes my life worthwhile? How do I thrive in this setting? And so as we Meditate and contemplate on the Word of God, this may help us as we reach out to those neighbors who are asking a fundamental question somewhere in how they speak and how they behave. So, I've called this sermon Grace 101, top of your bulletin outline, Grace 0101, because Adam and Eve and the children of Israel and us and our friends and neighbors all need to learn. From it. So Adam and Eve were in deep trouble, and they knew it. They had disobeyed God. They were sentenced to death, and they had no idea. what was coming and when. Nobody had ever disobeyed God before. But the first unexpected consequence of what they wanted, which was to have their eyes open to know good and evil, right? The first unexpected consequence of that is that their eyes were open to their own shame and vulnerability. They didn't see good things, they they saw scary bad things. The Bible says that their eyes were open, and they knew that they were naked. So naked is a wonderful, powerful image because it has so much so much usefulness for us both in its literal sense of being naked and in its figurative or metaphorical sense of being uncovered. Adam and Eve were naked in the biography that we're reading. They lived in the Garden of Eden and they were truly naked, and it had never been a problem for them before. But now they had to learn how they were going to deal with themselves now that their eyes were opened and they had sinned and they knew that they were guilty and they were sinning against each other as well. They had broken their relationships all the way around. Shame at being underdressed. Shame at being underdressed. It's universal, isn't it? Fashion industry thrives on giving us clothing that will cover our physical physiological physique flaws, which we all have. And maybe even accentuate our good parts so that we uh can feel self-confident, or to fit into a crowd. My fashion advisor this morning or yesterday helped me pick out the tie I'm wearing. Now when I walked in this morning, somebody said, Oh, you're wearing a tie? I think I may be the only man in the room with a tie on. But I'm feeling pretty good about myself because my fashion designer picked out a good tie and this is my cover for myself. I um think you probably have experienced something similar. Maybe you've gone to a job interview or to a party and you didn't get the dress memo. And so you're completely wrong. Have you ever done that? And somebody comes up and tells you that you're that you're wrong, to make it even worse. Or students when they go to the first day of school, they didn't get the the right memo about what the backpack or the shoe or the whatever other uh uh Thing was to fit in with the in crowd this year and it's all wrong. Mom, I gotta go to the store. It's not right. I swim several days a week at the Supreme Sports Club, and every once in a while I see some of you there. My brother George Walgrove and I used to meet regularly, didn't we, George, at the at the pool. And at the pool I would be in my swimsuit. Now, I don't want you to imagine too much, but in my In my swimsuit, if I'm there at the pool with you and your swimsuit, we're we're pretty comfortable. I might be a little bit embarrassed. But if I was standing here in front of you this morning in my swimsuit. I would uh I would run out that back way and and find something to cover, which is exactly what Adam and Eve did. The Bible said that they found fig leaves and sewed them together for loinclaws. The closest thing around, about the right size, there it was. Let's put that on. So as I thought about this text, I thought, well, who were they hiding from? Obviously, we know that later on they're hiding from God, but in a lot of ways they were also hiding from each other, if you think about it, because they had both sinned against the other. And they felt bad about it, I'm sure. Eve had taken the fruit and had decided that she would eat it, and she gave it to Adam and brought him into her sin. And Adam famously didn't. Help her. He didn't remind her. There's a book called The Silence of Adam. Adam just stood there and didn't help. And and yes, he was angry about that, and we find out just in a couple of minutes, he's the relationship is so broken he's ready to throw her right under the bus. All God has to say is, you know, what did you do? And he said, well, sir. So they had to hide from the Lord and they had to hide from each other. And fig leaves were their first anemic effort to solve their problem. So, one of the questions in the bulletin is uh what are your go-to fig leaves? Let's think about this as a metaphor. What do you do to cover your shame? It might be the a new outfit. You might feel pretty good in your new outfit. But for me, as I thought about it, one of my go-to fig leaves is achievement. You may be able to relate to that. I'm a surgeon at Johns Hopkins. I think I'm a pretty good surgeon. And I'm a professor and I'm an elder here. And those are all true and they're all good things. But if I start to use those things to cover the other parts of my personality or my capabilities or whatever of which I'm not so proud. then those things get taken to such a high level of importance that they're in danger. I start to wonder whether they are good enough and I so I have to exaggerate them a bit. Or if you attack one of my good things, I've got to defend myself vigorously. Surely you've had some experience as well, perhaps. We put too much weight and on our coverings. You remember um uh years and years ago in popular culture the idea of being a poser became uh in vogue. What's a poser? A poser is somebody who pretends who puts on a false facade in order to look better than he really is. In a hyper-competitive environment like we have at Hopkins, everybody has some degree of insecurity. And everybody is worried, maybe they'll find out what I'm really like, what my limitations really are, that I'm really a poser. It's helped some of the people that I mentor, some of the students and residents, I think, to know that even people who are accomplished and secure in their position, apparently, and are powerful. are worried about being revealed as a poser. Even us grown ups, us adults are worried about that. And so as we recognize that and talk about it, it frees them to be able to see the fig leaves that they're wearing and their right position. It also helps us, I think, to know it when we see a colleague or a friend slapping on fig leaves to make themselves look better. Making more out of an accomplishment than there really is. And so as we seek to be salt in life, this idea of the universality of fig leaves. is something that I think can help us as we interact on horizontal level with one another. But what are your fig leaves? You can make a list later, you can write some things down now. I think all pride in many ways is a fig leaf. National pride, denominational pride, racial pride, you're not in the right group, fig leaf. Lies, blame shifting, spin, that might be your fig leaf, or the inability to rejoice when somebody else is given an award. Because their fig leaf all of a sudden looks a lot better than yours. Fig leaf. I think as you think about it and make a list, you'll see that much of what's wrong in human society comes from our effort to cover our insecurity. From this fig leaf. So what's wrong with fig leaves after all? When I was a kid, I thought that the problem with fig leaves was that they were pretty flimsy. And they weren't going to last very long, and they certainly weren't going to be any good when winter came. That was kind of the extent of my analysis of fig leaves. And if we stop there, I think we miss what's more profound. One of the most important parts of the story of Adam and Eve making fig leaves is that they make them for themselves. Now we don't know whether Eve made his fig leaf and he made hers or what, but Come along with me and say they they made their own fig leaves. And so they were responsible for their covering. And as soon as they put them on, they had to wonder, is this good enough? Am I showing? You know, maybe I ought to put another fig leaf on over on that side over there. And so we begin to worry about our image. But another tactic is to poke holes in your fig leaf. Because if you're worrying about whether you're covered or not, then you're not paying as much attention to me and whether my fig leaf is good enough. And so we criticize each other and we gossip. And we um make fun of one another, don't we? So go back to the story now. After we thought about fig leaves and you filled out your bulletin. Adam and Eve heard the Lord God walking in the garden and they hid. So why did they hide? It was about the fourth time I read this I realized, isn't it funny that they weren't hiding because they were afraid they were going to get killed? That's not what Adam said. I hid because I knew I was naked. It was the shame aspect of what was going on that was in front of mind. And ironically, the first response that they made makes things a lot worse, if you think about it. Part of the reason I think they hid is because they had fig leaves on. I mean if they had been naked that would be another day in paradise, right? It's just normal. But I've got this fig leaf on because there's something wrong and God is going to know it. They certainly didn't get wisdom from eating that fruit. Instead, they immediately broke every relationship and their next step was to make it so much worse because when you cover a sin, and try to hide it from the person you've sinned against. That's the second level of alienation, isn't it? I've sinned against you and I don't want you to know it. But Adam and Eve didn't know yet about grace. And we do. And we still. do that too often. I know in my long life I have occasionally covered up in Not told about a sin to the person that I had harmed and found that it hurt so much more when it did come out But let's look at what the Lord did and what he didn't do in this situation. First thing I want you to notice is that it was the Lord God who came looking for them, not the other way around. He called out to them and questioned them about their sin and got them to confess And he even pronounced the sentence on them, even the sentence of death, to dust you will return, for you are made of dust. But what he went on to do was to work on restoring relationship now with them. That was more important than that final sentence, wasn't it? He didn't strip off their fig leaves with a big wind. He didn't make them take them off and stand in front of him in their shame and say, now you just stand there. and and endure shame and suffering. But he also didn't let them keep their fig leaves. Right? That was their error, their mistake, their sin, number two, and he didn't like it, just like he doesn't like your fig leaf. And so what does he do? We read in verse 21 an amazing picture of grace. It says he made garments of skins. He made garments of skins and clothed them. Now, of course, God could look right through those garments of skins, couldn't he? We just read Psalm 139 together. It says, you searched me and you know me. Before a word is even on my lips, you know it completely, O Lord. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. Where can I go and hide from your presence? If I say, surely the darkness will cover me, even the darkness is not dark to you, O Lord. Even in our animal skins, God could see everything. But in his amazing grace, again, God chooses not to. He knows what you've done. But when you are clothed now, what the metaphor for skins is in the blood of Christ, when God looks at you, he doesn't see your sin completely by his grace. So, next question on the list, what are skins and why are they better than fig leaves? It's not about winter time. Put yourself back in Adam and Eve's place, back in biography mode. Nobody had ever died in the garden in the short time they'd been there. They'd not seen death. And it had to be obvious to them, if the Lord God was bringing them clothing made out of skins, that he had killed an animal. He was teaching them and he's teaching us about the forgiveness of sins. You know, the passage Matt Bowling likes to remind us of in Hebrews chapter 10, verse 4, without the shedding of blood there is no forgiveness of sins. And Matt will say, I don't know why the universe is that way, but it is. And here at the very beginning of sin, God is teaching us that fundamental lesson. Somebody had to die. Now you remember Adam and Eve, Adam had just named all the animals, right? He spent a lot of time looking at them, thinking about them, giving them a name. So they would have been intimately acquainted with every animal in the garden. And I want to suggest to you, brothers and sisters, that they knew exactly which animal had been killed for them. And that that animal may have been one of their favorite animals. It may have been a friend animal. It was certainly an innocent animal. So when you have time to meditate on that, think about the impact that would have had, to see that blood had to be shed. and that it was blood of an innocent creature on their behalf. There's even more. to this metaphor. And that has to do with the source of the covering. You remember Adam and Eve made their own loinclaws out of fig leaves. Um they had different sins to cover, and when they made their own coverings, they could compare coverings with one another and make fun of one another's coverings, but when the Lord God brought them skins, They had nothing to do with that. They could not take credit for it. They could not take blame for the skin. It was what the Lord God gave them. And so when Adam looked at his wife Eve and she was in her skin, and when she looked at him in his skin, what they saw was God's doing. And they had to give each other grace, just as we do. If I look at you and know a sin that you have committed. And I criticize you, and I know you're a child of the Lord, and I criticize you and continue to blame you for it. You're wearing exactly the same covering I am. And believe me, if you knew my sins, you would know that I deserve death as you do. But we are covered by the same covering, the blood of Christ. And so there's no more place. for criticism, for belittling, and for um making fun of one another. Hallelujah. Amen. So The title of this series that never was is Seeing Jesus in the Old Testament. As we close, let's look and see where we can see Jesus in the passage. Dr. I'm sorry, uh Brother Birkus Bob Birkus mentioned one place in his sermon, and that is that prophetic line that God says to the serpent. I will you the the seed of the woman will bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. That's commonly acknowledged to Be a prophecy about the Lord Christ coming and conquering sin and death on our behalf and crushing the head of the serpent. And so that's the first place we can see it. I expect you've seen in the metaphor of animal skins a second place already, and that is the prefigurement of shed atoning blood, the animal, the innocent animal who had to die. on our behalf. But I think there's more. Theologians talk about the idea of the pre-incarnate Christ coming to earth and walking with people and being seen. And they call that a theophany or a Christophany. There are some famous passages where we think that's what happened. Think about the man who wrestled with Jacob all night, and then asked Jacob asked him to bless him, Jesus. Think about the man who came and negotiated with Abraham for the fate of Sodom and Gomorrah. Jesus Christ, pre-incarnate. Think about the man with the flaming sword or the flashing sword who met with Joshua on the night before the battle of Jericho and said, I'm not on your side or on their side. I'm on the Lord's side, Jesus. So we don't know for sure what manifestation of God there was in the garden. We know it was physical in that there was a sound. They heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden. And I suppose it's possible that that was just the wind blowing through the trees, that was the sound, and and then they saw hanging on a branch or s or on a rock some clothing made from skins, and a voice came out of the thunder and said, Put those on, they're for you. But it seems equally plausible to me that this was another theophany that the Lord Christ Himself brought and handed to Adam and Eve. these garments of skins that prefigured what he did for them. There's one more place where we see Jesus that I'm more confident about than than even that one. And that is not a picture in this passage, but a pre-echo, a foreshadowing of a picture that we see at the trial of Christ. So go with me to the night on which Jesus stood before the chief priests and the Pharisees and before the soldiers. You remember what they thought of him? They thought Jesus was opposer, didn't they? He said, I'm the Son of God. The Son of Man, the Son of Man came to seek and save the lost. The Son of Man is going to be the king of Israel. Um those were, in their mind, fig leaves. And they were astounding, audacious fig leaves, and they made all their fig leaves look really paltry. And so they were angry at him. because he was opposer. So what did they do? They took a purple robe and put it on him, to make fun of him as though he was king, and they put a crown of thorns on his head, and they beat him, and they mocked him. At that moment, Jesus was taking for us what God did not give Adam and Eve. He didn't stand and mock them, because he knew that the Lord Jesus would take our shame. As well as our sin upon himself. And then, even more, they stripped him naked and nailed him to a cross. Now, most visible manifestations that we see pictures of Jesus or statues of Jesus on the cross have a little bit of cloth in a strategic location. But we know that that's not how the Romans crucified their criminals. They stripped them naked and put their arms out so that they would be there. visible to all the world and the mocking of nakedness before them. We know that the soldiers were casting lots for Jesus' undergarment, so he didn't even have that on. No, he on the cross bore our shame of nakedness while he was shedding blood that would cover us. So meditate on that, brothers and sisters, next time you feel like a poser. Or next time you find yourself mocking somebody else's fig leaf or not offering the same grace. That you've been given, or cover up an error, or an embarrassment, or attempted to gossip, and revel in somebody else's wardrobe malfunction. When that happens, I hope that this passage, as you think about it, will help you to stop and recognize your own fig leaf strategy. And then take it off and put on Christ. Let the story be your prompt, your elevator moment, so that you see Jesus who bore our sin. and picture him being mocked and stripped naked on our behalf. Clothed in him, you're completely safe You're completely loved. You're magnificently arrayed. That's what God chooses to see when he looks at us now that we are wearing the blood of Christ. Nothing else matters. There's nothing else you need. Paul writes as we close Romans chapter 8. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It's God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Remember the list? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness, or danger, or sword, as it's written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We're regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present. nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Let's pray. Lord God, teach us to open our eyes to see our own fig leaves. Open our hearts to see the kindness, the amazing grace of your love for us. And let that compel us to offer the same grace to our neighbors. And to love you more? How can we not give our whole lives to you? How can we shut our mouths and fail to tell of the abundance of your mercy in Jesus Christ? Naked, we come to thee for dress, Rock of Ages, cleft for us. Let us hide ourselves in thee. Amen. Let's stand.