Matthew twenty one through sixteen. The kingdom of heaven is like a landowner who went out early in the morning to hire men to work in his vineyard. He agreed to pay them a denarius for the day, and sent them into his vineyard. About the third hour he went out and saw others standing in the market place, doing nothing. He told them, You also go and work in my vineyard, and I will pay you whatever is right. So they went. He went out again about the sixth hour and the ninth hour and did the same thing. About the eleventh hour he went out and found still others standing around. He asked them, Why have you been standing here all day long doing nothing? Nothing, because no one has hired us. They answered. He said to them, You also go and work in my vineyard. When evening came, the owner of the vineyard said to his foreman, Call the workers and pay them their wages, beginning with the last ones hired and going on to the first. The workers who were hired about the eleventh hour came and each received a denarium. So in those who were hired, so in those who came who were hired first, They expected to receive more, but each one of them also received a denarium. When they received it, they began to grumble against the landowner. These men who were hired last worked only an hour, they said, and you Have made them equal to us who have borne the burden of the work and the heat of the day. But he answered one of them, friend, I am not being unfair to you. Didn't you agree to work for it and are pay and go. I want to give the man who was hired last the same as I gave you. Don't I have the right to do what I want with my own money? Or are you envious because I am generous? So the last will be first, and the first will be last. So far the reading of God's Word. Let us look to God in prayer. O Holy Spirit, we pray for your power to illuminate us so that we can understand your word, so that we can have the power to respond to it. Pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Several weeks ago we began a series on the parables. We didn't get very far. But we did discuss the great banquet, you recall, in Luke 14. We also looked at the fasting as inappropriate in the presence of the kingdom of God in Mark II. chapter. We have seen how because the kingdom of God is here in the person of Jesus Christ and our sins have been forgiven, that we are free to celebrate, we are free to go from fasting to feasting. Today we're going to look at the God of the kingdom. We have discussed, as I mentioned, the presence of the kingdom, but now we're going to look at the God who is associated with the kingdom. We'll be doing so using the parable of the gracious employer, which focuses on God. First of all, we will see that God is a God of free grace. Free grace. Now obviously. That is such a basic point in the Christian faith. The words of Ephesians two, eight and nine roll off our tongues very, very easily, for it is by grace that we have been saved through faith, and not of ourselves, not as results of God. Of works, lest anyone should boast. But it's often hard for non-Christians to grasp the reality of that: that grace is free, that is something we need not feel we have to contribute. To. The old adage is true. The only thing we contribute to our salvation is our sin. As we look at the context of the parable this morning, we will certainly see that the rich young man in Matthew. Matthew 19 had a hard time grasping this. We see in verse 16 of chapter 19, Teacher, what good thing must I do to get eternal life? Now this kind of attitude is familiar to us all, isn't it? We hear this kind of thing all the time. What must I do in order to be accepted by God? What things must I perform in order to be received of Him? Jesus answers. And Jesus' answer seems to reinforce that works mentality. You see what it says, keep all the commandments, Jesus says, and if that isn't enough, sell all that you have and give the proceeds to the poor. Now shouldn't Jesus just have said, Trust in me? Well, I would s I would suggest that that's exactly what he did say. For without complete confidence in Christ and self surrender, It was impossible for that rich young man to do what Jesus required. It was necessary, of course, that he did trust in Christ. Now we see the rich young man trudge sorrowfully away. He was unable to remove himself from the throne in his life and place the Lord Jesus Christ there instead. We listen to what Jesus says in verse 24. Again, I tell you. It's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. Jesus is saying it's impossible for any man, rich or poor, to enter into the kingdom on his own. merits because of his own efforts. To the question that the disciples ask, who then can be saved? Jesus responds, with man this is impossible, but with God all things Are possible. Doesn't that call to mind a series we heard earlier this year from Zechariah 4, verse 6? What is that verse? Not by power, not by might, but by my spirit, says the Lord. Lord. We're saved by the power of God alone. Fine. We accept that. We understand that. Our lives are staked on that truth. We're committed to that in our own experience. But it seems to me as we look at chapter 19 there, Peter is still watching the figure of the rich young man as he fades into the distance. He's still reflecting on Jesus' words, give all the proceeds of your wealth to the poor. And Peter seized on that. And Peter says, We've left everything to follow you. What then will there be for us? You see, he was able to do what the rich young man couldn't do. He was able to to give all that he had. And it wasn't much in comparison, was it? Possibly a share in an old fishing boat and some old nets. But Peter said, yes, I've given all, and I'm following you. In the words of the author. Version, what then shall we have? He says, What shall be stored up in heaven for me since we've done, since I've done so much for you? Doesn't that sound just a little bit like a murk? Spirit. Because of the great cost, the great effort, the great sacrifice that he had made for God, God certainly would reward him in a tremendous way. You catch the similarity between Peter and the rich young man. Peter, though asking as a Christian, is saying, he's inquiring how all of his sacrifices will be received by God, will impress God. And will stack up in in causing God to reward him. And Jesus gives us later on in that chapter a reassurance in verses 28 and 29. Yes, they'll all receive a great reward. Everyone who calls on my name will receive that reward, will receive even eternal life. But Jesus also gives a warning. Many who are first will be last, and many who are last will. Will be first. The parable that we have before us in Matthew twenty is an illustration of that point. You can picture a wealthy man. You can picture a man with great vineyards that are stretched out on a hillside. On a hillside because that's where the drainage is best, and the grapes will grow in the best way possible. You can picture also a September time of harvest, perhaps this very time of year. And the harvest is squeezed into just a very few days so that the grapes can be picked. At the time when they are most ripe, the sugar content is just ripe to produce the best possible wine. So this landowner goes out thoroughly. He goes out into the marketplace and he begins to hire. He hires some people at six o'clock in the morning and they agree to work for one denarius, which was the a custom amount for a day's work. But as the day goes on, he sees the need to hire more workers. Evidently the work was not being done as quickly, as efficiently as he had thought. So So he goes out again at nine o'clock, at noon, and at three o'clock to hire more workers. He goes to the marketplace, which is where the unemployed would wait. And he agrees not to give them a denarius, but he agrees to give them whatever is right. And they most likely made the assumption that it would be some percentage of the denaris, according to the percentage of the day that they worked. Five o'clock rolls along. Right about the time when people were ready to quit to go home. And he once again goes out into the marketplace to hire more workers. Now why there were still some workers there at five o'clock, I don't know. It's unlikely that That they were hoping to be hired for that day, for a one-hour work day, though something nice to contemplate is not something many of us enjoy. Possibly they were out there wanting to line up work for the next day. Possibly they just were afraid to go home to Rachel or Hannah, whoever their wife was, because they didn't have anything to bring. In any case, they were there. The employer says in verse 6 and 7, he asked them, Why have you? Because no one has hired us, he answered. He said to them, You also go and work in my vineyard. Now this is very unusual, of course. We're given an an indication in verse 14 as to the reason why he has done this. Verse 14 says, because of his generosity, I just want to give the man who has hired less the same as I gave you. You see, the employer was more interested in what he could do for those men than what he could get for himself from them. As unusual as it is to hire a man for one hour's work, the rest of the story becomes Even more unusual. The whistle blows at quitting time, six o'clock. The foreman lines the men up to pay them for their work. So far, so good. In the Old Testament, there is a command. Don't hold back the wages of those hired overnight. Notice the artistry with which Jesus is painting this picture of unusual events. The order of payment. It's reversed. It's backward. But not only that, those who punched in as late as five o'clock and worked only till six received the same amount as those who worked for a full day. They received One scenarios, you can just imagine the tension, the expectation of those who were first hired as they watched, going down the line, everyone receiving the same amount. Surely, when it got to their to be the Their turn, they would receive more. You can imagine them thinking, but what we have here instead is a clear picture, a clear picture of God's grace. The employer is free to do what. With his money just as he sees fit. And so with God, he gives out the reward according to his grace. This great truth is illustrated in a beautiful and powerful way. And we consider the thief on the cross. Just one hour or so before this man died, this man who had had a lifetime of sin, a lifetime of displeasing God, an hour before he died. He repents. He asks for forgiveness. And Jesus says to him, I tell you the truth, today you'll be with me in paradise. Now that's awfully hard for some people to grasp. For some people to accept. That's a difficult teaching. So what has been done from time to time, the sentence is changed around to, I tell you the truth today. You'll be with me in paradise. You catch the Obvious difference there. But Christ doesn't say to him, You'll be with me after you pay your dues. You'll be with me after you do that which is required of you. You'll be with me after you serve your thousand years. In purgatory. You see, that misses the whole point. The whole point of the gospel. God's grace is freely given. And that's the whole point of the first part of our parable. Our reward is Is not based on how we serve God. Our reward is not based on the length of service to Christ. How we can praise God for the reality of that. You now to stand up. Stand up. As you can see in the bulletin, there is a chorus there that I would like us to sing in response and praise to God. This is not a difficult. for us is something that I learned in our AFG taught to me by a seven-year-old girl. So I think we can I think we can uh can pick this up. Those who know it sing loudly and those of us who uh who don't know it so well will soon pick it up. He saw me twice one. God is glory. God is so he so a little faster and with a little more expression. That was good. Once more. God is all Thank you. We have just responded together to God's word. You may be seen. It's very obvious that the first part of this parable is clearly referring to God's grace, how good He is to me. Part of the parable, however, discusses those who only begrudgingly receive their just payment, the first higher, and how God, how the gracious employer, responds to them. But don't they have a just grievance. Don't they have a case against the employer? Don't they have a reasonable argument? They could argue that they were the first hired, that they worked all day and they did just about All of the work, and not only that, but they did it during the heat of the day while the others were downtown loafing. I wonder if uh any of you caught the story in the post this past Wednesday and Saturday. Thursday. An interesting story about a fellow, uh a five hundred and sixty found a sixty-five-pound guy named Jojo Giorgiani. He, along with a friend of his, were implicated and uh indicted On a sexual offense. They were both convicted. They were both given 15 years in prison. Now, Giorgiani's attorney got him out of prison after just one week, claiming that. That his health was threatened in a prison that lacked the amenities such as air conditioning. Now, whether his health was really threatened or not is not what I'm driving at here. And whether that should have been a concern of the court in In any case, is also not what I'm getting at here. Incidentally, you may have read on Thursday he was returned to prison. But what struck me most about that story, about that account, was the argument Given by the attorney of Giorgiani's co-defendant. This man said that if Jojo Giorgiani remained free, it would be unfair to keep his client. The codependant in prison. That's the logic, that's the sense of justice of an attorney, someone who presumably has some knowledge of law, of justice. But how typical that is in this day and age. Punishment is to match the punishment of others and is not to be meted out and served in accordance with the crime committed. In the same way we often think of rewards in comparison to what others receive. What's the main question you hear around Christmas time? What'd you get? What'd you get? Value or the quality of things that children or adults receive is always perceived in relationship to the value and the quality of what other people receive. Now, in the case of this parable, the gracious and employer handles the cries of the un of the of the workers in in three steps. First he says, No injustice has been done. I gave you what I agree, agree, what we agree. We would give. And I have the right to do with my possessions what I choose. But then in the third place, he gets to the heart of the problem. He gets to the real issue there, and that is of jealousy. Are you envious? Because I am generous, the employer says. As an explanation or as a summary to this parable, we read in verse 16: So the last will be first, and the first Will be blessed. That's the theme not just of this parable, but it's a theme of of a whole section in Matthew's Gospel, starting in verse 18, in chapter 18. Chapter 18, verse 1. The disciples again are coming to Jesus and saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And Jesus gives the example of a child as the model for greatness. This idea is Repeated in chapter 19, verse 14. Jesus said, Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for the kingdom of heaven belongs to such as these. And then Peter, as we As we have already seen, is asking, how are the things that I have done going to impress you so that I can receive much in the kingdom? And as I've mentioned, this parable becomes And ends with the idea: the many who are last will be first, and the first will be last. We see after this parable, down farther in chapter 20, the mother of Zebedee. sons comes to Jesus in verse 20 and says, kneeling down, she asks him a favor. She says, Grant that that one of these two sons of mine may sit at your right and the other at your left in the kingdom. She's asking for honor for her sons. In all these cases, the theme of being great in the kingdom is uppermost. in mind of being important in the kingdom is the idea. How do you get that honor? Jesus gives us a very ironic answer. Jesus said, you have to be willing to serve. Farther on In chapter twenty, verses twenty-six through twenty-eight. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant, and whoever wants to be first must be your slave. Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve and to give his life. Life as a ransom for many. Jesus. Jesus himself is the greatest example of that. I want to read a song to you, a song that is very familiar to all of you. found in the second chapter of Philippians, but a song that has thrilled me so many times. Philippians, the second chapter, describes in the most vivid language what it means for Jesus to humble himself. To become last, in order that we may receive the benefits of his kingdom. Who, being in very nature God, did not consider a quality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the very nature of the service. Servant, being made in human likeness and being found an appearance as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient to death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name. That is above every knee, that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of the world. of God the Father. We too desire to be great, don't we? We too r desire recognition. That's something we struggle with. Just like the the ones who were first hired in the parable. Just like Peter as we've already related, and the other disciples, but we're called instead to humble servanthood, not vindictive envy. We're called to lives of service, lives emulating Jesus Christ. were not to have a work-for-wages spirit concerning the things of the spirit, spiritual matters. Jesus here is getting at the very heart of Peter's problem. But it's the problem that is not at all unique to Peter. It's one that we all share in: that of jealousy, that of desire for position and recognition, to be elevated over others, to desire others to serve ourselves. Rather than to be servants. Today, and again not unique to today, but today there is a new legalism that I have noticed in years past. Someone suggests That to really follow Christ, it is necessary to give up the old way of life completely, including your job, including your work, and to enter into full-time Christian service. That's the best way. The only way to be really pleasing to Christ. I knew a man at the church that we attended while I was in seminary, and this man was convinced that I was a much greater Christian than he. He was convinced that I was. much closer to God simply because I was in seminary and I was pursuing the ministry. He had the idea that God simply was not impressed at all with his life. He worked out in the world. God wasn't really pleased with what he did. He always felt, and he expressed this to me in very concrete terms, he felt that he was a second-class citizen in the eyes of God, a second class citizen. Christian. But with our view of God as Creator, can't we celebrate the fact that all things have been placed under the subjection of Jesus Christ and we are to be involved In redeeming all things to the Lordship of Jesus Christ. There are no second-class Christians. We are free to do the jobs that we have been given because God. Wants us to. He wants us to do them unto himself. We humbly serve Jesus Christ as we work in the world, as we bring light into the dark place of the world. There is also another danger within our Christian walk as it is more narrowly conceived and defined. I feel constrained at this time to just give a caution to To people who are specifically to be involved in the Navigator 27 Bible study series. Now that may sound a bit strange when I've been up here the last couple of weeks plugging this series, but let me just explain a potential problem. A potential danger that may develop. Of course, the things that will be done during this series, the scripture memory, the encouragement to Bible study, all the other things that are part of it, having consistent and disappointed. They are things that God is eminently pleased with and delighted with when His children do that. But there also is the potential danger that in that there may be a pressure. To perform for God in order to keep being in a state of justification, in order to keep having God pleased with you, to really earn God's love. Now that's uh something that is also true, of course, for people who are not just involved in navigating the 2-7 Bible study series. It's something that I struggled with in my own life. Years ago, there was a time. When I I felt that if I could not pray fervently for X amount of time, each day, that God was no longer accepting me. He was no longer freely accepting me, but I had virtually fallen from grace. That kind of guilt can weigh down on us when we don't see the freedom that is available in Jesus Christ. You see God's grace is not relative to any expenditure of energy for God on our part. God's grace is not relative to our expenditure of energy, but is dependent solely on the person and work of Jesus Christ. I would suggest that there is a barometer contained in this parable itself of how we who have freely accepted God's grace can determine uh how how uh tightly we are continuing to grasp them. in our lives. And that barometer I would suggest is how we felt about the ones who were first hired. Did we sympathize with them? Did we think that their case for higher wages Was just and was convincing, and that the employer had some obligation to reward them accordingly? Or did we say, isn't it great that those who are hired less and work for just an hour? Received all that they needed from God's hand. They received the fullness of the reward that was available by God. If we sympathize with those who were I would suggest that we have more of a Pharisaical attitude, more of an attitude of legalism, than one of being able to freely accept the grace that is available to us in Christ. I would warn you, finally. Against a cooperative spirit. A spirit that wishes to cooperate, to work in conjunction with God, to earn salvation, to merit reward. That's dangerous. It's dangerous because it cuts against the very heart of grace. There are numerous subtle ways that we can take the grace out of grace. We can require obedience to To an external set of standards. That if you do these things, you will continue to receive God's grace. But there's nothing that we can do. We should praise God for that. There's nothing that we can do. To make ourselves more lovable by God. If we have that attitude, if we have the attitude of needing to do things in order to be in that state of Of receiving God's grace. We will be like those that Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount: Depart from me, I never knew you. Rather, Jesus has made us free, free to serve Him, free to envy. Jesus Christ and our attitude of service for one another, without having in mind things that God will bestow upon us in response to the things that we have done. Jesus calls us. Jesus calls us to be servants. Jesus calls us to respond in love to his grace. Jesus calls us to give of ourselves freedom in the life of his people. In a life of service to God. I would ask you to stand once again, and we will sing a chorus. We will sing a chorus that can be found on the bottom of the Instagram. The bottom of the sermon outline, Father, I adore you, lay my life before you, how I love you. And then Jesus, I adore you. And it goes through the same verse. Spirit, I adore you. We'll sing that twice. Let's go up a fifth, shall we? What note would that be, Tom? Huh? What note would that be? About a fifth? And you get that big for you. Let my life be for you. Maybe see. Let us join together in a prayer of response and confession. I will leave an opportunity during the time of confession simply for you to. pray silently, confess your individual sins to God. O Father, Jesus, Holy Spirit, how we adore you. How we thank you for what you have done for us. We thank you, O Father, that you sent the Lord Jesus Christ, who became humble, who became a man, in order to serve a man. Us to give his life a ransom for many. We praise you, O Holy Spirit, for applying that truth of redemption to us, for drawing us to accept our. Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, we pray that you will help us to be servants, servants who desire to be of help to people in this church, to people in our neighbourhoods, to our relatives, to friends. Father, we pray that you will help us to be responsive to the things you've told us in your word. Pray that you will help us to respond out of love. Not out of compulsion for the things that you want us to do. Lord, we offer up our confession to you. We realize that we are a sinful people, that our thoughts so often are more on our reward more on what we can get from you than on how we can serve you humbly, selflessly. Lord God, help us to be honest with ourselves even now as we confess our sins. Help us to be honest with you. O Holy Spirit, we pray that you will be convicting us of sin, even now as we pray. As high as the heavens are above the earth, so high. It's his love. As far as the East is from the West, so far as He separates our sins from us. Lord Jesus, we praise you. We praise you for giving us life. Giving us life eternal. Life abundant in you. We pray these things in your name. Amen. I would ask the ushers to come forward now to collect the