Well, it was uh last fall that my wife, Kathy, took a weekend course on C. Lewis from one of the country's foremost experts on C. Lewis, Earl Palmer. And uh she gave me a tape of his uh two best lectures uh after that conference. I listened to them in the car as I was driving, and one of the lectures Palmer made an a fascinating observation. It was a lecture on C. S. Lewis and Joy. And Palmer talked about the New Testament word for joy and how it is related to the word grace as well as the word giving and the word thanks and thanksgiving. And I immediately kind of tuned in and thought, ah, that sounds like an insight that may have potential for a message. And so I went to my Bible and I began to look uh at those different words and how they're related together. And uh I found that indeed uh it gave me a number of insights in the relationship that God sees between those ideas. And then I found also a passage in which Paul addresses a particular topic and uses that word, grace, in all four different ways. And then I found it even all boiled down into two verses. And I think that the insights of that are extremely valuable and helpful to you and to me. as we think about Thanksgiving. Now remind you, I did all this before I had my Bible software program installed too. So get extra credit for that. But I think it it's a fun thing to look at the relationship between those words. And I want to have a little fun with you this morning as we come before the Lord and think about Thanksgiving this week. Not only to be able to see the richness of God's word and how he uses these ideas, but to give us some insights about Thanksgiving. All this is found in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and 9. Before you turn to that, let's look to the Lord for a moment in prayer. Lord, I pray that as we look to your word in this, that as we see the relationship between these words and what it means for us as we enter into Thanksgiving. Lord, this is not just an intellectual exercise or some fun with words. It is to understand your mind, your heart. And how you speak of Thanksgiving and its root, what drives it, what motivates it. So, Lord, help us to learn from that And we pray that you will work in us the dynamic that produces Thanksgiving, thankful hearts. Toward you, that this Thanksgiving would be enriched by applying these insights from your word to our lives. Make each of us open, we pray, to what you have for us now. In Jesus' name. Amen. 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and 9, and I have three points that I want to make from it. You see them in your bulletin outline The three main points for the three blanks to fill in. The first one is, first insight on this is that the root of thanksgiving is grace. The root of thanksgiving is grace. Now the word grace in the New Testament is the word caras. It's a word that I told Carissa Lumen that she really needs to listen to this message this morning because you see her name comes from this. Charis means grace. And uh that word grace, the bottom line meaning of it, if you boil it all down, the word grace means, as you see there God's unmerited favor to me in my need and in my helplessness. You see, the first thing we need to understand is that you and I have a gravitational pull toward living in denial, don't we? You and I always want to pump up our self-image by denying our failures. By comparing ourselves favorably with others and putting them down, by minimizing our shortcomings, by seeking to do whatever is necessary to help me feel better about myself. Some of you adopt the coping mechanism of being compulsive perfectionists to do it. Others of you adopt a coping mechanism of being a Lazy procrastinating blame shifter. And we all can see ourselves in various mechanisms like that, can't we? Let me identify with some of that to see how it is that you can feel better about yourself, which is so important to us today. But whatever the mechanism, the root problem is the same. We want to cover the shame of our nakedness before the all-seeing eye of a God who has made us and who will in the last day judge our lives. And so we live in denial. We don't want to see what we're really like. What my heart is really like. Because if I see that I will be undone, and I live therefore out of touch with reality. The only hope For being in touch with reality, to not be defensive when someone brings me up short before what I'm really like. is to understand the grace of God. To understand that His grace is available to me in Jesus Christ. that that's necessary in order for me to gain eternal life or any peace in this life. And that grace that is available to you this morning in Jesus Christ is both objective and subjective. We're going to look more at the meaning of grace when we get back into Ephesians this winter. But for now I just want to point out this distinction. On the one hand, the grace of God can be spoken of objectively in that it's what Jesus has done for you. On the other hand, the grace of God can be spoken of subjectively as what the Spirit does in you. You see both of these in 2 Corinthians 8 and 9. In the first case, you have God's provision for you, his grace for you. In chapter 8, verse 9. Verse you're probably familiar with. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. That though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, so that you, through his poverty, might become rich. Can you imagine leaving your home, all the things familiar to you and precious to you, the relationships of those that are dearest to you? To go to live in the slum of a large, crowded city in some foreign nation? Living in that slum in order to rescue people who could care less about your sacrifice? That only begins to give to you and to me an inkling of what this verse speaks of. That Jesus left all that he had All of what it meant to live beyond this universe. It's not just some spectacular part of the universe. It's in a whole other dimension of reality. And he left that in order that he would become poor, so that you, having received him into your and my slum of existence He would lift us out of that into eternity with him in his heaven. What motivated him to do that? Grace. You see? Beginning of verse 9. For you know the grace, it was that he had set his heart on you. You didn't deserve it. You and I could never do anything to make ourselves worthy of it, but it was his grace that drove him to make that sacrifice. You see, it's when you and I begin to enter into that because we're in touch with our need that grace begins to become precious and meaningful to us. You know the grace of our Lord Jesus, what he did for you. But his grace is also what he is doing in you. And you see that again and again in this passage, in verse 1. Now, brothers, we want you to know about the grace that God has given the Macedonian churches, and he speaks of what he's done in them, how he has transformed them, how he has transformed them from being takers to givers. And he says in verse six in their desire to want to give to the poor who were in Jerusalem. He says, so we urge Titus since he had earlier made a beginning. To bring also to completion this act of grace on your part. You see, God is working grace in you to want to share from what you have to give to Him. In chapter 9, verse 7, he says. Each man should give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. And God is able to make all grace abound to you. So that in all things, at all times, having all that you need, you will abound in every good work. Or in verse 13. Because of the service by which you have proved yourselves, men will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel of Christ, and for your generosity in sharing with them and with everyone else. And in their prayers for you, their hearts will go out to you because of the surpassing grace that God has given to you. That transforming grace, you see. And so he says in verse 1. We want you to know about the grace God's given to the Macedonian churches, verse 2, out of their most severe trial and their overflowing joy, their extreme poverty, and welled up in generosity. God was doing a work in them. James Denny once said, Before Christ, and I've quoted this to you in times past, some of you probably very familiar with, before I think it's one of the most precious uh Statements of the contrast before and after Christ. Before Christ, a man uses people and loves things. After Christ, he loves people and uses things. And that's what Paul's talking about here. He's talking about grace that works in you and me to transform us, to make us different. Grace is the root word. The root of thanksgiving is the word grace. But now the fruit of grace, second point here, The fruit of grace is joy and thanksgiving. Now look at it the other way around. The fruit of grace is joy and thanksgiving. Fascinating to see these words that are all related, but in the English you could read through and you'd never pick it up at all. Let me give you an example. In this word joy, the word joy is the word kara. Some people use that name for their daughters. Kara. If you ever hear somebody whose name is Kara, that means joy. That's why they call her that. Hope that she'd have a pleasant disposition, I guess. That's why they gave her the name. Hopeful designation. Kara is from Karas You see those two words are very, very closely related. And you see that in verse 2 here. Now, again, notice it and try to think. As Paul was writing it in his mind. Verse 1. Now, brothers, we want you to know about the grace, excuse me, chorus. We want you to know about the grace, the chorus that God has given the Macedonian churches. Out of the most severe trial, their overflowing kara. Their joy, you see, and their extreme poverty weld up in rich generosity. So their kara comes from the caras. Your joy comes from the grace of God in your life. When you see what you deserve And then you understand in Jesus Christ what you have received, you stand up and shout with wonder and joy. God has been so merciful to me. He's been good to me. You see, that produces joy. That's the idea of this. Now, besides that, there is this word thanksgiving. And thanksgiving is related to that word. Now look in your bulletin outline, because I give you some examples to help you understand. You know more Greek than you realize you do, you see. If you take the word EU, And put that before any word. That's from the Greek. The word, the prefix EU, in the Greek means good. Whatever it is that makes it good. Alright? And there are some words that we have derived from the Greek that you may or may not be familiar with, but you see how we use them. You take the word phonos, which is the word for sound. in the Greek, and you put euphonos and you have euphemism. Something which sounds better. You see a lot of words that instead of sounding crude, you know, you make them sound better and it's uh a nicer sound. That's That's from the Greek. Or you take EU plus logos, the word for word, and you have eulogy, a good word. Say something in praise of somebody, eulogy, that's a good word. Or you take the word thanatos, which is the word for death. You put the EU in front of it, and you've got euthanasia. That idea of a good death, uh often misused today to produce something in the mind to, you know, make it a euphemism in helping somebody to die. But the idea there is a good death. Or you take the word angelos, from which we get angel. Now what's an angel? An angel's a messenger. Alright? So angelos is the Greek word for message. You put U in front of it. You've got U and Golas. In the English, we change the U to a V, and so you've got the word evangelism. The word evangelism simply means a good message, good news. Well now you take the word EU and you put it before grace. You before the word carus, and what's that sound like in English? Eu cherist. Eucharist is a variant reading from 1 Corinthians 10, verse 16, to speak of the cup of thanksgiving in the Lord's Supper. That's where you get that word, Eucharist. Eucharist refers to the cup of Thanksgiving. Now, that cup of thanksgiving, you see, is literally a cup of grace. You and I deserve the cup of God's wrath. Instead, he has given to us through Jesus and his blood the cup of grace. And so what is the response? Eucharisteo, which is thanksgiving. And that's how Paul uses this word a number of times in this passage. Take a look at just some of the examples here. In chapter 8 and verse 16, for instance, he says, I thank God. Who put into the heart of Titus the same concern I have for you? That word, I thank God, it literally in the Greek it is chorus to God, grace to God But you see, we translate it thanks, because that's the idea. It's thanks to God for what he has done. Or chapter 9 in verse 11. You have uh Paul's, uh, you will be made rich in every way so that you can be generous on every occasion, and through us your generosity will result in what In thanksgiving to God. Eucharist oh. You see, it's that idea. It's uh Eucharis, only um it's the the verb um a participle form of that. Or in verse twelve, this Service that you performs not only supplying the needs of God's people, but also is overflowing in many expressions of thanks to God. Again, you chorus Or verse 15. Thanks be to God again, chorus to God for his indescribable gift. So Turn over the outline and you see my summary in case you're wondering what I am rambling about and get to the point. It is simply this. On the top of the page, I would submit to you that the biblical meaning of the word Thanksgiving Is the joyful recognition that I have received much better than I deserved. Do you ever think of Thanksgiving like that? Do you ever realize that thanksgiving is always a response to grace? If somebody gives you something and you believe you deserve it, you might say, I appreciate it. But you see, you really wouldn't say thank you. Thank you is always the communication, the acknowledgement that you are giving me something out of grace. Something more than I deserve. Now let me warn you kids, don't push it this Thursday at the table. And when you ask for something to be passed and they pass it, don't say, I deserved it, I don't have to say thanks. We use the word thanks as a polite form of recognizing you've done me a favor. Alright? So don't press the point there. But To really understand the word and its root, it is always the recognition that you are giving me something more than I deserve. And we get down to the bottom line of the gospel, it's the joyful Kara recognition that I have received so far much more than I have deserved. And so thanksgiving is literally the pausing to recognize that whether it is materially or emotionally or relationally or spiritually, that God has given to me. So much more than I deserve. Having let that sink in for a moment, come to the final point. The third point, the expression of thanksgiving is giving. The expression of thanksgiving is giving. It is significant, I believe, that in these two chapters where Paul's topic, his subject, is giving to those in need, he uses the word carus eleven times. So when you look at his point, the basic point is that in response To the chorus, the grace of God, we give as an expression of our thanks. Again, look at verses 1 and 2 of chapter 8. Now, brothers, we want you to know about the grace. The chorus that God has given the Macedonian churches. Out of the most severe trial, you see their circumstances weren't so hot Out of the most severe trial, in their poverty, their overflowing kara, their joy in their extreme poverty, welled up how? In rich generosity, you see. This is the expression that it took. And this is done in two ways. First of all, in that we give ourselves to God. That's the first expression of thanksgiving. Look how he goes on, verse 3. For I testify That they gave as much as they were able and even beyond their ability, entirely on their own, they urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the saints. Now here is a real toughie. In verse 4, the word carus appears. What word do you think it is? Not easy, is it? They urgently pleaded with us for the privilege of sharing in this service to the saints. The word caras is translated in the NIV by the word privilege there. The service is the word diaconia, from which we get deacons. And so that's the merciful giving. But you see, they pleaded with us for the grace of sharing. They pleaded with us to be able to participate because of the grace of God to express their joy and their thanksgiving in the privilege of giving. Nobody was pressing them. Nobody was making them feel guilty. Nobody was saying you gotta come up with your tithe or our building fund or our budget's going to come short The motivation for their giving was the grace of God in their lives. And that's why you don't hear at Columbia Presbyterian Church a whole lot about meeting our budget. We let you know where we are. in those things. You need to know we are part of the family of God. And there are times when we may examine our own resources and be able to say, is there something I could do because of the needs that we have as a body? But we must never let that kind of motivation overshadow that the basic motivation of giving Whether it is for the West Wing campaign as it comes to a conclusion or our budget or for the missionaries or whatever it is, the basic motivation. is the Kara, the joy in your life and my life, that expresses itself in thanksgiving because of the Kara's, the grace of our Lord Jesus, who though he was rich yet for your sake and my sake became poor so that you through his poverty would become rich. Amen? You see that? That makes all the difference And you see, once having said that, he says that they pleaded with it, said, come on, I know that Paul, your concern for us, you don't think we have anything, but we want to give. Please, can you imagine? A pastor going around. Please let us get No no no no You don't have enough. No, I don't want please Paul please that's what he's saying He's saying I kept telling them you guys don't have any money. You don't have it. You know, I gotta go out. Let me hit another church for it. You know, they can help. No, no, no, no, Paul. God's been so good to us. Verse 5 Why? And they did it. They did not do as we expected. They didn't hold back. But they gave themselves first to the Lord. And then to us in keeping with God's will. See, your money doesn't mean anything if it's not an expression of the fact that you've first given yourself to the Lord. So Paul is saying here that he's giving a picture that is very similar. In fact, it's, I believe, the fulfillment of the idea of the Old Testament sacrifices. If you look back in the Old Testament sacrifices in Leviticus, there's four basic kinds of sacrifices But you look at the two that are particularly related, and you would come and offer a sin offering to the priest because of the guilt of your sin in your life. And the priest would bring that bull to you, you'd lay your hands on that, you'd confess that you were a sinner, you were needing forgiveness. And that would transfer symbolically your sin to the head of that bull or that sheep or that goat. The priest would take that in to the holy place, he would cut its throat, its blood would flow out. And then he would come back and declare, in the name of God, you have been forgiven your sin by the grace of God. Then, either in response to a particular mercy of God or to his general mercies, you could offer a thank offering. Now, a thank offering, as we've talked about in this congregation in years past, was a very enjoyable offering. That was the most fun offering of all of them Because when you brought the thank offering, the priest took some, he gave some to the Lord, the priest had a piece, and then you got a large portion of this bull or this sheep. Whatever it was could be different kinds of animals, bull, sheep, goats. And you could take that animal and the rest of it was yours. You took the rest of it home and you had a feast with one stipulation. Remember what that was? You had to eat it, the whole thing, by the next day. About twenty-four hours, you had that day and the next day to eat the whole cow. That's a lot of burgers. One day he eat the whole sheep. That's a lot of chops. Now what was God saying? He didn't command anything. But if the idea of it was, this has come out of the thankfulness of your heart to me for my grace to you. Now go home and enjoy it. But sooner or later it's going to dawn on you. There's no way in the world I'm going to eat this whole thing, hon. No, I know, I know. We got too much of Well, you know, why don't we invite our friends on in and they can share? You know, we'll give them a couple hundred burgers too. All right, so we have them on it, and everybody comes on, you have big feasts. They say, you know, I don't know what's the matter with us, but I don't think we got enough friends Because we're still not going to finish this thing. And I hate to see it go to waste. You know, my mom always taught me waste not what not. And so what are we going to do? So you invite in the needy. You say, hey, anybody need a meal? Come on in. God's been good to us. And you see the whole dynamic that God was establishing there was that grace produces joy, which produces thanksgiving, which produces giving. And then he takes those concepts in the Old Testament, brings them all together in one word in the New Testament, and sums it all up, 2 Corinthians 8-9. Isn't that beautiful? Who but God could have thought to do that And so when you come into Thanksgiving this week, remember that the expression of your thanks is first of all to give yourself to God. How often do you do that? How often do you begin your day by just thanking God for what He's done? How often do you begin it by just saying, God, I uh you know, I got all these stresses, all these pressures, all the You know, remember Paul said, do not be anxious by anything, but with prayer, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God? That's something we often miss, isn't it? To begin by simply thanking God for his grace in your life, for the fact that you have received so much more than you deserve. And just begin to mention a few of those things to him. And then move into the requests, the things that are on your heart. But having given yourself to God, then to give what you have as an expression of thanksgiving to people in need. To be able to give to those that just simply because God's been so good to you, you're able to say, Lord, Lord, I just want to express this somehow to you. What's on your heart? He says, There's two things that are on my heart, my honor and my people, and the needy of my people are the delight of my heart when I see my people extending themselves to meet their needs. When we had our pastors couple days of prayer this this October We all went out and took a time to pray up on Marlowe Ridge along the rocks and beautiful area overlooking the Potomac and We came back and each of us had uh entered into some interaction with the Lord on something, and I particularly remember what Dennis said when he came back. We were sharing around this little spot uh what God had said to us. And he said, you know, the thing that really, really gripped me during these couple of hours was how I so often just center on my needs. He said, and God was really convicting me how I need to just begin my time with Him, with thanksgiving. And how when I begin to do that, how it changes my whole perspective on things. See, come back and he was he was joyful. He says I went out with stresses. But he says, just to go before the Lord and to give thanks, to give myself to him in thanks, as a living sacrifice of praise. Changes my whole perspective. And then having done that, you begin to look around and say, now, with all my needs, where's your somebody else maybe has a little bit more of a need? And how can I use my time? Maybe Thanksgiving for you is saying, I'm going to cut back on my schedule. So that I can be more available to the Lord to minister to people. To be aware of what's on his heart. Maybe cut back so I can take the perspectives course next semester or So I can be available for ministry that I'm saying, well, I just can't do that because I've got this and this and this and that. Maybe it's something like that. Or maybe maybe it is giving money. Out of the motivation of joy. Maybe it is for the West Wing campaign or for the general needs of the congregation or for some missionary that you know But it's that which comes out of the joy of thanksgiving for the grace of God in your life. To experience that. is to experience the biblical meaning of grace and of thanksgiving. Let's pray. Lord, we want to right now in this moment give to you thanks in the quiet of our hearts. In joyful recognition that we have received so much more than we have deserved. And Lord, we pray that if there is someone here this morning whose heart is empty, And they're saying I I don't know what I've received. My heart and my soul are hollow I don't know anything about the grace of God in my life. Lord, we pray that you would speak to them of the sacrifice of Christ. That you would reveal yourself to them and give them no rest, Lord, until they settle. With Jesus to know his grace of forgiveness for them. Lord, we want to give you thanks Lord Jesus, we thank you for coming into the slum of our existence out of your inconceivable riches So that by taking upon yourself our sin and dying for us, we, through your poverty Have gained the inheritance of eternal glory. And Father, we want to thank you as Paul ends this passage in the very last verse. Thanks. Grace be to God for his indescribable gift. Father, you gave your Son, your only Son for us. We thank you. We want to know by your spirit that joy that wells up in us when we are willing to face our sin and what we really deserve. And then see what you have given. And express that in a thanksgiving of praise to you and of giving to your church and to the needy. Lord, I thank you for a wife that is very sensitive to that. Just recently And she so often says to me, is God has been so good to us. Here's somebody in need. Why don't we just give? And the joy of giving Out of that motivation of grace is a very precious thing Lord, by your Spirit, cause us to experience that as a body in Jesus' name.