If you have your Bibles with you this morning, please turn with me to the Gospel of Luke, chapter one. This morning I'll read for us the last verses of that chapter, beginning with verse 67. Please pray with me. Father, we thank you for this day. And Lord, we thank you for the joy of worshiping you. And Lord, we thank you that as a part of our worship of you, we have an opportunity to hear your word read. And Father, help us to, Lord, humbly and diligently listen to your word as it's read. There is nothing like it. Your word is exalted above all things but your name. And so, Father, we look at the words you have said and written and by your sovereign will. And able to be translated even into our own language. Lord, we we praise you and thank you for the gift of Scripture. Bless the reading of it to us. And Father, in the preaching that follows, inasmuch as the sermon will reflect who you are and what you've said and what your will is for us, bless it to us. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Luke chapter 1, beginning with verse 67, the Word of God. And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel For he has visited and redeemed his people, and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all who hate us. To show the mercy promised to our fathers and to remind his holy covenant and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham. to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all our days. And you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High, for you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people in the forgiveness of their sins. Because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us from on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death. to guide our feet into the way of peace. The child grew and became strong in spirit, and he was in the wilderness until the day of his public appearance to Israel. This is the word of the Lord. Well, it's a wonderful coincidence that on a day that we baptize uh a member of our church, a young man named uh Calvin, we also have a text from Scripture in which John the Baptist is named after he has received that sign of baptism in the old covenant, circumcision. There's a couple things about this text that are of particular relevance that might be of particular encouragement to the parents of young Calvin. You'll have to let me know later. But they're of encouragement to all of us as well. I want you to think for a minute about when God does something incredible in your life. And God has surely done something noteworthy in the lives of each one of us. And about how often it is the case that when I am excited about something someone has done for me, My thoughts go down a particular track, and it's not always the track proposed by that of our father in the faith, Zechariah. When I was young, and this will date myself, some of you will remember that there was once a toy that was very popular amongst young men of a certain age in the 1970s. It was a football game that you plugged into the wall socket. The table vibrated like this. The whole thing was metal, and it was, you know, about maybe two and a half, three feet by foot and a half wide. And you had little plastic football players that you'd Turn a little dial on the bottom so that they'd go in a certain way when that table started vibrating. And you couldn't actually play football on it. In fact, looking back on it, Uh I don't know that you could really do anything with it other than be glad you had it. However, like many of the things we desperately want in our life, Ten-year-old Bobby Bjerkes desperately wanted this. And I got it. And then when I went to school, after Christmas, go back in January. And I'm telling my classmates about what? Am I telling them about how cool the game is and how awesome it is and how they should come over and play it with me? Or am I telling them about how much my parents love me? What do you think 10-year-old Bobby was talking about? I was talking about come over and play. And you see, that Bobby Bierkus is still here before you. When God does something amazing in my life I naturally respond by thinking about the wonderful thing he did. I want you to think about not Bobby Burkis, but Zechariah, much cooler dude. Zechariah has spent his whole life as a faithful servant of the living God. He spent his whole life as a priest, a Levite, serving in the temple. He and his wife, godly people, were told that they were noted for the fact that they were righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. Right away, He's a better man than me. They have no kids. They desp they want a kid more than I ever wanted that metal football game. God gives them a kid. He's slow to believe. He is mute and perhaps deaf for nine months. As a chastisement for his slowness to believe. That child is born. Zechariah, obedient to God, names that child. John, God has been merciful. And that man, Zechariah's mouth is opened. And the first thing he does is talk about how much God has loved him. He doesn't even get around to talking about how cool his son is until eight verses after his great song. It's as if for nine months he's got this pent-up, bottled-up notion of gratitude to the God who blesses his people. And that absolutely goes before his joy in the actual gift of the Son. I want you to think about this. How easy it is for you and for me to get a great gift from God and be focused on the gift. And find the writing of the thank you note to be a great chore and a bit tedious. And we're that way after our weddings. We're that way after our birthdays. We're that way after any occasion in which it's appropriate to write a thank you note. That's kind of how we're hardwired. But Zechariah shows us a humble man who the minute his mouth is opened. And his tongue is loose. We read in verse 64 that Zechariah spoke, blessing God. And here's the blessing. It falls into two parts. And I think they are aptly summarized by those two words, grace and peace. And the first part is all about the grace of God. And the first part is entirely in the past tense. And the first part is entirely corporate and talks about how God works with and for his people. And the first part has nothing to do personally and immediately and explicitly with Zechariah or Elizabeth or the new baby John. Look at the first part. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel. For he has visited and redeemed his people. It's not blessed is the Lord God because he heard and answered the prayers that Elizabeth and I have lifted up for decades. His first impulse is to be thankful to God because God has set in motion the very last steps of this great redemptive plan. John knows from his wife that the Messiah is currently in the womb of his kinswoman Mary. He knows that his son is the great forerunner, the prophesied Elijah to come. And he is overjoyed at the fact that God is on the move and bringing his great plan to save a people to fruition. He talks about the fulfillment of prophecy, that he's raised up a horn of salvation. A horn was that symbol of great strength in an ox, that symbol of power, that ability to effect the animal's will against the A rival suitor or a danger that posed a threat to the herd. God has raised up a strength, a champion. In the house of his servant David, and here we notice something very humbling. Zechariah is not even talking about his son right now. He's talking about Mary's son. He is thankful for the fact that the gears of redemption have turned to that point of fulfillment. And the Messiah is to be born, not only in his lifetime, but in a matter of months. And for Zechariah, who knows the workings of the God of the Bible, the fact that this is happening now means that it is already accomplished. Many of you have heard a very famous illustration with respect to Christmas, and we're sort of celebrating Christmas a little late here at CPC, because preaching through Luke. By the time we get into late March, we're going to be looking at the actual Luke chapter 2 Christmas events. But Oscar Coleman was a Swiss and German theologian. He during the time of World War II was bouncing back and forth. In fact, he was in Germany. He got to Switzerland before the war. And he was a seminary professor in Switzerland, and he was working there, teaching through the New Testament, on that day in June when the Allies landed at Normandy. And he said, in a sense, that this is like Christmas. Christmas is like D-Day. Once D-Day occurred successfully, for those of you were history buffs, the writing was on the wall and the war was ended. It was just really a very difficult cleanup operation. Everybody knew that. Hitler himself knew that. And when God has even in the coming of his son, in the very nascent moments, the earliest development of the Messiah. The game was over. And Zechariah knows that full well. Yes, there are battles yet to come. Oscar Coleman from his seminary office could look across the river and see those the he couldn't see the Maginot line in France, but he could see the dragon's teeth of the wall that uh the the Germans had created with their tank traps. He knew the battles would be fierce, but The battle was over. And here this picture of God speaking by his holy prophets that we would be saved from all who hate us. That God would remember his covenant, that the oath he swore to Abraham we would be delivered from our enemies, that we would, echoing the language of Exodus, We would be set free from our captivity, that we might worship and serve the Lord with holiness in the wilderness. All of these things, Zechariah realizes, have been accomplished. And he's overwhelmed with praise and love, blessing God. This first part of Zechariah's great benediction. is about grace. It looks backwards, and it is one that first of all blesses God. It doesn't simply rejoice in the blessing. And if we look at what I've just wandered through with us verse by verse, it's because and this is a long sentence But an interesting fact, for those of you who are grammarians, verses 68 through 75 is one long run-on sentence in the Greek. And it could be boiled down to this, we bless God because we have been saved? From all enemies, proving God's mercy and faithfulness, so that we might serve Him. And this is the gospel in Chrysalis. Zechariah is overwhelmed with gratitude to the God who has given him his heart's desire, a son to carry on his lineage. who he will not name Zechariah, but instead will name John, the mercy of God. God has shown his grace, and he is delighted that God has set in effect the motions by which people will be saved. From everything, that we would see the evidence, once and for all, the proof of God's faithfulness and his kindness. And that we would be able to serve him perfectly. Because the one who would finally fulfill all of the hope that the sacrifices of animals pointed us to, that our sins would be atoned for. The fulfillment, the reality was here. The Messiah had entered into human life. So that benediction is powerful. And what a response to the gifts of God, to simply bless God for the gospel. But Zechariah then turns to a prophecy. Because if the first part of this great song he lifts up from a heart full of gratitude to God is a benediction, is a blessing, Not a benediction of people, but a blessing of God Himself. Remember, blessing the Lord, O my soul, is a regular feature of Old Testament worship. We don't think so much about how we should bless God. declare his attributes in goodness and grace with joy and gratitude. But this whole beginning, this whole impetus of worship in Zechariah is blessing God and then prophetically declaring something. about this little baby John. Because now as a father, as a priest, as a leader of his people, as a righteous man, Zechariah turns his attention to this small, small child. And he says, and so tenderly, and you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. You are going to be called to go before and to declare what is true about this greater son of David, whom you will serve. You will give people a knowledge of salvation and the forgiveness of their sins. This is so important. The Old Testament promises God makes that are fulfilled, the promises that we'd be saved from our enemies. The promise is described in the great psalm of ascent that he will keep us from all harm, night and day, the moon shall not strike us, nor the sun. These promises that we will be healed of all our infirmities in the book of Isaiah, Christian, they are in fact fulfilled. When we come to a knowledge of the fact that our sins are forgiven, there are not a lot of things that I'm sure of. But I am absolutely positive that 200 years from now, not a single one of us is going to be here. And it might be infirmities, it might be some criminal violence, it might be any number of things that take us one at a time to our great meeting with the Lord. But we will each one of us have it. Am I right? Yeah, I'm right about that. But I know for a fact that because by the sacrifice of Christ My sins are forgiven because of that fact. I know that my eyes with their crazy disease are as good as cured. That the paralysis in my vocal cord and the fact that I drool at night can't always keep my food in my mouth as well as I'd like, but I still like dinner invitations, so don't let that deter you. I always ask for extra napkins. That's the truth of why. I'm cleaning up my mess. That's cured already. I know that all of the suffering, all of the sorrow, all the grief, all of the times I've had rocks or eggs thrown at me, true stories, all the times that I've done terrible things and been forgiven for, that's already taken care of, Krishna. Right now I'm living out the life God has called me to live, carrying these crosses, but the victory is one in Christ. And sometimes we don't realize that the fulfillment of all of the promises of God are made yes in Christ. That doesn't mean that none of us are going to have an eye disease. Or a kidney problem, or fight cancer, or struggle in our homes or relationships that are most dear to us. That doesn't mean that none of us are going to suffer great and tragic hurt and heartache. It doesn't mean that any of us are going to ever not perpetrate harm against those we love. But it does mean this. That our eternity in which we will be forever set free from any and every instance of all of that is already accomplished in Christ. And we are living out, working out that salvation already credited to us by a God who is sovereign and never errs. And we're working it out because God is at work in us. And Zechariah understands this. Because he talks about God rescuing us from all of our enemies and immediately says to his son, You child, are going to be the prophet of the Most High. And you are going to tell people about their salvation, the forgiveness of their sins. Because of the tender mercy of our God. Whereby the Son shall visit us from on high to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. This son, John the Baptist, will remove all the obstacles between us and our Savior. And our Savior Himself. That breaking of the dawn, that light that will rise, Isaiah 40s and Isaiah 60, on us sitting in darkness, Christ Himself will lead us to peace. Now I want you to think about the importance of realizing that he will go before us and give us a knowledge of salvation, that he will, in the language of verse 76, go before the Lord to prepare his ways. I want you to think about that phrase, prepare the way of the Lord. Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Because I I I don't know that that means as much to us as Christians today as it probably ought. Theologians don't make a big deal out of what that prepare the way of the Lord really meant, what it referred to, what it echoed. But the rabbis in Christ's day, they knew. In fact, the rabbis leading up to the time of Christ spent quite a lot of time and attention on that phrase, prepare the way or build up the roads. And it's a reference to something we find in the Pentateuch. In Numbers and in Deuteronomy. You see, God had told his people that when they took that land, they were to at first establish three cities that would be called cities of refuge. And they were told that these cities would be places where if something happened where you committed some crime and took someone else's life and you needed to flee for safety, Because the avenger of blood or the next of kin would say, you killed my cousin, therefore your life is forfeit. I'm coming for you. You could run to one of these cities And be dealt with fairly and injustice and be able to live out your life worshiping, serving God. And in Numbers, and in Leviticus, we find that it was the priest's job to prepare the way. To build up the roads. The rabbis in Jesus' day would talk about things like: well, since the ways is plural to prepare the ways, it means that the road had to be twice as wide. And so those roads that went from every village as a system of arteries leading to these cities of refuge had to be kept clear. There could be no fallen trees. There could be no washouts. There could be no mudslides. There could be no hazards, no overgrowth. They had to be twice as wide as every other road in Israel. And they had to be clearly marked by God's own words. And with the word with a sign pointing the direction that simply said refuge. And when this prophet of the Most High of the tribe of Levi, the son of a priest, is given this command to prepare the way to the Lord, to build up the roads to the Lord. His job is to remove every obstacle between you and the Savior, the Messiah who's coming. And how did he do that? By preaching repentance. Because you see the only obstacle between me and Jesus, dear friend, is my sin And the only thing that I need to be told to clear the path so I can come and close with this Jesus Christ, the Son of Mary, adopted Son of Jesus, Savior of all who sin and repent. Is recognize my sin. And in obedience to that beautiful sweet word that John the Baptist preached, repent. Remove the obstacle Some of us have obstacles between us and Jesus. Some of us who are young, some of us who are old, some of us who've professed faith in Christ, some of us who are agnostic or skeptical. And I would urge you to consider this that the only thing keeping you from that personal relationship with the Son of God, Savior of sinners. is this thing called sin. It's not popular to preach about. Your therapist is probably irritated with me for even bringing it up. The problem isn't that we're victims, the problem is that we're perpetrators. We're also victims, make no mistake about it. But it's that I need to be forgiven. More than that, I need to be forgiving. And so what I need most of all is repentance. To have communion and intimacy with God That is the one-word summary of Jesus preaching and the one-word summary of John the Baptist preaching. Repent. And in my turning away from sin, in my acknowledging it for what it is, in me owning it, and me renouncing it, and me replacing it with a new obedience. In me, turning not just away from one sin to another distraction, but by turning, and remember that Hebrew word for repentance, shuv. Sounds like shov. It means to turn. I'm turning away from my sin and my idolatry. God looking full in the face of Christ. And in that lies the hope of Christian and human flourishing and life, relationship with God. And the hope of heaven. And so, dear Christian, grace and peace are set before you You know that God, in giving wonderful and perfect gifts, is simply showing who he is and what he does for his people. So whatever blessings you've received from him, whether it's just the enjoyment of a beautiful, glorious, rainy day. That nurtures the earth and lets you see the lilies of the valley that will start to bloom in just a month or two. Or the forsythia or hyacinth that you have in your front yard. Or whether it's something bigger like the granting of a lifelong desire for a child, a grandchild. Whatever the blessing God has given you, let it remind you this is who God is and this is what he does for people. And then fall back with joy and comfort on the fact that you have complete and unfettered access to that God. Because not only is His gracious, but He bestows peace upon you. Whatever road you're walking on. He, by his servant, John the Baptist, preparing the way for Jesus Christ. Who speaks by his spirit through his word today, and all of the encouragements and exhortations that you as brothers and sisters in Christ give each other. Every obstacle has been removed, and Christ Himself will guide your feet into the way of peace. Dear Christian, how will we respond to God's working in our life? Are you like Bobby Bjerkus? Will you focus on the blessings or will you bless the one who gives them? It's a great reminder to me. Always be grateful for the one who gives great things. Do you seek the forgiveness of sins as the epitome of blessedness? When you want blessedness in your life, do you focus on all of the little things? That you wish were different? Urge you to go right to the heart of the matter and say, Lord, what is really needful in my life is that my sins be forgiven. It's fascinating to me that in the Lord's Prayer, Jesus taught his disciples to pray, Give us this day our daily bread, clearly signaling that that's a prayer we should pray every day. And immediately says, and forgive us of our sins. Every day, a life of repentance. Lastly, is there anything keeping you from coming to Christ, dear friend? Is anything keeping you from following Him more closely, dear Christian? Are there obstacles in your life that need to be removed? I'm absolutely persuaded. That the ministry of the gospel entrusted to pastors and preachers today is very much in the spirit of John the Baptist. That it is my objective and my deep desire to prepare the way, to clear the roads, to strive to make my ministry One in which I'm hammering up and pounding into the ground signs that say, refuge that way, Jesus. And if there are obstacles, if there are sins in your life that are keeping you from that, to labor to see those rocks removed. And see repentance carry the day with your soul that you might close with Jesus Christ and know the peace that comes through forgiveness. And it is my deepest desire that churches, beginning with whatever one I'm serving at, going all the way to the whatever is the exact opposite side of the globe. Our churches where men and women, boys and girls are invited to come to Christ with repentance and faith and experience the peace that a gracious God gives. So I would invite any of you following the service. There are going to be elders and men and women in the back area, the back corner of the room. They would love to pray with you. Even as I pray with you right now. Almighty God, we thank you. Lord, we thank you that you do give us great gifts. Lord Jesus, we thank you that you do give us gifts in life. You cause the rain to fall on the just and unjust alike. You give us our food, you give us music, you give us friends, you give us So many blessings, Lord. We were to count them, we'd be here for months. We'd be here for a lifetime. But Father, above and through and giving meaning to every one of them is that central fact that That you give us grace. You forgive us our sins, and you lead us into peace. Give us humble hearts that follow you. Repenting and believing how we can have a life of peace and fellowship with you. And Father, I pray for any who are here who are yet far off. Any who are here and don't know the saving presence of Christ in their souls by his Spirit. Father, I pray that you would stir up in them a deep longing to have peace with God. And Lord, that for them today would be a day of salvation. That they would not let a moment pass, but make a beeline for that back corner and pray with one of the shepherds back there. For even now, Lord, we are sinners, forgive us. Remove all the obstacles we have allowed to keep us from you. You are our God, and we would be your people. We give ourselves to you and to your service. We depend entirely upon your grace and your love for us. We pray in Christ's name. Amen.