Ministry that we partner with in the region, bomb, but um we're grateful for him to to um preach from God's word this morning. Thanks so much, PD. Well welcome uh CPC family. It's great to be in your house this morning I I want to also just express thankfulness for your rich generosity to uh to myself, to Pastor Stan, to the Balm team. uh for your generosity uh to the mission of Baltimore Antioch leadership movement. Uh that uh ministry has been s uh very much encouraged by uh your commitment to us and of course your uh ruling elder Bill Cianella is uh the board chair for uh for our uh for Baum and um So we served uh the seminary by providing uh the Dean of uh Urban Ministry and the Dean of Church Planting and Renewal. Uh both Pastor Stan and I teach in the seminary. uh church history, uh uh New Testament survey, uh doctrine of uh the church, ecclesiology, and doctrine of the Holy Spirit. And we're uh encouraging church renewal. We've been uh working alongside of a city church, uh Abbott, one of the sister churches, has gone through a very tough transition. We've been there for 18 months. Today they are announcing finding their candidate for their next pastor. And it's my brother. Chris Garriott, uh who is uh RUF uh director at University of Maryland. So apparently He had a nudge to feel like he should uh pursue this calling. Um so this has been uh an exciting time. Uh but uh we're also involved with uh microchurch planting. You know, sixty percent of the population doesn't um will not come to our prevailing normal uh church as we know it uh gatherings, but they'll come to house houses or small venues in order to uh have spiritual conversations to enter into Bible studies. And uh which is virtually how the early church was launched and grew for the first three centuries. So we're trying to lean into that model. We we've never done that particular model before, but You know, this is the kingdom of God. Uh but your support has been encouraging us so much in that. So thank you. Well um We're grateful to be asked by your leadership here at Columbia to join your pastoral team. uh and your preaching team with uh uh pastors uh matt bowling and and pd uh to uh be part of a a sermon series over the course of I guess a few months as you're anticipating uh your next pastor or shepherd leader uh for for uh Colombia. And this is an exciting time for you. It's also uh can be an anxious time. Uh but the uh resounding words The refrain that we always hear from God, from Christ, from his messenger angels is, do not fear. I am with you. Do not be afraid. Keep following. Keep advancing. Keep praying. Fix your eyes on Jesus. Do not be afraid. And so what might be a good word? From the scriptures in the midst of such a leadership anticipation and transition. Well, the words, I believe, of the Apostle Paul to Timothy That he is preparing is a great means of strengthening grace for his church. First and second Timothy are epistles that address a major leadership. Transition in the church. And here we find the Apostle Paul's final words to his spiritual son in the faith. Timothy, I call these exhortation letters of Paul to Timothy, fight the good fight, grace to Timothy. And so 1 and 2 Timothy are these very personal but very powerful pastoral epistles for Paul for the strengthening, reforming, and missional advancement of the church. You see, God has determined that they would become epistles to strengthen the church and the leaders throughout the ages. It's not just private letters. They are personal letters, but they're for the church throughout the ages and for the leaders throughout the ages. And so Paul gives the purpose statement, I believe, in the first Timothy three, verse fourteen and fifteen. He says, I am writing these things to you. so that you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God, which is the Church of the Living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth. And Paul calls the church, the you know, the church, the household, the family of God, the temple, the dwelling place of God, the concentration of God's presence on the earth, you uh here, uh his dwelling place where his spirit lives. He caused the church the buttress of truth. And the word here refers to that which props up and stabilizes a building Now you can actually visibly see that in incorporated in the architecture of some churches or cathedrals. That we actually, the uh the National Cathedral uh here in Washington, D. C. , you can see The buttresses that are supporting that. And here Paul means that the church is responsible to support. To guard the truth, to serve the truth, and to hold the truth steady against the storms of false teaching and the forces that would undermine it. Paul also calls the church a pillar of the truth. A pillar in ancient times was were columns designed not only to hold the roof firm, but to elevate the roof so it can be seen far away. And here in this picture, you see the uh in Ephesus, the temple. This is Ephesus is where Timothy is. You see the temple of the goddess Diana or Artemis, one of the seven wonders of the world. It boasted of a hundred Ionic columns, each eighteen meters high, about sixty feet high, which I would imagine this is maybe 30 feet, so if you can imagine a column that's twice as high as this roof, uh together lifted this massive shining marble roof. And John Stott says this: just so the church holds the truth aloft so that it can be seen and admired by the world. As pillars lift a building high, often being unseen, so the church's function is not to advertise itself, but to display and to hold up the truth of God. But the truth here is not the mere philosophies of men. It is the living word of God, is the transforming word of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It is the truth about Jesus, the word of God who becomes flesh. Who lived and died and was taken up into glory. It is the living truth that is to be embodied and to be revealed in his present physical body here on earth, the church, the people of God. And so Paul is writing this letter to Timothy to guard the truth, to elevate the truth about Christ, about the gospel in his own life, and to make sure that God's word Is honored and practiced in the life not only of the church, but also in the leaders of the Church of Ephesus, where Paul had sent Timothy. And so today we are focusing just on the opening introductory verses of Paul to Timothy to capture the nature and the context. Of an indispensable discipleship relationship to strengthen Timothy for the mission of Christ's Church. Let's consider these opening verses one through three Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the command of God, our Savior, and of Christ Jesus, our hope. To Timothy, my true child in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray. Holy Father, we thank you that nothing can separate us from your love in Christ Jesus, even as we know there are many forces that will try. And so we ask you, Holy Spirit, to do the work of strengthening grace through your word into the hearts of these gathered here and those who are watching online. Lord, revive our souls, make the simple wise, bring joy to our hearts and courage to our wills. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. And so after Paul's opening gracious greeting to Timothy, he quickly charges him with this chief calling. As I urged you when I was going to Macedonia, remain at Ephesus so that you may charge certain persons not to teach any different doctrine. I'm urging you, I'm exhorting you, I'm beseeching you. Timothy to remain that Ephesus and that you would charge and order certain persons not to teach any different doctrine. Now This is Timothy's first missional calling at Ephesus that Paul outlines. The mystery of correcting, of rebuking, of reproving, of censuring, stopping certain teachers to stop it. In 2 Timothy 4, at the end of Paul's final exhortation to Timothy, we find these words In the presence of God, of Christ Jesus, I give you this charge. Preach the word. Be prepared in season, out of season, correct, rebuke, and encourage with great patience and careful instructions. Some time ago, I noticed that in the three things that Paul charges Timothy in the context of preaching the word, two of them were about rebuking and reproving, correcting and admonishing, censuring. And then he uh gives the other one about comforting, encouraging, exhorting, and he tells how they are all to be done with great patience. and careful instruction. But two out of three of these callings for me demand huge spiritual, emotional, mental, even physical energy to do. And Paul reminds us of the gospel ministry while glorious is also very hard. It's a battle and many times it's excruciatingly hard. Now how would you like to be Timothy, and this is your first assignment, to tell certain people, certain men. To stop what they're doing. Particularly in a culture that not only esteems tolerance as one of the highest virtues, but affirming if not demanding that others affirm things contrary to the truths of the Scripture. A theologian, Jim Packer, said this about Himself. He said, You have taken on a plumber. Every pastor or theologian is a kind of plumber His responsibility is that the nourishing water flows in for the good of the entire community and to make sure that the rubbish, the excrement, and the garbage flow out. Now, my dad uh was a plumber. And uh actually Ron Heidi, are you in the house here, Ron Heidi? He's a Ron Heidi, I see, okay. Ron Heidi, his dad and I were partner plumbers. Uh, and we grew up in the plumbing field. And I know something about we know something about plumbing. We're sons of plumbers. And our fathers Garriott and Heidi, that was the plumbing and heating contracting firm. Had a contract here in Colombia uh years ago. And that was a service contract. We were, you know, uh servicing apartment complexes and You know, if there was a stoppage, do we recall it? Well, I can remember I'm in high school uh being woken up at 2 a. m. in the morning. To come out here to Colombia at an apartment complex and to unstop the sewer that was blocked. And uh I learned something about apartments. I learned that uh is if you can avoid uh living in the first floor, do it. And the reason is is because when you have a stoppage underneath, the people on the second, third, fourth floor, they don't know that uh there is a stoppage, and so they keep using their facilities. Well where where does it go? Well it goes to the first floor. Uh it starts to overfl uh fill up bathtubs. Uh starts to overflow those bathtubs on the floor. Uh I can remember in my high school, two a. m. in the morning Slopping through, uh I had my rubber boots on, uh trying to find out the clean out, walking through these apartments with raw sewage all over the first floor. And uh it was not a pleasant thing. It c gave me kind of a new sense of the song Wade in the water. Uh Now if I had a choice of working only with fresh water systems and supply lines, then sewer waste lines, I would definitely go for the former. I like clean water systems, but we need both for healthy functioning systems. We need healthy For healthy functioning citizens and for a healthy functioning church, we need both. D. A. Carson said this: we like to romanticize this business of Bible ministry. And joyfully engage the clean water systems in callings while neglecting dealing with the waste. Yet the fact remains that across the age of the church's life. There have not only been opportunities of evangelism and mission, there have also been inordinate focuses on marginal or disputable matters. That the scriptures don't emphasize, along with false teaching, along with having proud, gifted communicators who make much of themselves and little of Christ. Every generation has been like this. And so gospel ministry is messy business. And Paul is charging Timothy to be in the mess In this, we realize that the nurture, character, and the image of the call of the gospel ministry that every follower of Christ must understand is expressed in this term. Fight. It's a fight. And so at the end of Paul's words to Timothy in the sixth chapter, he says this. This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my child, in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, that by them you may wage the good warfare. In some versions, uh that's the the word that we actually the wage war is. Strategia, which is from strategy to make wage war, uh, is also the word for fight, as the NIV says Fight the good fight. Paul repeats this in 6. 12. Fight the good fight of faith. And then we find the words of Paul to Timothy, the last words of Paul to Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 4. Uh he says, I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith. You know, some time ago there was a uh a really big fight. On a particular Saturday night. Floyd Mayweather Jr. versus Connor McGregor It's it was known as the money fight, uh the biggest fight in combat sports history at the time. It was a professional boxer, a boxing match, and an un between an undefeated boxing world champion Floyd Mayweather Jr. and mixed martial artist World champion Connor McGregor. Mayweather was expected to earn $300 million for that one single fight. And McGregor uh a hundred million. McGregor came out fast and furious while Mayweather let him wear himself out and waited for his opportunity to take the weary MacGregor out in the tenth round. William Barclay says this about the gospel fight It is not to a battle that we are summoned. It is to a campaign. Life is one long campaign, a service from which there is no release, not a short, sharp struggle which after which we can lay down our weapons and rest in peace. Life is not a sprint, it is a marathon race. The temptations of life never cease their search for a chink. in a Christian's armor. We must remember that we are summoned to a campaign which goes on as long as life continues. But there is another difference in this fight. Paul refers to it as a good fight The good fight. The word good means excellent, beautiful, it's precious, it's praiseworthy, uh, it's honorable. And so Paul repeats how different, how excellent this fight is from all the other Compete competitions in the world. He knows that there is an assured victory, a crown afterwards, and that in that Passage in 2 Timothy 4, he says, henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day, and not only to me, but also to all those who have loved his appearing. And so we see the goodness of this fight. The soldier of Christ is not a conscript who serves grimly and grudgingly, but a willing, honored soldier. who serves with certain courage and gallantry. Christ's soldiers are not slaves of duty, but they are servants of joy. And so the practice of faith is not an easy walk in the park. It is a fight to the finish. It's a marathon, but it's a good fight, and it is a good race. And so I call Paul's words to these opening words to Timothy, the fight, the good fight, grace to Timothy, because that is what these letters were to Timothy. They were God's grace to help him to stay in the fight. And by the way, uh again, this sermon is really just an introduction. So you probably are saying, well, what where is the outline for this message? Well, let's get on with this. But I I'm just giving you kind of the big overview picture, the big theme of these two letters. Uh we're gonna be in this journey over the course of months. We'll be popping in and uh bringing you the next message. Uh so just relax. Um But you and I need to know uh God's grace to stay in the fight of faith. And the key means of grace we find in these opening verses. Is the grace of an indispensable discipleship relationship. It is the grace of an indispensable discipleship relationship And we see in these verses that God reveals for us the essentials of this relationship for grace for the mission to the world. And He shows us the mentor, He shows us the mentee, and the means of power of grace. And so we see the mentor, the disciple maker, the mentee, the disciple, and we see the means, the downpours of grace. And so here the mentor, the disciple maker, Paul. An apostle of Christ Jesus by command of God, our Savior of Christ Jesus, our hope. And this is This is a conventional way that Paul would often introduce his epistles. He announces himself as the author, Timothy the correspondence, and God as the source of grace, mercy, and peace. which he wishes him to enjoy. And uh in nine of the thirteen epistles that Paul writes, th these this is very similar to his opening words and he he emphasizes the fact that he it is by the command of God that that that he is uh an apostle He is not just a apost uh one uh none you know like he was chosen by the church or he appointed himself. But he was one of the twelve. He considered himself one of the twelve directly appointed by Christ and by God the Father. And of course he he uses by the command of God, our Savior of Christ Jesus, our hope. And so He is emphasizing the fact that he has been appointed. And that the word command, by the way, is the is a language by order of and it's it's a it's a word that refers to the royal command that that must be obeyed. And so Paul is referring to himself in this context. And of course, you know, Paul was an amazing individual who influenced Christianity more than any other person short of Jesus Christ. The New Testament delineates at least 50 cities. I think there's a slide showing the 50 cities that Paul traveled to in his missionary in about five missionary journeys. His ministry ran from 33 A. D. to about 68 A. D. , from when he was 31 years old until he was about 66. And you know the New Testament contains more information regarding Paul and his ministry than any other apostle. We are deeply indebted to uh the gospel writer Luke. Dr. Luke for recording the book of Acts that gives us the detail of the Apostle Paul's uh conversion and travels into his ministry. And we have all of these epistles. These rich epistles from Romans and 1st and 2nd Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, Philippians. Philemon, uh first and second Timothy, um, and uh probably Miss Colossians and and others. But anyhow, he's he gives us all of these books, and I bet you That each one of you followers of Jesus have been touched by words in those epistles. You know, if I ask you right now, what is the most significant words from Paul's writings that you treasure? You know, I uh the what comes to me, uh mine is like Galatians 2. 20. For I've been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but it is Christ who lives in me. And the life I live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God. Who loved me and gave himself for me. And Paul is referring to the personalization of Jesus' crucifixion and death and resurrection for him. himself and those words are given for your comfort and for my comfort. Anyhow that that is a very powerful verse for me. You probably all have particular verses. Uh and so Paul has had huge impact uh on us, and of course here he's having huge impact on Timothy. And we see Timothy in this uh the mentee, the disciple, uh to Timothy, my true child in the faith, uh my and uh or my true son in the faith. So here, Paul was a genuine, true, authentic apostle of Christ, and Timothy is Paul's authentic, true, and genuine son. uh the word is uh ganesios, uh true or genuine. So i it's been thought that for Timothy, you know, his father was a Gentile, his mother was Jewish. But in Jewish tradition, a mixed marriage like this considered the children of mixed marriages illegitimate. Paul uh Timothy would not have been considered in in the body. He wouldn't have been considered part an Israelite. He was an illegitimate son. Paul makes it very clear that he is a true son. Uh he is a genuine son. Uh and so, you know, most readers find Timothy to ha uh be a very congenial character. Uh when we uh hear the words of encouragement uh to Timothy, uh we feel like he's one of us. We we kind of relate because he's a frail person in so many uh passages. Uh he's very far from being this the stained glass halo you know fitting saint There's no evidence that we see any kind of like super saint. We just basically see somebody who struggles with life. like any normal person. He's has infirmities. He's vulnerable. And so first he's he's comparatively young. You know, so Paul addressed this letter to him And says, don't let anyone look down on your use. You know, so he probably got a lot of um you know, attacks and he also felt like yeah I don't I don't think I'm old enough for this job. I don't think uh you know I'm qualified. I mean he was struggled with actually when I was uh when I was uh called the church plant in Baltimore City, I was twenty-seven years old. But uh pictures of me, people thought I had just maybe graduated from high school. So I was constantly like feeling I I don't know this you know I just feel like off for this anyhow I've kind of grown into into this over the years. Alright, so he is young. And you know when he was chosen, he was probably like 18, somewhere between 18 and 20 when Paul met Timothy in Lystra in Acts chapter 16. And uh and so you know at this point in this letter um uh we find That you know there's about 13, 14 years that has passed since then. So he's like in his early to mid-thirties. He's still considered to be a young man. But so he feels young and he feels the battles of being young. And secondly, he is temperamentally shy. He needs affirmation, encouragement, and reassurance. Paul tells the Corinthians, he urges them to put Timothy at ease when he came to them. In the second letter to Timothy, he felt the need to exhort him not to be ashamed of Christ, since God had given us not a spirit of timidity, but of power. So it's not unfair to use the language timid Timothy. Thirdly, Timothy was physically infirmed. Timothy struggled with gastric problems, probably from the internal stress of ministry. Paul uh referred to his habitual ailments and particularly to his stomach, and and he told him to take a little medicinal alcohol, stop drinking only water. uh and use a little wine because of your stomach and your frequent illnesses. And so this is the profile of young Timothy. He's young, he's frail, and he's fearful And these handicaps might seem to disqualify people for the ministry, but instead they endear us to him. Because the grace of God was sufficient to build him up and to encourage him and to use him in such a powerful way. And so Paul says, you then, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. You know, as I think about our present state of of history in our context today. Yesterday uh our new uh governor, uh Governor Wesmoore, uh met with a number of mental health uh uh leaders uh addressing uh the crisis among our young generation, particularly with uh the number of calls and uh uh for for help, for crisis counseling. um that has uh has uh been intensified uh particularly probably after covet. The Z generation, particularly, and some of you are in the Z generation, you can maybe relate to some of this, but the Z generation, which is uh those between the ages of 10 and 25 uh have uh you know never known life without the internet. Uh they've grown up with smartphones. Uh by the age of uh of 10, uh 50% have an account. Um and uh the social media is massive uh and all of the uh influences uh and so uh they basically talk about the huge anxiety. that's taken place that many of our young people are feeling in and then when you add the COVID uh and you add uh the violence that takes place and mass shootings and war and uh concerns for uh financial security. I mean we're talking uh and then the disconnect from relationships because they're on the net. Uh some fifty percent it said that were on the ten hours a day. Well, we have an anxious culture, and many of us feel a lot of those anxieties. Well, but there's Timothy's in that group. Okay? There are Timothy's that God is raising up who are going to figure out how the gospel intersects with their culture. And those Timothes, those emerging Timothy's and the Timotheeses, you know, they they're looking for the pause and the Paulines. uh to encourage and to mentor them. And so this is a great opportunity, but we see here finally Hey, by the way, the introduction, this is kind of an amazing thing. Okay, so a Timothy is somebody that is that wants to be mentored and discipled. and who wants to be on mission for God. Okay, and I bet you there's a bunch of Timothy's and Timothy in this house. But this is kind of an amazing introduction. to Timothy's entry into the accounts of Acts chapter 16, when uh Paul meets him at Lystra. A disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer, but his father was a Greek. He was well spoken of by the brothers. Uh Paul wanted Timothy to accompany him, and he took him and circumcised him, because of the Jews who were in those places For they all knew that his father was a Greek. Now how would you like that? That's your introduction. And he's like 18 years old. He hasn't been circumcised. Well that's a pretty traumatic entry into the kingdom. But you know He saw the gospel of Jesus Christ and he saw Jesus and he said whatever it takes I'm I'm willing to do this I'm willing to like put myself if if Paul is calling me if God's calling me into his mission I'm ready And we have a lot in the Z generations already. Anyhow, here we find the means of the downpour of grace. Grace, mercy, and peace. From God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. And so after describing himself in Timothy, Paul refers to God who binds them all together into this family through this common share of grace. Grace Mercy and peace. Each word tells us something about the human condition. Grace is God's kindness to the guilty and the undeserving. Mercy is his pity on the wretchedness. uh who cannot save themselves in peace, his reconciliation of those who were previously alienated from him and from one another. We need, we have to have the grace of God. We have to have his unmerited favor and his gifts. We have to have mercy. You know, grace is like you get what you don't deserve. Mercy is you don't get what you do deserve, and m peace is is is the reconciling uh relationship, uh uniting with uh with God. And all of that comes with that, with security, with dignity, with honor, with life. Everlasting. And so, uh, believer, uh, you and I are in constant need of the infusion of grace, mercy, and peace in a world of unrest, distress. Woundedness and wounding. You know, soldiers get weary and warriors get wounded. Where do you go for the power for such a fight? Well, Timothy, Paul tells Timothy in chapter 2, 2 Timothy 2, you then, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Many times in the course of ministry I have felt the weariness of the battle and also particularly in the process of preparing for messages even like this. You know, one one particular sermon preparation, I was feeling powerful forces that were seeking to subdue my heart. To kill my joy and energy as I was preparing to preach. And and when I feel such forces, I know I need to engage and find the means of grace to help me in my time of need. And this is one of the reasons I'm so thankful for the Psalms. The Psalms are just And so we find like in Psalm 42. Psalm uh 42 and 43, you know, the psalmist is in a state his heart is troubled. He says Why are you downcast, O my soul? Why so disturbed within me? Put your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Savior and my God. And so the psalmist is pouring out his pain and his discouragements, his heart to God. He is brutally honest with God about how he feels. But the psalmist doesn't just stay there. He speaks truth to his heart and he commands his heart to look beyond his sorrows to see his Savior. Why are you downcast, oh my soul? Why to so disturb within me? Put your hope in God, for I will yet praise him, my Savior, my God. Yes, life feels overwhelming. He says, deep cause to deep, in the roar of your waterfalls, all your waves and breakers have swept over me. The psalmist affirms, the psalmist declares That the trials and the troubles that he is feeling are not some random impersonal event of forces. It is God's waves. It's God's breakers. It is God's waterfalls. Your waterfalls, your waves and breakers have swept over me. Your hardships. My hardships are not without either the allowance of God, who will even use evil for our good in his glory. But he will der or he the Lord will der uh Lord will allow uh God uh he will use even those forces and he will also use um those forces as direct loving discipline for our good and for his glory. The Lord is still in control. God is sovereign. And so the psalmist is directing his heart to the grace that is available. And he's he's he's he's gone in his dark valleys. And he's bringing his heart before the Lord who meets him. And what's beautiful about this is that he receives this grace and mercy and peace in the midst of pouring out his heart. And verse 8: By day the Lord directs his love, at night his song is with me. A prayer to the God of my life. And so this is just one example of the grace, the mercy, and peace that's available to God's. Disciple-making warriors. That's what this is. But let's not miss the context here as we close. Paul is communicating this encouragement not just to his son in the fight, but to his missional partner. We know that Paul always, always had missional companions. He had Paul and Barnabas, it was Paul and Solas, it was Paul and Timothy. And here Paul and Timothy, he sent him to Ephesus to continue the disciple-making movement. The question before you and I in this message today, I believe, is who is your Paul? And who is your Timothy? You know, or who is your Pauline? And who is your Timothy S In this disciple-making movement. You know, Paul is one who is farther along in the Christian life and mission with wisdom and experience and humble obedience than you are. uh and who the Lord is calling you to learn from and to grow in. Uh and uh Timothy is one who would be younger uh But faithful and available and teachable follower of Christ, who are they in your life? Who might God be calling you to invest in? You know, Jesus gave his commission to all of us. Go make disciples of all nations. You know, Paul repeats that in 2 Timothy 2. You then, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that you have heard me say, in the presence of many witnesses, teach others. Teach faithful men and others also. And then he adds those words. Join with me in suffering like a good soldier of Christ Jesus. That's the exact phrase right after he gives the command to make disciples. And so brothers and sisters of Columbia, I'm going to take, we're going to take a few seconds, maybe 30. As we close, and I just want us to pray. I want you to pray personally. That God would show you who a timid who a Paul would be in your life, or a Pauline for the for women. uh and who would be uh your possible Timothy or or Timotheistus, okay? Uh that God would direct your heart so that you would be kind of thinking about how you can have a Paul in your life and how you can have a Timothy. Let's pray. Lord God, we thank you that you give us the preciousness of these epistles, words not only for Timothy from Paul, but words to us here today. in 2023. Lord, we pray that you would uh guide our hearts to uh seeking out uh the the mentors uh that you would have for us We don't know exactly maybe how to do all of that, but just Lord, would you guide us? Would you give us a sense that you would encourage us to reach out to? And Lord, would you help us to look at uh the Timothies and and the uh the Timothyesses in our in our lives that you want us to invest in. Uh Lord, uh use us. To be part of your strategic disciple-making movement in a world that is in desperate need of the gospel of grace and mercy and peace. And we commit this to you in Jesus' name. Amen.