Good morning. My name is Matt Bowling and I'm the interim preacher here. And we have the great privilege this morning of Returning to a series that I've entitled Behold Your God, this is the passage from which that title comes. We've been thinking about missions this whole month. And I believe as John Piper said some years ago that missions exist because worship doesn't. Maybe you've heard that before. At least true worship. And so our own true worship is the impulse of our going out in missions, and it's what we're calling people to, ultimately. to worship the one true God truly instead of false gods. And so we're going to look at um I I have to tell you that I feel Very, very privileged. This is one of my favorite passages in the Bible. Perhaps preachers say that too much. But this I can't tell you how many times before worship on early on a Sunday morning I've read this passage to re-acquaint myself. um with the Lord that I'm going to go get to worship. And so this is this is fun and privileged for me. So we're going to be in Isaiah chapter 40, and I'm going to read verses 9 through 31. And then I'll pray and we'll jump in. Let's hear God's word. It's given to us in Isaiah chapter 40. Go up on a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up Your voice with strength. O Jerusalem, herald of good news, lift it up, fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom. And gently lead those that are with young. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and marked off the heavens with a span, enclosed the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains and scales and the hills in a balance. Who has measured the spirit of the Lord or what man shows in his counsel? Whom did he consult? And who made him understand Who taught him the path of justice and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding? Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket. And are accounted as the dust on the scales. Behold, he takes up the coastlands like fine dust. Lebanon would not suffice for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering. All the nations are as nothing before him. They are accounted by him as less than nothing, an emptiness. To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness compare with him? Now, here at verse 19, I have to only slightly disagree with the translation. And really, it's not the translation, it's the punctuation. So an idol exclamation point feels like half of the message. So I'd like you to imagine that this says an idol with an exclamation point and a question mark. Okay? I know that's not proper English, but it's the Matt translation at this point. So you'll have to live with it for today. Here's how that sounds. An idol? There you go. An idol? Thank you. It does sound sojurious, doesn't it? And if you think the Lord doesn't have a sense of humor, or speak with satire or irony, or wink, this will disabuse you of it An idol? A craftsman casts it, and a goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts it for silver chains. He who is too impoverished for an offering chooses wood that will not rot. He seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers, who stretches out the heavens like a curtain and spreads them like a tent to dwell in. who brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. Scarcely are they planted, scarcely sown, scarcely has their ta stem taken root in the earth. When he blows on them, and they wither, and the tempest carries them off like stubble. To whom then will you compare me that I should be like him? says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see. Who created these? He who brings out their host by number, calling them all by name, by the greatness of his might. And because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel? My way is hidden from the Lord, and my right is disregarded by my God. Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. This friends is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, um Who am I to try and even open this This passage is meant to make us feel small, but dignified and loved. Let that be what comes through. So that indeed we would gravitate toward you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Pastorally, over the last three decades of doing ministry, there are two big issues I see in people's lives. The first is that they have the wrong concept of God. We sang about it this morning, interestingly enough. They have the wrong concept of God. Lots of different ways that people think about God, almost all of them completely wrong. It comes in different forms. Some believers have problems with the wrong concept of God. Many unbelievers have wrong concepts of God, because if they had the right concept of God and believed it, they'd gravitate towards it. They turn from their sins and they trust in him. Which is actually a great encouragement to us that we have a beautiful God to take to people and tell people about. And that's part of my intent in the series, is that you own that for yourself and you enthusiastically go tell people about our great God. The second thing that I see is a big issue, not just the people of the wrong concept of God, is that believers don't bring to mind regularly the right concept of God. They let themselves keep going with the wrong concepts that ends up cursing them instead of blessing them. And that has really severe consequences for people. Three that I'll note and that we'll be nibbling on as we go through this kind of miniseries on the greatness of God and our response to God's greatness. The first thing is that people lose perspective. Things that are small become big because the God who is meant to be the biggest is small. Ed Welch captured this in the title of a book many, many years ago that if you haven't read, you should. When People Are Big and God is Small. But it's not just people who get big. There are lots of other things in creation that seem to that seem big to us and God seems small. And it's not as though God doesn't want to say to us that's unimportant, that thing that's burdening you, but it is small by comparison to me. And he's very animated about that. And so we can have a loss of perspective. I think if we have a small God, many, many years ago, J. B. Phillips probably the first book that I read on the doctrine of God. Before I'd done any seminary studies or anything like that, a little book by J. B. Phillips called Your God is Too Small. Wonderful, still worth it. Here's what happens if your God is too small, it kills worship. Why would you worship a small god? There's no reason to. The third uh major issue that we run into um if we maintain, if we don't bring to mind regularly the right concept of God, is it tends to lead some of us to control sins. We'll think about this more overtly as we go, not necessarily today, but as we go on in this little miniseries on the greatness of God. We tend to try and exert control over other people in our environment and all kinds of things like that because we forget God's greatness. And so we end up substituting our inability. For God's greatness. Which now this is a dense line that we'll unpack more, but I'm just kind of giving you like a little hook to go, hmm, okay, I need to think about that more. Here's what we do: we forget God's greatness. And we substitute our inability. And when we do that, we experience stress and fear and worry and anxiety. If you have any doubts about that, go read Matthew 6, where Jesus talks about worry and anxiety. People who don't have a father must worry. We have a father. And so we have the freedom not to worry. But only if we have the right concept of the Father. Can we be free of worry? So those pastoral concerns are the origin of this whole series on the attributes of God. That the title that I give it is Behold Your God, and this passage is the place that that is drawn from. This teaching and reassurance that we find here about the nature of God is what the exiled Israelites needed because they felt abandoned by God. And they needed to hear from him. No, yeah, yeah, you're getting a spanking, but I've not abandoned you. And they needed to hear that. They needed a reminder, or for maybe for some of them, because you get that in here and we'll we'll get into this in a second, that maybe a first teaching on God's greatness. Because they weren't in active belief in it. They had seemingly forgot it. Why is this so important? When we see God's greatness, we gravitate toward Him, which is precisely what we need. Now, this sermon is going to be a different form. If you didn't notice, you will in the slides here if you haven't seen already. This is much more of what I call a stream of consciousness. Really, most everything that I'm going to do is just work through the text. Because it's really meant to really just make One point. You can see it in the title that the ESV gives above verse 9, which the very simple title says, The Greatness of God. So the only thing, there's only one thing to get out of the sermon today. God is great. And thus he's reliable when we feel weak. So today we mostly deal with God. Next time we'll mostly deal with us and how God's greatness is meant to pull us toward Him in our time of need. And not respond to our weakness by turning to an idol. Okay? So our titles gravitate toward our great God. Let's see why we should. I forgot to get to the projectionist earlier. I meant to. But if we can go back through the text as I work through it, that would be awesome. So just follow along. I'm going to go straight through. That would be great. So Isaiah chapter 40, starting at verse 9. Go up on a high mountain. Why? So you can be heard. Because Zion, you need to be a herald of good news. You need to be someplace where you can be heard. That's why we put preachers behind pulpits raised up above and we amplify them so they can herald the good news. Same concept. Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good news. Lift it up. Fear not. Say to the cities of Judah, behold your God. You know, why would you do that? Why would you proclaim that? Why is that the good news? Behold your God. Behold, the Lord comes with might, and you're going to experience some of that might as we go through this text. His arm. rules for him. His reward, behold, his reward is with him and his recompense before him. So he's as he's this great big God as you're going to see. But what's his heart like What's the heart of this great big God like? Look at this picture. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them in his bosom and gently lead those that are with young. So this passage if you will alternates between these two sort of major themes about God, two big words Transcendence and imminence. When we use the word imminence, we're talking about God's nearness to us, his being with us. When we talk about God's transcendence, we're talking about him being big and over us, beyond us, the maker of us. And so these two exist, though they're hard for us, how can a God who's big, who made everything who's above us be near us and even for believers in us. And the scriptures just call us to hold those as friends. To hold them both. as friends. This year has been a big year of and for me. I have found that I've been abusing the English language by overusing the word but And so the Lord's just been working on me to challenging me to say, how many things are ants? Not buts. They're not opposed to each other. They coexist in the same space. And God's good with that. And so I should be too. And this is an A. God is transcendent. He's big. He's over everything and being way beyond us, as you'll see. And he's right there There with us, the tender shepherd who gathers the lambs. And we're called to hold these two together as friends. All right, how great is God? We're called here to behold your God. How great is God? Let's look. Verse 12. Excuse me. Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hands? Um I live on Lake Cordeline in Idaho. It's a glacier-cut lake. It's actually very similar to where I live now. I was talking to somebody about coming full circle in life. And Lake Cordellane is very similar to where I grew up in upstate New York with glacier cut lakes. Lake Cordellane's 27 miles long. hundreds of miles of shoreline. I have not checked how many acre feet the lake holds, but it's more than a few. And what you're called to imagine here is not just the big lake that I live on. But the big Atlantic. I was on uh with friends yesterday and you you look at where the Petapsco enters the Chesapeake and it's like, ooh, that's big. I've lived on the West Coast for twenty years of my adult life and gone to the ocean many, many times, and you look at the ocean and you go, does that end? Commonly, my flight path from here back to Spokane, which is my home airport in uh eastern Washington, you fly over one of the Great Lakes and you look down. From 35,000 feet at one of the Great Lakes, and you're like, I can't see both sides. That's kind of freaky. I'm over land And what you're meant to imagine here is not just the great big lake that I live on, or the bay, or one of the great lakes, but the big oceans. Thousands of feet deep. And that you're meant to imagine that the size of God's hands Is such that all of that fits right there. All of it fits right there Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand? Marked up the heavens with a span. We'll come back to this in the he to the heavens a little bit later, but the the idea here is that That um well let me grab one of my farm statistics from later. Let's see, what is it? Okay, here we go. Um the estimate is the universe is estimated at being forty-six billion light years across. 46 billion. That's a really, really big number. So let me see if I can translate it a little bit for you to make it come home a little bit So a light year is the amount of time it takes light. Somebody remind me some some smart kid who's sitting here this morning said to children's church. How fast is the speed of light? Yes, sir. That's very good. Thank you. How fast does light travel? Can another child help me with that factoid? Yes. Very fast. A hundred and eighty-six thousand miles per second. That's fairly quick, shall we say Now this is not the time that a light year is not the time it takes how fast something goes in a second Or not even in a minute, which would be 60 seconds, or not even in an hour, which would be 60 by 60 seconds, or not even a day. 24 of those hours, but 365 days of 24 of those hours of 60 minutes and 60 seconds where you've gone 186,000 miles each one of those seconds. Okay, that's a light year. The universe is said to be not 146 light years across. But one hundred and forty-six billion light years across Oh, and for God, that's about here to hear. That's what you're told here. He marks off the heavens. Yep, that's that's yeah, that's that's the size of the universe with the span of his hands. Inclose the just Alright, so verse 12, the dust of the earth, in a measure, all of it, in a little measure like he used in chemistry class, weighed the mountains and the scales and the hills and the balance. All of it added together in God's little God's little balance. Says humans trying to communicate the reality of how big God is. Now let's get a little harder. Who's measured the Spirit of the Lord? How big is the non-physical Lord? And not just his size, but his wisdom. What man shows him his counsel? Like who taught him Who whom so these are meant to be uh rhetorical like in-your-face questions as you question God and his wisdom Whom did he consult? Who made him understand? Did you teach so a little mat translation here? Did you teach him the path of justice? Did you give him some knowledge he didn't have? Did you show him the way of understanding? That's the way you're meant to hear those. See, we get, I get, I'm full of myself, of my own self-importance, my own smartness and ability, and we humans tend very easily toward pride. We tend not just to make other people big and God small, we tend to make ourselves big and want to be big. We want other people to treat us as though we're big. And God comes along and he says, Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket. Seven billion people like a drop from a bucket. They're not something that's on the scales. They're the dust that's on the scales where you go, oh, that's dusty. And you blow the dust off the scale before you use it. The coast uh uh on the west coast we it's uh rocky. You know, so you go to the beach and you're like trying to not hurt yourself or whatever. And The picture here that you're given is that it takes all those big rocks. And they're just um, you know, they're the little little fine dust. Which is why verse 16, Lebanon which stands here for, the force of Lebanon is a it's a theme that runs through the scriptures, right? Think of it as like one of, you know. Go into the uh the redwoods or whatever, right? Put all the redwoods together, cut them down, cut them into fuel. You're making a big fire to honor the Lord. Doesn't suffice for fuel. All of the animals as burnt offerings, they're not enough either. It's just not big enough. Doesn't make a big enough statement about how big God is. All the nations are as nothing before him. They are accounted by him as less than nothing and emptiness. Now, this is by comparison This is why you have to hold this immanence and transcendence together as friends. This is trying to get you to understand the transcendence of God. You can't forget that He's the one who will Tend the flock like a shepherd, gather the lambs in his arms, carry them in his bosom. Gently lead those that are with young. This is by comparison. Humans are significant because they're made in the image of God, but they are small. Very small. This is why, this picture that you're given here, this is why creatures worshiping idols is ridiculous. Why would you worship something that is, Prophet tells us, an idol is nothing. It's a non-thing And you'll you'll you'll hear about it in a second here. And next to these chapters of Isaiah, the middle of the forties in Isaiah, you can get to see me. Keep going. If you need this for your heart, keep going. Because the bigness of God and the ridiculousness of idols, that's what the section of of Isaiah is about. It's wonderful for my heart to read it. Because God is like this, we ought to gravitate towards him and worship him. And by comparison, God's trying to tell us this is why it's so ridiculous, and why I'm going to ridicule idols. So verse 18. To whom then will you liken God? If God's like this, to whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness compares with Him? An idol? Well your kids are gonna be doing that week this week, I'm sorry. So what's an idol? Here we're talking about physical idols. We're talking coming up on the idols that we make ourselves that are mostly of heart. But here's what it is. An idol is something made by man. It's a creature making something less worthy than themselves, setting it up and saying, I will worship you. And we can set them up physically, as we're going to talk about in a second, or you can set them up in your heart and then worship it. Craftsman casts it. This is thinking of a metal idol. A goldsmith overlays it with gold and casts for it silver chains. You're not rich guy, you're poor guy. If you don't can't do clinchy stuff, then you pick up some wood. Hopefully wood that will not rot. And he seeks out a skillful craftsman to set up an idol that will not move. Now, if you're someone who's read the Bible some, you might remember back in 1 Samuel 5, some long time before this, maybe 900 years before Samuel or uh Isaiah is written, there's a scene in Israel's history uh where the Philistines um capture the ark of the Lord and they bring it and they put it into Dagon's house. And the next morning, this is 1 Samuel 5, if you want to read it. It's very humorous. But they bring it into Dagon's house. And so that you got the ark and you got Dagon, big statue, whatever, they get up in the morning and here's Dagon on his face before the Ark. You set up an idol that that won't move. Dagon moves Verse 21. So God's setting up this comparison between himself and the idols you can read further on in Isaiah to get more of God ridiculing the idols than how ridiculous it is to worship an idol. But why would you do that? Why am I, why are you tempted to worship An idol. Go to verse 21. Here's the problem. Do you not know? Do you not hear? Has it not been told you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth? Expected a response? Evidently not. Because if you had, you wouldn't worship idols. You'd worship this great big God who's worthy of your worship and your trust and your service. So here's the problem. Some have never heard, or they might worship the one true God. This is the motivation. For each and every one of us to live our lives as missionaries. And some have heard, but they forget. They half embrace or they resist God's greatness. What I find is that I resist my own smallness. I resist my own smallness. So how are we to think of God? Verse 22, it is he who sits above the circle of the earth. Consistently all through the scriptures from beginning to end, in the beginning, God created. All the way through the scriptures, the nature of reality is given to us as existing of two uh two aspects. In the nature of reality, there's God and there's the world that God made. Here it's pictured for you that it is he who sits above the circle of the earth. Its inhabitants are like grasshoppers. This God is the one, another wonderful picture, amazing picture here. He's the one who stretches out the heavens like a curtain. So let's think about the heavens just a little bit. So we talked about the fact that the universe is estimated at 46 billion light years across, about that big to God. Within the universe that we're able to see, again, because the web telescopes making us smarter, or so we think. The estimate is, I looked this up yesterday, just to make sure my stats were up to date. The estimate is that there are a hundred billion galaxies. A hundred billion galaxies. And in an average galaxy like ours, the Milky Way, there's a hundred billion stars in each galaxy. So you take a hundred billion and multiply by a hundred billion, and what do you get? Some smart person will probably know. I'm not that smart. A big number. And what you're meant to see is uh is something like this. I recently put a curtain up for my my third son, lives downstairs in our family-sized log cabin in the lake. He's got a great view. out his window on the lake, but it also now is over the deck where people are. And so he's like, I think I like a curtain on that window that's over my bed. So set up a curtain rod, put it up or whatever, and you kind of spread the curtain out and kind of go, oh, ah, that looks good. Covers the window. That's how you're supposed to picture the heavens in comparison. To God. He goes, Yep. Okay. That'll do it. A hundred billion times a hundred billion. Yep. That's good. He spreads them like a tent to dwell in. Which is why it could feel like verse 23 is like changing topics, but it's not. We're still thinking about the greatness of God. It's because he's a God who is like that, that he can bring princes to nothing. Lose trust. Prime Minister for how many days Won a record. Israel, fifth election in four years, can't seem to figure out how to put it together. Just like that. What we see as the most powerful people on the planet He brings princes to nothing. He makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness. Verse 24. Scarcely are they planted? Scarcely sown, scarcely has their stem taken root in the earth when he blows on them, and they wither. And the tempest carries them off like stubble. I am a hurricane watcher. No, not one of those crazy people that drives a car into it and takes measurements. Though that could be fun. But not like that. But I actively I got interested in it after I lived in Orlando and experienced a couple. So anyways, I pay attention. So think of it this way, I'm not being I have friends that were affected by Ian in Florida, but if you imagine the damage of a hurricane like Ian. It's as though it's a little puff and gone All this leads us to God asking, starting in verse 25, to whom then will you compare me? That I should be like him, says the Holy One. Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these. Hopefully you've had the opportunity. If you haven't had the opportunity, you should take the opportunity. So go someplace that's really dark. Sometimes people don't get far enough out of the city to get to a place that's really dark. Because when you go to a place that's really dark on a clear night, the heavens declare the glory of God. It's harder to pick that up in the city. Lift up your eyes on high and see who created these? Who he who brings out their host uh by number, a uh Four trillion five hundred and thirty three. Come on, come on, yep, yep, right now. George, that's right. Yep. Do you mention just the work of naming all of them? Not hard. That's not breathing hard. Plenty of creativity left over. He brings out their hosts by number, called them all by name, by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power, not one is missing. Which is why in response God says, okay, if I'm like this, I know you're in exile, getting a spanking. If I'm like this, You can feel this way here at CPC. I I'm not insensitive to that. We're working as hard as we can, as fast as we can. You could feel this way. It's been a year. Come on, Lord. Or come on, Matter. Come on, Session. You could feel this way. I get it. Understand it. It's understandable. But e even as you feel that, I think it's important the way your heart is before the Lord Why do you say, O Jacob, and speaker O Israel, my way is hidden from the Lord? And my right is disregarded by my God. I feel abandoned. Have you not known? Have you not heard? Right, so we're coming back to the same thing from verse 21. The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. What's he like? Doesn't faint, doesn't grow weary, his understanding doesn't have a bottom. And so though for those of us who come to him, who gravitate towards him, what does he do? He gives power to the faint. To him who has no mighty increases strength. As we come, turning from our sin, turning from our small views of God, we come in renewed belief seeking strength, he increases strength. He strengthens us. Even youth shall faint and be weary. Young men shall fall exhausted, because even they are yet still creatures. But they wait for the Lord. What will it be for them? They shall renew their strength. Mount up with wings like eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk. And not faint. How do you wait on the Lord? You move towards him. You move towards him. Title this morning, a couple comments and we're done. Our title is Gravitate Toward Our Great God. Why would you do that? What would cause you to begin to orbit around God as the center of your life? For me, it's these twin grand themes about God that draw me to worship Him, to trust Him, to purposefully center life on Him, serving Him instead of me. Those themes of transcendence God vastly above me and imminence God right beside me, even somehow in me. In a month, staggering as it seems, we'll be into Advent. And Mary's reaction to the angels' words to her about becoming the mother of Jesus. continue to strike me as the right reaction. Here's the Matt translation, just thinking through, I read through the accounts this morning again. But here's the Matt translation. Of Mary when the angel comes to him and says, Hey, so here's what's coming. And here's what Mary, Matt translation of Mary. Um yeah. So this feels impossible. Why would you even notice me Why would the great God notice I'm so lowly and undeserving? I have no idea why you would be gracious to one like me. But I receive it. That's Mary's response Mary held these two great themes together, and it drew her to God, drew her to worship God, to draw strength from God. For us. We have the baby that came from Mary's womb to ponder. You do realize that the one who created the heavens, not that big, The one who created the heavens is none other than Jesus. You do realize that, right That creator Jesus chooses to become a vulnerable little teeny tiny zygote. In Mary's womb. The biggest chooses to become the smallest Why? Why So we might gather us, his little wayward lambs, in his arms, to rescue, protect, and provide for us. That, friends, is stunning. And it's why you ought to gravitate toward our great God. Let's pray together Father, it's hard to even know what to pray. You are so great. You're magnificent. Help me help us to not resist our smallness, but to receive it and to simply be grateful. That you would notice us. Keep us from pride. Draw us to worship you. In Jesus' name. Amen.