Yes. In fact hearing Luke Two is kind of like hearing a favorite old song. After a while, you don't really hear the words because it's so surrounded by memories and associations. And so my job is to remind you of the meaning so that you understand the words, and that enables you to celebrate Christmas, not just have a holiday. Now, uh, I would suggest that the heart of what John read in Luke chapter 2 is in verse 11. That is the message. After saying, I've got good news for you, great news of joy for everybody, they say today, that means on a particular calendar day. Almost certainly not December 25th, Alger 364 to 1. But it was probably not then, but it was a particular day, probably around, ironically, 5 BC. On a particular day in a particular place in the town of David, located on the map If you'd had a video camera, or if you'd had your digital camera, you could have taken a picture of the manger. He says Today, in this particular place, a Savior has been born who is Christ the Lord. Christ is the Greek Word for the Hebrew Messiah. Or pronouncing it as the Jews would, Mashiach. And I would suggest that the one word that would have stood out to the shepherds more than anything else that they heard would have been that word, Messiah, Messiah. Mashiach has been born. That would have been the most spectacular thing. That's what would have stood out in their mind. The heart of the good news Is that Mashiach has been born. That's the heart of the Christmas message. This is the first time that Jesus is explicitly called Mashiach. It's clear in the angel's message to Joseph. It's unmistakable in the angel's message to Mary. But here for the first time it is explicit. This baby who has been born is Messiah. Now that raises a number of questions that I would like for us to think about for just a few minutes. First of all, what did the angels, I mean, what did the shepherds hear When they heard the message, Messiah has been born. What did that connect with them? And secondly, what did the angels mean when they say Messiah had been born? And how are those two ideas similar and how are they different? This idea of Messiah. And we've looked over the last couple of weeks from Isaiah chapter 53 at the amazing thing that though Messiah, Jesus, explicitly, precisely fulfilled every single Old Testament prophecy. By and large, the Jewish people, particularly the leaders, despised and rejected him and did not accept him as Messiah. Said, you are a false claimant to the title of Messiah. Why was that? What was their expectation that was so different from what he came to fulfill And just so that we don't leave this in the realm of the curious little meditation to give something to ponder on a couple days before Christmas, I want to bring it more practically home to you and to me. What kind of a messiah are you looking for? What kind of a messiah do we expect Jesus to be? And how is he different from that in reality? So that you and I could miss him and actually miss what Christmas is all about by misunderstanding his true nature. So I would like uh for us first of all to notice that uh the longing, the expectation for Messiah was absolutely um it's on the face of the gospels, it's all over the place. You see it particularly in the first couple of chapters. You notice that uh when the angels say, Messiah has been born, the shepherds don't say, so like, who's Messiah? You know, why is that a big deal? You know, why should we go see? But in verse 15, it's going, well let's go see this thing that the Lord made known to us. So they understand this is a big deal. We've got to check this out You notice that uh after Jesus is born, eight days later when he is circumcised, as according to the Jewish law, uh Luke goes on to tell us that uh in verse uh twenty-five, twenty-six there, that there was this fellow, Simeon. who was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, that's Messiah, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not die before he had seen the Lord's Christ, the Lord's Messiah. And so he takes Jesus in his arms and he says, Sovereign Lord, as you promised, now you can dismiss your servant in peace. Now I can die in peace. Why? Because my eyes have seen your salvation Which are prepared for the sight of all the people, a light for the revelation to the Gentiles and for the glory of your people Israel. I can finally die, Messiah has come And they don't even get out that you know a few steps later then they're met by this old lady Anna. And Anna comes up verse 38 and she says Uh you know, coming up to them at that very moment, she gave thanks to God and spoke about the child who all were looking forward to for the redemption of Israel. And you know, and you get this this theme continues. Whatever misconceptions there were, one thing was absolutely clear. The Jews were standing on tiptoe looking at any moment, at any time, for the coming of Messiah. In fact, one of the things they most wrote about and debated and speculated on was Why does Messiah not come? When's he going to come? Is there anything we can do to accelerate his coming? Who you know when's he gonna appear? When is he gonna appear? And on and on and on and on and went. They were longing desperately for Messiah to come. But they missed them. What happened? Where was the disconnect? So I'd like to look with you at three things this morning, real briefly. By the way, just one other example of that real briefly. Notice a couple chapters right after Luke does this, he talks about Jesus' first sermon in his hometown in Nazareth. And even there the people that knew him, they don't say, Oh, this is the Messiah. Who's ever heard words like this? And they're amazed. You read in verse 28 of Luke 4, all the people in the synagogue were furious when they heard this. They got up and they drove him out of town and they took him to the brow of the hill on the town which the town was built in order to throw them over the cliff. But Jesus escaped and walked away So uh something went connected. The first thing I want to look at is what kind of messiah were they looking for? What was their expectation? Second thing I want to look at is what kind of messiah did God actually send? How was it different? How is Jesus different from their expectations? And thirdly, what kind of a Messiah were you and I looking for? How is Jesus perhaps different from our own expectation. I'll pack that all in in a few minutes. Here we go. First of all, what kind of Messiah Jesus expect? That's a rather complicated question Because it's kind of like asking uh some uh evangelical Christian today, so tell me about the second coming. What are you expecting? You know, what's the answer? Well, depends on who you ask, right? I mean you could get an all-mill position or a post-mill position or a pre-mill position, or you might get left behind summarized in, you know, a few paragraphs. I don't know. But you're gonna get all kinds of stuff. And the same way it was back then. You ask about the coming of Messiah, you get a lot of different kinds of answers to that question. So what I want to do, because uh you know I used to do a course on this, we used to take uh it used to be a custom at CPC the Sunday before Christmas Some of you are probably still around or been here long enough you remember this. I would take the middle hour I see more of the nodding. I'd take the middle hour and I would go through something about the expectations of Messiah, culture, political situation, something about what was happening during the time when Jesus was born. And so I'm going to take some of that material. I'm going to put down in a couple minutes here. So we're going to go real, real quick. And here's how we're going to do it. We're going to go to Jerusalem. And let's visit the Jerusalem Religious Bookstore. Alright, and as you go down there, we're going to walk in and get past all the devotional material and all the different Bibles and all this. And we'll go down to the section that's marked coming of Messiah And the first thing you notice is that's a really full section. That takes up a couple of aisles. A lot of stuff on that. And you notice that there's a lot of different uh kinds of writings about the coming of Messiah, what kind of Messiah we're expecting and all this and that. And they kind of fall into groups, just like things today would about the second coming. Kind of fall into various categories. And those categories would be kind of associated with what would be sort of like denominations of the Jews in those days, like kind of like today. So as you're walking down the aisle, the first thing you come to is the Baptists, of course, you know And uh, you know, and they've got this big section, and their section says, Messiah is going to be the son of David, the king. to restore Israel in literally the land of Israel to its former glory. In fact, remember John read from Isaiah 9? Talk about the twelve a son is born, child is given. He will be of the line of David, the increase of his government, there will be no end in either its extent or its duration. And these people were saying what's really essential about Messiah Jeremiah 23 verse 5 says that God's going to raise up a righteous branch out of the line of David. He will be the king. Ezekiel 34 talks about all the false shepherds. who were abusing Israel in contrast to the true shepherd from the line of David. Shepherd was another name for king back then. David is going to be the true shepherd who's going to rule his people, but it's going to be a glorious reign. It will have no limit to its either extent or its duration. Isaiah 9 is quite clear about that. It will never end. And the the essential thing about Messiah is that he is going to rescue us from the Romans. And he's going to restore the former glory of Israel. And when you look at the days of David and Solomon a thousand years ago, they're going to be like hors d'oeuvres to the Camelot that this Messiah, the Son of David, is going to bring. So you have when Jesus comes on Palm Sunday into Jerusalem, what is it that they sing? Hosanna to the Son of David, right? And uh you remember that Jesus tried to shake up their categories a little bit, this, because it was a totally political notion. Even in Acts 1, they're still talking about this. This was so embedded in their mind. Messiah is the king of kings from the line of David to restore Israel to its glory, to become the center of all the earth. Jesus says, Well let me ask you a question about that. Who son is Messiah? Oh David, David, we know that okay, got that. Alright now How come then in Psalm 110, Jesus says, does David call Messiah Lord, if he's his son? The Bible says nobody had any answer for that. And they said I think the discussion's kind of over. We gotta, you know, kind of get on and they didn't ask many more questions. The end of it, you see. They didn't have any answer to that Because they had reduced Messiah to simply a king, political king, to restore their glory. Messiah was not coming to restore their glory. He's coming to do something far greater. That was a person. They come out down a little further and you come to the Episcopalian and the Anglican section, and they say, these guys, they really don't understand glory I mean, we're into glory. Their favorite text was Daniel 7. They saw Messiah as the Son of Man. Ironically, when we see Jesus called the Son of Man in the Gospels, we kind of think, Son of Man, well that's talking about how he was human. Ironically, the term Son of Man refers more to his exaltation than to his humanity, because it's from that passage in Daniel 7 where you have the Son of Man coming to the ancient of days. And he establishes and gains a kingdom that again will never end. Its duration and its extent are infinite and eternal. And this son of man is far more than simply a human. They said, you guys don't understand worship. This Messiah is so suprahuman. Now, similitudes of Enoch, a number of other books that were being written back then, said he existed before the world began. This Messiah won't even have human lineage. uh he will simply appear that was one of the stumbling blocks, you know? I mean you look at me for instance in John chapter seven. Uh in John chapter seven when they're talking about the Messiah, you know Jesus is preaching and uh The Jewish leaders say, uh, you know, have the authorities really concluded that he's the Messiah? But we know he can't be Messiah. Why? Verse 27. Because We know where this man is from, but when Messiah comes, no one will know where he's from. He's gonna appear. It's going to be this mystical, glorious figure that is so supernatural that in some of the writings that you read, he seems to border on divinity itself. Amazing, amazingly glorious picture. He will come and it will simply go on forever. And uh so in John 12 you have the same idea. In John chapter 12 and verse 34. The crowd spoke up and they said, We've heard from the law that Messiah will remain forever. So how can this man say the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this son of man? See, that was all this cluster of writing that was being written there. This son of man is glorious and eternal. The son of man is not going to die. It doesn't make sense. That's a second kind of grouping of messianic expectation. You move along further down, come to the Roman Catholic section. And the Roman Catholic section came out of the monasteries. These people were big in the priesthood. And uh these people really studied and they looked at all the messianic prophecies, the Catholics were looking at this, and they were looking at all that, and they said, man, you just cannot fit those prophecies in a one-to-person. Can't be just one Messiah It doesn't fit. It's just too much contradiction, too much seduction of there's gotta be two messiahs. That's the real clue to it. You see, two messiahs. One's a priest and one's a king The king is going to establish a royal rule in which he's going to restore Israel and do all these things. And the priest Messiah is not going to atone for our sin. No notion of that. The priest Messiah is going to lead us by the law to establish our own perfect righteousness. And God will reward us as a result. By glorifying us, taking care of us, making Israel the center of the earth and all the rest of that. See, same kind of idea. And uh these people were in fact where this was coming from, were the Essenes. You've heard of the Qumran community from which we get the Dead Sea Scrolls. These were the people that were writing like that. Now you take all these things and a lot of other things we don't have time to cover, and what do they have in common? You look on your bulletin outline there And you see that the two things that they have in common, which is why they rejected Jesus, was because their view of salvation was one political not spiritual. They saw it simply in terms of a physical earthly kingdom. And secondly, because salvation was from others, not from our own sin. That was essential. You see, it was a salvation of circumstance. Now, I would suggest if you think about this line of expectation for a little while. It'll somewhere down the line dawn on you that this sounds amazingly like American civil religion. Right? We're the good guys The Messiah needs to come to deliver us from the bad guys that are trying to hurt us. You know, the terrorists, the other countries, all these other bad countries. that want to do us in. And so the essence of of salvation and God's deliverance is to live to deliver us from bad guys. It's an external thing. Now, before you and I too glibly say, yeah, yeah, well, you know, we know better than that, let's get down to the real root issue. The root issue of looking for a Messiah who is a savior from circumstance is to ignore our hearts and see that salvation is really something external. It's about making my life easier. It's about something that's going to center on me and my glory rather than, as Messiah came, to change our hearts to center on his glory. So, whenever we slip into a salvation from circumstance kind of mentality, we're slipping into the basic Jewish error, looking for a Messiah to make my life better. Centering on me. My salvation is to be delivered from the other nasty, irritable people, irritating people in my life. If we could just get rid of it, like John said, just change the circumstances. And I look at my Christmas and I look and I say, you know, my Christmas is not is not gazing at my decorated tree and listening to my Christmas music or eating my chocolate chip cookies that have no fat or calories or having right relationships with my wife and my kids And to be able to enjoy friends and good conversation, the rest, all those things are great, but they don't get to the heart of it. Amazing thing about Messiah. Is when God sent Messiah, he sent a Messiah to deal more radically and more preciously with what we need than we would have ever imagined. So secondly, what kind of Messiah did God send? He sent a messiah to address our deepest, deepest longings. He sent a messiah to address the fall. To address a broken world and the deepest longings for a new Eden that can never again be lost. And he does this by dealing with the root problem, which is our rebellion against God and his glory. Many of their prophets address this, but the simplest way to sum it all up all the Old Testament teaching isn't through the three offices of Messiah. Prophet, priest, and king. Man Those really sum up the Messianic prophecies. And they're scattered all through the Old Testament. But if you look in in Deuteronomy chapter 17 and 18, you see those three offices spelled out. This is not something that's just kind of, you know, you Make it up sounds sort seems like it's a good fit. It's spelled out to you in Deuteronomy 17, 18, in the order of king, priest, and prophet. Prophet, priest, and king is more logical order, so let's think of it that way. What we need is first of all a prophet. That is, we need someone to reveal God to us. That's what a prophet does. He reveals God My basic need is to know truth and answers to some basic questions. Go out Tonight or like last night it was clear, go out on some real clear December night when you see the stars and you can get in some place that's really dark and you look at that vastness and the questions just have to come to you. You know, who am I? Why am I here? Who made me? What's my purpose? Do I have a purpose in all of this? Who made it all and who is God and how can I know him? Can I know him? What's his heart like? Does he care about me? Does he know me? All these things you see. And Jesus, the Bible says, came to reveal that. John chapter 1 in verse 14 says, the Word, that's the second person of the Trinity, the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, full of grace and truth. And then John goes on to say that this one, who is unique, he goes on to say that none of us have ever seen God at any time. But this one who is the one and only, God the one and only, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. John 1:18. In everything that Jesus said and everything that Jesus did, he revealed the Father. You want to know what God's like? Look at Jesus. That's what God's like, you see? Jesus is the full revelation of God. So the first thing that he does that the Jews miss, they thought they knew God. Jesus says, you really don't know God's character, you really don't know his heart. Jesus is the final revelation. But the more I know God, the more I understand who He is in His purity and majesty, how absolutely self-centered he is because he is the essence of the center of all things that have any meaning and how my life should center on him and I should love and delight him and all the things that John talked about as we come to worship, as I realize how far my heart is in all my idolatry. I realize that the basic thing I need is to be reconciled to God. That's the office of priest. The priest in Israel was the one who reconciled the people to God. So the first is he's a prophet to reveal God. The second is he's a priest to reconcile us to God. And you have that in Exodus and all the passages I had there, but Isaiah chapter 53 that we've gone through in the last three weeks is of course most focused on this, Isaiah 53, 6, all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned every one of us to our own way. And the Lord laid on him the iniquity. Of you and you and you and me laid it on him, the priest Who offered himself as the perfect once-for-all sacrifice from sin? That's Messiah. That's the essence of who he is and what he came to do. But it's not only that. When you look at your life and even if you've come into that relationship with Jesus Christ to understand who God really is, revealed by Him and be reconciled to Him. Then you realize you really don't do a very good job of running your own life, do you? I don't. And so I come To need a king, a king to rule my life, a prophet to reveal God, a priest to reconcile me to God, and a king to rule my life under God. Draw me to who knows how to live skillfully, can teach me to live skillfully, can protect me, can provide for me. The king who doesn't simply destroy the Romans or set up the kingdom of Israel, but this king who deals with the ultimate axis of evil, the priest, the beast The dragon and the harlot under the rule of Satan, once and for all, ever, to restore Eden, that is far better than Camelot and can never again fall into evil. Amen? That's the kingdom. And this is the king. You know, my views of God have changed in the last year. I don't know, have your views of God changed in the last year? It happens because things happen in your life and they don't fit. They don't fit your view of God, you know And either you you get distanced from God and you come to this Christmas more cynical, or you come saying, God, I thought I knew you, but how could you be like that I need to understand more of what you really like. And let Jesus expand and enlarge your view of what God's purpose is for you. How glorious and wonderful he is. See, what kind of Messiah do you look for this Christmas? A messiah that's going to save you from circumstance and from other people and all the externals? You know, your life would just be happy if if all these things were just right. Or do you come realizing you need a Messiah who's going to show you what reality and God and your heart is really like? And then to reconcile you, to take away all the shame and the guilt, to give you a clear conscience that you can come to celebrate and laugh and sing this Christmas because you don't have a heavy burden, guilty heart. And you know you've got a king who will provide and protect you and take care of you and who's got ahead of you a hope. One of the things John said about that movie that I thought about when he talked about why it was so great was because it was new He was going to see something he hadn't seen, and he was filled with the anticipation of discovery of something amazing. You know, we come here and every Sunday. One of the reasons you come, you think, well, I know what's gonna happen. There's nothing new gonna happen there. Same thing happens every Sunday. You know, change a little details, build them around. I know what's gonna happen You see, the anticipation is that God is doing something new. He's going to show me something about himself I haven't understood. And when I get to heaven, every day is going to be an amazing new discovery that far outshines two towers being revealed for the first time in more expressions of his glory and of his wonder. That's what we're going to be looking at. Hey, I heard an amen out there somewhere. What kind of a Messiah are you looking for, you see? Do you treasure Jesus as he really is? Are we always trying to make them into something smaller to fit the desires of your own heart? May He transform your heart and my heart to be enlarged, to treasure him as he is. I close with a story that I got from Ireland. It's simply called the Christmas story. Years ago there was a very wealthy man, a widower, who together with his own son shared a passion for art. Together they traveled the world, adding only the finest treasures to their collection. One autumn, war engulfed the nation and the young man left to serve his country. After only a few short weeks, his father received a telegram. His beloved son was missing in action. He anxiously awaited more news, and within days his fears were confirmed. The young man had died while helping a wounded man Distraught and lonely, the old man faced the coming Christmas period with sadness. One Christmas morning, a knock at the door awakened the old man from his depression At the door stood a soldier with a large package in his hand who introduced himself. I was a friend of your son, the one he was rescuing when he died. May I come in for a few minutes? I have something for you. As they began to talk, the soldier told how the man's son had spoken about their love of fine art. I'm an artist, said the soldier, and I want to give you this. As the old man unwrapped the package, the paper gave way to reveal a portrait of his son. Though the world would never consider it the work of a genius, the painting featured the young man's face in striking detail. Overcome with emotion, the old man thanked the soldier, promising to hang the picture above the fireplace. And then he sat in his chair and spent Christmas gazing at the gift he had been given which soon became his most prized possession. The following spring, the old man became ill and passed away The art world was in anticipation. According to his will, all the old man's works of art were to be auctioned on Christmas Day, the day he had received his greatest gift. Collectors from around the world gathered to bid on some of the world's most spectacular paintings. But the auction began with a painting that was not on any museum's list. It was the painting of the old man's son. The auctioneer asked for an opening bid. The room was silent. Who will open the bidding with the hundred pounds? The auctioneer asked. Minutes passed. No one spoke. From the back of the room, someone voiced what many were thinking. Who cares about that painting? It's just a picture of his son. Let's forget it and go on with the good stuff. More voices echoed in agreement No, we have to sell this one first, replied the auctioneer. Now, who will take the sun? Finally, a friend of the old man spoke Will you take fifty pounds for the painting? That's all I have. I knew the boy, so I'd like to have it. I have fifty pounds. Will any go higher? called the auctioneer. More silence Going once, going twice, gone. The gavel fell. Cheers filled the room, and someone exclaimed, Now we can get on with it and bid for the treasures But the auctioneer announced that the auction was over. This disbelief stunned the room. What do you mean it's over? We didn't come here for a picture of some old guy's son. What about all these paintings? There's millions of pounds of worth of art here. He's very simple, the auctioneer replied. According to the will of the Father. Whoever takes the Son gets it all. I invite you to come and take Jesus as he really is. And to get it all. Let's pray. And oh our God, forgive us for how cheaply we look at the real work of Jesus the Messiah. And we see the announcement of the angels, good news of great joy. For you there is born a Savior, who is Messiah, the Lord. And some of us yawn, and we say, Is that the best you can do? I want somebody that'll change my circumstance, that'll get rid of these problems and these irritations and all the other things in my life. But Lord Jesus, in your wisdom and your love, you dealt more radically with our broken hearts than we could have ever imagined. For you have shown us what you are like. And you have reconciled us through the death of your own self, your own body given for us. For anyone here who admits the need that they have of that sacrifice. And you offer to rule our lives, to provide for us, to protect us You have defeated the axis of evil, and you will one day come again with a kingdom where there is no evil, no death, and no tears. That all those treasures are only to be had in you as you really are. Give us eyes, Lord, eyes now to see. And in this quiet moment, Lord, give us hearts. To respond to you and to see our need for you as you really are.