Enjoyable to get to know your session and to get to work with them for Robert and I to meet a number of you individually and have conversations and so we uh we consider this an a a great opportunity and proven So thank you for having us. We're going to be working in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 this morning. So, 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and we're going to be looking. I'm going to read verses 13 to 18 because I want you to see that these words are supposed to encourage you. Okay. So that's the coda at the end. We're going to spend most of our time in the earlier section of these verses, but I'm going to read down to verse 18. So 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verses 13 to 18. Let's hear God's word together. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus God will bring with them those who have fallen asleep. For this we declare to you by words in the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore, encourage one another with these words. Let's pray together. Father, if there's anything that we need, it's encouragement. We have lived through much as a country in these last couple of years. This congregation has lived through much over a longer scale period of time, but particularly in the last six months. Father, um, we struggle in our culture To even own that we're sad. It's easier to be angry or outraged It's easier to cancel people or cut off from them than to simply say, I'm sad. And yet your word gives us room. It gives us permission. Gives us space. grief. To just say it like it is. And then also to receive hope from you. Would you give us a space like that this morning together? Through your word. Holy Spirit, that will be impossible. For I am one very small, limited creature. But you've inspired this word. You fill the hearts of your people. Fill my heart. Fill our hearts. That we might have true hope. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This text feels helpful to preach as I have as I go around the country, across denominations, preach and have the opportunity to preach in lots of different churches. This is the sermon, as I've said to elders and pastors, what would you like me to preach on? And I say, here's the things I've got to preach on. They're like, d-that one. And so it this has been a sermon that I I couldn't number the times I've preached in the last six months because it seemed to have struck a nerve with people. This text is helpful because if anything has happened in COVID, it's that we have experienced significant grief. Um not necessarily when we think of grief, typically what we're thinking about is like the death of a close relative or friend or spouse. Hopefully you've not experienced that kind of grief, but but some certainly have, I know. But even if that's not the degree of your grief, all of us In this era, have experienced grief nonetheless. The way I have taken to put it as someone who struggles with the idol of control. Is that the world changed perhaps forever, and no one asked me first My uh wife and family, we now live in uh Cordelaine, Idaho. Um Which is in North Idaho between uh Washington and Montana. We're about two hours from Canada. So we live in the far north country. I live in Winter Wonderland. We lived previously, we've only lived in Cordulane for about six months, we lived previously in Seattle for 13 years. I was a pastor there for a decade. And uh what I like to tell people is we lived there for 13 years and 12 of them were very good. The thirteenth year was a COVID year, and it was downright awful. It was so bad that we moved. Nearly all that we had loved was. lost. Throughout this sermon, as we ponder this text together, I want us to consider a couple of questions. The first is, why do we grieve? Why do we grieve? And um I'd ask you to consider that there are more obvious answers to this and less obvious answers. And I'm going to try and help you explore both. So why do we grieve? Then the second is how do we move forward with hope? How do we move forward with hope? How do we regain the emotional energy to pursue the Great Commission? The very thing why today dawns, uh, flourishes a ministry, uh, our tagline is the only sufficient reason that today dawned. Is that Jesus is yet gathering a people and using us to do it. That's the only sufficient reason today. So how do we regain the emotional energy to pursue the Great Commission as individuals, actually loving our real neighbors that live next to us where we live, work, and play? And how do we do that as a church? The situation that we find ourselves in can, I believe, feel hopeless That's a rather easy position to sort of slide into, that we're sort of stuck in a cul-de-sec of sadness with no route out. But here we find in God's Word a route out. And I hope that we'll be able to see that together. Even in our circumstance, we can find gospel encouragement and hope. If we look, if we take the time to look, to get hope that is deep, well-founded, solid, secure, we need to look carefully. We need to look carefully at Jesus, which is what we're going to do. That's what I want to wrestle through with you today. Grief is where the Thessalonians found themselves. And I would say that it's where we find ourselves And that is why for your sanity and to remain in touch with reality, you and I must first, if you're a note taker, there's a note section, I think. I don't think I gave Megan a note There's a note section. If you're a note taker, the first point is to give a place to grief. To give a place Just a word about the letter to the Thessalonians. The best that scholars can tell, this was Paul's very first letter that he wrote to any church. It was written around 50 A. D. And it was mainly occasioned for the purpose actually of this text. This was the main issue that needed to be dealt with. This is what they were grappling with in their situation. So let's understand what was that that they were grappling with. Look with me at verse 13. There we find God saying through Paul, But we do not want you to be uninformed, lacking the right information, brothers, about those who are asleep. This is a euphemism for those um who have died because they very much look like if I don't know if the what the customs are here in terms of funerals, but at least growing up in upstate New York, um you'd walk into a funeral home and there would be an open casket and there would be somebody who, though dead, appeared to be sleeping. Those who are asleep. This is the primary presenting issue. We don't want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do. So this is God's desire that he's expressing that the Thessalonians wouldn't grieve as others do. Now, who are these others? There's a comparison here, right? between uh the brothers and others. The brothers and the others, between those who have put their faith in Christ, are turning from their sins. They're in the family of God and those who don't. Who are those folks? We will think about that just a second The only thing I want us to see up to this point is that true Christians can afford. To squarely face a many times painful world in grief. Christians can. We can grieve at the right times. But this is something culturally that is not very acceptable. We don't do this. We try and skip over this the best that we possibly can. Uh I think that we wish that verse 13 would go through what I affectionately call the Matt Translator, where I emphasize something or I restate something. Sometimes it's a little snarky or sarcastic, so you just have to bear with me. But I try and bring the scripture alive. I think that many of us wish that verse 13 read like this. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep that you may not grieve. Full stop In our heart of hearts, what we would really like to do is just not grief But that would be to not live in reality. It would be to not follow in the steps of our Savior, who Isaiah prophesied would be a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Remember, it was Jesus who wept profusely in John 11, 33 and following. He wept profusely at Lazarus' tomb. To follow Jesus is to be able to grieve. Now, I'm willing to admit that that big displays of emotion like we find in other world cultures could be odd to you. We read some of the circumstances even in the gospels and we're kind of like, it's craziness. Why would they grieve like that? See, as a culture, what we value is holding it all together. Say, never let them see you sweat. That's what we value. Strength, not what we perceive as weakness. And I admit that we may not even know how to handle strong emotion. And that's usually due to the shaping that we've gotten in, the family that we grew up in. And the result, if you're somebody like me, is that you just cut yourself off from strong emotions. Would you consider that that's a really grave mistake? That it's actually a death of its own. If you cut yourself off from strong emotions. There's two reasons for this. The first is you were made for emotion You can't go through the scriptures and not see God portraying himself as having many and varied emotions. And made in his image, so do you. It's what you were made for. To reflect God's image well to a watching world, you must embrace emotion, high and low, and neutral. Why is this so critical? Remember that according to Romans 12, 1, the entirety of the Christian life. is first an emotional response of gratitude for grace. It's an emotional response. of gratitude for grace before it's any actions. It's an emotion Now let's think about grief a little bit. To return to grief for a second, whether you like it or not. Unchosen but unprocessed grief. The way I like to put it, this is a little dense. Is that unprocessed grief sits as a debt on your emotional budget? Unprocessed grief sits as a debt on your emotional budget. So um but you probably have some form of debt credit card or or uh a mortgage or car or whatever, but i if you're a homeowner, um typically what happens at least w w when uh Um paying my mortgages over the years is that it's an automatic debit out of my account. My paycheck comes in, my mortgage goes out. And what I have left in my bank account is what I actually have to work with. Now if you translate that over into the emotional world. If you have a bunch of unprocessed debt, whether you or unprocessed grief, excuse me, and I agree, many, many times, maybe every time, grief isn't something that we choose. It just it comes on us. Unchosen. I'm I'm down with that. Just as it is sometimes. But if you leave it unprocessed, if you leave it undealt with, if you don't give a place for it, it sits like a debt. It takes the first energy. And you don't have the emotional energy to do the things that God calls you to. Let go of your neighbor. That's why it's so critical. That you give a place for grief, that you process it. That's the first reason. First reason this is so important is that you are made for emotion. Second is your body will keep the score. Your body will keep the score. That's the name of a book, by the way. The body keeps the score. If you don't give a place for grief, your body's going to keep the score anyhow. Even if you won't. You'll see me as I go through the sermon today, maybe you've already seen me, that I will constantly keep this sleeve pulled up on my jacket. And the reason this isn't like a fancy way that people from the Northwest dress, this is just me trying to accommodate myself to my bodily realities. I cannot have a sleeve on this part of my body. And the reason I can't have a sleeve on this part of my body is because I've had shingles twice. Because I'm stupid. And it's left me with nerve damage in two parts of my body, including on the skin right here, which means I can't have anything touch it. Friends, your body will keep the score. Even if you don't. This is why you must give a place for grief. You may want to desperately avoid reality There's oodles of Americans, we're told, that are struggling with anxiety and depression that never have because of COVID. You're gonna just shove that away and avoid it. But we can't. And we shouldn't. As I have spoken in different places and worked with different churches over those last couple of years, here's a conclusion I've come to about COVID. For the first time, at least in my lifetime, here was finally something that our wealth was insufficient to shield us from. We couldn't buy our way out of this. Greece is real, friends. And if you won't face it head on, if you won't give it place to it, it will still have its effect on you. But it won't be profitable to you. It'll have its effect on you, but it won't be profitable to you. So I want to strongly encourage you to live in reality and to squarely face the grief we are sharing at this time. But I also want you to realize that not facing grief isn't the worst that can happen to a person. The worst that can happen to a person is to face grief without hope. It's to be internally or externally wailing with no salve in sight And that is the plight of many, perhaps most of the people who live within walking distance of this building. And so that's why, second, we should mourn that some don't have hope. We should mourn that some don't have hope. Look again. We'll finish up verse 13. We don't want to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others. Who's that group? That group is people who are not trusting in Christ. They don't have hope. In fact, that's what Paul says. God says through Paul, that they may not grieve as others do who have no hope. Paul writes to the Thessalonians because they were acting like pagans. instead of believers in Christ. They were acting like pagans with regard to grief and mourning hopelessly. Now recognize that people who do not have a faith and trust in Christ do not believe that they have a good Father in heaven who is looking out for them. Do not believe that history is moving towards something. They must of course be hopeless. In um the the One of my seminary professors who had then later worked with described the default sort of worldview of many Americans as something that he calls one-ism. So Christian belief we can characterize, St. Professor, as tuism, that there are two facets, two aspects to reality. There is God the creator and the creation that he made. So there's two. Two is them. Pretty easy, right? God and the world that he made. But in the worldview of many of the people that you know who don't know the Lord, they actually functionally believe in was one is them. There is no God who is no personal, infinite God who is external to the world. There is only the world. In that worldview, fate or the universe might be against you. But no one, nothing is for you. But perhaps, sometimes, fate's evil twin, luck. Who loves you? Maybe? Maybe not. Like a five-year-old plucking a daisy's petals. Notice that in one-ism, there's no cohesive narrative. There's no beginning, there's no middle, there's no end. And there's no point. There's no loving father. Remember in Matthew 6, when Jesus talks about fear and worry and anxiety, the main thing that he brings out is you're acting like you don't have a father in heaven. That's the main thing he brings out. But if you're someone who doesn't have a father in heaven, there can be no relief. And I don't think we have to go any farther than that to understand why we have these incredibly increased rates of depression and anxiety that have come about during COVID. I, for my work, I travel a lot, take a lot of airplane flights, end up talking with a lot of flight attendants, just the way that my life is. Recently I was on a flight and um Two flight attendants were talking about what they were going to do for the weekend. And a quite young flight attendant, they were talking about their plans, and he goes, he goes, they were talking about their plans, and he goes, he goes, YOLO. Ah, okay. You only live once Um a uh soap opera, maybe it's still on, I don't know, but it was when I was growing up, titled One Life to Live A slogan that we have used culturally is you only go around once. So you better get it all the first time. If you functionally believe those slogans, whatever generational format they're in for you, if you functionally believe those slogans. You'd be depressed and anxious too. You'd be radically grieving as well. And you'd be mad. You'd be mad that something, someone, some people We're taking away the one shot you had at happiness on earth Now, maybe I've just described you. Maybe I've just described how you feel. If that's the case, this is your lucky day. For on this day, I pray that you hear about a father who loves people. People like you, people like me, Wartz and all. A father who sent his son from heaven so we could have real hope Christians, like all humans, have reason, even freedom, to grieve. And especially, I would say, a group like yours. That has suffered not just COVID, but if I can put it um In the most kind way that I can think of, a difficult set of providential circumstances. You've faced a lot, friends. You have. And it's okay to say that. It really is. And here's the opportunity that we have. There's a wonderful opportunity to speak thoughtfully about Christ to those who don't yet know him. That's wrapped up in this. So let's think a little bit about maybe how that could be for us. So realize, maturing Christians, that it is a Christian privilege, a Christian privilege to grieve with hope. That's the third point. Of course, I'm a prostitute in free church. Of course, there's three points. What were you thinking? Third point, grieve with hope. So I will admit that our circumstance is not a duplicate of the Thessalonians They were concerned about Christians that had died. We are concerned with a congregation, a church that is hurting. Let me just say it out loud some of the ways that we're hurting. COVID is just plain hard. Robert and I got out of the car this morning. You have your mask? Where's your mask? Social media, gift, curse. Best I can see it's provoke divisions between people, cross politics. Cross-COVID policies. I understand, like sadly, a lot of the churches that I go to that some faces are no longer here. If you're part of an an older generation which I increasingly find myself in, you weren't supposed to laugh at that. That was just me being honest. I attempt to leave my gray hair behind, but it travels with me. Some of us can remember when Christianity was a viable alternative for people. A church was a respectable thing, and Christians were respectable people. And the center of culture has shifted over the decades. And that can make you sad because it's what you were used to and what you enjoyed. There's opportunities there, but that's a sermon for another time. Doesn't this all feel like a death of sorts? It certainly had me grieving for a period of time, and I think it will for much time to come. So I I agree. Our circumstance is not exactly the same as the Thessalonians, but can we derive some of the same hope that Paul gave to the Thessalonians? Well, if I didn't think so, we wouldn't be here. But let's look, uh let's see where we can find that hope. Look with me to verse 14. Where does God send the Thessalonians, the people of God? Where does he send us? Through the pen of the Apostle Paul. Here's where he senses. Verse 14. For since we, people trusting in Christ, Right? Turning from their sins, believing in him, putting their hope in him. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again. Even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. Where does Paul Sends Thessalonians, he sends them to the Sunday school answer, to the correct Sunday school answer, which is that it is always about Oh come on, did I put you all to sleep already? Get some more. Coffee, people. He sends us to He sends it to Jesus. How how does Jesus' death and resurrection give us hope? And and whether you're someone who says, I I might be one of those others, or it's What about us who says it's we, I believe in Jesus, but this is hard. This gospel of Jesus can give you hope. So Christians are on this word gospel. Jesus said it was the gospel of the kingdom. Of the kingdom. The gospel is spoken by a king. King Jesus. It's a king determined to take a people and a world that he made very good. I'm just a restart. I like to listen through the Bible every year. And so just restarted my I listen I like to listen to it. And um so I restarted my listening and I get to the end of the creation account. And it was all very good. And I get this big smile on my face. It was all very good. But it became very broken. And this king who speaks the gospel of the kingdom is determined to take that very broken world and to put Humpty Dumpty back together again. Friends, this is why we grieve. We grieve because we are broken people living in a broken world. And our wealth tends to insulate us from that fact. And when we're pushed up against reality, when we're pushed out of our delusion, When we're reacquainted with the way that things are actually, we get bummed out. But that is why we grieve, no matter its intensity. Intensity from my disappointment that I actually don't get to go to Atlanta, because Delta canceled my flight. But I do get to go home, which is nice. But I miss friends in Atlanta. I miss a meeting that I created and can't go to. Grief from that, which is just mere inconvenience and disappointment. Griefs to my family. I mentioned that Seattle was terrible. The church that we were going to in Seattle was in rented space. We got kicked out of it. Probably like here, you can't go back into school. Or anything like that. Churches can't find rented space. Between when COVID started and when we left Seattle, I was in the physical presence of my church family once. Outdoors freezing for an Easter service. That's grief soon. My wife and I had a weekly date. We went to a place and listened to music every week. Grief goes from disappointment to really hard things to loss is to typically the the most severe, the hardest death, the death of a Parent, the death of a spouse, the death of a child. I, as you might imagine, as a minister for many years, I've um had the privilege to um lead a good number of funerals, memorial services. And one of the things that I will typically say in a memorial service, um Is to validate something that people are thinking, but they hesitate to say out loud. That the emotion that we many times feel in grief is this. This is not the way it's supposed to be. Do you know that's the most true thing that anyone has ever said? That is the most true thing that anyone has ever said. This is not the way it's supposed to be. And this is not the way it's going to be. forever. That's how we can grieve with hope. The hope that Jesus came The hope that we can have is that Jesus came to put back right all that is wrong, in the wonderful words of Sangamji, to make all that is sad come untrue. When God points you back through Paul to Jesus' resurrection, that's what it's meant to communicate to you, that Jesus' resurrection is the first fruits of what's to come. And even now, God can give you hope if you've been giving your heart unwisely to fate or luck or wishes or thoughts. If you've given your heart to substances or goals or love, only to have your heart broken. And now you're hopeless. How can we have hope? The gospel is a summons from that king to do two things. To repent and to believe. To repent, um I call this, I was joking with the elders yesterday. This is the R word. We don't like to use this word. We think it's a dirty word. It's a beautiful word. It's a great word. It puts you back in reality. Because it's what I need to do. It's what you need to do. It's why you all confessed your sins this morning. To repent is to live in reality, is to say I'm still a sinner and I need to repent every day, and you do and I do. What does it mean to repent? To repent is just to say, why do people sin? You ever thought about that? People sin because in the moment they're trying to save themselves from whatever situation they're in. Sin is always an attempt at some kind of self-salvation. Always. So when I repent, I go, pff, done with that. I am done trying to save myself, whether in the moment or for a lifetime. I'm done with that. I'm turning from that. And I'm coming to you, Jesus, and I'm going, I need you. I desperately need you. I need you living for me perfectly. I need you dying for me because that's what I deserve. I need you rising for me so that I have hope. I need you, Jesus. That's what repenting and believing means. The gospel is a summons to do that, to begin to do that on a daily basis, to turn from what you thought could satisfy. But never can to him who made you, trusting Jesus. That's why the Sunday school answer, Jesus, is so important. It's why God through Paul sends you here. He sends you to gospel basics for hope in the face of grief. I hope that your heart is not like mine sometimes, that you've grown jaded or cynical. And that you gloss right over this and you go, yeah, yeah, yeah, Jesus, death, resurrection. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. without sensing its depth. For that would be a mistake. And it'll cut you off from hope If you're receiving and resting in Jesus for your hope, you can truly grieve, but with hope. There's two reasons for this. The first is this isn't all that will be. This isn't all that will be. But if you recall from the last time that you proclaimed the Nicene Creed At the end, near the end, where we're talking about doctrine of the Holy Spirit, doctrine of the church, doctrine of the things to come, here's what it says. I look to the life of the world to come. Remember that phrase Can I encourage you that the next time you say the creed, the Nicene Creed, that you don't lie? Can I encourage you not to lie? And the way that you not lie is that you actively Think much of the life of the world to come and you look to it. Because that's what you're confessing when you say that. I, me, I am looking to the life of the world to come. I am in active belief that this is not all that will be. And in fact, I am looking forward to that. One of the advantages of getting old, if you're a young person, talk to an old person like me. One of the advantages of getting old is that you actually look forward to dying. That sounds bizarre to young people. I realize that. I used to be you. And I'm telling you, if you want real hope, you need to really own that this isn't all that will be. Second thing is that even now in Christ, amidst our grief, we have much to ponder and enjoy. I'm going to read the first question of the Heidelberg Catechism. I don't know if you guys use catechisms in your services or in any part of your ministry. Catechism is. Just a tool that's developed to teach people the basics of the Christian faith. Okay? That's what a catechism is. Had over catechism is one that was written in Germany. If you were going to begin to write something, somebody says, what's Christianity about? And you're like, oh, well, maybe the easiest way is just to give you a series of questions and answers. What's the first thing he would say? Well, here's the first thing they said And if this is a day like most days when I preach this sermon and read this, there's a decent likelihood by the end of this question and answer that I'll cry. So if you're put off by the picture of a grown man crying behind a pulpit, you've been forward. What's the first thing you'd say? Here's the first thing they said. What is your only comfort in life and in death? Here's what they said. That I am not my own But belong body and soul in life and in death to my faithful Savior Jesus Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood and has set me free from the tyranny of the devil. He also watches over me in such a way that not a hair can fall from my head without the will of my Father in heaven. In fact, all things must work together for my salvation. Because I belong to him, Christ by his Holy Spirit. Assures me of eternal life, and makes me wholeheartedly willing and ready from now on to live for Him. Isn't that hopeful? Part of that being ready to live for him. is to anticipate, to get ready for, to seek to create opportunities, to give true hope away to those around us who don't know Christ. You see, we have the privilege now of giving that hope away. Because this isn't all that there is, thankfully Early on in my Christian discipleship, I was encouraged to memorize scripture. And one of the scriptures that I memorized was 1 Peter 3, 15, 16, 17, right in that range. And in part, 1 Peter 3. 15 says this. In your hearts, honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the Okay, let's try that L again. This is participatory theater, folks. Who asked you for a reason for the Fascinating. Isn't that fascinating? That as God's people What we're supposed to be ready to do is talk about the reason for our hope. That's within us. Doing it with gentleness and respect. Now that assumes, and I promise that I'm actually almost done. This assumes that you have hope And that it's visible enough for people to ask you. It assumes that you have hope. And it's visible enough for people to ask you. Well, how do you get that hope? It comes as we deeply reflect on the love of the Father and the heart of Jesus for us, his people. As we hear about it in the gospel. Think with me for a second. How is it that Jesus ends up on earth at all? We just come through Advent, talk about Jesus, the virgin birth. How does Jesus, maybe North of this, how does Jesus end up on earth at all? You realize, of course, that Jesus didn't have to be born. He didn't have to come There wasn't some outside force that constrained the Father to send the Son or for the Son to come or for the Spirit to come. Nobody constrained any of that. You realize that, right? Our confession talks about, or confession Western's a confession of faith that is the doctrinal statement for the church, talks about that Jesus came most willingly. Best phrase ever. Here's the way I like to put it. Father's like, phew, that's a messy place down there. Gonna have to do something about it. One of us is gonna have to go. Matt Translator, sorry. Jesus goes, me. Me I'll go. It's gonna be tough. I'm going. Big cup to drink. I'm going. Jesus didn't have to come. The Father didn't have to send him. Jesus didn't have to die as though some outside force prevailed over him. You realize that's what we're going to celebrate here in just a minute. C. S. Lewis put it well that the symbols that are here on the table, they're the symbols of a willing victim. One who gave us himself up for us. Sinful, broken, wandering, emotionally raw people Nothing can strain father and son except love, and a fierce passion for grief to progress to hope. Now and forever. At the second coming of Christ. One of those visions that we get of what it will be like when Christ returns, and we have the new heavens and the new earth, and sin and death are gone forever, is Isaiah 35. 10. Here's what it says. And the ransom the Lord shall return and come to Zion with singing. Everlasting joy, that'll be good. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads. They shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away. And in case you missed it, it gets repeated later in Isaiah in 511. When Jesus returns, the sure bud that is Jesus' resurrection. will come to full flower in the remaking of everything to be very good again, with no mourning or tears or sorrow forever. Forever again. But only joy, pure and clean, every day as much as you want. Won't that be good? Doesn't the love of the Father, the good Father, whose providence, yes, has brought us here? But whose same good providence is shown at the cross and the tomb, doesn't the love of the Father give you hope? Even in the midst of your grief? This friends is God's encouragement to us that we might grieve with hope. Let's do that with prayer as we come to the table together. Father To even begin to touch on the grief that's in each person's heart would be impossible for me. But you, Holy Spirit, are not limited by the feeble abilities of one person And so I pray that you would minister to the grief in each heart. That for those without any hope or trust in Christ that you would draw them, give them hope, convince them to repent and believe is a great thing. Would you help us to face our grief, to call it what it is, to be okay being sad? But also to move through that. Because we have meditated and thought on your love, on the big thing that you're doing in the world, and that this is not all that will be. But that we have the true love from the Father. Convince us of that, Holy Spirit. Convince us even as we come to the table now. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We