I know that uh some of you, as you look at the title of the message on your bulletin outline, are thinking to yourself, I am not looking forward to this message. When am I going to learn to stay away from CPC the Sunday between Christmas and New Year's when Harris gives his annual death message? I have heard them referred to as such. My spies have reported back to me what reputation these messages have. And all I can say to you is that it's only those who know how to face death that can really know how to live. And uh so we go into this new year with a recognition. Life is brief. Time passes so quickly. And last year, you remember we looked in this same time frame at uh Ecclesiastes chapter one to six And particularly chapter 6, verse 12, on the question of values and certainties as life moves on. So this year I wanted to finish the book. My briefest series on record. One whole book in two messages. Twelve chapters. Conclusion. Ecclesiastes chapter twelve. Which talks about growing old and how to prepare for good old age and how to do it now. We uh took a survey of the bulletin inserts that those of you read. You figure, you know, we stuff these things, a lot of money and time spent. Does anybody ever read them? Gratified to know that many of you do read these things. And uh the most popular, the one that's most read, are the Focus and the Family bulletins, um, James Dobson's. And one that he had a little while ago was on the brevity of life. And let me quote to you just a brief part of what he said. He talks about the biblical writers telling us that we're just passing through this life. At best, we're merely short timers on this planet. Then he says this, given this understanding of the brevity of life, imagine yourself as an old man or woman looking back across many decades. Think about the highlights and the treasures of the past 70 or 80 years. What kinds of memories will be the most precious to you in that final hour? Interesting thought. All the things that we are so eager to do now You think of yourself, the final hours of your life. What will be the most precious memories, the things that were most satisfying, the things that you were the most glad that you did Ecclesiastes is about that issue, particularly chapter twelve. Looking at yourself from the perspective of old age. So that you can live without regrets or as few as possible. Our culture avoids any such thinking. And that's why it's hard when I bring it to you. We're so used to avoiding that kind of thing that to be faced with it and feel like it's too embarrassing to get up and walk out or something like that that you feel like, well, I wish we didn't have to consider this now. But the Bible does, and it does for a very good reason, because our lives are greatly enriched if we will consider what Ecclesiastes 12 has to teach us. What I'd like to do of these verses is to ask the five classic newspaper reporter questions to get at the meaning of it. What, who, when, how, and why. Let's look at Ecclesiastes 12 that Sandy read to you, the particular verses I'll be focusing on So you've already heard it. Now let us take the time to consider it. It's a lot to consider. Don't have much time, and so we'll need to move through this very quickly. First of all then, in answering the question, the basic question, how do you grow old gracefully, full of grace, the first question, what? The first thing he says, what to do is you remember the first word. Remember your Creator in the days of your youth, before the days of trouble come. And the years approach when you will say, I find no pleasure in them, that is, in the years of old age. Remember, he says That doesn't simply mean don't forget cognitively. It's not talking about simply uh, you know, just remember something, remember to do it, remember it, remember the facts. It's the kind of remembering that you see in Deuteronomy chapter 8 or in Jonah chapter 2. You remember when Jonah was in the belly of the great fish and he said, And here I was in all the slime and the gastric juices, and I remembered the Lord finally, you know. Kind of got my attention. The remembering idea here is the idea of Remembering that you are created, not self-sufficient. Call to mind your absolute dependence on the one who made you. Remember as you sit here that you don't cause your heart to continue to beat. Remember that as you sit here, you're dependent on forces outside of your control for your circulatory system. to keep functioning and to not clog, or your immune system to continue to function as it needs to. Or for your next breath that you take. Remember that you are created. Call to mind. Be conscious. of your dependence, that you're not self-sufficient. Secondly, who is it that you remember? He says, your creator. It's significant and worth noting, I believe, that Ecclesiastes never uses the name Lord Yahweh, the covenant name of God. And that's very significant because it helps you to understand what Ecclesiastes is about. People puzzle about this book and they're very confused about what Ecclesiastes is intending to teach us. Well, one of the clues, if you're ever reading an Old Testament book particularly, is to look at the names of God that are used and prominent, what's used and what's not. And so the fact that you do not see God's covenant name, his redemptive name in this book, helps you to see that the Ecclesiastes is not basically about the gospel. Ecclesiastes is pre-evangelistic. The question that Ecclesiastes is addressing is, is there an infinite personal God behind this life, which so often does not seem to make sense to us Is this world, is life created, or is it self-existent? And if it's self-existent, then verse 8 says, it is meaningless, meaningless, says the teacher. Everything is meaningless. And so the the essence of what Ecclesiastes is addressing, and you'll look, if you look in the the word, you know, the name we've talked about, Elohim, God. The creator God is the name that is used, or sometimes this name that you see in verse 1, your creator. It's the same word that's used of create in Genesis 1. He is the creator. That's the one that you're to remember, that you are not self-existent, but you are a creature. You are created. That is the only thing. That's the foundation for knowing that this life is not meaningless, because there is a personal God, not simply a force that is behind it. There is someone whom you can relate to. You can move into the Creator in a relationship. You remember him, and you enter into that relationship. When do you do that? When is it that you cultivate this relationship? When is it that you find that As a priority and as something that is of chief importance into your life, you want to move into a relationship with him on a personal level. Well he says right there in verse 1, when you're young. Remember your creator in the days of your youth, before the days of trouble come and the years approach when you will say, I find no pleasure in them. Our tendency is as long as things are going well to forget God, isn't it? When is it that so many people testify? that they come in to a relationship with Jesus Christ or with God. It is when the days of trouble come. But in so many cases the heart may be hardened or uh you may have so many regrets. Ecclesiastes, the teacher, is telling us here, remember God before the days of trouble come. And if you are a person who is saying, well, you know, I still want to live my life the way I want to live it, and it's nice to know that the gospel is there. So that someday I'll get serious with Jesus Christ. Maybe some of you kids, some of you teenagers feel like this. I'm going to put this off. I'll get religion later on. I'll come into that. But right now, I want to have some fun. Right now I want to live independently Let me tell you straight from my heart, that is very, very foolish for at least two reasons. The first reason why that is very foolish is because tomorrow has not been promised to you. You just heard Elaine talk about at the age of twelve, she could have been dead. Another accident, she could have been dead. Last year, a neighbor of ours, good friends, thirty-one-year-old son, coached sports, great shape, still going to school Found out he had a brain tumor. I went over to him that week to talk to him about the gospel, about the Lord Jesus Got his family's attention. But as I talked to him, he said he wasn't interested because he's he said, and I'll still remember these words, the day I die, he says, I'm gonna beat this thing. In one week he was dead I never saw him again. Tomorrow is not promised to any of us The day after Thanksgiving, I was driving from our home over here to the office. It was on Route 175, heading west, stopped at the traffic light at Thunder Hill Road. I was in the right lane, just waiting for the light to change. All of a sudden I looked up into the rearview mirror and I saw what is one of those nightmares that any driver has. I saw a car doing 50 miles an hour so close to me, I couldn't even see his grill. He was just a couple of car lanes behind me at that point And all of a sudden I just had that sense I'm about to be creamed. Just as an instinctive reaction, I put the car in gear and moved into the left lane. Next to the car beside me. There was a car coming down, I'd had no time to look. I just it was just I know I'm getting creamed, so I'll move As I moved over, there was a car over there, slammed on his brakes, and he blew his horn, but missed me. He was able to go around. And just as I did that I saw the car that was behind me, right where I had been less than a half a second before, start to do spirals. He'd hit the brake as soon as I had moved. And he came around and around and around, did the number of 360s over into the shoulder, didn't hit a single car. None of us. As I sat there, I couldn't believe that I still had a whole car there. I mean I was so when I drove over to the ministry, I got out and I looked around. I just I could not believe I was still here Two thoughts came to my mind as I saw that car going right beside me, just a couple feet away, where I had just been. The first was, God, thank you for delivering me. I can't believe it. Thank you. The second thought that was almost simultaneous with that is, man, I'm a good driver. What reaction Man, I just moved right and he just and he whoa that was cool. I wish we had that on video And then I thought how utterly foolish How utterly arrogant and foolish. The guy who was coming down the left lane, if he had just been a little bit closer, he could have creamed me If I hadn't seen him, if he hadn't seen me, all kinds of things I had absolutely no control over. And it was a very humbling experience of how vulnerable and frail. I am as a creature. Ecclesiastes says, remember your creator in the days of your youth before the days of trouble come. You don't know what this week's going to bring. You don't know what this next year will bring. Don't say, but it's okay now, I don't have to worry about it. Ecclesiastes says, now is the time. To get into that relationship with the Creator that is only available through Jesus Christ. Do not put that off. Then he moves on in the next verses. And by the way, the second reason is foolish before I mention that. is because you're saying when you say, I want to put that off and have my fun now, you're saying That to be in a relationship with the Creator, the one who made me, my life will not be as full and as enjoyable as if I do it apart from Him. I mean, you know, that's that's like Hunter Clausen, who's nearly three years old, or you know, some two or three or four-year-old in our congregation saying Thanks, Dad and Mom, for bringing me into the world. But I think I can take care of myself now. And in fact, you probably will be more of an intrusion in the things that I have planned to do than a help right now. So if you could just give me my inheritance, I'll just take off and I'll have a good time. You see And we as people have this idea that the one who made us, who gives this book to instruct us how to live, who wants to guide us and direct us, that we can do it better. That I'll have my fun, then I'll get into the relationship with him and all of his control and structures and all the things that he wants me to do his way that will be less fulfilling. Do you see that that is a lie from the pit of hell? The things that I regret in my life are always The times that I went my own way, as opposed to the way of Jesus Christ. As a kid, as a teenager, as an adult. And notice how he emphasizes this in very vivid language. In verses 2 on through verse 6 or verse 5, particularly. He describes the aging process. Now, let me tell you that scholars differ on the exact meaning of these verses And I only have time to move very quickly through with my understanding, my paraphrase of what these verses are saying. If you want me to defend them afterwards, we can discuss it. So let me just tell you what I think he is saying in this language. Verse 10 says that the teacher searched to find just the right words, and what he wrote was upright and true. And the images that he uses here are classic in communicating to us something of the feeling of growing old. Verse 2. He says in verse 1, before these days of trouble come, the years approach when you say, I find no pleasure in them. Now what does he mean by that? Well, verse two begins to unpack it: Before the sun and the light and the moon and the stars grow dark And the clouds return after the rain. This is talking about the loss of mental powers and dreams for the future. Uh we are used to clouds and rain and then sun. And then some clouds and rain and sun. You see there's no sun here. It's just, you know, after the rain the clouds just come right back again. It's just sort of a long, dreary existence. When you're young, the days don't go by quick enough. Seems like time drags so long, so long till Christmas. How many more days? It's gone. They get another 363 or 4 or something, yeah. So long. When am I ever going to be old enough to drive or date or do this or do that? You get old and you say, holy cow, Christmas, another one gone by again. See, like just last year I was unpacking this stuff. Pull it out, it's gone all over again Ray Steadbins says, your face just clears up when the mind behind it starts to go And the time just goes increasingly quickly. Then he says in verse three, when the keepers of the house tremble. That's probably talking about the hands and the arms, the defense, you see. What you have to defend yourself. The house here is the life, it's the body. And so they begin to shake. You no longer are strong as solid. Your hands begin to tremble. Strong men stoop. You were able to run a marathon or a half a marathon or at least jog. And you could walk upright and straight But he says as age comes, the steps are shorter, less steady, you begin to stoop, you need to use a cane And then a three-pronged cane, and then a walker, then a wheelchair. Unstable. Your knees buckle and your belt won't. The grinders he talks about are probably the teeth The grinders, your teeth. The grinders cease because they're few. Didn't have false teeth back then And so uh you'd have less teeth and less to chew with. My mom wrote me a letter once in 1970, where she said I'd just gone out with two friends. One has teeth and no hair. The other one has hair and no teeth. I believe it is given to us as we grow old to have one or the other, but not both. And then she said, For me it is the hair. My mom's been gone for five years this next this next month, January. She wrote that 28 years ago. She's gone. Ecclesiastes says, the things that we lose bit by bit. The windows, you see, that look out onto the street. The windows grow dims, talking about the eyes. You don't see things as brightly. Need more light. Not able to see as well. Verse 4. When the doors to the street are closed, talking about the hearing, the hearing starts to go. You can't hear. It's like people are talking through closed doors. The sound of the grinding fades. If your teeth grind, then you can't hear them as well anyway. I already experienced that. I I ought to warn you, particularly you women, that I've lost most of the high frequency. I still need to get these uh the hearing aids, you know, but the kind I need are not the simple ones. And so it's hard for me to hear high frequencies when there's a lot of background noise. And so if any of you women, because it's your voices, that I find it the hardest to hear back at the door say something to me and you find me responding inappropriately. It may be because I've been trying to catch the context and you were smiling and I smiled back. And so if you ever tell me of some tragedy and I say, Well that's good, I'm glad, praise the Lord. Uh you may need to say, Al, I think it's time for you to get the hearing aid, you know? You're not tuned in It's a problem. But you notice how he goes on. The sound of the grinding face, when men rise up at the sound of birds But all their songs grow faint. What's that mean? Well, those of us that are older, you may know. What he's saying is, five o'clock in the morning, the birds wake you up. You see, I can't hear anything else. Why do I hear the freaking birds out there? You know? Any little thing will wake you up. Even though their song is faint. You see, sleep is not as deep as sound. It's light. Then it goes on. When men are afraid of heights and of dangers in the streets, become full of fears, afraid to drive at night, afraid to drive, afraid to go certain places. Remember one time, shortly before my a couple years before my mom died, she fell out on our front lawn She was unable to get up. There wasn't anybody around. How humiliating to be laying on your front lawn and you can't get up And that's a problem. It's with so many older folks. So afraid I will fall. And I will either break my hip. Or I'll not be able to get up. And if I'm living alone, who's going to find me? My mom once fell inside and she couldn't get to the phone and had to wait until someone found her Fears. Things that you didn't even think about before. Become fears in your life now. When the almond tree blossoms, what's that mean? Almond tree produces white blossoms. It's talking about white hair. As you grow old and your hair turns white, the grasshopper drags himself along. Grasshopper that's lost a leg or two is dragging itself along. That's how you feel. And then he ends, and desire is no longer stirred. Interesting commentators have different views on this. One commentator said, but they all agree that that's referring primarily to sexual desire One commentator said, praise God, it's the last thing mentioned to go. Another commentator said it's the climax of all things because it's the worst. When one says to the other, not tonight, and the other says, Thank you. The commentator goes on Men then man goes to his eternal home, and mourners go about the streets. Remember him. Back to his theme, you see. Remember him, remember the creator before the silver cord is severed. Now these images of death. Before the silver cord is severed, or the golden bowl is broken, before the pitcher is shattered at the spring, or the wheel broken at the well, and the dust returns to the ground it came from. And the Spirit returns to God who gave it. How is it that you remember this one? Point four, you fear him and keep his commands. Verse 13. This is his summary. Fear God and keep his commands. Verse 13, now all this has been heard. Here is the conclusion of the matter. Fear God and keep his commands, for this is the whole duty of man. Two points, he says, fear God. The two-word Old Testament summary of a relationship with the Creator. Because you see him as he really is. And when you see him as he is, you are no longer arrogant. You recognize not only Your dependence upon him, that he is the one who has made you, but that he also is the one who will judge you, as he says in verse 14. But he also says to keep his commands because to claim a relationship with the Creator without obedience to the Creator is sheer presumption. He is the final authority, and therefore this book is the book that rules your life. This is the book that tells you how to live, and you don't say, I don't have time to read it. That is so very short-sighted. If you were diagnosed with cancer and somebody gave you a book and said, this is the latest text on the cure for your kind of cancer. The results are guaranteed. Follow the instructions. You would not say, I'll get to it sometime. I just don't have time right now We put off that which we think is not so important. Ecclesiastes is saying there is nothing more important in your life as you enter into nineteen ninety-nine than your relationship with the one who made you. The reason for that, why By the way, I think at the end of verse 13 where he says, For this is the whole duty of man. You notice you have an NIV or some Other versions that we'll show you words that are inserted. You'll see a little little brackets there. And that's because that word doesn't appear in the Hebrew. The Hebrew is literally, for this is the whole of man. They say that something makes sense. You gotta stick something in there. I think the idea is rather, for this is the wholeness of man, not the whole duty. The idea of Ecclesiastes is the vanity and emptiness of life apart from God. It's in contrast here to the wholeness of life in a right relationship with the Creator. Fear God keep his commands for this is the wholeness, the fullness of life for man. For, why, you see, fifth point, there is a judgment coming. For God will bring every deed into judgment, including every hidden thing, whether it is good or evil. You see that in every deed into judgment? That word judgment, remember, that's the word Mishpat that we looked at back in Isaiah 42. The verdict of the ruler according to his perfect standard of right and wrong. That's what he's talking about. And that judgment extends not only to everything you've done, but every hidden thing, everything you have thought, every motive. Will you measure up to that judgment? Will you be able to stand and defend your life that you deserve to enter in to what he has after life, this life? That you will be able to find his approval in that judgment? Ecclesiastes, as I said, does not deal with the gospel. It ends with judgment. But there are two hints in this chapter of the gospel. The first is in verse 7. You notice that he said there, remember him before the silver cord is severed, the golden bowl is broken, before the pitcher is shattered at the spring. Or the wheel broken at the well, that's verse 6, and the dust returns to the ground it came from, and the spirit returns to God who gave it Clear statement of life after death in the Old Testament. Some people say the Old Testament never teaches that. It's right there. The Spirit returns to God who gave it. Your life will go on. It will come into that judgment. And that judgment has to do with where you spend eternity. You see also in verse 5. When men are afraid of heights and of dangers in the streets, when the almond tree blossoms, grasshopper drags itself along, and desires no longer stirred, then man goes to his eternal home. And the mourners go about in the streets. There it is. Just a glimpse, you see. But what a glimpse! There is an eternal home. There is a place. This is just passing through. This is not the final resting place. Psalm 23 opens that up. Remember the verse at the end? You know, after the banquet, he says, and I will dwell in the house, the home of the Lord, forever. He's making a place for those who are his. For those who move through that judgment. And where he looks at your life and he looks at my life And there are the regrets and the shame, and there's no more blame shifting at that point. We stand naked and exposed. Ecclesiastes impels us forward to the hope of the gospel. And it does it by that word Mishpat. Do you remember the picture of the high priest who bears the breastplate of Mishpat? The people of Israel upon him as he went into the tabernacle, as he went into the temple to make sacrifice for the sins of the people, that they would be able to stand in the judgment Ecclesiastes impels us forward to the hope of that one who will come, Messiah. The one who is God come in the flesh that we've just celebrated. who bore the sins of his people, the Mishpat, that he came to bear the curse, so that he stood in that judgment, in your place and in my place. So that God would judge our sin in him. And by that he would say to you, Come into the eternal home that I've prepared for you. But he says to you at the end of 1998 and the beginning of 1999, do not wait. Do not put it off. Do not think whether you're young or middle or whether you're moving on toward the older years. I still have plenty of time. That's the seduction of the evil one who wants to keep you in his grasp. Jesus Christ calls you this morning. Come. Come and let me take that sin upon myself, that you might stand in that judgment unashamed. Because you have my record of righteousness, because I took your sin upon me. And because of that, you will be invited when your spirit goes to God. To dwell in his house forever with the fullness of pleasures. No old age, no decrepit, no disease, no weakness But the fullness of life in Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Lord our God, some of us here, I can't believe that in a group like this, that there's not some of us here who have been saying, yes, but not now, later. Lord, we pray that you would open that person's eyes, that they might see the call of the teacher here. Remember your Creator now in the days of your strength, before those years come When there is no pleasure, that the desires and the appetites of youth and strength have gone, and all that is left are the regrets. The hollowness of a life lived simply to myself. Lord, open our eyes that we might see the fullness of life that Jesus has to offer to us. That you would cause us, Lord, to flee to you, to run to you this morning, and to know that whatever tomorrow brings, that we would rest secure in you Lord, help us that we might see our sin to confess it, to forsake it, to leave it with you. Lord that Those of us who have that relationship, we would think of this next year and ask ourselves, if I were to live with utter abandon to you, as if you were the central thing, the the central focus. The most important relationship in my life, and it was simply to please you. What difference would that make? What would go? What would change? Lord, speak to us. That we might forsake those things that are in the way. That we might live this new year with a greater single-mindedness and abandon. To Jesus Christ, whom we trust and love. Amen