Thank you, Pete, and uh thank you Arthur and the music worship team that have uh led us into uh the courts of worship this morning. What a beautiful thing it is to be with the family of Columbia Presbyterian Church and to worship God with you. As we join together in the final letter, the final words of Paul to his son in the faith, Timothy, let's pray that the Lord would meet us through his word. Lord God, Psalm 27 reminds us that since you are our light and salvation, the strength of our lives, we have nothing to fear. Yet you know our fears and our anxieties, which are many. And so, Holy Spirit, would you deepen a work of courage in our hearts? Strengthen us in our callings to be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, and faithful in prayer. We pray that you would subdue any fears, that you would increase our joy, that you would expand our hope That we would be so filled with you, Jesus, that you would shine through us. Now we pray that you would meet us now through your word in Christ's name. Amen. If you knew that the end of your life was imminent, that at any moment, maybe days, maybe hours, your life on earth would be over, And if you had one last communication to give to your most beloved on the earth, what would you say? Well, such was my sense of real sense in on December the third, nineteen eighty-eight, when I was awakened at 3 a. m. while we were living in on Greenmount Avenue. We were eight years in the uh church plant at Faith Christian Fellowship. I was eight years in marriage to my beloved Maria. We had four children at the time, and I felt compelled to get up. and to write a letter to Maria, to each one of my children, to my parents, to my siblings, and to the elders of the church, because I really thought my life would soon be over. Well, I'm grateful to stand before you today and tell you that was wrong. I'm not dead yet. But it felt very real. You know, there's some benefit uh to having those moments. Uh they force us to think about the reality and the brevity of and the vulnerability of our lives that we know deep down is true, even as we work to suppress and to deny that. You know, it's good to be jolted by a sense of the impending end of our lives that we might, as Psalm 90 says, to number our days aright that we might have a heart of wisdom. So when you believe that The end is coming and things that really matter find their ways pushing forward And so when the Apostle Paul wrote this letter we call 2 Timothy, his sense of the impending end of his life was for real. He was days, maybe hours away from his final breath, and he soon finishes this letter, this final letter to his beloved son in the faith, Timothy. And so Paul is in a Roman prison. He's awaiting his death. He is at the end. of uh his life. Uh we find in the end of Acts, Paul was in his first imprisonment in Rome. But there was uh a different context. He was under more of a accommodating house arrest. His needs were provided for. He could move about. He could have guests. Apparently Paul was released. from that first imprisonment and he continues some time in his apostolic movements, bringing the gospel to more cities. Maybe he maybe he reached Spain that he talks about in Romans. In the admission of making disciples and planting churches, that's what Paul was about. But here we find that Paul has been re-arrested. And now there is absolutely no expectation for his relief. Release. And John Stott says this, we are to imagine the apostle. Paul, the aged, languishing in some dark dank dungeon in Rome, from which there is to be no escape but death Tradition holds that Paul and Peter spent their last days in the Mamertine prison in Rome under the insane, cruel, narcissistic Emperor Nero, who set Rome on fire, and then he blamed the Christians. And Paul would have been lowered into this dismal underground dungeon with a hole uh in the ceiling for light and air. Other references tell us that Paul is in chains, wearing fetters, like a criminal, suffering acutely from loneliness, from boredom. and the code of prison life. And he asked Timothy at the end of this letter to bring his cloak and the scrolls. Yet besides Paul's horrible confinement, the church outside was under severe threat. Leaders were abandoning their callings less than right Paul says in the opening chapter, you know that everyone in the province of Asia has deserted me, including Fygelis and Hermogenes. At the end, he talks about Demas, because he loved the world, has deserted me and has gone to Thessalonica. And he talks about Alexander, the metal worker, who did me a great deal of harm. There is so much to be discouraged about, so much to be depressed about, so much to question whether this small, vulnerable movement of disciples called Christians or followers of the way was going to find a way forward. How could it survive? Somehow Paul fought off discouragement and despair He knew where his hope and help was from. He knew that God was the God of the way when there is no way. And so he writes. this final letter to Timothy, who in a very real sense, Paul, is passing off the baton of his leadership. He calls him to continue fighting this good gospel fight. And so today we look at the opening verses of 2 Timothy 1, verses 1 through 14. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus To Timothy, my beloved child, grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve as did my ancestors with a clear conscience as I remember you constantly in my prayers night and day. As I remember your tears, I long to see you, that I may be filled with joy. I am reminded of your sincere faith, the faith that dwelt first in your grandmother Lois And your mother, Eunice, and now I am sure dwells in you as well. For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God. which is in you through the laying on of my hands. For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God Who saved us and caught us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace. which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began, and which now has been manifested through the appearing of our Savior. Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel, for which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle and teacher, which is why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed in. I am convinced that he is able to guard until that day. What has been entrusted to me. Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard from me in the faith and the love that are in Christ Jesus. By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. guard the good deposits and trust it to you. The word of the Lord. The aging Apostle Paul is about to die and he knows it. So he writes this final letter to the one young man who he is entrusting the leadership of the gospel ministry to. Timothy. And while it's true that Timothy accompanied Paul for over 15 years and became a faithful missionary companion, became a trusted apostolic delicate that he sent on special missions like to Thessalonica and Corinth. and in fellowship with Paul in his first Roman imprisonment. And while it's true that Paul considered Timothy his spiritual son in the Lord, maybe he even led him to Christ. And while it's true that Paul had unique affections and appreciation for Timothy, it is also true From a human perspective, that Timothy was hopelessly unfit for such a weighty leadership responsibility. The combating of heretics and false teachers troubling the church, the ordering of worship, the selecting and ordaining elders, the correcting, rebuking, commanding. and teaching the apostolic faith, the preserving of the gospel deposited in the face of so many overwhelming forces. These seemed so far above Timothy's capacity Here's Timothy. He's relatively young. He's still young. He's probably in his mid-30s. Timothy was also weak and healthy. He's prone. to illness, Paul referred to his frequent ailments. It appears that all the stress went to his stomach. So Paul tells him to take a little wine to settle him. Timothy was timid. He was apprehensive and faint-hearted, naturally shy. Some would call him an introvert. He tended to shrink from difficult tasks. Paul had to tell the Corinthians to put him at ease. People tended to see this weakness and take advantage of it. And so Paul had to tell Timothy, don't let anyone despise you or look down on your youth. It's been said that Timothy was disposed to lean rather than lead. Timothy was very happy to stay in the background and have others out front. This then was Timothy, young in years, frail in physique, retiring in disposition, who nevertheless was called to exacting responsibilities in the Church of God. And here greatness was thrust upon him. And like Moses, who was slow in speech and tongue, and told God to send someone else, And like Jeremiah, who said, I do not know how to speak, I am only a child. Or like Rahab, the prostitute, who would never have thought her faith would catapult her into the Hall of Fame. Or Ruth, the Moabitist, who had was privileged to become the great-great-grandmother of Jesus, or out of wedlock, pregnant Teenager Mary, who became the mother of our Savior, and a host of others before and after Timothy. Timothy was exceedingly reluctant to accept. His divine calling. But when God wants to do something great, he looks for weak people From the world's perspective, no human systems would have chosen the apostles, unschooled, ordinary common men. From a human perspective, no systems would have chosen Timothy to be Paul's appointed leader. But, as 1 Corinthians 1 reminds us, God chose the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. He chose the weak things of the world to shame the strong, so that no one can boast before him. And that is just the point of our God. Dan Allender said in his book, Leading with a Limp, God loves reluctant leaders. And even better. He loves reluctant leaders who know they are frightened, confused, and broken. And so if you feel weak today, You are just that kind of person that God wants to work his greatness through. Maybe you feel too young, too weak, too shy, and yet God is calling you into leadership. Timothy is a special message to the timid Timothy's, the timid Terries or Teresa's or the Tyrone's of the world. In this passage, Paul is calling not only Timothy, but all believers to fight their fears and the spirits of timidity that would cause them to shrink back. and to guard and courageously advance the gospel in their lives, this precious deposit of the gospel of transforming grace. And how shall we guard this precious gift of this good deposit, this good news of Christ Jesus, this pearl of great price? Well, Paul tells Timothy to guard this good deposit by feeding the felt, by feeding the flame, by sharing the suffering, and by gripping the power. Feed the flame. Verse 6. For this reason Paul says, I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. Paul has laid forth his apologetic to Timothy. He has given to Timothy the assurances of God's grace working through him. Uh he's talked about the faith, the sincere faith that was clearly evident in his grandmother Lois and his mother Eunice and clearly is working in him. God has given him uh this sincere faith. And God has equipped and endowed Timothy. God has blessed and poured out his love on Timothy. This is an accomplished work, an accomplished fact. Timothy hasn't done anything. It's all a work of God's sheer grace. And so in the face of these compelling facts of God's sheer grace, Paul exhorts Timothy for this reason, Timothy, knowing that God has begun a good work in you, knowing that God will continue his good work in you, for this reason I remind you To fan into flame, the gift of God that is in you. Fan into flame, stoke the fire, rekindle the gifts of God. And the word is a continuous action For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. Timothy, you have everything you need. Don't hold back. Be who God made you. Be what God's called you. Work at what God has given you. Timothy, you have been given what your calling takes. Work at it. Fan it into flame. The light exists. The flame has been given. The Holy Spirit is present Note, it's not a matter of trying to make a fire with two damp sticks or trying to make sparks to get something going. You have been given the fire and the light, the oxygen, stoke the fire that you have. There are three things that we understand are needed to create and keep a fire going. The heat, the fire, the oxygen, and the fuel. The heat, the flame exists in every believer. The gifts have been given to every believer. The oxygen, the air, the Holy Spirit. Has been given. The tongues of flame came down upon the apostles, but they had to open their mouths to speak forth the praises of God. Believers are charged to engage their gifts, to apply the fuel, to put wood on the fire to apply the oil in their lamps, the gas, the applications, our work, our discipline of engagement. You know the people of Israel had a role in the temple. What their role was, they were supposed to supply the oil for the lamps in the temple. In Leviticus 24, command the people of Israel to bring your pure oil from pressed olives for the light. to keep the lamps burning continually. And so we find that this image this work of applying uh the wood, the oil, uh into the ministry is still with us now and it's expanded And so Paul exhorts Timothy to stir up the gift of God that was in him. Stir it up as a as fire under the embers. It is meant of all the gifts and graces that God had given him to qualify him for the For the work of the evangelist, the gifts of the Holy Spirit that he had. He tells them to stir it up, exercise them so they will increase. Take all opportunities to use these gifts. It's been said that the great hindrance of usefulness in the increase of our gifts is slavish fear. And Paul tells Timothy, he warns him against this. God has not given us a spirit of fear, but power and love and self-discipline. And so we don't have time to expand on all the passages that talk about the gifts that have been given to the to the body of Christ. We find those those places in Romans 12 and 1 Corinthians 12 and Ephesians 4 and 1 Peter chapter 4, they are a given list, not even comprehensively. of the various gifts that have been given to the church. I believe you could look at them in three particular clusters. Jesus comes as prophet, priest, and king, and the prophetic gifts, their teaching gifts. There are communication gifts, they are counseling gifts, exhortation. And then there are the priestly gifts, which we find would be mercy and compassion, the movement of encouraging justice and uh and service and giving and then there are the leadership gifts the gifts of of shepherding and administration and uh and and providing uh care. And so we we find that these cluster of gifts are given and we and uh and so the fact is is that every single believer has at least one uh and possibly more of those particular gifts. And we find in those passages, and we find here with Paul with Timothy that you are to fan into flame. the gifts that God has given you. The church needs what you have. The church and the world, the world needs the witness of you working your gifts through the church uh to demonstrate and to display the glory of God. And these particular spiritual gifts are not your natural temperament, although God uses natural temperaments and capacities, but uh it's been said that uh these particular gifts are uh supernatural enablements. J. I. Packer says, what makes a spiritual gift a gift is not the form of the action, but the blessing of God. The thing that makes a gift a gift is when you do it and God uses it. And so Paul is telling Timothy. And he's telling all believers, God is telling all believers, to fan into flame the gifts that you have been given. And so a lot of times we, because it's natural for us maybe, we don't even recognize that we have a gift. And so we need the body to confirm it. We need to uh maybe you're looking for assessments. Uh there are many different spiritual gift assessment tools and there are good ones out there. And uh and I'm sure maybe the office has those. Uh if they don't, I can offer uh some of what I think are some top assessments. But you really need to uh use your gifts and if you want to try to figure out what that is uh to find opportunities to serve and to test your gifts and then to have the body uh confirm that How do we guard the good deposit of the gospel and trust this to us? By fanning into flame our particular gifts given to us by the Holy Spirit. and secondly by sharing in the suffering. And so in verse 8 he says, therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord. nor of me his prisoner, but share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle teacher, which is why I suffer as I do. Paul knows that Timothy is tempted to be ashamed of Paul. as a criminal. He's a criminal. He's in a Roman prison. Paul is a lawbreaker. Paul is acting like a fool for God. Paul is suffering. And Paul has been abandoned and deserted by most leaders. And when you think about Christianity, I mean it The Christianity in this time, uh, in its history in the worlds is this little teeny g sect It looks like it's just crazy people. There's actually a Roman graffiti of uh about a man on a cross. And he has a donkey's head on him. And there's this Roman named Alexamenus. And he's holding his hand up and he's worshiping this person on the cross with a a donkey's head. And clearly it was a mocking depiction of a Christian in the act of worship. The idea that a religion, a faith, was worshiping a crucified criminal was absurd. It was unheard of. A Roman citizen could not be crucified. Only the worst criminals, only slaves could be crucified in such a horrible, humiliating spectacle. How in the po how is it possible that people are worshiping a deity on the cross? It's ridiculous. It's so absurd. And For many, they just, it was beyond their comprehension. And so it was a despised sect. And there were a lot of slanderous accusations against Christianity. That was the context. And it was hard to be a person of public faith in such a context. But Paul exhorts Timothy to not be ashamed either of him or of his Lord, but share in the suffering for the gospel by the power of God. You know, Jesus said, if anyone comes after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. You know, or Our call is to public witness. In 1960, the Christian Century Magazine published the draft of Martin Luther King's essay on suffering and faith. And uh but uh they urged him to include uh material drawn from his personal experience and he actually hadn't put that in the original article and he he sent these last uh few paragraphs uh that weren't part of that original article. Uh and this is what he said, some of my personal sufferings over the last few years have also served to shape my thinking. I always hesitate to mention these experiences for fear of conveying the wrong impression A person who constantly calls attention to his trials and suffering is in danger of developing a martyr complex and of making others feel that he is consciously seeking sympathy. So I am always reluctant to refer to my personal sacrifices, but I feel somewhat justified in mentioning them in this article because of the influence they have had in shaping my thinking. Due to my involvement in the struggle of for freedom, for the freedom of my people, I have known very few quiet days in the last few years. I have been arrested five times and in 1960 put in Alabama jails. My home has been bombed twice. A day seldom passes that my family and I are not the recipients of threats of death. I have been the victim of a near fatal stabbing. So in a real sense, I have been battered by the storms of persecution. I must admit that at times I have felt that I could no longer bear such a heavy burden and have been tempted to retreat to a more quiet and serene life. But every time such a temptation appeared, something came to strengthen and sustain my determination I have learned now that the master's burden is light precisely when we take his yoke upon us. My personal trials have also taught me the value of unmerited suffering. As my sufferings mounted, I soon realized that there were two ways that I could respond to my situation. Either to react with bitterness, or seek to transform the suffering into a creative force. I decide to follow the latter course, recognizing the necessity for suffering. I have tried to make it a virtue. If only to save myself from bitterness, I have lived these last few years with the conviction that unearned suffering is redemptive There are some who still find the cross a stumbling block, and others consider it foolishness. But I am more convinced than ever before that it is the power of God unto salvation. So like the Apostle Paul, I can now humbly yet proudly say I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus, the suffering and agonizing moments through which I have passed over these last few years. have also drawn me closer to God more than ever before I am convinced of the reality of a personal God. Dr. Martin Luther King, Christian Century, April 1960. So how do we guard the treasure, nurture, and advance the gospel calling this precious deposit given to us by fanning the flames of our gifts? By sharing in the suffering, and finally by gripping the power. By the Holy Spirit, in verse 14, by the Holy Spirit who dwells in us, guard the good deposit, entrust it to you. By and through in total reliance and dependence on the Holy Spirit that is in you. Paul here is not just telling Timothy to be gripped by the grace given him. But he is showing him how to do it in this passage. Timothy, I know the temptation to stop the suffering. In this cold dark dungeon I'm chained in because of my calling, my appointed calling. He says in verse 11, I was appointed a preacher and a teacher and apostle, which is why I suffer as I do, but I am not ashamed and I'm going to tell you why I am not ashamed for I know whom I believe and I am convinced that he is able to guard until the day what he has entrusted to me. Paul is not telling Timothy to do as he says, but he's showing him to do as he does. Paul models and he shows him. Follow the pattern of the sound words that you have heard from me in the faith and the love that are in Christ Jesus. Neither is Paul telling him to trust or rely on Paul's leadership or strength of character, because he knows that he's weak. He tells them to rely on the Spirit of Christ who is in him. By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit. You know, from the beginning of this most personal, affectionate wearing his heart on his sleeve epistle We see Paul courageous resolve to follow Jesus. Paul models his conviction and displays His obstinate relentless faith in the one who caught him, who died for him and rose again for him. Yes. Paul has been deserted. He's been abandoned. He's been betrayed by formerly trusted leaders. But as he says at the end, when all deserted me, but the Lord stood by me and strengthened me. I did a survey of the opening words of Paul to the various letters that we have in the New Testament, of Romans and 1 and 2 Corinthians and Galatians and Ephesians and so forth. But there is no opening like this one that opens with such personal preaching the gospel truth into his own soul like this particular letter And it's understandable because Paul is being pressed. Paul is suffering. Paul knows he's near the end. And at any moment, Paul could have stopped the pain. He could have just denied the faith. He could have just said, I was wrong. I was mistaken. I was deluded. I had a m momentary lapse of sanity and all of the pain and suffering would have left. like many other leaders did. But we only find that as the heat of pressure and persecution rises on Paul, so does the brilliancy and the light and the fortitude of his faith. You know, just one example is in the opening unique words in verse 1. While many of his letters open with a similar declaration of his calling and source of authority, Paul and Apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God. This is the only one that says according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus. According to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus. Paul is holding on to the promises of God. He is certain that God's promises are always yes in Christ Jesus. He can count on them. He can count on them because Jesus Christ abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. And that is why he suffers as he does. Paul is preaching the good news to his imprisoned body, and he is a free soul. He knows that the gospel cannot be changed. Christ has him secured. Paul is clearly preaching the gospel, not first to Timothy, but to himself in this passage. English preacher Martin Lloyd Jones preaching on Luke 8 talks about where Jesus Christ was in the boat And he's asleep and there's a storm and the disciples come and say, Master, don't you care that we are perishing? And which is, when you think about it, somewhat uh crazy question to the Lord. Uh don't you care that we perish here? Jesus gets up and he says, Where is your faith? Lloyd Jones notes that Jesus doesn't say, you have so little faith, which he does say in some other places, but he says, where is it? Get it out. Where is your faith? Get it out. Tim Keller goes on and says, you see, faith is not something that comes on automatically. Faith is not like a furnace thermostat that it kicks on automatically when the temperature calls for it. That's what a lot of people think faith is. That is what a lot of people think courage is, but it's not. Where is your faith? See, in a sense, Jesus is saying, look. Haven't you seen the miracles I've done? Haven't you seen the fact that not a single promise I've ever made to you has ever been falsified? Haven't you seen that I've promised you? You see, when Paul says we walk by faith and not by sight, he didn't say we walk by faith not by thinking. In fact, in many cases, thinking is opposed to sight. Sight is sense. Sight is what happens that what appears to be. Sight is what your heart is telling you. Oh my gosh, oh my gosh, oh my gosh. That is what your heart's telling you. Uh that's sight. Look at that. Look at this. But courage says, think what What do I know to be true? Where is your faith? Get it out. It ought to be here. We need to get our faith out. Psalm 42, this is a great psalm that shows you getting the faith out. He's talking to his soul. Why are you downcast on my O my soul? Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Why? Hope in God, for I shall again praise him my salvation and my God. That is faith getting out. That is faith taking charge and quelling the voices and the fear. And it's speaking truth and grace into your heart. You know, this is one of the uh new new songs that kind of exemplifies this so well is the uh song by uh Lauren Dangle, You Say. You know, I keep fighting voices in my mind that say I'm not enough. Every single lie that tells me I will never measure up. Am I more than just the sum of every high and every low? Remind me once again just who I am because I need to know. You say I am loved when I can't feel a thing. You say I am strong when I think I am weak. You say I am held when I am falling short and when I don't belong. Oh, you say I am yours and I believe. What a great words of affirming and getting faith out. So friends, how do we guard the good deposit that God has given us? We guard it by Fanning the flame by sharing in the suffering and by gripping the grace. Let's pray. Lord God, help us to be uh faithful to the callings you've given us, to the deposit that we've been entrusted with. Lord Jesus, uh these words that uh Paul wrote to Timothy, these words are not just for him, but they're for us. Lord, we confess to you that we are a weak people. Lord, Christianity is being slandered in so many ways. People are getting false views of what Christianity is in our world. And Lord, it's it's harder to be a witness publicly. But God help us to be faithful like Paul who's suffering in prison and like Timothy who just didn't feel qualified or equipped, but God Through your spirit, you gave him everything he needed. We are all here today because Timothy, you worked through him to continue the good work of the gospel going forth. Lord, use us, embolden us, speak faith and truth into our hearts that we might get our faith out. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.