Thank you, Catherine. Well the middle hour was our annual congregational meeting on money. Boy did the fur fly and uh feathers, boy, we were arguing and screaming and defending no. You know, actually congregational meeting You know, I would never join a church, I think, until I went to their congregational meeting. I mean, that is where you see the seemiest side of the congregation. And I thank God that we can have them on Sunday mornings because um there was a lot of celebrating. A lot of smiling, uh looking at God's faithfulness this last year, fifty thousand dollars over the goal that we had and then looking uh at the plans for 2007 to see uh the budget, the hopes, the expectations uh for all the different ministries and hearing the first report of the second phase of our construction resuming what we left off with capstone and seeing plans now for what God's going to do. So it was a great time. Don't miss those middle hours You know, take a look what's going on, but there's some important stuff and a lot of important things coming up too. But I want to connect what I said last week about the joy of Jesus. And the subject that we do not usually associate with joy, namely giving money Now, let me just pause there and and ask you this past week, since last week's sermon on having the joy, Jesus' own joy, so that your cup would be full. Have you experienced more joy this past week? I found myself thinking about that different times during the week and praying to know Jesus' own joy. I I hope that you're able to use the messages. They're not just to fill the time and entertain you on Sunday mornings. They're supposed to be helpful, practical, something that you can use in the next week. So I hope that you've found that to be true. But I want to begin this morning by asking you a question that I had to ask myself this week. Namely When you gave in the offering we just received, what did you feel? What do you generally feel when you give in the offering? Now, I've got to be honest with you, I generally don't feel anything. In fact, often I don't think about what I'm doing. I practice what I call the three D's. With my wife, I decide what we're going to give. Then we try to discipline ourselves to make sure that we give that as the first fruits. And then we simply detach ourselves from it and pay it like a bill. You know? In fact I I think sometimes I'm afraid to think about what we're giving because then I might start thinking about all the other things we could have done with it And then Satan will get an inroad there and I'll lose more joy than I would have gained. So you know this kind of thing, you just do it and don't think about it. It's the right thing to do and move on. And because of that, we lose a lot of joy. I know I do. In fact, the idea of enjoying giving may seem rather strange to some of you. Do you know the average American churchgoer gives 2. 6% of their income in the offering? It's been estimated that if the average American churchgoer were to tithe, that would add $143 billion to kingdom work. 143 billion. Now, contrast that with a giving that was recently done for the Garveys. in the terrible accident that they had and the horrendous expenses that were incurred because of that. Well over 300 people, not just in CPC, but a lot of people outside of CPC gave for the Garveys. That was not dispassionate. It was not paying a bill. It was done personally. It was done thinking about their need. It was done with a lot of feeling, I dare say, some sacrifice, but it was done personally. Contrast that with the way that we often give to the Lord, which is just kind of paying a bill. Now we come to 2 Corinthians chapter 9. Paul's doing some fundraising here in chapters 8 and 9 for the poor in Jerusalem. They hadn't had a an unexpected accident, it wasn't some natural disaster, although there was a problem of famine. But the particular thing was that there were Christians there who because they were Jews in the Jewish capital their faith in Christ marginalized them from the economic um productivity of the city and uh they found it hard to get work And they were being persecuted. And so Paul's asking the other Christians in Macedonia to chip in to help and to give for their brothers. Now, it's in that context that he makes a number of observations, general observations, about gospel giving that are pertinent to us, I believe, here at the beginning of a new year. In fact, I especially planned to preach that, preach this this morning, some months ago, on the morning where we would be receiving and talking about the budget and treasurer's report and all that. simply because it is not a time where we are in debt, where we are saying, oh guys, you know If you care about CPC, help us to make the budget or help us in this new challenge. We have some great effort. We need your money. And to do it so that there's some particular personal interest. This message is simply in principle. And I think we as Christians are used to when we hear somebody talk about money, we think, okay, what's the appeal? What's the need? Give me the bottom line and I'll think about it and pray about what I need to do. That's not what this is about. This is about gospel giving in principle. And that's what I think we need to consider more as Christians. So that when we hear about particular needs, we have a gospel context to place those in. Now there's a lot that Paul says here that we could consider But because of our time, I want to focus on just one verse, 2 Corinthians 9, verse 7, where he says Each man, each person, should give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion For God loves a cheerful giver. I want to consider two points that he touches on in that verse, how we give and why we give. How to give? First of all, not negatively. Number one, reluctantly. First blank. Each man should give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly. Literally, the Greek is not of grief, not of sorrow, not of pain. You think of parting with your money and it makes you sad. That's the idea, you know? It's like the old joke in the Dutch Reformed Church What is the only thing stingier than a tight Scotsman? Answer a generous Dutchman. I want you to know John Van and Hoovel smiled when I told that in the first service. Now cross out the word guilt there. I think that pertains more to the second point. But you see, the point of that joke is we hate to part with our money. It's like partying with a friend. And so to get money, there are a lot of non-gospel kinds of ploys that organizations and too often the church will use. Uh we'll give you a free gift if you give over a certain amount. It's a token of appreciation. You know, or um we're gonna hold a raffle. And uh we'll give you a crate of oranges or a new car or something, but you know, some lucky person gets this big thing and the rest of us we just give, but let's with the hope that maybe we'll get something back, maybe we'll hit it big time Or maybe it's by putting your name on a plaque in what we do for the church. I know of a church, gospel preaching church, where everything in the church is labeled. The windows have who the windows were donated by, the pews who donated each pew, the rooms you walk into each room, and this room was donated by, you know, and on and on and on it goes You know, and so you it's kind of like, you know, you can sort of get the role of the congregation, at least who the givers are, but just by kind of walking around, taking a tour of the facility. The problem with that kind of incentive is that it makes it a trade rather than a gift. So we never really examine our hearts. Because I'm thinking, well, at least I'm getting something out of it And that's kind of totally contrary to gospel giving. Now, the second way he says not to give is under compulsion. Under compulsion. Literally of necessity, that is as if it's a duty, like paying a bill. And here's where the guilt part, I think, more comes in. It's the guilt manipulation to produce compulsion. You see the picture of the doe-eyed, emaciated child who will starve if you don't give your money. to that child or that organization. And some of these ads have become quite recurrent and um because they're very effective Uh people part with money out of this compulsion of how could I possibly not help with you know, or have you gotten the prayer letters? You know, you've you've gotten them, I've gotten them, you know. They sort of go same pattern God's really blessing our ministry. Hundreds are coming to Christ. We have just one problem. We're going to have to shut down if you don't give to help this ministry to continue. And so there is this, you know, this sense of obligation, compulsion. Well, you know, how how could I not give to something that God's all obviously blessing so much You know, always prompts me and I read those to wonder how is it that God is able to convert hundreds of people's hearts? And yet he can't fund the operation. I you know, never could quite understand. Now I know there needs to be money given for organizations. Used to work with one that we raised our money for that But the it's the compulsion, it's the sense of guilt, the sense of you have to give for this thing to happen that I think is counter to the gospel. Especially when you add to that our innate, superstitious, fear, law-based natures. I'm afraid if I don't give, something bad's gonna happen. You know, God's not going to bless me financially. If I don't give, then He's not under obligation to bless me. And it's really simply based on law. If I give, he's under obligation to bless. So I've got to do it. And besides, I kind of fear that that maybe he's reluctant to bless me, and so I've got to keep trying to it's almost like bribing him to keep blessing me. We don't articulate those things, but it's this whole superstitious fear-based mentality. The result is that giving becomes like paying a bill. Like check it off, there's no joy. That's not gospel giving. Each man should give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. Those are the negatives. What are the positives? Two positives. But rather, one, choosing freely in your heart what to give. Each man, each person should give what he has decided in his heart to give You give as a steward, recognizing God has given to you, so you decide in your heart what you want to give. But it's his ownership. Now let me try to illustrate that for you. Let's suppose that we conducted after this message a second offering this morning, only this is a reverse offering. In this offering, instead of your putting money into the basket, you take money out of the basket. In fact, we tell each of you, take $25 out of the plate. It's been funded There it is. We want you to take $25 out of the plate, and this is all we ask you to do. We simply say, take the $25 out, and in the next week Do with that $25 what you think will most honor Jesus Christ. So maybe you think, well, you know, I. think of a Christian book that I could give a friend. Might help them in their walk with the Lord or help a person to come to know the Lord or I could give somebody a meal or I could do you know you start thinking of all these things. And then I said, well what well I didn't say you had to give it. I just said, use it in the way that will most honor Jesus Christ. And you see, what's happened is because you have thought I was given this Then it's for me to use to give to somebody else. But why is it that the money that God gives us, because we earn it, that we think somehow, well, He didn't give me that, I earned that. So He's owed a certain portion of it And the rest of it's up to me. That's mine. You see, it belies the fact we don't really think as stewards. We think as owners If we thought as stewards, we would receive that money like the reverse offering, and we would pray, Lord, what do you want me to do with what you have given me? That's a whole shift in thinking, you see. It's a shift that many of us need to make in order to understand when Paul says, give what you have decided in your heart to give. Not as an owner, but as a steward. That's clear as you look in the context. And so you give freely Because you realize that Jesus himself said in Matthew chapter 25, the parable of the stewards, as you are faithful in small things, I will make you responsible and trust to you greater things. So all that we have is as a trust. Now the scripture indicates in the Old Testament that 10% is a kind of a baseline. Are you owed, you know, is God owed 10% in the New Testament? We don't think in terms of debt owing. He says, simply give as the Lord's prospered you. Give as you've decided in your heart to give. But certainly 10% in the Old Testament economy is a good baseline for us to think. Now maybe you're only giving that average in the American churchgoer 2. 6%. And you're saying, I really would like to give a tithe But I simply can't afford it. I mean there's too much month at the end of the money, and I can't afford to do that. It stresses me out to think about it. In fact I wish I hadn't come this morning. You know, maybe this is something that's causing your blood pressure to rise a little bit, a little bit of tension going on. Well, again, let me try to put you at ease. Give willingly what you have decided in your heart to give. And if for you that means, you know, I want to trust God, I want to show him I love, I want to move from 2. 6% to 5% this year, fine. Trust God. Give willingly what is in your heart to give. Because if you give 10% grudgingly, resentfully, forget it. So give what is in your heart, what you desire to give, recognizing you're a steward. It's the willingness that matters anyway. Think that Paul says that. Back in chapter 8, of course I know when to put all these things on the screen a lot of you don't bring Bibles and look at them. But you know, bring your Bibles and you mark it up, you own it, you know, a little bit more. But one that's not there is in chapter 8, verse 12, Paul says, For if the willingness is there The gift is acceptable according to one what ha what one has, not according to what he does not have. Hey, there's a big insight. You're not responsible for what you don't have But you're responsible for what you do have. That's all. With a willing heart, he says, if the willingness is there, then it's acceptable. And if you're willing, God will bless you and enable you to grow in what you're able, desiring to give to Him. We talked about a couple of weeks ago. God needs to change our hearts, Ezekiel 36, to make us generous, willing. That's a supernatural thing. The second thing he says here is to give it cheerfully with all your heart. Each person should decide to give what he has decided in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. Not just willing to give, but positively enjoying it. That's what he's saying. In fact, the Greek word that's used here is the word chilaros from which we get our word hilarious or exhilarating. Now that doesn't mean that we're gonna have a meter to measure the laughter that's going on when we take up the offering from now on. But there it should mean that at least we can bring a smile to our face to say, you know, Lord, I'm thinking about what I'm doing and I'm enjoying doing it. It's not simply paying an obligation. You see, I'm aware I'm giving this to Jesus Christ. I'm giving this to my Heavenly Father by the power of His Spirit. So I'm giving to him what's on His heart. And if I'm giving to Columbia Presbyterian Church, I'm giving to the priorities we talked about in the middle hour, which we hope from beginning to end are gospel priorities. The salaries of the staff. to be able to operate the ministries, the equipment that's used, the deacons giving to those in need, the facilities that are needed to operate ministries These are all things, Lord, that I'm aware that when I'm giving my money, it's going to these things. And those are things that are on your heart. So I'm giving this to you for the ministry of Jesus Christ, for his honor, in what you want to do here in our midst as a fellowship and for our community. That brings a smile to my face. Because it's personal, you see. It's not something that's just impersonal. Second point then, why and you know, forget the little of that was up there. I was going to put something else You see just above number two. But second thing is why then to give? And what I say above is that the key is to see it as a response to God's grace. Four reasons that make you smile when you give. Number one, A. Because you will benefit yourself spiritually. You will benefit yourself spiritually. Look what he says in verse 6. Remember this. Whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will also reap generously. It's simply That's a function of the reality of life. You sow sparingly, conservatively, keep it to yourself, you know, the like the talents, just keep it, then um you're not going to reap much. Verse 10, now he who supplies the seed to the sower and bread for the food will also supply and increase your store of seed and enlarge the harvest of your righteousness. You will be made rich in every way so that you can be generous on every occasion, and through your generosity Through us, your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God. It's a way of trusting God that He will provide for all your need. You're not on your own, and you're saying, I believe that, therefore I can give And the big smile comes when you realize that by this I am investing in eternity. You see, the idea of sowing sparingly, reaping sparingly and generously really have eternal implications because Jesus said, lay not up for yourself treasures here on earth, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven. Where neither moth nor rust corrupts nor thieves break through and steal. It's absolutely guaranteed. You never get a better investment You know, you gave a few hundred dollars in the offering, saying, here's Lord, what I'm giving. Uh that's the best investment I'll make this year It will reap rewards that I cannot begin to guess at. And yet we are still so hung up on the fact that if I could only Get more money here and enjoy it all here, then I'd really be happier. So why do I want to part with it for that? Let me read uh just this little quote from an article I saw recently This is from Jewel Whitaker. Jewel Whitaker is the wife of the lottery winner Jack Whitaker. Who won the largest undivided jackpot in U. S. history? $113 million. Since winning $113 million two years ago, her husband has been arrested twice for drunk driving, once for assault, and he's been ordered into rehab. His quote, I wish I would have torn the ticket up. There's a picture of him there. He looks absolutely miserable $113 million. Miserable. When you and I give, we benefit ourselves. Because we're investing in eternity where the true riches are. Second, you will benefit others who will praise God as a result. He says in verses 11 to 13, You will be made rich in every way, so that you can be generous on every occasion, and through us your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God. He talks again, overflowing in many expressions of thanks to God. Verse 13, men will praise God as a result. So you see, you love Jesus. And because you love Jesus, you praise Jesus. But the one thing that gives you more delight, perhaps, than even praising Jesus. is to realize that you can do something that causes other people who are not now praising Jesus to join in the chorus. That what you're giving to is gospel ministries. That through that God blesses the gospel. He blesses not only in the ministries of the gospel that we have here for our own um edification in the church, but the deacons, sand town, missions, all these different things that when you think about them You know, you just smile and you think, the gospel's going out, and Jesus Christ is being lifted up through this. And I'm participating in this. What a privilege. And so you rejoice that others are giving thanks to God. Others are going to praise God as a result of the privilege that we have of giving to gospel ministries. Thirdly, see, you smile because it pleases God. That's what he says. Each man should give what he's desired in his heart to give, not reluctantly or under compulsion, for God loves the cheerful giver. Now, if your heart's been changed by Jesus Christ this morning and you love him, you've been transformed, you have a new life, then you love him. And when you love someone, you like to know what they love, so that you can bring them pleasure, right? My wife loves scallop jewelry. So when my son and I, a couple years ago, went to Nova Scotia, everywhere we go, I'd be looking for scallop jewelry. I picked up so much scallop jewelry, she finally said, enough with a scallop jewelry. I got a lifetime supply. Thank you very much But I loved the smile on her face when I gave her scallop jewelry. Now there's not a lot of things we read in Scripture that are as explicit as this that tell us something God loves. Something that brings a smile to his face and joy to his heart. But we read right here, God loves a cheerful giver. Why? Because God loves to be loved and God loves to be trusted. And giving expresses love and trust. It says, I am yours, and I want to express my love to you by giving something that's a reflection of my time and my effort, and I'm giving it to you saying that I trust you. I don't have to keep it all to myself. I can trust you to take care of me. So God loves a cheerful giver. Do you remember back in 2 Samuel? The Bible tells us there was a plague. And during that plague, David, King David, decided that he would give an offering to God, that God might be merciful to stop the plague. So he goes to the field of this fellow Arana farmer and he says, I need provisions to make an offering. And Aaron, who knows all about this plague, says, Whew, yeah, take my cattle, take my wood, take the alder, take anything you need. I'll give it to you. Just offer it to the Lord and pray that the plague will stop. 2 Samuel 24-24. Remember, David said, No. I insist on paying you for it. I will not sacrifice to the Lord my God burnt offerings that cost me nothing. The very nature of a sacrifice, an offering to God, is that it costs me something. That's what I'm doing. I'm saying, Lord, I'm giving you this. It's precious to me, but I'm giving it to you because you're more precious to me. It's a statement of his worth to you. And so you do this because it pleases him to express his worth and your trust in him and your delight and your love for him. But finally, of course, the bottom line, chief thing, is that it is gratitude to God for his grace. It's gratitude to God for his grace. Giving to God is always a response to his greater giving to you and to me. In two ways First of all, it's a response to his general provision to you. That's what he says in verse 8. God's able to make all grace abound to you, so that at all things, at all times, having all that you need, he will abound in every good work. That's what he says in the next verse. So it's a statement, Lord, I trust you. You will cause me to abound, and you've given me everything I need. And I don't have to scrap. I don't have to protect it. And so Lord, I'm doing doing this as an expression of my faith and gratitude. But the second thing, of course, is far more significant and far more at the very heart of the gospel. It's the fact that you and I give out of gratitude for the gift of his own son who gave his all for you. And that's what he says in chapter 8, in verse 9. For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. So that you, through his poverty, might become rich. How rich was Jesus Christ! I don't know. I can't begin to imagine. But I can tell you this. You and I look at all the jewels, precious metals, the things that this earth contains. And he looks at this earth and he says, I could put one million three hundred thousand of those little balls inside inside that sun that gives you warmth and light And that sun is just an average-sized star in the galaxy that you live in. And that galaxy is made of billions of suns, some far greater. And that galaxy is just one of billions, tens of billions, hundreds of billions of other galaxies spinning through space that I have made. How rich is Jesus Christ that was produced at the word of his desire. Do you realize that when God gave his son, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son? Anything else God would have given you, He could replace like that. Speak the word, here's another one. No sacrifice to that When he gave Jesus Christ, he gave his one and only Son the only thing he could not replace. That sacrifice. And when Jesus Christ came from glory, he took on a body. Not to say, well, for a few years I'll put up with this, and then I'll return as I was. He took on a body with the nail prints forever. Forever in a body, so that through his poverty you would become rich and share that eternity with him. I still remember November twenty eighth, nineteen seventy-one, because it's in my journal. I was working with InnerVarsity, Kathy and I were with InnerVarsity and we um didn't make much money and not only do we not make much, but Oftentimes the checks didn't even come one time, maybe two weeks late because there simply wasn't the money to pay. We came to a particular worship service and that morning I literally had one dollar left in my wallet and this was before credit cards. And so I'd keep that dollar in a little secret compartment, it was in a little fold. Uh so that if I spent all my money, I'd always at least have a dollar to get some gas. And you could get some gas back then for a dollar or something that I might need was my emergency dollar And so I thought in that worship I thought, Lord, uh, you know, I'm I'm gonna trust you. Kathy and I agreed and I said, um, we're gonna give and I dug out a little secret compartment, the last dollar to put in the offering, and then just trust what God would do. As I went into the little compartment to pull out the dollar, there next to the dollar was a $10 bill. Some friends And got my wallet and sneaked in a tin in that compartment, figuring, knowing me, if I ever got down to the last dollar, I'd probably need some more But how my heart is broken thinking, that's my heavenly Father. He takes care of me. He's given everything for me. Can I trust him? And he did. And he always has. So smile when you give. Because it gives you pleasure. And smile when you give. Because it gives the Father pleasure. Let's pray. Oh Lord, forgive us when we give reluctantly When we give grudgingly, when we give thinking we're not sure that we can trust you. And it reflects how little we love you. Lord, open our eyes to see Jesus' sacrifice of love for us. How Lord Jesus, you gave everything. That you gave it willingly for the joy that was set before you, enduring the cross and despising the shame. Being sat down at the right hand of the throne of God with us in that day to share your riches, that we might trust you more, that we might invest in the treasures in heaven. That we might, Lord, trust you more this this um year For some that say, I really haven't thought much about that or haven't done much about that, increase their faith. May they trust you more now to To give not only willingly and cheerfully, but with greater faith. Lord, thank you for the provisions that you've given to us as a church. We pray that you would grant greater joy in this year, joy in giving, and that you would we would see, Lord, enjoy you providing for phase two of the facility. For all the ministries you've called us to do, because Lord, what you call us to do, you provide the resources for. Help us to trust you. And Lord give to our hearts joy, joy in giving to Jesus. Amen.