Well, for our observance of Easter this season, we are looking at the person of Pontius Palatus, better known as Pilate. And specifically, we are looking at three contrasts. The first, last week, was the contrast of Pilate's heart with Jesus' heart. We saw that Pilate was willing to sacrifice Jesus in order to save himself. Jesus was willing to sacrifice himself. To save compromisers like Pilate, like you, like me We saw that Pilate was an illustration of the illusion of secular righteousness. He shows that we all live by principles. To a certain point. To the point where that will cost us, in terms of our own idols, those must-haves in our life that give us meaning. Or significance or a sense of well-being. When that becomes threatened, we abandon the principles. And so Pilate wanted to release Jesus But that was possibly going to cost him his career. And that was Pilate's idol. He would not jeopardize his career. There was also some threat to his life. But more directly to his career as a Roman official. I want to pursue that further this morning in the second contrast. A twofold contrast, contrast of Guilt and justice. First of all, the contrast of guilt, Jesus' innocence, and Pilate's guilt And then the contrast of Pilate's justice and God's justice. I want to look at those two things. Let's pray for just a moment. Lord, we pause to pray that again, with Lord, you would show us Jesus. Help us in our minds, eye, imagination to get back into this scene and then to see our lives. In the light of that. Holy Spirit, speak to us now. We want to be available and open to your teaching. Amen. Okay, let's look at first of all Jesus' innocence and Pilate's guilt. That's the first two blanks. Jesus' innocence and Pilate's guilt. Look first of all at Jesus. Notice the charges that they level at Jesus. Remember that the Jewish leaders simply had wanted Pilate They simply wanted him to approve the execution But Pilate surprises them and disappoints them by determining to reopen the trial in a Roman court of law. So he asked that first question, what charges do you bring against this man? That's a technical Roman interrogatio, the statement of the charges. So he's going to conduct a trial. He wants to do this right. And their response, as you saw Tom just read, Luke 23, verse 2, they began to accuse him, saying, We have found this man subverting our nation. He opposes payment of taxes to Caesar, and he claims to be Christ Messiah, a king. Three charges. Number one, sedition. That is uh stirring up a revolt against the government. Absolutely false, no basis to it whatsoever. Second charge. That was patently false. Jesus paid taxes And thirdly, the charge that he was Messiah king of the Jews. That was a half-truth. Now it's interesting that Pilate is shrewd enough that he doesn't even consider the first two charges. It's the third one that he pursues. There's some basis to that And so these are the most incriminating things they can say. We saw last week that Pilate pursues that third charge. And as a result, six times, Pilate declares that Jesus is innocent. Six times a Roman official says, This man is innocent of the charges that you're bringing, the worst charges you can trump up against him. Let me read through those six times. You see them, the scriptures listed there. And at this point I just want to read to you his declarations. So you see the force of the repetition six different times. First one is in John 18, 38, after the initial interrogation, and the statement about truth. What is truth? Pilate says, I find no basis for a charge against him. Simple as that. Second time. Shortly after that. In Luke chapter 23. after he has come back from Herod. Pilate says, I found no basis for your charges against him. Neither has Herod. You see, he has done nothing to deserve death. Third time, shortly after that, Luke says, for the third time he spoke to them. What crime has this man committed? I have found in him no grounds for the death penalty. Fourth instance, after he has them flogged, he brings him out before the people. He says, I want to let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him. The fifth time, John nineteen, in verse six, he says, As for me, I find no basis for a charge against him. The sixth time, Matthew 27, after releasing Barabbas, he says he knew it was out of envy that they had delivered Jesus before him. And so when he saw he was getting nowhere, he washed his hands and said, I am innocent of this man's blood. He is innocent. I will not be apart. To condemning him. Six times Pilate publicly and officially declares that Jesus is innocent. Now contrast that with Pilate's guilt. Pilate knows that Jesus is innocent, and yet he is unwilling to stand on principle. when it will cost him something. He'll stand on principle to a certain point, but he's not going to risk the sacrifice of his career in order to enforce the verdict that he himself has declared. Secondly, notice that he refuses Jesus' overtures to appeal to him for him to come to his senses and acknowledge who Jesus is. Jesus again and again appeals to him. We saw that last week. We went through that. You remember, do you really want to know if I'm king or is this just official? Do you really want to know the nature of my kingdom? Do you want to know the nature of truth? Stands majestically before him in silence as Pilate becomes unglued in order for him to realize that Jesus is his only refuge Finally, when Pilate says, Don't you know I have power to crucify you or to release you? Jesus says, you'd have no power except it was given to you from above. Therefore, the one handing me over to you is more guilty. You're accountable to the one who's given you this power, God. And you are guilty. Somebody's more guilty, but you are guilty again and again, you see. Jesus has appealed to him, but Pilate refuses to bow the knee and to come to Jesus as refuge. As a Roman centurion had done some time before on behalf of his servant. Pilate refuses. And he hardens himself against Jesus. He's guilty. Guilty again and again. But now let's press this even further and look at the contrast between Pilate's justice and God's justice. Look at Pilate's justice. I want to go back over those six declarations, and I want you to see in each case after Pilate states Jesus' innocence what he does as a result. First of all, now we can let's look at him up on the screen. First of all, John chapter 18 Do you remember it's this interchange about the kingdoms, and then Jesus says he who stands with me stands for truth? Pilate sort of cynically asked, what is truth? With this he went out to the Jews and he said, I find no basis for a charge against him. Now, if justice were to prevail, Pilate should have followed that statement with, This court is adjourned. And because he knew that there was a mob out to get Jesus, and he had the whole backing of the Roman army and a large contingent of it there in Jerusalem at Passover time based in the Fortress Antonia, he would have said, And I'm going to put this prisoner under the security of the Roman guard and escort him out of the city to safety. That's justice, you see Well what's he do? He preparicates. And so he talks and he engages the Jewish leaders and you know and then he finds out that Jesus is from Galilee and oh he thinks, oh here's my out. So okay, well take him to Herod. You know, Herod's the uh over Galilee, so take him up to his he's Herod's here in Jerusalem, take him to his palace and you can try him there. That's not justice, but he sees it as a way out. Herod, of course, tries to get Jesus to perform some tricks, some miracles. He's interested in some entertainment. Jesus refuses to comply, majestically stands in silence. Why then does Herod not execute Jesus? I believe it's because Herod had executed John the Baptist. And Herod knew that that had made him very unpopular in Galilee. So Herod's not about to Commit political suicide and stone a very popular prophet who many think is the Messiah. So Herod kicks the ball back to Pilate, sends him back down to Pilate. And Pilate, of course, is not exactly overjoyed to have Jesus back in his court again, but it's at that point that he states officially I have examined him. I found no basis for your charges. Neither has Herod, for he sent him back to us, as you can see. He has done nothing to deserve death. What's the next statement? Therefore I will punish him. There's justice for you, right? This man's innocent, so I'll punish him The punishment is simply negotiation. Well, maybe if I scourge him, you guys will let him off. But it's absolutely unjust. Rubs it in by, you know, one the slip of the tongue, because Luke points out that he says it a third time, he declares his innocence. In verse 22, I found no grounds, I have found in him no grounds for the death penalty, therefore I'll have him punished, and I'll release him. Travesty of justice. Fourth time, you come to John 19, after Pilate has had Jesus flogged. And that flogging also involved some abuse. It was the custom. in those times came from some of the barbaric uh customs of ancient Rome, that if a prisoner was going to be flogged because the soldiers were bored and they were always looking for something the governor would look the other way and let them just have some of their sadistic games. And so along with the flogging, we read that the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns, very sharp thorns from this bush Put it on his head, they clothed him in purple robe, went out to him, went up to him again and again, saying, Hail, king of the Jews! They struck him in the face. They take the crown of thorns and take his rod that he's dropped from his hand and they beat it to mash the thorns into his scalp. Bring him back to Pilate. Once more Pilate comes out and he says to the Jews, look, I'm bringing him out to you. To let you know that I find no basis for a charge against him. Now picture it There stands Jesus, a crown of thorns, blood dripping down his face, bruises, eyes perhaps swollen shut, whole back laid open by the scourging. And Pilate says, I'm bringing him out to you to let you know that this man's innocent. This is how I treat innocent people. Pilate realizes That it's a gristly scene, and he hopes to appease the people's bloodlust through this. So you have the fifth statement of his innocence. Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns, the purple robe. Pilate said to them, Look at the man. Look at him. Come on, have some common decency. Have some human pity. Look at him As soon as the chief priests and the officials saw it absolutely insensible to his suffering, they shouted, Crucify! Crucify! Pilate answered, again, notice, you take him and crucify him. As for me, I find no basis for a charge against him. It's Pilate's responsibility, if there's no basis for a charge against him, to protect him from crucifixion. That's Roman law. But he says, no, no, no, I don't find any charge, so you take him and crucify him. Absolute travesty of justice. And there's one last attempt. Because he knows of the custom of releasing a prisoner during the Passover season, again, not a custom based on any kind of justice. It's simply a political expediency. The Jews chafed under Roman's authority to carry out executions. And so uh there is this murderer, insurrectionist, Barabbas, who is in jail, and he's waiting his trial, and his trial's probably going to come up in a couple of days. Right after that trial, he'll probably be crucified. And Pilate knows that this man is here. He knows that Matthew 27 tells us that the Jewish leaders had delivered him over out of envy, that there really wasn't any basis for these charges, that Jesus was quite popular with the people. So he thinks, oh, my one last attempt is that I will appeal to the people. Here is the custom. I can release to you a prisoner. How about I release to you Jesus, who claims to be your Messiah? But he doesn't count on the insidious capacity of the Jewish leaders to transform the mob. So that they shout, no, no, no, don't give us Jesus, give us Barabbas. And so Barabbas is released. Barabbas is a murderer, he's released. Is that justice? Jesus, then. He's sent to be crucified, who's innocent. Pilate wanting to extricate himself the last desperate moment from all of this Asked for a bowl of water to be brought and symbolically washes his hands and says, I'm innocent of the blood of this man. Pure responsibility. And quoting from Deuteronomy, they accept that responsibility. It's long since ceased to be any kind of trial. It is simply pure political power and expediency. There is no justice in this But now, as you read this account, don't miss what is not stated explicitly in the Gospels. But it is stated so clearly to us everywhere else in Scripture. Namely, that while Jesus at this point Is being tried under Pilate in a situation where there is no justice, there is another trial taking place simultaneously. This trial you see. The other trial you don't see. And in that trial In stark contrast to Pilate's injustice, is the perfect justice of God. Now let's look at God's justice. God declares Jesus innocent. He did that on two occasions. You remember when Jesus came for his baptism? He said, Here is my beloved son. in whom I am well pleased, the first thirty years of his life. I vindicate he is absolutely flawless in his character. When the Mount of Transfiguration Jesus at the top of that mount, God spoke to Peter, James, and John, and he said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. He is completely innocent. He has lived the life that you and I should have lived. In complete obedience to God in every thought, in every word, in every motive. God says, I am pleased with his life. Hear him. But of course Jesus voluntarily took on the sins of his people. In Isaiah chapter fifty-three Do we remember we read, we've read it before and you see it in this context. Surely he took up our infirmities. He carried our sorrows. And yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. You look at that trial, it appears that God has abandoned him But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him. And by his wounds we are healed. We all, like sheep, have gone astray. Each of us has turned to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 21. God made him who had no sin to be sin. So that we might become the righteousness of God in Him. Therefore, Jesus is receiving now perfect justice. In the court of heaven at this moment. You see, the two trials are going on simultaneously And God is sovereignly using Pilate's injustice in order to accomplish his perfect justice. Isn't that staggering? What sovereignty, what power that God uses Pilate's injustice in order to accomplish his perfect justice? The whole thing is full of mind-boggling ironies. Both Pilate and Jesus declare Jesus innocent. I mean, both Pilate and God declare Jesus innocent. Both Pilate and God condemned Jesus to death. Pilate, unjustly, because he's innocent. God, justly because Jesus has taken on your guilt and my guilt. 1 Peter chapter 2 says in verse 22, he committed no sin. No deceit was found in his mouth. When they hurled their insults at him, he did not retaliate When he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness. By his wounds, you have been healed. Jesus didn't see himself as a victim. Jesus knew that God was perfectly just in what he was doing. And because God was perfectly just, there is no condemnation for you if you are in Jesus Christ this morning. Romans 8:1. There is no condemnation for the one who is in Christ, because there is no double jeopardy in heaven. And since 100% of God's wrath was poured out on Jesus in that trial and in the crucifixion that followed, There is zero percent of his wrath left for you or for me So when you feel accused and when you feel that you are separated from God because you haven't lived this week the way you should have, or you haven't been faithful. in what you have done or should have done or somebody that you should have spoken to or the time you should have spent with the Lord or something that you did on your income tax or whatever it is and you look and you say and I Here it is and I've done it and I can't change it, something in my life, and I feel separated from God, you need to preach the gospel to yourself. There is no condemnation. Romans chapter 8, that Tom read to you. Look again at those words. Where Paul says, He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not along with him graciously give us all things? Who's going to bring any charge against those that God has chosen? It's God that's the one that's justified. He's the one that's declared you innocent in his justice. Who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus, who died more than that, who was raised to life as the vindication of his innocence. He is at the right hand of God and is also interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship? Does a trouble in your life separate you from God? Does a hardship in your life separate you from the love of Christ? Well what about persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword as it's written, for your sake we face death all day long. We're considered as sheep to be slaughtered in this world. No, no, no, no, Paul says, and all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor demons Neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height, nor depth, nor anything else at all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. You see, life is really quite simple. We all get justice. It's just a matter of when. See, God is perfectly just. He is just down to the minutest detail beyond anything that you can imagine. He is just not only in what is seen, he is just in thoughts and motives. Intentions. He knows your heart so completely that Jesus says on one occasion, He not only knows what you've done, He knows what you would have done under other circumstances. You kids say, not fair. You know I wanted the red one? You gave him the red one. I got the blue one. You know I don't like the blue one. You know? And where do you kids get your sense of fairness? See, it's written on your heart because you're made in God's image. We don't tell God what's fair. Our notions of what's fair come from him. And it's written, I mean, my four-year-old grandson can lecture you on justice. He's got an inscrutable mind for justice with his sister. See? We have it. It's imprinted on us, right? And you will stand before God one day, and you will get perfect justice. When the account has been rendered, you will say to his glory, you were perfectly just. There's not a single person who will get any verdict from God who will say that was not just. It wasn't fair. But before you rest in his justice, realize you have only two choices. Either you present his your record. Before God, and you say, here's how I've lived, here's what I've done. Now give me what I deserve. Is that what you want? You're willing to stand on what you deserve? Before you rest in that, let me remind you, as Francis Schaeffer used to say, that because we're made in God's image, it's as if we have a little tape recorder that's implanted just inside our brain. We'd say now a digital recorder. And this little thing's programmed that it records only when we make a moral judgment. Whenever you use the word should, ought, you criticize a politician for hypocrisy. You say he shouldn't have lied. She was untrustworthy. They were insensitive, unloving, on and on. Whenever you make those statements, see this little thing goes off and records it That's your standard of judgment. You're saying this is what's right and this is what's wrong. You stand before God and God plays the recorder back to you and you say, And he says to you, have you lived up to your own standard? You willing to get justice? Believe me, that's not the worst of it. Because that doesn't even deal with how we deal with God. And God reminds you, I made you. I've given you everything that you've enjoyed. Have you been thankful to Him? Have you honored him and glorified him? Have you obeyed him? Made him central in your life? Jonathan Edwards once said, the magnitude of an offense is based on how great the one offended against is. If you've offended God, what will his justice mean in the consequences for you? I appeal to you. There is only one alternative. At that trial of perfect justice, Jesus will stand. And your hope and my hope is to hide behind Jesus. To say, Jesus bore a hundred percent of the guilt from my life. Listen up. Jesus bore all the guilt It was in my life. And as I hide behind him, he has received the just cursing. That was due to me or to you. This life is not fair. Whoever said it was You know, a lot of people are pretty miserable because they think life ought to be fair. Do you notice what we were singing? Psalm 73? I've tried to live honorably, uprightly, before God. I looked at the wicked Seemed like they had a lot easier. They didn't have the hassles I have. They're more affluent. Their lives are more trouble-free. And so I said, but the heck? Why live like this? Why not just enjoy it? Until I saw their end. You see, in that day, and not until that day, will the scales of justice be perfectly set, minutely In that day there will be justice, but not till then. Time magazine cover article this week on world poverty Twenty thousand people die of causes related to poverty every single day. Around this globe. That's thirteen times the number of American soldiers who have lost their lives in the two years in Iraq. Every single day. Has it ever crossed your mind that you might die of hunger? That you might get malaria or some disease that your body won't be able to fight off Why are you so affluent? Why am I so affluent? Is that just? Some of you have grown up in loving homes where you were cared for and empowered. Others of you bear the scars of growing up in abuse that continues to torment you. Why one and not the other? Is that justice? You deserve that? I deserve that. For two hundred and fifty years, the black church in America has depended on the fact that God is just. And so they have said the oppressor It's not for ours to take revenge upon. But God is just You see, what I read to you from 1 Peter chapter 2, it begins about how he bore our sin is preceded by two verses. Where Peter applies that to you and to me. He says, How is it to your credit if you receive a beating for doing wrong and endure it? But if you suffer for doing good and you endure it, this is commendable for before God. So to this you are called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should follow in his steps. See, when they hurled their insults to him, he didn't retaliate, he suffered, made no threats, instead he entrusted himself to the one who judges justly. That doesn't mean that we're passive in the face of injustice, but we don't take revenge. Because God is just. So you can love your enemies. You can love even as Jesus loved Pilate and gave us an example that we should follow his steps. What's the Spirit saying to you this morning? Do you feel like you're a victim Full of self-pity and a desire for revenge and the unjustices that you've received in your life? What's the Spirit saying to you Do you know that there is a day coming? On that day, Pilate will stand before Jesus. And this time Jesus will be the judge. And Pilate will receive perfect justice. When Pilate's sentence is read He will say to the glory of God, You are just in all your ways. Now I said that in the first service. Somebody came to me after the service and they said, you know, when you said that, I thought, good Pilate's going to get his. And suddenly I realized. Am I any better? You see, that's the gospel. The justice of God is either terror If that's all your hope is. Or it's a glorious hope. Waiting for that day when He will restore the new heavens and the earth, and there will be no more injustice, and you will be there, and I will be there for only one reason, because Jesus received justly what you and I deserved. And Pilate could have had that too. May you not forsake it. Come to him. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we come to you and we confess you are just Your justice is so perfect, your sovereignty is so magnificent that you even use Pilate's injustice to accomplish your perfect justice. Oh Lord, I pray that everyone in this room would be ready to meet you on that day in your justice and in your holiness. We thank you for Jesus, who bore our sin fully, so that we could stand behind him, hidden in him. And know that we will be gathered into your kingdom where there will be no more injustice. Lord, take away our sense of victimization and self-pity and desire for revenge. It says, I've got to take the matters into my account now. You've said, leave room for me, for I will take revenge. And your revenge is more than sufficient. May we hope in that and hide in that and rest in that as we live this day, even in a world of injustice, and as we seek to work for justice, because you are just Give to us, Lord, hearts that are full of hope, for our God is just. Therefore, we are safe. Amen.