This is the day the Lord has made, so let us rejoice and praise him, which is what I hope we might encourage you this morning as you think about this really important psalm. So take your Bibles with you, your e-Bible or Hard Copy Bible, and turn to Psalm 150 and have it ready. Because I'd like us to read it together out of the ESV if you have that particular version with you. Would you first Lord join with me in prayer? Heavenly Father, I pray today that my words would be your words. Lord, I pray you'd take What I say, and put it in the hearts of those who may need to hear that word. Lord, I pray all of us, including the one standing here, might be receptive to your word as it comes to us. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to praise you in this sanctuary on this day. And Lord, our hope is that you indeed would be glorified by it all. In Jesus' name. Amen. Before we read the scripture, just a word of thanks to the pastoral team for asking me to preach today. Welcome back, Randy and John. Uh John Song, I think, maybe the most tired man in Columbia, Maryland after his summer. And he needs rest. So if you have a chance to help him get rest, please do that. I can't imagine how he keeps on going like he does The pastors of this church, including Derek Fullium, have been preaching through the book of Psalms. I call it the Psalm Scan at CPC, the Summer Psalm Scan is what it was. And they tackled some of the key psalms of the 150. And you might recall we talked about Psalms of Lament, Blues Psalms. We talked all the impregatory psalms. We talked about praise psalms. We talked about petition psalms and so on. And today we have this wonderful psalm ending it all. Not really ending at all. Hopefully it'll be a psalm that will encourage you tomorrow, the next day, and the years coming as you think about what it might mean to praise the Lord. I was 18 years old, and I was a freshman in college, and I was in the University of Minnesota marching band. I know there are quite a few people in this congregation who have been in marching bands, and for me it was a real thrill to go to do a step up from high school where I also was in the marching band. But I'll never forget the first day after a lot of summer of preparation. When we were all ready in our fantastic Maroon and Gold gopher uniforms to march together through the campus of the University of Minnesota to the football stadium. That stadium seated 80,000 people. And it was full that particular fall day when the marching band came up to the gate, and the marching band, of course, kind of kicked things off. And I remember, I'll never forget the feeling had marching into that stadium. At first we were just marching in, then all of a sudden we started to play and the stadium just Burst open with roars and hoots and hollers and yells and you might say praise for what was about to happen that next hour or two in that football stadium. I remember thinking, I wasn't that spiritual, but I do remember thinking this must be a little bit of what it might be like to be in heaven when we joined the myriads and myriads and thousands and thousands of people that are praising Jesus Christ. What a march that's going to be when we get to march in those pearly gates and we join the throngs in heaven. And maybe it'll be like that. Maybe I'll have goosebumps that'll be never-ending, I don't know, in heaven, because of the emotions of that moment. Praise. It comes in different forms. You can praise bad things, of course, but our focus today is on praising the most important person we could ever praise, and that's God Almighty. So if you have Psalm 150, turn to it please and like to read it to you. And you know the Psalm. It's uh Not a long psalm, and it has a lot of the same word in it. So it starts with praise the Lord in Hebrew, hallelujah. Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in his mighty heavens. Praise him for his mighty deeds. Praise him for his excellent greatness. Praise him with the trumpet sound, praise him with the lute and harp, praise him with the tambourine and dance, praise him with strings and pipe, praise him with sounding cymbals, praise him with loud clashing cymbals. Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. And God's people said, praise the Lord. Or amen. That's important too. What a wonderful psalm this is. And I appreciate the fact that we've had this summer psalm scan this past summer to give us a little taste of some of the depths you can go to when you are in the book of the psalm. I'm going to do just a little bit of historical background if you don't mind this morning before we dive into the passage and remind you of a few things. First of all, of course, it's 150 Psalms or Psalms. There are five books in the book of Psalms. They all end with either Amen, Amen and Amen, Amen, Hallelujah. Or in this case, the end of this book, particular book, is hallelujah, or praise the Lord. In the Hebrew, the word is Tihilim, and it literally means praises. So when the Hebrews first saw these Psalms together, They were talking about a praise book, a s a collection of praise hymns and poems. And oh by the way, you know, the psalms had several authors. It wasn't just David. I think I went for many years thinking David wrote all the Psalms, even though some of the Bible say who wrote that psalm. But the Psalms are written by Moses, David, son of Korah, Ethan, and Asaph for sure. And maybe others whose names we do not know. It's a collection of poetry, it's a collection of thoughts and feelings and so on. And someone said once they encompassed the thoughts and feelings of countless Hebrew worshipers. They include hardship, struggle, pilgrimage, doubt, hope, encouragement, conquest, comfort, and praise. The Psalms have been the greatest, you might say, hymn book of the ages. No other book has been used. For so long by so many people for music and for devotions and for thinking of how we might praise God better. Someone else suggested that it's probably used every day somewhere in the world. We also know this that David was the one who introduced music basically into the worship of God's people. There was music before that, of course, but David Absch David was the one who actually started to put instruments together for music and expanded the program, you might say, a little bit. It's a wonderful book. And many of you have been comforted when you're happy, and you've been comforted when you've been sad because of this book. Book. You've been challenged even to pray for your enemies through this book. And you've taken, if you, I dare say, if some of you were to look for a passage and find some comfort for a challenging moment in your life, you probably said, I'll go to Psalms. and see what it has to say for me. And you'd be right to do that. And you, along with the thousands of other Christians of history, who do the same thing. The key word in this particular psalm, of course, is the word in English, praise. The Hebrew word is hallu. We say halelu And then in the first, very first verse of this, in verse 1, it says, praise the Lord, which is hallelujah. Hallelujah. Just to pronounce this, if you don't mind, for a minute here, because I want you to understand the significance of that and where it came from, because next time you say the word hallelujah, hopefully you'll think about some of the Issues behind it. Its first use in the scriptures is when Moses asks God, Whom shall I say sent me? When God appointed him to go back into Egypt. And God responds by saying, I am that I am. You must say this to the Israelites, I am sent me to you. However, as one commentator said, it could have been awkward for Moses to go to the Israelites in Pharaoh and say, I am has sent me. So God revises this phrase in Exodus 3 and changes it to the third person by saying, tell them that he is, has sent you. So what is God doing? He's giving Moses a description of who he is, and it's hard to do that from our understanding. The word he is comes from the Hebrew word Hayah, which means to be. And for you English and semantic folk, it's the third-person form of the word he is. That becomes the name Yahweh. The significance of the name Yahweh is that it confirms God's existence, but more importantly, his presence. When you say hallelujah, you are essentially saying thank you, God, for being present in my life. life. I am that I am is in that name, Yahweh. Bible scholars know they didn't know what how to pronounce God's name and didn't dare pronounce his name in the in in years going on in the scriptures. But it word means it confirms his presence. He is the ever-present helper. God said to say to the Israelites, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob has sent me to you. And along with this word is the fact that God wants to have a relationship with his people, and so he's giving them permission to call him by a personal name rather than a formal name. It's almost like giving someone a permission who's named William to call him Bill rather than just William. Sometimes this word in the Bible, Yahweh, also appears along with another name of God, as if to say you can't contain the name of God in just one word, although Yahweh tries to encompass all that. There's much more to say about the word Yahweh, but when you say praise the Lord in English, and you want to say it in Hebrew, you can say hallelujah, acknowledging he is present with you. Acknowledging he is your God that you are praising. What's also interesting about this passage is the second time it says praise God in Psalm 151. It says, praise God in his sanctuary. You know what that praise is? It's Hallelujah. Elohim. Hallelujah. Means God is strong. And it goes along with this point I just made that oftentimes God's names are mentioned twice in a different name each time. So hallelujah, hallelujah. Both would be appropriate for you if you wanted to praise God verbally or in your heart. The word hallelujah, by the way, is only used in Psalms and Revelation. Did you know that? You think of this word as being a word maybe in every book of the Bible, but it's just in Psalms and Revelation. And it's a language of the angels. And it's a language of this psalmist. And these psalmists is folk who wrote these psalms as they tried to establish and acknowledge their relationship with God. So the word hallelujah, as you see it throughout these Psalms in all kinds of other places, is a very personal touch reminder of who the they are worshiping. By the way, the Hebrew word also halu literally means to shine, to flash like with a light. To boost or glorify or to commend. And so when you use the word hallelujah, you're essentially wanting to say, I would hope, Lord, I want to shine my attention. On you. I want to lift you up and glorify you. I want you to be commended to everybody I know when I say the word hallelujah. Hallelujah. To shine, to flash, to glorify. All that's contained in the word hallelujah. Yeah. Someone said that this word, as it's used in the Psalms, is an acclamation of praise of the highest order. Praising God in man's most eloquent expression with reverence, awe, and humility I don't know how often you say the word hallelujah. I don't say it as much as I should, probably, especially after studying this passage. But when you read the scripture and you could read Psalm 150 like, okay, let's see, praise the Lord, praise God in his sanctuary, praise him in his mighty heavens, praise him for his mighty. deeds. Or you can pray, you can read it and think of it in terms of this is the most awesome word in the Bible to help me praise him. I want to shine on Jesus and God today. I do want this to be an elegant expression of reverence, awe, and humility. And when the Hebrew writers wrote this word, that was in their mind. How to express themselves. properly. Someone else said that Psalm 150 is all rapture and transport. Now that's not a phrase we use very often today, but the word transport in this English verse this English attitude needs to be carried away by strong emotion. Some of you remember when you were transported by being with the one you eventually married. You were taken away by serious emotion, I hope. You were transported into another realm. In fact, poets and songwriters often use phrases like that, you know, you just were my shiny knight in armor or whatever you say to experience this. But the psalm, this psalm is all rapture and trans There are no petitions or complaints in this psalm. It's all praise. This is to say there's an appropriate place for petitions and complaints, and the Psalms are plenty of those, aren't there? Plenty of complaints. Lord, why does my enemy pursue me this way? What's going on? Prayers of impregatory psalms to pray for judgment on someone's enemy and so on. But this psalm, my friends, is all rapture and transport. Keep that phrase in mind when you go home. Rapture and transport. All praise. So with those little background in mind, I want to just say a few things about the rest of this psalm. And frankly If I wanted to have a very short sermon, I could just say, let's look at the last verse and then go home. For it summarizes the whole psalm, doesn't it? Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Great summary. But there are a few other tidbits in this psalm I think that might be useful to you. And I want to follow the outline that's in your bulletin, which is we praise him. Where do we praise him? We praise him because of certain things, we praise him through certain things. instruments literally Bible begins by saying praise the Lord hallelujah hallelujah in his sanctuary and praise him in his mighty heavens Now what's important to know is we're not in heaven right now. So what does this mean? How does this help us? When we say praise the Lord in his sanctuary, praise him in the heavens. We're not there yet. Some people think that this word sanctuary here technically means that technical sanctuary, the tabernacle in which David and others worshiped. with the Holy of Holies in the middle. And the Levites were there praising God. And there were some think they David was giving them instructions to, make sure you praise God in the sanctuary. Others do believe this sanctuary here is their word, just another word for heavens. Praise God in the heavens. Well, we don't praise God in the heavens if we live here on earth, but we can join those in heaven. singing praises to him by making sure that we do praise the Lord with heavenly thoughts and praising him for his mighty heavens. More about that in a second. Heaven's going to be a place of incredible praise. We get hints of that, don't we, in the Revelation, especially. And the Bible says myriads and myriads of angels are praising him, saying, holy, holy, holy is the Lord, God Almighty, worthy is his name. And on we go. So when the Bible encourages us to praise him in his sanctuary, I also think this might mean, folks, practice up. Practice up. When you get together with God's people, in particular in the various sanctuaries of the that we enjoy in this earth, like this one today, when you come together, come purposing to praise Him and you get together. Purpose to praise him. Practice to praise him. Practice with your praising him when you're not in the sanctuary. But we are to praise the Lord especially in his sanctuary. Isn't that true? No other place do we get together and sing hymns and songs of praise. This is the appropriate place. And this though is just a little taste. A little hint of the sanctuary we'll be in in heaven, where there's no need for a sun or moon because God is the glory there. This earth that we're in now, as someone suggested, I think it was Randy Ellicorn in his book Heaven says, you know, we are basically apprentices here on this earth. We're just passing through, like some of the old songs you said, just passing through. We're going to be in heaven and we are learning how to do certain things here on earth, hopefully, as we read God's word and let it impact us. And one of those things we are to be learning is praise. Now, what if you're a really, really serious introvert? What do you do about that? It's okay to have internal praise. To have your praise expressed in other ways as well, oh, by the way. But there is something to the Psalms when it comes, encourages us to praise Him with our voice, with a loud voice, other Psalms say, praise Him. So praising God in his sanctuary and his mighty heavens does have something to do with heaven. We could say David has an eye on heaven here as he acknowledges God's dwelling place. And aren't we reminded of God's dwelling place too? We say, our Father who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth that is in heaven. Hints of heaven, suggestions for us as to our attitude and our perspective when it comes to praying and praising as well. We also, the Bible suggests, we pray because of his power, mighty deeds, and excellent grace. Typical of psalmist poetry, they kind of say the same thing in two different ways. So this is all just reminding us that when it comes to our prayer, what do we praise him for? Well, his power and greatness. One commentator said, His power and greatness appears in the firmament, in its vastness, its brightness, and we praise him because of the powerful influences it has on the earth. Interesting perspective. We praise God for his vast creation and how it influences us on earth. We praise God, of course, for his instances of his might we can think of in the scriptures. The power of his providence, the power of his grace, what he's done in creation, governments, and the redemption of a dead, needy people. We could go on and on and probably make a huge whiteboard list of things for which we ought to praise God. But the Bible is encouraging us here that when it comes to praising him with an attitude spirit of heaven, we are also to praise him for all the things he has done. I hope he doesn't mind me saying this, but I this last week was spending some time with a brother here who lost a dear one lately, and he was quick to say, you know, yes. I miss her. But I praise God. She is with him now. I praise God for what I had with her. I praise. Praise God. That's hard to say that in the midst of tragedy, isn't it? Many of you have experienced tragedy. But this is part of his providence, isn't it, in our lives, is that he brings the rain on the just from the unjust. He also can bring and challenges to the unjust and the just As well. But when it comes to this psalmist reminding his people how to praise them, of course, they had they were a little closer to some of the things God did for them. Like, oh, parting a red sea, let's say. Watching a whole enemy be washed over by the waves. Oh, maybe speaking to God in a burning bush and a pillar of fire by night pillar of Shekanda glory during the day, those kind of things. Maybe they could remember some of the things of providing food when they were starving and didn't have their normal fare. And he sent down Delicious honey, sweet, manna from heaven for them to eat, which sustained them for 40 years in the wilderness. Maybe those things they should be praising God for. Maybe they should be praising God for the promised land which they entered in, some of the folk that have come into their lives and praising God for having a remnant when the Ark saved Noah and his family. My friends, Christians are never at a loss for what to praise God for, are we? We shouldn't be. Yet Satan does his best to tempt us to focus on the temporal, focus on the things that kind of irritate us. And I fear as I look at my own life, not to say anything about yours, is that I find probably some days are spent more inventing frustration than praise for this or that So we praise God where? In his sanctuary, with an eye on heaven. We praise God because of his power and his greatness. In fact, these Psalms just in front of this, This lack section of Psalms in Proverbs says this. Praise the Lord, praise from the heavens, praise him in the heights. We read this earlier today. Praise him, sun and moon, praise him, shining stars, praise him, highest heavens. You water the waters above the heavens, let them praise the name of the Lord, for he commanded them, they were creative, he established them forever and ever. Praise the Lord from the earth, your great sea creatures in all deeps Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and rulers of the earth, young men and maidens together, old men and children, let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted. That is the powerful thrust of this psalm and many others. Great is the Lord, greatly to be praised. His greatness is unsearchable. They shall speak of the might of your awesome deeds, and I will declare your greatness. Psalm says in Psalm 145. They shall pour forth the fame of your abundant goodness and shall sing aloud of your righteousness. You know what I'm not seeing a lot of as I get frustrated with Facebook accounts and other social media and news these days? days there isn't enough of the pouring forth of the fame of his abundance. I've been convicted of that as to how I interact with such social media. What do you say? Do I respond with irritation and anger, or is there some way I can Respond with the fame of his abundance and therefore sing aloud of his righteousness. Isn't that where the Bible directs us? In this earthly, toilsome world that we're just passing through with its frustrations and ups and downs and teenagers, it's all right there. But we are too, I love teenagers, but I'm just touching a little part of uh things I've heard in this congregation about their children. The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love. Isn't that great? That in this Tem temptist a temp temptuous world we can tell somebody that his Lord is merciful, Lord is patient. He's slow to anger, so it better be careful. Get your life together here. You can't go on the way you are and expect it to end. well. God is merciful and patient, but he has a limit to that. All this fits into what we say to people about Jesus in our evangelism, doesn't it? Praise him. What wait, there's more. The next section of this, of course, I love because I like music. But it's summed up really with everything that has breath, praise the Lord. But then the psalm, it's like the psalmist says, how can I expand this? How can I help people get this? That we're to praise the Lord with our with our breath. By the way, as a parenthesis here, when I read this, I thought of a person who didn't have a breath like we have, but nonetheless He praised God. This was when Mary came along and told Elizabeth, her cousin, that she was pregnant. And Mary and Elizabeth was pregnant too, right? And with John John the Baptist. And Elizabeth said, Mary, I just was so rejoiced when you told me that you were pregnant with this one, my baby leaped for joy in my womb. He couldn't breathe like you and I breathe air, but he was breathing the joy of the Lord even in that setting. Doesn't the Bible say he knit us in our mother's womb? More to say about that some other day, but uh even a breath that wasn't an air breath was used to pray. Praise God by John the Baptist. I think what David is saying in this section is that is that look at every with everything you've got. It ends this way. This song builds up, and essentially, if we were to look at it another way, we could say he's saying, Well, everything you've got, praise the Lord. In this case, he focuses on some of the musical instruments of his day. Remember, David played the harp when he was a young man, maybe 14 years old. He was praying before Saul to comfort Saul. And David knows something about music. Probably was an expert on the harp and other instruments as well. David introduced music to the worship in the tabernacle and temple in a new way, even though God introduced music himself way earlier than that. And this section goes through several instruments, and I like to say that of course it begins with the most important instrument ever created, and that is the trumpet. You want to be biblical when you pick an instrument? You start with the trumpet. I've told I've told John and Jaime here as well, you know, I think there are some Sundays we ought to have herald trumpets blurring on either side of the church. Welcoming in with a hymn of praise and glory and have some of this drama that we see in some of the psalms here. Maybe we'll do that some Sunday. And we have had, of course, Brass and many other wonderful musicians playing here with with uh grace and and professionalism. But here we find that we are to praise him with the trumpet sound. Praise him with the lute and harp, both stringed instruments, by the way. Praise him with tambourine and dance. Calvin says this is dance is not the word here you want to use. He said, this is really a word that has to do with a flute or a pipe. So Calvin, it's funny reading Calvin, it gets real strong about this. It's not dance. It's a flute or a pipe. And I think that makes sense in this section. Praise him with sounding symbols. And as a matter of fact, the Bible says that There's sounding symbols and loud clashing symbols. And those who know a little bit more about music than I do suggest that there are two kinds of symbols here that are part of this. One was maybe like a castanet, or maybe just a soft symbol in the background, you drummers. in the church, just something soft you play like Josiah did this morning in parts of our music. And then there's the clashing symbol where the two discs come together in a crash. Let me tell you what Spurgeon said about this, which I love. Let the clash of the loudest music be the Lord's. Let the joyful clang of the loftiest notes be all for him. Praise has beaten the timbrel, swept the harp, sounded the trumpet, and now for a last effort. Awakening the most heavy of slumberers and startling the most indifferent onlookers, she clashes together the discs of brass. And with sounds both loud and high proclaims the glories of the Lord. Hallelujah! I I find it f ironic, you know, Spurgeon wrote this in a day when they just sang basically psalms and some hymns. They weren't using praise bands and Fancy instruments, maybe they use trumpets and maybe a pipe organ, but you know what? He he had the idea here. He also said this, so pay attention. He said, if men are dull in the worship of the Lord our God, They are not acting consistently with the character of their religion. I don't want to go to church. It's too dull. Do we have to go to church? It's so boring. Have you heard that from friends, relatives, yourself over the years? You know, well, it's not because the church, sometimes it's just our attitude. There can be a lively lively service of music and so on, you could still have a dull attitude. But I think Spurgeon touches on something. If men are dull in their worship of the Lord Agall, they are not acting consistently with the character Of their religion. You see, Christianity, the only religion that has a Jesus. Christianity is the only religion that has a Jesus who was raised from the dead. Christianity is the only religion that God has a plan from the very beginning of time until the end of time. Christianity is the only religion that worships Yahweh. The true God, who has revealed himself in his word and history. Andrew Bonard, who was an author of a Puritan writer, Uh also a musician said, May we not say that in this Psalm's enumeration of musical instruments, there is a reference to the variety which exists among men in the mode of expressing joy and exciting to feeling. And the he's asked that as the question the answer is yes. David's trying to help us enumerate how we can worship and that there's give it all you've got. And music was important in this day and to David in particular And so I think he selects these instruments which are found in the culture, not just in worship. He says, use them. Praise him with all these things. things. One of the things I appreciate about this church is that it allows some using of different instruments. Harmonicas. Weird crushing things that they have tucked away in the back there. Couple different kinds of drums, you know. We're not afraid, and I love that because I think it's very much in tune with this Psalm. I love singing hymns and I love going to a church where they just boldly sing a wonderful old hymn of the faith, or maybe no with no music at all, like our covenanter friends. You can still have non-dull music and sing boldly because you want to praise the Lord. And praise is not always just loud and boisterous, of course, is it? Some of you have experience where you're worshiping the Lord in the quietness of the moment. And not symbols crashing, just the tune of praise in your heart. And that's appropriate too. Saint Augustine said, all faculties are enlisted in praising God. Do you have any faculties? I'm not talking about teachers here, of course. Are any faculties that are not praising God? You've got a mouth. Are you praising God with your mouth? Are you enlisting your your mouth? Can you do that more, maybe, as you think about praising God? Someone else said the breath is employed in blowing the trumpet and the fingers are used with the harp, the whole hand is exerted in beaking the timbrels and cymbals you see, and David's kind of saying, all of you can praise the Lord. It takes other muscles to do some of these instruments as well. But to sum it all up, he says, so let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Even those that are not made in God's image, and that's who David's particularly talking about here as having breath, human beings, we know that God can be praised through his creation too, can't he? And we know that important passage in Luke where Jesus says, if the people don't praise me, the stones of the earth will cry out, which exactly, which is exactly what they did when Jesus died. Temple was rent in two and the earthquake messed up a lot of buildings in Jerusalem. Nobody was praising Jesus, so the earth cried out. Bible also says the earth is groaning for redemption. So do I think the earth can praise with a breath? No, I don't. But we can certainly see and praise God through what He has created. And the unbelievable variety in all of that plus more. So I would suggest to you today as we think about this psalm. Does your life and breath include praise? Parents, are your kids hearing you, praise God, at home? What do they mostly hear from you? I tell my kids there are some things I wish I'd done over. One of them is I wish I'd done more of this than being the stern dad, you know, and keeping things in order. It could be more of a balance. What about you parents? If your kids would they ever tell somebody that, yeah, my mom and dad, they're talking about God all the time. They're they're they thank him for everything. Wouldn't that be something? Do your lips acknowledge God's power, holiness, justice, grace, and love? Do you give God the credit when you behold an Appalachian sky in the morning or the powers of the ocean wave? Intricacy of a spider web. Nancy and I were walking in Batapsco Park. My my son and Diana have uh encouraged us to go out into the woods. And uh there was this sunlight shaft just right down in the middle of this little section. In the middle of that was a perfectly round spider web, looking like diamonds, just right around that. It was it was it was incredible. And when you see something like that, don't we say, praise the Lord, that's incredible. Only God can do something like that You see, remember I said we're practicing? Sometimes you gotta practice to do well You gotta put the time in to make sure you do it properly. So are you practicing in preparation for heaven? Or are you gonna be among those who get to heaven? Thankfully you're there, and you're saying, I didn't. Wow, this is something. Really? They're saying hallelujah all the time. Are you going to be like that? Or are you going to say, wow, this is even better than I thought it would be? We did some of this in our church. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. We want CPC to be a place of praise and joy, do we not? When people think about this church on the corner in front of Centennial Park, we hope it will say the people there are joyful. The people there, they really believe in God. The people there, you can't even talk to them for 10 minutes without somebody saying, you know, God's been so good to me. Let me tell you what's happened to me just recently about what God has done. Those kind of churches people want to go to because they inspire. And what does what is praise? But us putting focus on God to inspire others as well. We're also going to ask this rhetorical question: do you believe that the chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy him forever? Do you If you do, then question that could be asked, well then, how do you show that? And praise is of course a key way. So our time here on earth is to practice praise in our lives. For you see, someday we're going to march, maybe not as a group, maybe individually, into God's heavenly stadium. And we're going to see and hear people just with unbelievable shouts saying, holy, holy, holy, worthy is the Lamb. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Are ready to join the throngs? I'm not sure if this fits, but you know the phrase practice makes perfect? We're going to be perfect someday, but you want to practice for that. You don't want to be caught unawares when it comes to praise. Neither you do want to be caught unawares when it comes to other Christian disciplines, of course, as well, like prayer, confession, and so on. But man, what a powerful psalm. And the rest of the psalms give us all kinds of instruction. And as the summer psalm scan has taught us, there are lots of things we can glean from so many places in the scriptures. But I hope as you press on from this day forward until Jesus comes. comes that you'll have a new appreciation for the word hallelujah. Hallelujah Praise the Lord for what he has done. Praise him in his sanctuaries. Praise him in this sanctuary. Praise him with all that I can be and all that I can do. One last thought. Not everybody can praise God like this. This kind of praise is for God's people. You can try it if you're not a Christian, but it's not going to mean too much because you don't really get it because your eyes are still burning. Blind. I would just say if you want to know more of this kind of praise, you have to first then know Jesus. David looked forward to a Jesus. We look back to Jesus and look forward to Jesus coming again. But this kind of praise is the kind of praise for God's people. And oh that we could be that kind. Then you wouldn't hear these crazy comments. on social media about, yeah, yeah, yeah, they're Christian. I just heard another Christian did this and did that, and yeah, you know, those Christians, they think they're so whatever You hear that in various forms, but if we were like this, there'd be less of that. So, as we conclude this morning, you say praise the Lord when I'm done, alright? Let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let's say it again. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Every time the word is opened, I think, man, there's a lot to practice. A lot to acknowledge. But Lord, I just simply pray that you'd help us be a church that exhibits this kind of attitude and praise in all that we do, from quiet praise to loud praise, to personal Praise of others, which is needed too, to especially words of praising you as you go about the details of our lives. Thank you for David. Thank you for the others who wrote these Psalms. Thank you for the guidance they give us. In Jesus' mighty name, his people said, Amen.