Turn in your Bibles, if you will, to Luke chapter nine. Luke chapter 9, I'm going to be reading a passage beginning with verse 51. Let's pray. Almighty God, we thank you for the fact that you are the God who has spoken. You have revealed yourself not only in creation, but you have spoken in your word. And Lord, what a blessed privilege that we have your word here. We have it enscripturated. We have it in a way that we can study it, reflect on it, think on it, apply it. Delight in it. And Father, we pray that even passages that seem to have a darker aspect or a more confusing theme, Lord, we pray that we would Truly avail ourselves of the truth you intended to communicate to your people for your glory and their good. And so, Father, humble us before your word and bless the reading of it to us. Oh, the reading of your word and Lord's Day worship as your people are gathered. What a powerful and mighty blessing. Father, the preaching that follows it, and as much as that preaching is faithful to who you are and what you have done, we ask your blessing on that as well. In Christ's name, amen. Luke chapter 9, beginning with verse 51, the Word of God. When the days drew near for him to be taken up, He set his face to go to Jerusalem, and he sent messengers ahead of him who went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make preparations for him. But the people did not receive him because his face was set toward Jerusalem. And when his disciples, James and John, saw it, they said, Lord! Do you want us to tell fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned and rebuked them, and they went on to another village. This ends the reading of God's word. When I was twenty-one years old, I had just graduated from University of Maryland with a degree in history. It was December of nineteen ninety. And I proceeded to be taken under the care of the Mid-Atlantic Presbytery of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Because I had a call to go to the ministry and I was preparing to go to seminary. I hope that can be fixed. That's gonna get old quick. Okay. Okay, you'll ignore one of me? That's a good idea, Mike. Just sometimes it's a good idea to ignore both of me. So I was standing at the front of the sanctuary at the Burtonville Orthodox Presbyterian Church, Covenant, was the name of that church. And when you're taken under care, they would, at that time in that denomination, invite a member of the Presbytery to give what's called a charge. To give some holy exhortation to a young man preparing for the ministry to be sober-minded and to think well and to study hard and to learn that Greek and Hebrew and to pay attention to his professors. And usually this is how these things go. You know, to not lose Christ while you're studying Christianity. That's typically the way a charge goes. But I can still, in my mind's eye, picture looking down that center aisle. I was standing in front and center in that sanctuary And about two-thirds of the way back on the left, a gentleman who'd been uh a pastor from Ethiopia who became a missionary and then served in the States as well. Here was Reverend Hailey McConan He got called on by the stated clerk to stand up and give me a charge. So he walks out into the middle of the aisle, and with his Ethiopian accent, which I'm not even going to attempt to imitate, he said, Are you prepared to be rejected? And I'm 21 years old. I'm a male of the species. And so, as a 21-year-old male, as many of you know, I knew everything. And I looked at him and I said, Yes, I am. I am prepared to be rejected. Ha. Being rejected in ministry is difficult. Being rejected in ministry is painful. Being rejected when you are attempting to point people to the savior of souls and the truth of the scriptures is a burden. That's a burden I've become very familiar with. And it is a burden that I have had cause a time or two in my 30s some years of different types of ministry. to bring back to Luke chapter 9, verse 55 But he, Jesus, turned and rebuked them. Who does he rebuke? He rebukes the disciples who react poorly to rejection. He doesn't rebuke the people who rejected. He rebukes the people who react poorly to being rejected. That truth, by the time I was in my mid-30s, and I had become a fairly avid reader of the Puritans by then, and I had come across a Puritan who Uh one of my favorite anniversary gifts I ever received from my wife was the complete works of John Howe. And I'd be surprised if many of you, or even any of you, have ever heard of John Howe. He was a little too young to be a part of the Westminster Assembly, but he was an English Puritan who wrote with a passion and a clarity and a biblical mastery that is unrivaled, in my opinion. And he's a lot easier to read than John Owen. And John Howe reflects on this passage, and he says, referring to a majority text reading of the ancient Greek. He says that Jesus is concerned that we know what manner of spirits we are. To put that into modern English, Jesus is concerned that we know what is in us and is motivating us to respond to other people the way that we do. And this is a powerful gospel text. And I thank God that Luke was led by the Spirit to give it to us. Because it is only in the Gospel of Luke that we hear about this. The Gospel of Luke, remember, is Chapter 1, if you will, to a two-volume set First, we have the mighty acts of Jesus. Second, we have the continuing mighty acts of Jesus by his Spirit through the church. We call that the book of Acts. Rejection happens consistently through the book of Acts. Apostles are rejected by Their peers, other Jews. They're rejected by not only rabbis, but by uh Gentile rulers and authorities in the cities they go to, Ephesus, Philippi, Rome itself. Rejection is a part of Christian life and ministry. And as we think about rejection, that's the first thing about rejection that we have to realize. that rejection is is pretty much a guarantee. And so even though it's been decades since I I don't know whatever has happened to Highland McConan or even if he's on this side of heaven anymore. But I'll tell you I I thank him. For at least bringing that to my attention right at the very beginning of my ministry. Rejection is a part of ministry. Jesus himself is rejected. We are told in the Gospel of John chapter 1 that he came to his own, but his own received him not. We read that he's rejected. His rejection is prophesied in Isaiah 53, rejected and scorned. Jesus is rebuffed, he is hated, he's despised, he's feared. And he says that if the master is treated that way, so too will be the disciple. And I assure you that if you are a faithful minister of the living God, a representative of Jesus Christ, a vessel used by his Spirit, in your life. You are going to have people that will do far worse than turn a cold shoulder to you. Because there is an enmity placed by God between the children of Eve and the children of the serpent. And as John makes clear in his gospel, Jesus taught us that either God is our Father or Satan himself. spiritually speaking. And we are caught up in this contest of sorts in which we are called to love everybody and proclaim and offer the gospel to all But it will not always go well. And you will not always be received. And as you are not received. Do as much as you can, dear Christian, to be certain that the grounds for your ill reception or rejection Are the same as those of Christ's rejection. This text begins, and this is a critical text, this is the beginning of the second major division of Christ's life The first division of Christ's life really begins when he is publicly commissioned and he is made to experience that time of preparation in the wilderness. The baptism, the voice from heaven, the temptation of the wilderness, then Jesus begins to go from town to town preaching in the synagogues. And the very first thing we read about happens in the life of Christ. He's rejected at Nazareth. They literally want to kill him. When we read the second major division in the public ministry of Christ, beginning in Luke 9. 51, when the days drew near for him to be taken up, he set his face to go to Jerusalem. That's a description of the fact that at this point in the Gospel of Luke, Jesus has established who he is and that he has come to die and to suffer and to be raised again. Now that hasn't been fully absorbed by the disciples, the apostles, the crowds that follow, but it has been clearly articulated. Now, Jesus says, okay, that has been established. He's been wandering around Galilee for the most part. Now he's going to go from Galilee, travel south, going through Samaria, go to Judea, to Jerusalem, to die for his people. That is his single-minded intent at this point forward. He sets his face to Jerusalem and he is going to do what he has come to accomplish. And he sends messengers ahead. Sounds a lot like a triumphal entry, doesn't it? He sends messengers ahead to prepare for him. It was common practice in those ancient uh cultures, including the Israelite Jewish culture at the beginning of the first century A. D. , to, if someone is new passing through town, they'd go to the town square and people would show hospitality and bring them to their homes. and and provide for them, give them safety, give them food, give them water, and see them on their way the next day if they're passing through. But now these Samaritans We read in verse 53, but the people did not receive him. They didn't show the common courtesy that the culture demanded. Now, granted, there was real ethnic hatred between Jews and Samaritans, it sometimes flared up to murder and violence on both sides. But nonetheless he expected, and others had received. hospitality even in such times. And he's rejected. He is not received. And it wasn't because he was Jewish or was from Galilee It says, because his face was set toward Jerusalem, because he had a mission and a goal. There was the redemption of all men because he wasn't going to stick around and stay there as long as he did in Capernaum and be their house messiah Their local celebrity. Because he wasn't going to be there and bring economic boon and prosperity to this unnamed village, that people come from all over and buy their goods. Pay for lodging in their inns. Bring fame To their town. You see, they were looking at what Jesus could do for them in very worldly terms. They were not okay with the fact that the Messiah was simply passing through and inviting people to follow him. They would have probably, based on this text, been very happy if Jesus had come with no agenda to move on and accomplish something more global in scale. Like many of us, they were focused on their felt needs, not their great need. They were focused on themselves, not how much Jesus could do for others. And make sure that when we're rejected, it's because our agenda is aligned with that of the living God, who so loved the world that he gave his son, that whosoever believes on him might not perish, but have everlasting life. If they are rejecting you because you like the wrong football team or the wrong political party or wear their own clothes, that's nothing to brag about. Rather, that's something to blush about. But if we are rejected because we are single-mindedly focused on the gospel of Jesus Christ, that the Son of God from all eternity would come. and give his life that sinners like us can be forgiven as we repent and believe and are united to him. If that is not just our rally cry. our foundation, but if that is the very heart and soul of our mission, unmistakably so, and we are rejected. Praise God for your faithfulness. And keep reading in Luke chapter 9. We will be rejected, but we must remain obedient. If you think about these disciples, Luke chapter 9, although it gives us the clearest picture to that point of who Jesus is and what he's come to do. It doesn't particularly make the disciples look that great. I want you to think about this. Let me read for you Luke chapter 9, the first verses. The very first verses of Luke chapter 9, he's sending out the 12 apostles. He's sending them out. And this is how he sends them out. He calls the 12 together. and gives them power and authority over all demons and to cure diseases. And he sent them out to proclaim the kingdom of God and to heal. And he said to them, Take nothing for your journey, no staff, nor bag, nor bread, nor money, and do not have two tunics. You know, trust the Lord, trust me. Don't worry so much about your preparation that you're un you'll never be adequately prepared for ministry, folks. But you can be prepared with a call, a mission, a purpose, and confidence in a God who provides. The Spirit Himself will give you words. That's the idea behind these descriptions of what they're to bring. It's easy to think I can't do this until I've got every single contingency and tragedy accommodated. And then you never leave your house. But listen to this part of Jesus' instructions. And whatever house you enter, stay there, and from there depart. And wherever they do not receive you, when you leave that town, shake off the dust from your feet as a testimony against them. Now, fast forward, after the transfiguration and Jesus revealing his majesty to the three, Peter, James, and John, he comes down and the first thing he's discovered Is that his disciples, the twelve, to whom he had given all authority to cast out all demons, failed because they clearly relied too much on themselves and didn't humbly beseech the Lord in prayer. To enable the exorcism of that demon from that only child of a man with just a fingernail of faith Not only did they fail, the disciples, in that first thing, in acting as if they had been given authority and power over all demons, They then proceed to fail in responding to rejection. Jesus says, when you are not received, shake the dust off your feet. That is a testimony against them to saying there's if you were in a place that's unclean, you washed your feet, you washed your hands, you didn't even want to bring the unclean dust with you. There were proverbs about this in the in the first century in the time of Christ. If you went into someone's house or town and they didn't receive you and rejected you, as you walked away and shook the dust off your feet, it was as if you were saying, even the dust in your town is unholy. You have utterly rejected the living God. We're moving on. And leaving the sin and stain and guilt and shame behind us. That's what they were supposed to do And here we find at the end of this major passage, Luke chapter 9, the disciples again fail to follow the instructions of Jesus. First, they failed to recall that they'd been given all authority, and now They fail to respond correctly to not being received. Now, these two, James and John, want to utterly obliterate the entire village. They literally want to kill everyone who has not received them. This is evocative of Sodom and Gomorrah to call fire down from heaven. And that earns the rebuke of heaven. Now, a caution for people like me Goes back to something John Howe taught me, that old Puritan from so long ago. In his way we must know what manner of spirits we are. Think about James and John. Who can remember their nickname? Sons of Thunder. Bo and Airs. Do you think Sons of Thunder is a nickname you get by being kind of meek and mild and a little bit mousy? These are guys who were bold, boisterous, full of energy, perhaps a little naturally hot around the collar. And think about what they just experienced. Rejection. When they have with them the Lord of Glory, whose majesty has been marveled at. By Moses and Elijah, and by the crowds who watched a demon cast out. And James and John were on that mount, and they saw the Lord bursting forth with radiant glory. And they thought, how could it be that we who are with him are rejected, that this Jesus, this one is rejected And there is a misguided, a zeal without knowledge with Proverbs 9 tells us is never a good idea. Pardon me, Proverbs 19. Zeal without knowledge is not good. And in their zeal for the house of the Lord that truly consumes them, they are not bounding that by wisdom or grace or obedience to Jesus. Jesus has said, when you're rejected, this is what you do. Give them a sign that clearly indicates where they stand with the living God. Why does God in his prophetic ministry himself in the person of Jesus and through the prophets of the Old Testament declare The state of people as being ungodly, unforgiven, in danger of perdition. Why does God do that? So that they might come to repentance. Is it conceivable that James and John wanted to kill everyone in that village so that those dead people might come to repentance? They lost sight of the great mission of the living God, that by any means some might be one to Christ. The one who's been sent to save stubborn, rebellious people, like the anonymous souls in that unknown Samaritan village. Despite the external circumstances, the time of day, the weariness of the disciples, the social injustice of not being given hospitality, despite all of that, Jesus clearly expects and requires the obedience of his people. It is never enough to say they did not give me proper courtesy, therefore I'm justified. And my vehemence against them. False. Even if they curse you, you are to bless them. Even if they hate you, you are to love them Our culture has made a virtue out of hatred. That is shameful. Shameful. We are to be a people who bless and serve and long for redemption and seek to be instruments of salvation in pointing people to Christ. External circumstances and internal predispositions alike are inadequate reasons to disobey the living God. Now I'm going to step on some of your toes right now, so everybody put both feet flat on the ground so I can get a good shot at them If you are Irish, that doesn't give you an excuse to be hot-tempered. If you are Norwegian, like this guy, you have no right to be a cheapskate. You might be a cheapskate, but at least have the decency to blush about it. You see, Titus, the book of Titus, has an interesting verse in it. Anyone know what I'm about to say? All Cretans are Liars? E lazy be e evil beasts and lazy glu I mean it's the description of people living on Crete is horrific. You take every nasty caricature of a culture, and you find the Bible actually quotes that with respect to people from Crete. That's I think where we get the word Cretan. If you call someone a Cretan, let me tell you something, that's not a compliment. Now, yet there was a church on Crete, and it was expected that there were some from Crete. who would rise by the grace of God to the qualifications for elders listed out in Titus 1. It's not as if the standard for an elder in a place like Crete is different than the standard in a place like Ephesus or Philippi because we find that in 1 Timothy in chapter 3, the standard for an elder is the same. everywhere as it is in Crete, irrespective of cultural weaknesses or cultural acceptances regarding Character flaws, like being an evil brute. Here you have James and John, who are by disposition, however that came to be. Nature or nurture, I couldn't care less. However it came to be. They are boisterous, rugged. There's a tendency perhaps to violence. They are Agitated, they're go-getters, they're all of these things that would make them naturally want to bring thunder down on this town. And Jesus still rebukes them Irrespective of what has been done or who we are in our path of sanctification and internal development of Christ's likeness, we are called to the standard of Jesus Christ our King. Amen? And we can't make excuses for poorly handling rejection simply because of what we've gone through and who we are. And that's precisely what happens over and over and over again. You want to know what Christ's likeness is described like in the Bible? We are told in Philippians chapter 2 to have the very attitude of Christ. And we're given this beautiful description of how Jesus Christ humbles himself. He doesn't consider a quality with God something to be grasped, but he becomes like us, taking on our form, being a servant, even submitting himself to death on a cross. That's the attitude of Christ. Therefore, we must, what must we do? Therefore, we are to do everything without complaining and arguing. Have you ever stopped and thought how peculiar that is? If I were to say, you should have the attitude of Christ, therefore you're going to think I should go out and and do good things and love people and feed the poor and care for the hurting and visit the imprisoned. I should do all these good things. And over and over and over again, the Bible calls us first to this radical self-denial. Stop doing these terrible things. complaining and arguing. And what is complaining? Complaining is saying these circumstances aren't good enough. And what is arguing? That's saying, I am better than you. I know better. I am better. Listen up. That is precisely the attitude of James and John in Luke chapter 9, beginning in verse 51. Because of their circumstances and their assessment of themselves, their importance, their disposition, they are about To murder hundreds of people. And isn't that in a sense what we are guilty of? When we, out of our great dispositional personality, in light of our difficult circumstances, call our brethren fool, and according to the Sermon on the Mount, Are really guilty of murder. Isn't it true that we must, especially at times when we are rejected, obey Christ? Clarify the fact that we can't be a part of sin and holiness, and in a real sense simply move on desiring the best. not wanting to become agents of their worst. Because look at this third lesson from the rejection. in this unknown town in Samaria. First, we acknowledge that we will be rejected because there's a missional reason we are given this account of Christ's ministry. It's a pattern we are to follow. What Jesus does in the Gospel of Luke, in preaching the kingdom on his way to Jerusalem, we are to continue in the book of Acts, in preaching the kingdom on our way out from Jerusalem. Absolute parity between the two. At the center lies the saving work of Christ. Everything Christ does leads to it. Everything we do comes from it. Geographically, it's about going to Jerusalem and then taking what's accomplished in Jerusalem and taking it to the ends of the world. That is the great theological missional emphasis of Luke Acts. And how Jesus conducted himself is how we are to conduct ourselves. How he handled rejection is how we are to handle rejection. And look at this beautiful, beautiful verse. Verse 56, and they went on to another village. Please don't miss the power of a verse like that. When I share the gospel with someone, whether they're a kid that I was a lacrosse coach to, or their parents, or whether there's someone who visited the church, or whether there's somebody at Presbytery. And if and to what extent I am rejected, it's okay. I don't involve myself in the sinfulness and hostility of that particular moment, and I move on to another. There is always another village in the ministry of the servant of the living God. There is always another person. Who needs to hear of the goodness of Jesus? There's always another person who needs to hear the invitation to repent and believe. And there is a sense in which, thank God, for Acts chapter 8. Remember, Luke is the same author of the book of Luke, the Gospel of Luke, and the book of Acts. Acts chapter 8, in its entirety, is about how the gospel comes back to Samaria. And in Luke chapter 9, verse 31, we find this description of how all the cities of Samaria, the towns and villages of Samaria, hear the gospel. This great moment of rejection that Jesus experiences, although it is the last time Jesus passes through that town, It is not the last time the gospel is heralded there. And I want you to think about this, dear Saint, as you consider rejection. The people who reject you In your ministerial capacity as a child of the living God, their rejection of you is not the end of their story. And it might be that the Holy Spirit, who according to John 14, brings conviction of sin, is going to use their rejection of you to tweak their conscience three years from now. Someone else is going to lead them to Christ and thank God that you are a part of it. Perhaps not the part you would have chosen. But a part of it. And that is amazing. Even the wrath of men glorifies God. You know that psalm? And he wraps the remainder of that wrath around him as a belt. He is so sovereign over even the rejections and the animosities of people and cultures and tribes here in our world. That as we faithfully experience our part in being ground up and chewed up and spat upon in that whole process of people hating people, as Titus describes in chapter 3. God is nonetheless superintending even humanity at its worst to glorify Himself and to bring blessedness to the most. We may not live to see it. But by faith we know it. Because God is God. He is the one who eternally glorifies himself and utterly blesses his people. You're going to get rejected. And spiritual rejection, rejection of you as a Christian for being a Christian is going to happen in this world. And as your pastor and fellow rejectee, I want to exhort you and myself in this moment of preaching. To be sure that the way we respond to rejection doesn't earn the rebuke of Jesus. Remember that Jesus was rejected. And we follow in his footsteps. Don't be so surprised when you suffer ill for being a Christian. A special word to those of you in middle school and high school. If people find out what you think and you believe the word of God is true, and you believe that what God said is sinful is sinful, and what is righteous is righteous, you're going to be called all kinds of words and names. Just remember that so was Jesus. And don't walk away or run away or bow your head in anything but prayer. Pray for those people. Perhaps find friends that won't be so antagonistic towards your values, your keen desire to keep your eyes fixed on Jesus. Remember how important it is to resist the devil that he might flee from you. But do not get caught up in the game of hatred and violence. That is not the way of the Savior, and it is not the path of the saved. Obey your Savior. And remember, your ministry continues. No matter how great your rejection, there's another village There's another person, another family, another soul, another day, another month How will you respond to spiritual rejection? And how will you take that attitude towards being rejected spiritually the way Jesus was and apply it even to your lesser rejections? Will you allow yourself to play host to bitterness? That's a sad, sad story when that happens. Will you become vengeful? Right after God in the Pentateuch says through Moses, love your neighbor as yourself, he says, I do not permit my people to bear a grudge. That precludes a lot of our behavior, doesn't it? And I would also like to ask in conclusion, are you Resisting Christ, which is really rejecting him, and those who would minister to you in his name. Whether that's deacons, elders, pastors, parents, Christian brothers and sisters. Wherever you see the least glimmer of someone seeking in the name of Jesus to offer you a cup of water, don't turn that water down. And don't despise the one who offers it. Whenever you hear someone say, Repent and believe, for great is the God of heaven. And merciful is his only son Jesus. And mighty is his spirit who comes and dwells with us. Accept those truths. Don't let Jesus pass through the village of your life. He may come back through his servants. But who are we to know whether or not this is the day of salvation for us? Far better for us to choose this day to serve Him. And to accept that the one who is rejected would nonetheless embrace you, take everything that's guilt, shame, pain, sorrow, grief, regret. And pay the full penalty for it and carry that burden that you might have peace with your Maker. Almighty God, we ask that you would help us. Lord, help us not to lose heart and grow weary when we experience rejection, whatever that looks like. Lord, we thank you for this passage of your scripture that shows us the excesses that we can go to, ungodly, unholy excesses we can go to. And the vengeance and the bitterness and the insecurity that is really a part of our fallen DNA, but not a part of our renewed Life in Christ. Almighty God, we pray that you would help us, like Jesus, to rebuke that spirit when it rises up within us, that spirit of wrath and indignation and anger and judgment. But Lord, rather help us to, with clarity, express where the lines are, and that we would walk with Jesus, even if that means walking away. And Father, we pray that towns and villages and countries and people like this town in Samaria would all have another day to hear the gospel, even as this town did. Lord, we pray for opportunities for all to come to know Jesus the Savior and to rest and to trust in who he is and what he's done. Bless us, Almighty God, and grant to us a growing and increasing Christ-likeness as we walk through this world. And suffer with Christ for his sake, even rejection. Bless us, O living God. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.