Last Sunday I preached from 1 Peter chapter 1. A number of you weren't here, so let me brief uh review. In 1 Peter 1, verses 22 to 25, Peter refers to the passage in Isaiah 40. Where Isaiah says CPC paraphrase for beginning of this year. Everyone is like grass. All their glory is like the poinsettias that arrayed the stage. The grass withers, the poinsettia petals fall. But the word of the Lord stands forever. It showed how Peter takes that idea of our transients, contrasted with the permanence of God's word. And he builds on that to show that God's word is not only permanent, but that it's powerful. That um as you look back in 2005 and you say Seemed like there were a lot of struggles. Wish I could have seen more of the Lord's hand, more power, more change in my life My heart, my attitude. What hope do I have that in 2006 it'll get better? And the hope that I offered to you was that Peter says this word, the word that came to the Israelites who were in exile in Babylon and said, Isaiah said, this word stands forever, you will be released and restored. They were. That word which came in the first century through Peter to the Christians, who outlived their contemporaries so that they turned the Roman world upside down. by showing how they could live above circumstances. That same word comes to you and to me. In 2006, he says, you were born again. That is your life was made new, changed, transformed by that word. However, I didn't tell you then that there was a part two. Part two is that less you conclude from that that oh 2005 was a bummer. It was a rough year. And so I can believe 2006 is going to get easier. I'm going to see the power of God enabling me to triumph over circumstance. It's going to get easier. That's not what Peter's saying. In fact, the whole letter is written to Christians who are suffering, and Peter makes the point explicitly That you can expect to suffer. And so in this week, I want to skip forward to chapter 4 and look at just verses 12 and 13. And let me focus in my first point on what he says there in verse 12. Dear friends, do not be surprised at the painful trial you are suffering. As though something strange were happening to you. If you were here in the middle hour, you'll know why I dedicate this sermon to Linda Carnett. People have been waiting for it. Well, so have many of us. Because we are surprised when we suffer, aren't we? It still catches us off guard because our thinking goes something like this. I know if I'm a parent, a father or a mother, or I know my parents, or I know other Good parents, when the child cries in pain, your whole instinct is to relieve the pain. It's to say, what can I do to rescue you? I'll do anything so that you don't suffer. Now, God is my heavenly Father. He sent his son Jesus to die for me. Surely, he doesn't want me in pain. Surely he will come to my aid when I am suffering. It'll relieve me from it. So when we don't experience that, we're surprised. Peter says, this is the same Peter, remember, who back when Jesus walked the earth, and Jesus said, after Peter confessed him, you are the Messiah, the Son of the living God, and Jesus said, I'm going to go to suffer to Jerusalem. You remember Peter said, oh no, no, no, no, no, no. No, you're the Messiah. That means you're the beloved of God. You can't suffer. And Jesus said, get behind me, Satan. You don't understand God's ways. This same Peter is now writing years later, brothers, sisters, I've learned something. Don't be surprised at the painful trial you're suffering, as though something strange were happening to you. It's not strange. Peter was probably writing in the early 60s when the first persecution of Christians began to emerge from Nero under the Roman Empire. But I don't believe that he is simply restricting the trial, the trials that he's talking about, to the Roman persecution. In fact, as I looked at this and went through and read the book myself to see the context of it, I could pick out at least six reasons why Peter says you and I suffer, and why you and I will suffer in 2006. Why we shouldn't be surprised when we do. Very briefly, think of these six. First reason why you and I will suffer in 2006 is because you bring it on yourself. It's the first thing that he says, you bring it on yourself. Let's see the verses up there that give you some examples. He says How is it to your credit? This is chapter 2, verse 20, if you receive a beating for doing wrong and endure it. You brought it on yourself. But if you suffer for doing good and endure it, that's commendable before God. But the possibility is you get a beating for doing wrong. Chapter three, verse seventeen, it's better if it's God's will to suffer for doing good than for doing evil. You may be suffering for doing evil. possibilities. It was better to suffer for doing good. Or chapter four, verse fifteen and sixteen that Tom read, if you suffer, it should not be as a murderer or a thief or any other kind of criminal, or even as a meddler. Isn't that kind of interesting, you know, how the Bible takes murder, gossip, puts those things together. You know, he says, now don't suffer as a murderer or a thief or a busybody. You know, in other words, what he's saying is, there's some times when non-Christians don't like you and they don't like me, and they have good reasons. You see, one of the hardest things for Christians, you know, it's hard enough for us to hear God convict us of our sin. You know, right there from the Word. It's harder to hear it from another Christian, isn't it? It's hard to hear it from our spouse, even if our spouse is a Christian. But what is the hardest, it seems, for many Christians is to hear it from a non-Christian. We tend to have this kind of self-righteousness that says, well, I'm just suffering for the Lord, you know. They don't like me because I'm righteous. And Peter says, they may not like you because you're middling. You're butting your nose in some place where you ought not to be, and you're being a pest. The one thing we could pray for in 2006 is Lord help me to be less defensive, less in denial, so that I can understand there are times when I'm a meddler, I'm a pest, I ought not to be. Acting in the obnoxious ways that gets me into trouble, and then think I am suffering for righteousness. Peter says, oh, come off it. Sometimes you suffer because you're meddling where you ought not to be. On the other hand The second reason that he gives is quite the opposite. He says there are times you'll suffer because you're participating in the sufferings of Christ. Verse 13. He says right there. Rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ. So there are times when because you're identified with Jesus, who was alien from the world. And people did not like him because of the righteousness that he convicted them of. There will be times when because you're identified with him, you'll remind people of him, and they won't like you either. Now, one of the most difficult things I think for us as Christians is to discern between those things. What am I suffering for the Lord and what am I suffering because I'm obnoxious? And my answer to that is you probably won't be able to figure it out yourself. Get another Christian to help you to figure that out. Because Peter says either could be the case. There is that principle. You see it there in chapter 1, verse 11. There is suffering, and then there is the glory to follow. And that was true of Jesus, and as you're identified with him, it'll be true of you. You follow him, Chapter 2, verses 21 to 23 called you to follow in his steps, and it talks there about how when he was insulted, he didn't return evil for what he received. And so as you follow him, you will experience the insults, his things that test you. And pray this year, God will help you. As you seek to display Christ, to be able to know that there will be a cost to that Third reason why you and I will suffer this year is, he says, you can expect to suffer for doing what is right in a world that loves darkness. In a world where people sin and the bounds go lower and lower of what's expected in behavior The thing that we all say is, well everybody does that. And when you belie that, when you don't do it, they can't say everybody does it. They're not going to like you for it. You kids, in school. It's expected if you go to not only a state school, but in some Christian circles. You will find it expected that you cheat. You not only cheat that if somebody is cheating, that you'll help them to cheat. Now you may not call it that, but you know there'll be times When it is expected for you to go along with your friends, you say, well I'm I'm not going to copy that off the internet and turn it in as mine or I'm not going to do this or that. And it's going to be, oh come on, everybody does it. Or help me. No, I'm not going to help you in that. And you'll be called self-righteous. In the general population at work, you may be called, you're the religious one. I remember that working in a secular workplace. You know, it was kind of like, yeah, he's the religious guy. narrow-minded other things. Peach says there's times that it's going to cost you just to do the right thing. Whether or not you're identified with Christ, just doing the right thing in a world that likes to believe that everybody does the wrong thing, you'll suffer for it When I talk about suffering, you know, I'm not talking about dramatic, having your fingernails pulled out, tied at the stake, nothing. You know, some of us look at me and say, well, I don't really feel like I'm suffering I always liked Elizabeth Elliott's definition of suffering. She said suffering is either getting what you don't want or not getting what you do want. Your heart's set on something and you're not able to get it. That's suffering. If there's something you really wish you didn't have and you have it, that's suffering. It can be subtle. It can be like the stone in the shoe, or it can be like a flaming tornon. Suffering. Fourth reason. Maybe direct or indirect demonic assault. He says in chapter five, you're The devil prowls about like a roaring lion, seeing who he can devour. And so you resist him, knowing that your brothers and sisters throughout the world are suffering in the same way. There is that suffering that is simply the demonic attacks. In Uganda If you are a Christian there, you might be suffering from the Lord's resistance army It's a terrorist group led by a fellow, Joseph Coney, who calls himself a Christian, also calls himself a Muslim, kind of invented his own religion, but the most prominent feature of it is witchcraft. With sickening sadistic rituals. They have abducted, maimed, tortured, and taught To kill over fifty thousand children, teaching them to kill their own families It is clearly a movement out of the pit of hell. It is demonic, and it causes a lot of suffering. You may be in two thousand six suffering because of demonic attack Neither assume it nor rule it out. Again, get help from another Christian to help you to discern what is the source of this? What does that mean in the way I respond? But Peter says, don't be surprised at the suffering. A lot of sources, a lot of reasons. Don't be surprised as if something strange is happening to you. Fifth thing to notice about suffering is that it can be also because there's a beneficial result, a beneficial effect. Suffering clarifies your priorities. And sometimes God will do that to get our attention. First couple of verses of chapter 4, therefore, since Christ suffered in his body, arm yourselves also in the same attitude. Because he who has suffered in his body is done with sin. That is, sin does not have the same whole. Verse 2, as a result, he does not live the rest of his earthly life for human, evil human desires, but rather for the will of God. The interesting thing about suffering is it really clarifies your priorities, you know, it gets your attention. Sins have had a great attraction to you before when you start suffering, you need to cleave to the Lord. And all of a sudden, that's not an issue. I remember when our kids growing up, I'm sure you've if you have kids, you've experienced this kind of thing. Um hour when I was telling the story, I saw a bunch of parents smiling and it's you know the the days when the kids are just being kind of grumpy, grouchy. They're not you know, they haven't really done anything that you feel like, okay, this, you know, we've got to stop, halt. But it's just kind of like a negative, kind of grouchy, self-centered attitude And you're kind of tempted to say, well, just ignore it and you know I mean you can't make an issue of everything. Pick your battles. All right, just it just keeps going on and on and on. Finally it's, you know, stop. Time out. That's it Gotta get your attention on this. And so in the old days you'd you'd send them to their room. Because nobody does that who's got any sense anymore, because that's the entertainment center So what we would do with our kids is we'd put them in the bathroom. Now I don't know about your house, but our bathrooms weren't very entertaining. Especially if you put 'em in the half bath, you know. They say they spent a half hour there and it was always amazing to me they would come out with a change of attitude. You know, it wasn't like you know coming out roaring and scream. You know, they just they needed to stop and get a little perspective. You know, okay, now we can smile. And sometimes God's got to lock us in the bathroom for a little bit to say, you know, get a little perspective. And sin loses its hold, the self-centeredness alters. And so you and I may suffer this next year, partly because God graciously wants to get your attention so that sin loses its hold and you're released from the bondage of it through that painful experience. Last thing to say about it is that suffering may also come because it's a real good opportunity for you to display your love for Jesus Christ. Blanks are there, your love for Jesus. I mean, the the simple fact is that our faith is not very compelling to people when our lives are going pretty well. You know, that was the problem of Job. You know, hey, why wouldn't he love you? Look at all that he's got. But it's when you and I suffer and we continue to display a love for Jesus Christ. That our faith takes on a new credibility. He says this back in chapter one Where he talks about how at a certain at this time you may be having to suffer various trials. See it up there You see, where he talks about how your faith is going to be refined by fire, and then though you have not seen him, you love him. Your love for him is deepening and growing, and it's displayed to those who see you. I think of a couple, Marshall and Susan, who had two lovely girls, and they wanted, like many couples after two girls, to have a little boy So they prayed, Lord, give us a little boy. Lord, could you just change the XX to the XY? You know, give a little boy. And uh they found out they're gonna have a little girl. And they were kind of grumbling, complaining. All right. Little girl was born, beautiful little girl. When she came out, they said, hmm. There seems to be something wrong. Her head's smaller than normal Turned out she had what's called microcephaly, small head, small brain. In fact, they found out also she was blind. They found out also that After a couple of weeks, she started having uncontrollable seizures. In fact, they found that she made absolutely no response to anything. She was like a little doll, they said. You could play with her, you could do anything, but she never learned to smile. She didn't suckle very well. She never reached her hand to grab her Move, just lay there. And yet she consumed constant attention It just changed their lives totally. Everything was focused on her. The church began to rally, and people would just relieve them to get sleep and take this little girl. After about a year and a quarter that Susan found out she was pregnant again. Hadn't tried and kind of surprised and alright But it's kinda like, well, all right, whatever. If you went in for um an ultrasound and The nurse said, you want to know what it is? She said, no, it's okay. She said, no, it's a little boy. It's kind of like, oh, Lord, thank you. He's given us a little boy, too. As the pregnancy progressed, they found out the little boy had more problems than the little girl. In fact, he only lived for two minutes. The girl continued to live. And they began to discover something. Began to discover that Even though they weren't trying to design it, everywhere they took her, they got into gospel conversations. They began to say that Mandy is like a magnet for the gospel Because her very existence raised questions about God and life and what it's about. Because they continued to love and trust Jesus, their love for Jesus displayed in that situation had a powerful impact on many people's lives. She died at two and a half. And they said by that point they had come to see she was a precious gift of God. Her life had drawn many to faith in Christ. Who can explain? God has his ways. You don't know what they are. I don't know what they are for 2006. But Peter says, don't be surprised when it's hard. I think of a little piece that was written by a fellow by the name of Don Bosley. And he wrote about how moms and dads look at football games very differently when their sons are playing Now, let me give it to you some excerpts in his words because I don't think I'd do it justice. He says, moms as a group don't understand pummeling. The theory advanced by behavioral sociologists who wanted to play football as youngsters but were made to learn the French horn by their mothers instead says that moms don't appreciate the aggressive nature of sports. It's not that moms aren't tough five minutes in the labor room with your wife will put a cork in that nonsense A lot of moms are former athletes or scrappy tomboys at heart. Some moms are hardy football fans and even cheer a good pumbling of four saps now and then. But they're moms, and when their sons are in the game, moms can transform into a wild-eyed sisterhood. Don't throw it to him! Don't throw it to him! Melody kept chanting while simultaneously chewing on all ten fingernails. I was young and foolish. I decided to correct her. Don't throw it to him, I scoffed. Honey, he's wide open. No, he's not. I didn't know how much danger I was in. See, dads understand pummeling. They can watch their sons be clobbered by a mastodon-sized mindbacker and be philosophical about it. But football moms are absolutely not philosophical. They're tormented, jittery, women on the edge. Don't mess with them. Go, Brett, I hollered. Looked like he might go to the distance. I couldn't see whether he made it or not. A blanket hit me with the force of a stampeding Spanish bull. Run, run, run screamed Melody in maternal seizure. She didn't care about the end zone. She just wanted Brett Brett to run anywhere that he could to avoid the extreme pounding to his skinny little self. But the kid hadn't eaten enough broccoli. One defender slowed him down, another plowed him into the ground after a 20-yard game. The joyous fans went nuts. I went nuts. The other moms went nuts, thrilled that it wasn't their kids who had gotten planted like a pathetic petunia at midfield. Melody, on the other hand, was way beyond nuts. She was covering her eyes, cringing and trying to make herself do deep breathing exercises. Let him get up, please let him get up, she kept praying. Somebody tell me when he gets up. Honey, they've already run three more plays. The truth was that Brett was wearing so much protective equipment that you could have swung a wrecking ball at the kid and he still would have bounced up unscathed You see, he was supposed to get hit. He was dressed for it. I'm a dad. I totally get this. But here's the problem. I get it when it comes to the football field. But I don't always grasp the concept elsewhere, which can be problematic when you're talking about your walk with Jesus. I am stunned when some lousy circumstance or petty injustice touches my life. I can get snorty and wild-eyed. Strife comes to one of my relationships and I start retreating desperately or raving unintelligibly. A financial burden blindsides me, and I go into spiritual convulsions. What did I expect? A game of pinochle played on a tablecloth? You see, you and I are trying to get a ball down to the end zone. And we have an opposition that is determined to stop us. We are called into a battle But God has given to you and to me spiritual armor to protect us. We're going to get hit. Peter says, don't be surprised when you're pummeled. Don't be surprised when there is opposition that is underhanded. That is sneaky and devious. Your enemy doesn't play fair. Life is going to be hard And I'm afraid it will be hard in 2006, but you know what? It can be more joyful. Because he holds out a hope there in verse 13. He says, but rejoice that you participate in the sufferings of Christ, so that you may be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. There are three reasons for rejoicing there. Number one, because heaven will be more precious to you. The darker the night, the more you and I long for the dawn. And so he says, rejoice that you're participating in these sufferings of Christ. Because you know what? When his glory is revealed, you're going to be overjoyed. You see, you and I have a longing that unbelievers don't know about And it is that we understand that this world is profoundly abnormal. And like in Romans 8, Paul says, we groan, groan for things to be made right. We understand that when the afflictions come, physical, relational, emotional, spiritual That there's going to be an end to it. Peter says in his second letter, chapter 3, verse 13 Keeping in his with his promise, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth, the home of righteousness. There is a longing that's in your heart, and the more you suffer, the deeper that longing is, the more precious heaven becomes to you. The second thing to notice is that your reward will become more exquisite. Your reward will become more exquisite. You remember Jesus' words in Matthew chapter 5, where he talks at the end of the Beatitudes. Blessed are you when you're persecuted and when people speak against you and say false things about you, for great is your reward in heaven! You're part of the train of the prophets and the apostles and the saints and the martyrs who also didn't fit in this world. The more you don't fit, The more exquisite is the reward that you'll see and be overjoyed to behold when Jesus comes back. You can't plan that. It's simply true, and there's that hope. But of course, the longing that you have for heaven and For the releases is not just for the absence of the pain. The central thing is Jesus. And so you notice he says You will be overjoyed when his glory is revealed. There is no one who suffered more than Jesus. He suffered just by his being made a human being. He suffered temptation. He suffered rejection He suffered misunderstanding. He suffered misunderstanding to a degree that you and I will never suffer, even though we feel deeply misunderstood at times. Who experienced loneliness like Jesus? Who experienced heartache? Betrayal, abandonment, physical agony, and the curse of God by Jesus Christ But when he comes, his glory will be revealed. He will come in triumph. Right now he continues to share in your sufferings. His heart is touched by your tears. But in that day when you and I see him, he will come in triumph, and it will be all over. Do you ever dream about that moment when you will first see Jesus? Do you ever imagine it? You have ever imagined what it will be to see his face, his perfections, his glory, his power All of what he is in his wisdom, his compassion, his strength, displayed before you And unlike anything on earth, when you are overwhelmed with something that you have looked forward, some person, some event, to seeing And you get used to it, and it fades gradually. Jesus will never fade in his glory. That first glimpse will be deepened in the joy. He says you will be overjoyed. Your heart will be bursting with joy. And that will deepen and broaden throughout all eternity So he holds before you, brothers and sisters, 2006 can be a more joyful year. Not because it'll necessarily be easier. But because the very purpose of suffering is to display him more fully to your sight. This week, as I was praying, all of a sudden it occurred to me. Is God listening to me? I mean, it was as if the Lord said, Alan, do you really believe I'm listening? Or are you just kind of granting on to yourself there? And all of a sudden I realized what a difference it makes to know he's listening. If my life's going okay, it's kind of well, that's nice that he's listening. But you know what? When you're suffering. You must know he's listening. Nothing else will satisfy. And your intimacy with him is deepened. Because he's there and you're waiting for his glory to be revealed. Back in the third century, there was a fellow who became a Christian by the name of Cyprian. He wrote a letter to a friend of his describing why he did. In closing, let me quote from that letter. He says, this seems a cheerful world, Donatus, when I view it from this fair garden under the shadow of these vines. But if I climb some great mountain and I look over the wide lands, you know very well what I would see. Brigands on the high rocks, pirates on the sea. In the amphitheaters, men murdered to please applauding crowds. It is a sick world, Donatus, an incredibly sick world. And yet in the midst of it, I have found a quiet and holy people. They have discovered a joy which is a thousand times better than any pleasure of this sinful world They are despised and persecuted, but they care not. They have overcome the world. These people, Donatus, are the Christians, and I have become one of them. Are you one of them? Do you have that hope? Let's pray. Oh our Father, how we wait for that time, that day when we shall see Jesus, and our joy will be overwhelming. Hold, we pray, that vision before us. Lord, remind us so that we are not surprised. When we're blindsided by the evil one, when we get ourselves into trouble, when we suffer because of all kinds of reasons And help us, Lord, to suffer not because of evil, but to participate in the sufferings of Christ so that Our hearts are more set on the joy that is before us at the display of his glory. And so, Lord, we present ourselves to you as living sacrifices now for this year. Lord, have your way with us. And may we know that we don't have to be fearful that we will suffer, for your purposes are good. And if you bring suffering into our lives, it's to purge us from those things which really bring sadness in the long run and because you want to display yourself more fully to us. Give us a heart to long for you and for that. And to be ready, Lord, for what you bring. with anticipation and eagerness, because we can trust you, who are a good God to us. Amen.