Here you're getting two Thanksgiving messages, one this week, one next week. And if you come with us to Grandmother's House or Grandmother Church, Knox Church, uh Silver Spring, our annual joint Thanksgiving Day service. Uh you'll get to hear me give a third Thanksgiving Day message, and by that point if you're not thankful, there's no hope. We give up on your own. If you uh want directions to that service, they'll be in the bulletin next week for you to find your way there. It's very easy. It's been something we've been doing ever since the beginning of our church. Well, uh, when I think of Thanksgiving Day, uh I am reminded each year that there's absolutely no basis for celebrating it in Scripture. And uh we realize it's something that's simply an American custom. When I think of it, however, I am reminded of An Old Testament sacrifice, which is a kind of a basis for it, the thank offering. And I'm also reminded of an Old Testament feast, the harvest feast. The harvest feast in the Old Testament was a basically a seven-day vacation after all the crops were in. And uh that harvest feast is probably better known to us as the feast of booths or the feast of lean twos or probably the most popular name, the Feast of Tabernacles, although most people don't understand what a tabernacle is. But uh that was to the Jew in the Old Testament, a seven-day vacation when you could sit back, you could rest, and you could rejoice. Now, lots of Americans today are able to squeeze in a four day vacation by, you know, skipping Friday and you got Thursday to Sunday, but very few of us get seven days at harvest time So uh don't think of God as a narrow-eyed capitalist who never wanted his people to take off time for fun. God had his people have this seven-day vacation every year to rest and to rejoice from their labors. I find that we as Christians generally ignore the Old Testament sacrifices and feasts. We probably, most of us, couldn't list them. and even fewer could tell what they mean and what was different about them, what was the significance of each one. And I think it's uh partly because they do tend to be somewhat confusing to us We've never been taught very much about them and we don't understand why it's important for us to know them. But I would suggest to you that uh that would be like ignoring certain love letters from someone that you loved very dearly and were absent from. I remember still to this day when Kathy and I many years ago, won't even recall how many, were engaged that we were apart for most all of our engagement, or at least uh the couple months before we were married. And I recall that uh I looked forward eagerly to the letters I would get from her almost every day in the mail And if you had said to me, um, you know, Al, why didn't you bother to check the mailbox today? And I'd say, Well, you know, she writes basically the same thing every day She tells me she loves me, she says what's going on in her life. You know, if I miss Thursday, well, you know, it's really not gonna be any big deal because I already got Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday and what could be new in one day, you know But uh I assure you that was not my attitude. Uh and I assure you, hon, that was not my attitude Uh I still very vividly recall grabbing those letters and uh before looking at anything else every day I knew just when the postman would get there so I could tear open that letter and find out what new glimpse I had of her and what she was like and how she loved me. And I would suggest to you that the Old Testament sacrifices and feasts are something like that. When God has communicated in His Word to us what He's done for us and how He loves us, He's done it in many different ways, like love letters. And to ignore some of them because we think we got the drift from the others is to state something about our intimacy with the Lord Jesus. And so the harvest feast or the feast of tabernacles is a kind of love letter that describes in a unique way, a little bit different than any other way in Scripture. Something about the love of the Lord Jesus for you and for me. And so because now it's harvest time and we're going to celebrate Thanksgiving in a couple of weeks, believe it or not, it's around that time again. I think it's as good a time as any for us to take a look at what that feast means, and then to see that those precious words in John chapter 7, verse 37 to 39 from the Lord Jesus Can only be understood when you understand the background of those words, the harvest feast or the feast of tabernacles So let's take a look at those three verses, John chapter 7, verses 37 to 39. And Remember that the basis of this is the Feast of Tabernacles, the harvest feast. And so we read in John chapter 7 from God's Word to you and to me That on the last and greatest day of the feast, the Feast of Tabernacles, the harvest feast, Jesus stood and said in a loud voice, If anyone is thirsty Let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. By this he meant the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were later to receive. Up to that time the Spirit had not been given, since Jesus had not yet been glorified. Now, we need to then look at the background of this to understand what Jesus is inviting us to do. And the background, as I said, was the Feast of Tabernacles or the Harvest Feast. What then did that feast picture? That's the first point, you see. Basically, two things were pictured in this feast: resting and rejoicing. Those were the two things, the two main themes. Resting and rejoicing. Creation resting and rejoicing. And redemption resting and rejoicing. Creation, resting and rejoicing. I have you put it down again, right? Nail that in your mind. See? It's rest and rejoicing. So creation, rest, and rejoicing had to do with the fact that it was harvest time. It was a harvest feast. They were simply celebrating the fact that God had given them enough food to live for another year. And so in Deuteronomy chapter 16, verses 13 to 15, God says that you should rejoice, that you will be able to rest from all of your labors. This is the feast that you are that God has blessed you in all of your harvest and all the work of your hands, and so your joy is complete. Rest for seven days. Rejoice. God has provided a good harvest. But so that they would understand that they were not simply celebrating the fact that they had full bellies and a well-earned vacation, God also used this occasion to teach them something about his redemption. And so it's not only a creation rest and rejoicing, but it's also a redemption rest and rejoicing. That is to say, in this time they celebrated their exodus. They celebrated the fact that God had redeemed them from out of Egypt. For instance, in Leviticus chapter 3, In verses 41 to 43, God tells them that they're to take branches of trees, and that they're to take these branches, and they're to build themselves something that would look like a kind of a bus stop shelter to us. three-sided lean to. And they were to live in that for a week. One colossal campout for all of Israel. Can you imagine what that must have looked like? Everybody moved out of their permanent dwellings And they all lived in these branch constructed lean twos for seven days. One camp out of a couple of million people all gathered together to have a vacation. Now God was saying, I want you to do that, not just because I think it's time that you learn something about camping again, because this is when they were in the land. But he said, I want you to always remember That your forefathers lived in the wilderness in temporary shelters when I brought them out from Egypt. And so you remember that you're a free people. You're not slaves living in bondage. And you remember that you're people in pilgrimage. By the fact that you live in these temporary shelters for a period of time, just for these seven days. And during those seven days, he says in Numbers chapter 29 You are to offer sacrifices. In fact, he tells his people that they're to offer more sacrifices of bulls and rams, which were the two most expensive sacrifices More sacrifices in those seven days than in the whole rest of the year put together. They're to offer seventy bowls. They're to offer 14 rams and 98 lambs in those seven days. And if you look at the construction that God has put on this thing, you see that the whole week is a picture of salvation. Why? Well, because in the Bible, the number seven is the number of salvation. Some people say number seven is the number of perfection. I think more accurately, more precisely, the number seven in Scripture is the number of salvation. And so when does God say that you're to celebrate this feast? On the seventh month of the year. How long do you celebrate it for? Seven days. What do you offer? Three kinds of sacrifice, the total of which is all divisible, each one of them by the number seven. Seventy, fourteen, and ninety-eight. We can go figure the ninety-eight one later, but take my word for it now. Each one divisible by the number seven. And so God has said, I am giving to you now a picture of the rest and the rejoicing that I have for you in my kingdom. That I have accomplished through my redemption of you as my people. And so we're to rest in his salvation and we're to rejoice in his deliverance. It's a great time. It's a time of celebration. But, as you and I know, religious theory is often very different from religious practice. What we hear is the way we're supposed to be, and what we're supposed to experience. Because of church, because of what Christianity teaches us, is often very different from what we actually experience day to day, isn't it? And so the second thing that you need to notice here is the contrast of Israel's experience under the law. The contrast of Israel's experience under the law, that is the contrast of their experience with what they were in fact supposed to be experiencing in rest and rejoicing, pictured by the Feast of Tabernacles, that harvest feast. First of all, there was a lack of rest. The Bible tells us in the book of Numbers, in Hebrews chapter 4, in Psalm 95, that we started the worship with today. The Bible tells us. That most of those who lived in the wilderness never entered the rest of God. Only two of them even went into the promised land, Joshua and Caleb. But most of them, God says, never entered into a salvation rest through their unbelief. They were a hard-hearted people, and so they celebrated something externally that was supposed to Give them a thirst, a hunger for rest, but they never entered into it by faith. Even the believers who did enter into it Spiritually by faith, were under the bondage of the law, which didn't give them release in their consciences, but only again and again reminded them of their sin. That's what Hebrews chapter ten tells us. There we read that the law is only a shadow of the good things that are coming, not the realities themselves. For this reason it can never by the same sacrifices repeated endlessly year after year in among those at the Feast of Tabernacles. Those sacrifices given year after year, the seventy bulls, the fourteen rams, the ninety-eight lambs, again and again and again. They could never make perfect those who draw near to worship. If it could, would they not have stopped being offered? For the worshippers would have been cleansed once and for all and would no longer have felt guilt for their sin. But those sacrifices are rather an annual reminder of sin. Because it's impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin. And so there was a lack of rest. And there was also very little rejoicing There was little rejoicing because Israel had so utterly failed to keep the covenant that God had made with them. And so Jeremiah chapter 10 is a scathing indictment of their failure. And because of that, Jeremiah says the song that God has given to us is not a song of rejoicing, but it's the song of lamentation. And he writes a whole book, the Song of Lamentations, the Book of Lamentations, which is Israel's song under the law, utter failure and judgment. And so there's little rejoicing because the law can never make us perfect. The law can only show us how utterly we fail. And they lack the rejoicing because their consciences are not clean. They're guilty. And they live oppressed lives. That should be lives, not love. They have oppressed lives not only because of their own failure, but as they lived under the Roman oppression during Jesus' time. And you and I may not live under Roman oppression, but we have our own pressures and oppression. Which robs us of rejoicing. And so you and I look, and we see what religious practices we can muster. We can see all the things that we can do for God, and none of them give us rest None of them give us rejoicing. And that's what brings us to Jesus. And so the third thing I want you to see is the fulfillment in Jesus Christ. Now you see, having understood the background of this, that feast which was to picture God's rest and rejoicing, but that picture which could never be fulfilled under the law, for under the law there could be no rest. The sacrifices had to keep being offered. You never did enough for the law. You never satisfied the law's demands, and therefore you could never rejoice fully, because it was always something undone. And so you look at Today and you say, if I look back over this week in terms of the law and all the things I didn't get done, yeah, yesterday I went to put up the ceiling. I got a third of the ceiling put up. a two-thirds of a ceiling laying bare here this morning. And I'm not finished. None of us are finished what we have sought to accomplish this week, right? Or if you did finish it, it's not as good as you would like it to be And so there's a lack of rejoicing in our own works. Then Jesus comes on the scene. And in John chapter seven With that picture, you have to understand that in verse 2, we read that when the Jewish Feast of Tabernacles was near, Jesus' brothers began to mock him. And they say, Well, you know, you gotta build a little PR here, you gotta get some fans, you better go up to the feast and get all these people gather around you, you know, do some of your tricks so that they'll be able to see how great you are. They don't think very much of 'em, they don't believe in 'em at that point. James came too later. But they make fun. And then chapter seven, verse fourteen tells us, Jesus puts them off, and then halfway through the feast. Now you gotta understand that the feast, although it was a seven-day feast, had an eight-day added to it. And that eighth day was a a great convocation of all Israel coming together in assembly of worship. And so there's eight days total, and Jesus goes up halfway through, probably the fourth day of the feast. He goes up and he begins to teach them about himself and what he's like and what he's come to offer. And you see the irony that John's presenting to us, because through chapter seven you see Jesus coming up here In this feast, a picture of rest and rejoicing in the Messiah. And he comes up and they don't believe him. And they start arguing about who he is and what his claims are. And they want to kill him at the feast. The Jewish leaders have a plot out. If he comes to the feast, lay hands on him, we're going to kill him before he can do any more damage. And so here's people who have not only entered into rest and rejoicing, their hearts are so hard. But they're trying to kill the Messiah who can give them that rest and rejoicing. And then we come down to verse 37. And it's the last and greatest day of the feast. Now you need to understand, now it's the eighth day of the feast. And on that eighth day of the feast, there is a custom that's being celebrated, and you need to understand that custom to understand Jesus' words. The custom was called the ceremony of water. And that's what you see in your blank there. The last and greatest day. The ceremony of water. Now that was a ceremony that took place every day of the feast But on that last day, it was the last time and it was the most poignant time that the priest would perform the ceremony. What was it? Each day he would go from the temple about 400 feet down the hill. along the gate of the water gate to what was called the pool of Siloam. And he would dip a golden pitcher into that pool, and he would gather up water out of that pool, and then with great ceremony and fanfare, the priest would walk back. Up to the temple, go into the holy place, and there at the altar there were two parts, two uh holes, receptacles at the base of the altar, one for wine and one for water He would go over to the trench for the water, and he would pour that water in. The basis of that was Isaiah 12, verse 3. Where Isaiah says, With joy you will draw water from the wells of salvation. And so this was connected with the Jews in their mind to the Feast of Tabernacles. God had given the rain. And so that's why they had the harvest. And God had promised the waters of salvation. That was the cre the redemptive rest they were looking forward to. And so they would state that and they would pray the prayer of Psalm one hundred and eighteen, which is what was prayed when Jesus came in at the uh the day of the triumphal entry. Save Lord, Hosanna, come and save now. And he would pour that water out Now there's Jesus in the crowd, and he's watching that priest come up with all this religious ritual and fanfare, and he looks in the eyes of the people and he sees their hearts. People without rest. People without rejoicing. The hollowest kind of rejoicing at best. And Jesus is in the crowd. And picture the drama now. Everyone is silent as they're waiting for the priest as he pours this out to declare Isaiah 12 and Psalm 118. Read in verse 37. Jesus stood up and with a loud voice, while everybody's watching now, he says, if anyone is really thirsty Come to me, and I will give you to drink. Come, for whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, streams of living water will flow from within him. Can you imagine what it was like to be there? I mean you probably could have heard a pin drop after that And everybody looked at him. And you read in the verses after this from 40 to 44 the great commotion that then breaks out. And some say, wow, surely this man's a prophet. And others say, Oh, he's the Messiah. And others say, Wow, can Messiah come from Galilee? And everybody starts arguing afterwards, because it's raised such a commotion But look at his words. Jesus now is stating that he is the fulfillment of the Feast of Tabernacles. Jesus now is saying something very amazing. Because what he is doing in verse 37 and 38, if anyone, he says, is thirsty, come to me. Come to me and drink. He's saying I I I couldn't keep silent any longer and seize the the unfulfilled hopes To see you pouring this water and seeing in your hearts and your lives the lack of rest and the lack of rejoicing without telling you where you can find it. Come to me Jesus says to you and to me this morning, come to me, he's saying to you. He's saying to me, Come, to find a satisfaction that only I can give. What's he quoting from? You notice he says there, whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, he's not quoting from Isaiah chapter 12. He's quoting from a passage further on in Isaiah. Isaiah chapter 58, verse 11. The Lord will guide you always. He will satisfy your needs in a sun-scorched land. The Lord will strengthen your frame, and you will be like a well-watered garden, like a spring whose waters never fail. That's Isaiah 58:11. Jesus is saying you're thirsty. You're living in a sun-scorched land. Have you ever really been thirsty? Why did Jesus pick that image of thirst? To picture what it is that draws you and me to him. But I think you know if you've ever really been thirsty. Because even if you're not dying of thirst, but you're really, really thirsty, interesting thing about it. No matter what else you're doing, no matter what else you're enjoying, you can be mach watching the most exciting video, you can be doing anything that's the most stimulating thing, but always in the back of your mind there's that that wo that voice that's saying, I'm thirsty It's real nice, but I'm thirsty, you know, I'd like to get something to drink. And yeah, it's a lot of fun, but I'm thirsty. You know, and and until I get something to drink, I can't rest, I can't relax, I can't enjoy myself. It's distracting. It's an inner need which distracts you in everything that you do until it is satisfied. Jesus is saying, that's the way your life is. And the way my life is without him. There was an article recently done on baby boomers and some of the transitional thinking of those who grew up in the sixties and how they're coping with the eighties and moving into the nineties. One woman was who's a professor now was interviewed on this and I thought she put her experience well. She said, in the 60s we were not intimidated by anything. Neither dogma nor tradition nor gods. We'd succeeded in almost everything we put our minds to, except in finding peace within. And what we thought we could buy and excuse me, and that we thought we could buy from our therapist or chant our way into. Eventually, I had to confess to myself that I craved something more I needed to be connected to folks who knew that there was something more to life than what they could see or feel or buy or hoard. Something was missing inside. That's the thirst that Jesus is talking about. That insatiable thirst that nothing else can satisfy but Jesus Himself. They say that people with cholera are people who have an insatiable thirst. And you can give a person who is dying of cholera all the water that they can drink. It won't do them any good. They'll vomit it back up and their body will continue to dehydrate until before their body is able to fight off the disease, they're dehydrated to death Dying of thirst amidst pools of water. And how many we have in our own culture? Howard County, Columbia Perhaps some of us here, with all the things around that would seem to satisfy, and everything says should satisfy. And yet there's a there's that inner thirst, there's that inner craving, that dissatisfaction. There was one man who was able to satisfy that in the way that this world said would, probably more than most anyone will ever see. He was a man who always wanted more. In most Kai's cases, he was able to get it He wanted more money, and so he parlayed and inherited wealth into a billion-dollar pile of assets. He wanted more fame, and so he broke into the Hollywood scene and soon became a filmmaker and star. He wanted more sensual pleasures, so he paid handsome sums to indulge his every sexual urge. He wanted more thrills, and so he designed, built, and piloted the fastest aircraft in the world. He wanted more power. And so he secretly dealt political favors so skillfully that two U. S. presidents became his pawns. All he ever wanted was more. He was absolutely convinced that more would bring him true satisfaction. Unfortunately, history shows otherwise. Of course, I'm describing Howard Hughes, who died an emaciated, colorless, sunken man who was obsessed And who had fingernails, grotesque, inches long, rotting black teeth, tumors, innumerable needle marks from drug addiction A man who died believing the myth of more, a billionaire junkie, insane by any standard He was thirsty, and he didn't know where to go to drink. And you and I will probably never get to travel near the path that Howard Hughes did. But we had the same kinds of deceptions. If only I could have this or that, I would be satisfied. And Jesus says, Do you want real rest? Do you want real rejoicing pictured in this celebrated feast? Come to me. Come to me if you're thirsty, and I will give you the satisfaction you can get nowhere else. You remember that Israel, coming out of Egypt, came into the desert, and on one occasion they were thirsty. And there was nothing to drink. And they began to complain and they began to rail at Moses, and they said, Oh, would to God we had died in Egypt rather than come out here and die of thirst. What have you done to us? You've deceived us. And Moses, of course, says goes to God, you know. He says, Lord, what am I going to do with these people? There they are, complaining again. How am I going to satisfy them? I don't have water, what I think. I got an ocean in my back pocket. What can I do? God says, Moses, get down to the rock. And the m and Moses, stand at that rock where I've revealed myself, Horeb, and I will stand at that rock. And take that rod that you used in judgment to judge the Egyptians. When I stand there in that rock, I will be judged in the place of my complaining people. And you will strike the rock in judgment. God's saying you're going to strike me in judgment. This is Exodus chapter 6 17. And when Moses struck the rock in judgment instead of the people, what happened? The Bible tells us water flowed from the rock. And it satisfied all the people's thirst. In 1 Corinthians chapter 10, Paul tells us, I don't want you to be ignorant of the fact, brothers. That our forefathers were all under the cloud, that they all passed through the sea, and they were all baptized into Moses in the cloud in the sea. And they all ate that same spiritual food, the manna. And they all drank that same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that accompanied them, and that rock was Christ. And so Ezekiel pictures the people of God as a dehydrated people with spiritual cholera. A people who want more and more and more, and they become more and more spiritually wasted. And the book of Ezekiel speaks of the absolute spiritual desolation of God's people as a valley of dry bones. Then he moves on into chapter 47 and he says, I went up to the temple, and I looked at the temple, and out of the temple there flowed a creek. And that creek became a stream. And the stream became a river and that river was up to my ankles. And then I went further and the river was up to my knees. And I went further and the river was up to my waist. And I went furt that was utterly uncrossable. A river that no one could cross or measure, and on both sides of that river with the tree of life, with fruits of every kind, for every month to satisfy God's people. And the leaves were for healing of every illness. Then you come to the book of Revelation. John picks up in the last chapter on that very same picture, and he says, The angel showed to me the river of the water of life. As clear as crystal, totally unpolluted. Don't have to worry about Giardia or any other bacteria or anything in it. It is an utterly clear stream. It's the water of life. John says it's as clear as crystal flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb down the middle of the great street of the city. And on each side of the river there stood the tree of life, bearing twelve crops of fruit, yielding its fruit every month. And the leaves of the tree are for the healing of the nations. No longer will there be any curse. Jesus says, come, come to me, prime that stream And I give you my satisfaction by the Spirit. Remember, Jesus stood on the eighth day. The number eight in Scripture is the picture of the new creation. And so he's speaking of that new creation by the Spirit that He has given to us in the gospel. And he says, Come, for I fulfilled the law. I was the one struck at that rock. And so I've taken your sin. I have fulfilled the law and its demands. And you don't have to look to see if you can rest today on how well you did this week. Just look to me. And if you do, you'll find that my righteousness is sufficient. And you can rest in that. And you don't have to look to how well you did this week to see whether or not you can rejoice this morning. All you have to do is look to me and see what I've accomplished for you. See that I'm your Savior and I'm your shepherd, and whatever your need is for this coming week, you can rest and you can rejoice. For my spirit has made you all sons of God. And so you're new creatures. You're his sons and his daughters, and you can cry to him for whatever your need is. And he's able to meet that because he's sufficient in every way. I think sometimes as Christians, you and I look and we say, I believe that that was true in the past. I believe that the apostles and the disciples were baptized by the Spirit when he was poured out. You see again that water image of the Spirit. as unquenchable streams that continue to flow. The idea of a spring in our lives. You see that uh we aren't a pool, no matter how deep the pool, for then the water resides in yourself But you see he's speaking of a stream here, a spring, Isaiah fifty-eight, a well-watered spring, John seven, a stream that continues to flow. Because the difference is that a stream doesn't have its resource in itself. The resource is the rains, the water that comes from heaven, that comes down into the ground and works its way into the bed of that spring and stream, and the stream is simply a channel for what is beyond it and outside of it. And so you and I are those channels by faith in Jesus of the power and the work of the Spirit that comes through our lives. We say, I know that that was true in Acts, and I know that it's going to be true again in Revelation when we go to be with Jesus. But somehow I don't feel like I can experience John chapter 7 today. It doesn't seem like something that's for the present. It may be for the past, it may be for the future. But can I really claim, if I'm thirsty, that I can come to Jesus and drink? And if I believe him, as the scripture has said, my life will become like streams of living water. To flow in purity and in cleanness. Jack Miller is a professor at Westminster Seminary and an Orthodox Presbyterian pastor, and he's written in a book outgrowing the Indiana Church of his own life at a point in time when he came to utter dissatisfaction with his experiential joy in Jesus Christ And at that time he was able to go to Spain and he was able to get some time off, and in Barcelona, Spain, he studied the scriptures, and his mind kept coming back to John chapter. Chapter 7 verses 37 to 39. And he kept asking himself, Do I really believe that that promise is for today? Do I really believe that I can experience that now, or is it only for the past and the future? And he says in his book, I had rightly discerned that this promise of Christ's fullness had past reference to Pentecost and a future reference to a transformed world. But I have missed the emphasis in the Gospel of John on the present application of this promise to those who are currently believing and keep believing. It's a present continuous tense in the Greek. I admiss the fact that God wishes to use such promises to awaken us daily from our dryness and to claim the Spirit's refreshing life. Until when I returned from Spain to Westminster and to my congregation in early October, I determined not to act on my feelings, but simply on the basis of the promise. I daily claimed them in my weakness, my thirsting. And then I took my courage in my hands and I talked about Christ to everyone who would listen. My teaching focused on Christ's willingness to give the Holy Spirit in an ongoing basis to us now. As we in our weakness claimed the promises in prayer. The results were revolutionary. Before this, I had often viewed the local congregation as a jury passing judgment on my sermons and pastoral work. But after my return from Barcelona, I had a new heart concern for them to enter into the life of faith, conditioned by the freedom of daily surrender to Jesus and reliance on his spirit. Within two years, I saw more people converted than in the previous 20 years of my witness and ministry. Do you believe that this promise is for you today and this week? Come to Jesus with your thirsting and let him meet your needs. As only you know it, and as only he can satisfy it. Let's pray. Lord our God, we come to you this morning, and we're a thirsty people. We are so thirsty. There is that inner craving and dissatisfaction that comes through our either keeping you at arm's length as the Jews at the feast. And shutting you out of our lives entirely, or perhaps having given our lives to you and belonging to you, still seeking to satisfy our own longings in our own ways. We want to give those up to you this morning. We want for you to meet that need in this moment of quiet