Going to be Thanksgiving Day already. Comes around so quickly. We're gonna indulge in that uh famous American custom in which the uh average American will eat enough calories to lasting for three days comfortably. And that's all based on an original feast. We celebrate, celebrate that happened back in 1621. The original Thanksgiving feast happened in October. by the pilgrims in Plymouth, Massachusetts. It was a Thanksgiving piece that they set apart because the previous winter of sixteen twenty twenty one, their first winter in the New World, was a very rugged and bitter winter. Of the hundred and three that came to those shores, forty seven died that first winter. Nearly half their number had been decimated. But they had had a decent crop, and so out of typically grateful hearts, the pilgrim who are God-fearing men and women called and set apart a date at Thanksgiving. And they invited a couple of Gold Indian friends over and showed up with monkey braves all hungry. But they uh ultimately brought along some provisions also. They had so much fun that they extended the day to a three day feast. But there's another Thanksgiving day that's almost been lost in American history and annals. It is a Thanksgiving Day that was held two years later in sixteen. 1623. That Thanksgiving Day, in my opinion, was far more significant. In fact, it is the one that was held in November, and maybe the basis of the one that we have now. But it's the one that almost nobody ever hears anything about. The first course of that Thanksgiving feast, everyone had an empty plate, and on that empty plate there were set five curls of dried corn. I'll explain why in a little bit. But in order for you to understand that illustration, we need to understand the Psalm first. So going to sit that aside for a minute and I got your curiosity up a little. And when I look at Psalm sixty five and I Psalm fifty five is a harvest psalm. Verses nine to thirteen of that psalm are verses that are among the most popular and precious in all of the Psalmers, because they speak of the bounty of God's harvest. Beautiful verses that speak of the bountiful harvest in the fall of the year. This psalm, I think, is very likely written for the Feast of Tabernacles, which is a fall harvest feast for ancient Israel. It is the harvest feast in which they came to Israel to Zion. In order to thank God for the harvest and to present offerings. And so you see something of that hidden, I think, in verse 1. Praise awaits you, O God, in Zion. To you are vows remained. You see, you come to Zion on the feast days. And because of verses 9 to 13, we will see in a few minutes, it's very apparent, I think, that this is a fall feast. And you have an additional bit of information there at the end of the verse. one to you our vows will be fulfilled. Now Leviticus chapter 23 describes the Feast of Tabernacles. And you see in that chapter, verse, one of the verses, verse 33 And thirty uh excuse me, verse uh thirty-eight describes the offering of vows as part of the Feast of Tabernacles. You could offer vows at other times too, but it's specifically mentioned in connection with this feast. Now what are vows? Bows to Israel were simply thank offerings. They were given to God as an acknowledgement of His mercy and His kindness in answer to a specific prayer. God had delivered you, He had been good to you. in some special way. And so you made a vow that when God would answer this prayer, you would give to him a bank offering and you would publicly testify to his goodness. And that is done as a part of this feast. And so I think we have that picture here in verse one. await you, O God, in Brian, as we're assembling now for the harvest feast. And to you at that time our vows are going to be fulfilled. We're going to bring these bank offerings in order to acknowledge your goodness in providing this harvest and other things, other mercies. perhaps in specific answers to prayer. And so this is, you see, the reason why this goes right on to verse 2. O you who hear prayer, that's the connection. To you all men will come. Now just in case you're waiting for me to read through this whole psalm, I'm going to speak through the psalm as I read it, because I think if I just read it and don't open it up to you, you're not going to get the understanding of it. So we're going to work our way through this psalm before we then draw the lessons out of it. So follow with me if I go through this verse by verse. To you, he says, in here prayer, to you all men are going to come. And he then in verses 2 to 4 praises God for a specific matter of his character. And this Psalm praises God God for three things. You see the three blanks there. As I go through the psalm, see if you can guess what those blanks are. See if it becomes apparent to you the three um attributes of God and the three things about God for which the Psalm and thanking him and praising him at this feast. First of all, I said you hear prayer. You hear my prayer. Yeah, that's just amazing. You hear me when I call out to you. Does that astound you when you think that God hears your prayer. Now I was uh especially struck by this this summer. Blue was learning how to ride a bike too early. And uh he had by the time we got to Cape Cod mastered the art of balancing himself on the two wheeler, what he had totally obliterated from his mind is how to stop the two wheeler. My backpatter. If so he went out on this uh bike path it was kind of a narrow twisting uh bike path out to the Very nice, hilly, uh picturesque, but uh Dean had no concept of how to stop on that thing. It was sort of like a Walt Disney movie, you know, you see Dean coming down a path and other cyclists are heading off into the woods and into the bushes and you know, so this is sort of wandering all around and he has no control whatsoever on this thing. Balance yes, control, absolutely none. He went through trees, he went through bushes. There was one point where there was only one post in the whole room. You know it would have been hard to hit that post. We'd hit it square head off. We got to the top of this one hill and I told him there's no way that I'm going to guide you down this hill. Meaning you've got to come down that hill and you're in and I've shown him shown him twenty times how to put on his brakes, how to do it. And I said, why don't you pray and ask God to help you down this hill? And he went up to the top of the hill and I saw him up there, you know, he's crying out to that and he's right there and I mean no more sincere prayer ever uttered from the heart of man. As I was at the bottom of the hill, all of a sudden it just hit me. Come on, is hearing him. Yes, and his God he's done all the affairs of all the nations and all the political leaders that are all doing all these important things. And he's a seven-year-old kid at the top of the hill saying, God help me to put on that brakes when I get to the bottom of this hill. And God's hearing him. In fact, that was demonstrated to be true because of that whole day was the only hill that he got down and put on his brace and didn't hit something. But God hears my prayer. And then it goes on and he says in verse. Verse 3, when we were overwhelmed by our sins, you forgave our transgressions. Now who's that too? To the person who's overwhelmed by his sins. Have you ever been overwhelmed by your sins? sin. Have you ever fallen over a ground and not being able to do anything about it and you just sense that God this sin is beyond my ability to correct, to control? I shudder when I think that I stand before you with this sin and my sin in my life. And you're overwhelmed by him. What happens to the person that's overwhelmed? He says at the end of verse 3, you forgive their transgressions. See, the person who's overwhelmed, they have nowhere to turn. except to Jesus. But they know that he's the only one sufficient to take that sin. The only there for you means to cover, to atone. He covers, he obliterates our transgressions. If you're overwhelmed by your transgressions, There's hope. If sins don't bother you, there's no hope. If you're overwhelmed, there's hope in Jesus Christ. And not only does he forgive, but look at verse verse four. He says, Then blessed are those you choose and bring near To live in your courts. Let's talk about the courts of the temple, which is God's own presence. You bring us near to your presence. You want me with you. Isn't that amazing? God wants me in his presence. He doesn't want me far from him. He wants to draw me near to him. Well, build he says, with the good things of your house, of your holy temple. What are the good things? And the good things, of course, are the bank offerings. But with all the offerings that were made, the bank offering was uniquely the offering that you shared with God. God got the fat, the priest got the rest or the thyroid, and you got the rest to eat yourself. And so he's talking about our bodies are going to be filled with a thank you peace that we're going to enjoy. But he says that's just a sign to us, it's just a symbol of The fact that you are drawing us into your presence in the center of the new covenant for it. This is fulfilled with the fact that we are filled not with simply the good things of the feast, but the good things of the Holy Spirit. We're filled with the Spirit in His presence until His Spirit brings us. us one day into his very presence to dwell there forever. So what is this saying? One is we worship him as the God of grace. Somebody guessed God of grace. Graciously uses our prayer, graciously forgives our sin, graciously calls us into his presence. And then secondly he goes on then to reflect back again on this idea of prayer. You see verse 5, you answer us. That's the idea of servant. You answer our prayers, you answer us with awesome deeds of righteousness, O God our Savior. The hope of all the ends of the earth and of the farthest seas. You hear us and you answer with awesome deeds of righteousness. This God hears awesomely, verse 5. He creates awesomely, verse 6. Look at that. You form the mountains by your power, having armed yourself with strength. He rules awesomely, verse 7. Who's still the roaring of the seas, the roaring of their ways, and the turmoil of the nations? And those who to observe this, the God who hears awesomely and creates awesomely and rules awesomely. That's the response. Well you see there in verse eight, they're living far away. Here are your wonders. Well there's a hidden mission that this God is the God of all the world, the God who's concerned for all people to come to him. It's in verse two, all men will come. Verse eight, they are to live far away from Zion. Morning dawns as far to the east, and evening fades as far to the west. You must call forth those of praise. All nations are going to praise this God for his awesome deeds in hearing our prayers. And then, and Tibetus, of course, worshiping him as the God of power. First of all, the God of grace. And secondly, the God of power. I just heard this week of a fellow, Larry Lees, talking about prayer. Had a series of meetings in West Texas. And in uh those meetings he said the first couple of nights, he preached, said preached his heart out, preached Christ the best he could. Not a single person responded the first night. Not a single person responded the second night. Third night he was going up till all over the spirit and he'd been praying and two men's met him as he was preparing for the meeting that evening and asked if they could pray with him. He said, Sure, you know, I'll take all the park and Yeah, let's pray together. And so as they uh went to pray, the two sisters mentioned to him that they had been praying to Jesus Christ, to God, for the success of the gospel being proclaimed that evening, and they had been praying for eight hours. Straight that day. They covenanted to pray that God would give power to his gospel. But uh he met with them that night, met with them for the rest of the week. By the end of that week, five hundred people had come and profess Jesus Christ. Zero the first couple nights. Next three or four nights, five hundred people. He said he was headed back to home and he was thinking of how the rest of the staff were going to ask him, you know, how do you we go? How do you we go? And he was trying to figure out how How humbly I'm going to say, well, you know, I had 500 people come to Christ. I don't hear these guys, you know. And he said all of a sudden he says God just had a hold of him and he said it's so clear that God was saying, you had nothing to do with those people responding. Sure, he preached the gospel. First two nights he preached the gospel. He was the God of power, who had empowered his word by his Holy Spirit to bring forth foes of joy from the ends of the earth. And then having said this, say we just put that all the stops in verses nine to thirteen. Because there, you see, he begins to talk about the harvest. There he gets specific about what God has done now in bringing in the harvest of this year. Now the images tumble over one another to overwhelm you with a feeling of abundance. First of all, in verses 9 and 10, there's the abundance of water, very important in the Arab Near East. He says that you care for the land and you water it sovereignly, you see. You water the land. You enrich it abundantly. The streams of God are filled with water to provide the people with grain, for so you have ordained. You dredge its furrows, you level its ridges, you soften it with showers, and bless its crops. And so the effect of the water, of course, is going to raise crops. There's a bountiful harvest here. You see that in verse 11. And this, I think, is one of the most beautiful verses in the Psalm. You crown the year with your bounce. And your carts overflow with abundance. The crowning of the year with the bounty of harvest. And the picture at the end of that verse is of carts that is creaking with crying. Crops too heavy to bear. Crops that are so numerous, so piled high on the carts, that literally the Hebrew says they are dripping them in the cart tracks. That is the crops that are falling off the creeping carts into the car tracks behind them because there's just too much. They can't get it all in. God has been so valuable but they can't carry it all away. You ever see those old time pictures? It was a time though when these were very popular and they Do these trick pictures and then there'd be a wagon and then you'd see this great big ear of corn that was hanging out the front of the wagon and out the back of the wagon. Or there'd be this wagon in the sky, you know, whipping the horses and there'd be this one bunch of grapes in the wagon, you know, and each grape was about the size of a man, you know, and I wouldn't need to say something like, in a decent yield this year. These are of course popular in the farmland. You know, ask the Piracus as they probably know about these kind of postcards. They probably used to send them to one another up there in the middle. But you know these were the kind Reality and people hadn't thought that you could fool around with it and make tricks. Well that reminds me of what this psalm is saying. The courts are so bull that you can't believe it. It's so bountiful. God is so abundant in his blessing. Even the Desert is blooming. Look at verse twelve. The grasslands of the desert are overflowing. The hills, you know, there's no there's no lack here of of uh meat and of uh of beauty, excuse me, the typically uh verse twelve, of beauty. The hills are clothed. with gladness. What a beautiful picture it falls. You go to the mountains and you see the foliage and all those different colors. Doesn't it just make you glad? I mean you see all those colors that's like the hills are glad. That's what he's saying. The hills are closed. With gladness. Beautiful picture. Beautiful. And even he goes on in verse 4: that there's no lack of meat in a world, but meadows are covered with blocks. Plenty to spare. The valleys are Mantled with rain. Nature itself is holding festival. They shout for joy and sing the festival of Toronto. What a beautiful picture of abundance, of plenty. And that's the third thing. He's the God of plenty. The God of grace, the God of power, and the God of plenty. So we need to understand the lessons. It had been contributed. You see? But yeah, need first of all to understand about what the psalmist is saying here. Is he not saying, Oh, it's a good year, you know. I mean, some years are good, some years are bad. And boy, we're really happy because it was a good year. years. You see, we tend to look at weather as rather impersonal. We look at weather as having no relationship to the act of man. We look at weather as part of a depersonalized universe that's empty. This is the whole message of our culture. Any weather has nothing to do with man. Don't be so arrogant as to think that what we do may affect the weather. Because you see, what this song is saying is not simply with a good use. To understand this Psalm, you need to understand that this psalm is saying that this is a fulfillment of Deuteronomy 28. These are the fulfillment of God's covenantal blessings. You see, Deuteronomy 28, God had promised that he would provide plenty for His people if they were faithful to his covenant. In contrast to the end of Deuteronomy twenty eight, the promise is once and ye to those who are not faithful to his covenant. Because people are disobedient. But of course the thing is that as we look at the history of Israel, they broke his covenant again and again. And so Israel doesn't deserve Balgi. But then there comes one, a true Israelite, and that one true True Israelite keeps the covenant. And his name is Jesus. And this Jesus, in keeping the covenant, becomes heir to all the promises of plenty and abundance in Deuteronomy 28. And so now This king is the king of a new kingdom of plenty, of abundance, of plenty and abundance of which this psalm is only the dimmest pitch. Because the New Testament tells us that I have not seen even And so when your heart begins to stir as you read this song and say, Oh God, what a kingdom you have. What a kingdom of which Jesus is the king. that awaits us here and his people. Because he's the king of the kingdom of plenty. But he's also the king of grace. And that's the first thing. Not only has he got the power into plenty, he's got a grace. And so we who have not deserved to have this abundance are the heirs of this abundance. Because Jesus has forgiven our sin. Because if you have come and you've been overwhelmed by your sin, come to Jesus and you said, Lord Jesus, I am guilty and deserve birth. I deserve to be put in the ballet of death. I deserve the pit. But you have given by your grace and your mercy. Call me into your courts. And into your your kingdom, so that I might be with you in that land of Canaan, the abundance of abundance. Because of what Jesus has done. See, I think it's very significant, if I'm right, that this Psalm was written for the Feast of tabernacles. John 7 tells us that it is at the very Feast of Tabernacles that Jesus went up. And you remember, John 7, 37 to 39 tells us that on the last day of that feast, Jesus says, What? All of you who are thirsty. Come, come to me. And he says, I will the one who believes in me, he says, out of his innermost being will flow streams of atom. You see, that's the picture. Of the source of the abundance. And so Psalm 65, verses 9, and 10, and 11, and all of this are fulfilled in Jesus, and he gives us the spiritual abundance, which is the promise to his people. And God goes on to say, this he spoke of the Holy Spirit, who was the source of all abundance. You see, it's in Jesus that this all is fulfilled. And so our response when we read the Psalm should be to praise Jesus, as we see the hope in Jesus, as we see the streams of living water that come from Jesus into our innermost beings. And so you see, those things we should really celebrate. I mean it really would be a travesty Christian home on Thursday. If you celebrate and it Thanksgiving is not a biblical holiday, so there's nothing wrong with you just ignore it. But if you choose to celebrate it and you're connecting it to what's being said here, then how sad if there isn't any singing or celebrating or playing games? or rejoicing. Yeah, you just sort of sit down and say, oh there's a food, you know, let's give thanks and eat it, you know, and then you sort of you have stuff and you sit around and you get you know, nothing knowing very much is going on. Yeah. I mean you ought to be celebrating. You ought to be reading this and saying, look, this is just a picture. This abundance that we're enjoying now is just the dimmest picture of what you have in Jesus for us. And we praise him. I wish I get an Amen or two around this place. Let's see that. Hey. You see, again, we we tend to depersonalize weather. It's just like Tom was saying before, you know, you remember the giant in the safe way, yeah, City. Come and so anything different here. We don't have this sense of harvest. We don't have the sense that this psalm's portraying that the harvest is an answer to prayer. That this harvest is not something that just came in the natural circle of seasons. It's God. God's harvest, you who hear prayer, you who hear and answer with these awesome deeds of righteousness. This is what he's talking about. And so we look and we say, Oh, the entire southeast is full of drought this year. So what can I prices go off over there we just pull it in from somewhere else and so there's no sense of dependence. We need to recapture that. God has freed us through our transportation and freedom and all the rest of the stuff we have to have so much fewer worries in this area. But that should not Minimize the realization of what the source of the blessing is. And the blessing becomes a curse if we remove ourselves from the sense that this has come from the good hand of our God. See the special Emphasis of this whole song is that blessings are an answer to prayer. I think of uh last year my wife went up to Jeffers Hill. She said that the uh teachers had the kids uh share what they were thankful for. They kids went around They shared various things every thing for and she said then after everybody shared it, the teacher said, Okay, let's eat. There's nobody to have it. Like, how's that? We don't. It's public school, it can't make anybody around here, you know. What another contrast to the pilgrims and the first Thanksgiving. Now let me explain how their Thanksgiving illustrates this song. The original Thanksgiving Day in 1621, they had some food. They also got more people. The whole ship load came over that hall and they didn't bring any provisions with them. And so now they had thirty more mouths to feed and no more food. To feed them with. And the winter of 1621 and 22 was the severest winter of all. That's the one you don't read about. But that winter was so severe that at one point the provisions That were handed out were reduced to five pearls of corn for every man, woman, and child per day. Can you imagine existing in winter without central heat? with many chairs to do on five kettles of corn a day. I wish that I had time to tell you half of what those pilgrims had suffered before that winter to get here. But did they become bitter and cynical and say it's all for nothing lies got us here? No. They turned to God and they prayed. And thirty-seven had died the winter before, but not. One single person died of starvation or sickness in the winter of 1621, or at least of starvation, in the winter of 1621, 22. And now it's April of 1621. twenty-two excuse me, sixteen twenty-three. That was the winter of sixteen twenty two, sixteen twenty-one and twenty-two. And now it's the winter of sixteen twenty-two and twenty-three. And now it's April of sixteen twenty. Their second, their third year to plan. By now they had divided up the plots. And so there was tremendous expectation of God's blessing. Everybody had a section to farm. And they went at it with great zeal. There was great expectation that finally the hard times were over, and all the crops were planted. Then they came, and the rain ceased. It became unseasonably. hot. But there was no rain for a week, and then two weeks, and then three weeks. And it went on and on, hotter and hotter and drier. and drought. The drought lasted without hardly a scruple for twelve weeks. May, June, July. The whole Shriveled up. A few small heads began to appear on the stalks, and they dried up, and with broken hearts they watched their corn crop devastated. The beings they said looked as if they had been scorched by fire on the stalks. Fox and would shrivel up. This surely was the ultimate disappointment and devastation. Is this what God had brought them here for? Surely now they would despair and become cynical and cruel. Curse God and die. The oldest Indians in that area said they had never seen a drought as bad as that one. But what did they do? They called for a day of examination. They search their hearts, they confess their sins, and they turn to God in Jesus Christ. They call for a particular day of humiliation, fasting, and prayer for rain. Read to you Edward Winsmore's firsthand account of that day. He says in his Chronicles, Oh the mercy of our God, who is ready to hear, see, Psalm 65, as we were. For though in the morning when we assembled together for fasting and prayer, the heavens were as clear and the drought as light to continue as it ever was, yet our exercise continued some eight or nine hours of the day. Of fasting and prayer together, on empty stomachs already. Before our departure, the weather was overcast, the clouds gathered from all sides, and the next morning distilled such soft, sweet, and moderate. showers of rain, continuing some fourteen days, and mixed with such seasonable weather, as it was hard to say whether our withered corn or drooping affections were most quickly quickened. They revived, as was the bounty and the goodness of our God. Imagine the response of the Indians. They had never seen anything like this. And they were watching closely. Bradford says in his journal about that day, quote, It came without wind or thunder he's talking about the rain, or any violence. You see, that can devastate things if you have it everything's dry and then all of a sudden you have a downpour and it all comes and maybe. But it didn't. It started softly, it started without wind, and it drenched the earth. By degrees and out abundance as the earth was thoroughly wet and soaked therewith, which did so apparently revive and quicken. It decayed corn and other fruits, as was wonderful to see, and made the Indians astonished to behold. The result? The harvest that year was so bountiful. They had surplus to trade to the Indians, whose harvest did not fare nearly so well. And it was the Indians who had taught them how to plant the corn. As a result of this, Webber Bradford called for a second day of Thanksgiving, two years after the first one. A day set apart, he said, for Thanksgiving in recognition of the mercy of our God, who hears and answers prayer. And the first course of that second Thanksgiving held in November of sixteen twenty three was an empty plate, in which there were five primers of court for each person, lest they ever forget Who was the source of their blessings and the source of their encouragement for prayer? Let's pray. Our Lord our God. Forgive us. Do we tend to see weather as beyond the control of our God? As an in-person. inevitable cycle of drought and rain, cold and heat. Lord, how far we are removed from the character of our forefathers in the Plymouth colony. who saw everything as under your hand, and who were grateful for the nearest of blessings. Oh Lord, God help us that this week, as we celebrate with such abundance, We might first see that as a dim picture of the abundance of the kingdom of Jesus. And that we might remember the source of that blessing. That we might be encouraged. prayers. Lord, whatever it is for each person here that they look at in their lives that seems impossible. Father, encourage their heart through the psalm and through the fact that these things were not only true in ancient Israel. For the true of our forefathers here in Massachusetts. You're the same God yesterday, today, and forever. And you still hear prayer, and you still answer with awesome deeds of righteousness. Lift our hearts, Lord, to thank you. To praise you, to pray expectantly for our needs, that we might be a grateful people to our God. Amen.