A week ago Friday we did something as a congregation which many would say was absolutely foolhardy. Two years ago, we as a congregation gave a total of $175,000. to our local ministries, foreign missions, diaconal, facility fund, everything. Then you remember at the beginning of nineteen eighty five, or excuse me, beginning of nineteen eighty six, we took a giant step of faith. And we committed ourselves to a budget that was nearly twice that. And by God's grace in this last year, we gave as a congregation, if you include interest about three hundred and twenty-eight thousand dollars, nearly twice of what was the year before. And then a week ago Friday We passed a budget that would commit us in 1987 to a need of a little over $500,000. Again, almost twice of what we gave the year before. So in two years, from $175,000 to over a half a million dollars Hey, think about that for a moment, that's absolutely ludicrous. I mean why in the world would any who would plan that kind of a budget in your own household? Why would we do that as a congregation? Well, we've done it because we believe that in addition to continuing and expanding our own local ministries, that we are committed also to some significant expansions of giving in foreign missions and to supporting people that we're sending out. Expanding our diagonal ministries, but most especially because we believe that God has provided for us a base of operations on Route 108 about seven acres of property in order to build a worship and ministry center. And in order to do that, we need nearly a half a million dollars this next year. Now, you can see the top box shows you kind of what what came in last year and this year, just for those of you who are not acquainted with this, just so you know what we're talking about. You see on the left box there what that means needs to come in in the next year. The giving has uh gradually increased over the past months, but you see those two right bars The one that goes uh a little beyond halfway up and then the the right side, that's not the side of the box, that's a bar. That's what we need about this time, uh just about a year from now in order to be able to acquire that property $500,000 one year from now. Now, we also as a congregation in committing ourselves to that in April nineteen eighty six, believed that God would not have us to go into debt. That He would not have us to be under the bondage of long term debt and interest payments that would curtail our expansion in ministries and in missions. And so we committed ourselves to paying this entire thing off before we acquire the property and to do it debt-free That means we have the whole have the whole five hundred thousand dollars a year from now before we can set foot on that property and call it our own and put the first brick down. Because of that, we have what might seem like a major problem. You see, at the end of December 1986, $212,000 was in the facility fund. That means that in 1987 we need $288,000. It means that in 1986, $138,000 came into the facility fund Uh after major sacrificial giving, we need in 1987 about twice that amount for the facility fund. Now, that means that if you look at that right box, when you look at what the giving did last year, a gradual increase with three peak months where there was some really significant giving, that means if you look in 1987 There needs to be the continued increase and four vast peak months. I mean huge, really big amounts of money that would come in just before those payments would be due. Now, why then are we doing this? We believe the gods in it And I want to be absolutely clear to you as I begin this message, this is not a fundraising speech. Yeah. I mean if you're here for the first time as one of those churches that is talking about money, this is not a fundraising speech. In fact, I had a guy call me last week Who is a professional fundraiser? I don't know how those guys find out whenever a church gets into a building program. You know, they must have sleuths all around the country, you know Guy calls up, and he was a long distance toll call. I didn't even ask him where he's from, but he obviously wasn't from this area. You know, I hear you're in a building program. We'd love to help you out, you know. And I told him I wasn't interested We believe that God's people give for his ministries out of hearts of gratitude, of worship, and of faith. Now you might want to talk to me afterwards and say that was a dumb thing to do. I want that guy's name, you know. But this is not a fundraising message. It is not designed to say, gang, we need to really dig deep this year. Why am I preaching? Why am I speaking on this? I am here because this is a worship service to present Jesus Christ and to open his word. But the fact is that if you think about what we did on january twenty third, in passing that budget, if that's begun to sink into you yet, then you will probably at some point raise a very practical question And that is, what did we do? Have we really bitten off more than we can chew? And I want to address that question from Scripture. You see, you may feel a little bit now like Israel did when their back was up against the Red Sea. You know, there they are and they look and they say, uh, you know, God's brought us out of Egypt. Praise God. Hallelujah. You know, it was really great to hear Moses tell us. off Pharaoh, you know, hey, God's gonna bring us out with a mighty hand and a stretched out arm and watch Egypt be humbled by the plagues and Moses speaks about how God is gonna take care of them and out they go and they spoil the Egyptians and they've got all this stuff and say, God is with us, praise And then they all of a sudden they come up to the sea. They say, hey, you know, has anybody got any pontoons or how are we going to get across? We don't have any boats, nothing. And then to make matters worse, here's the whole Egyptian army now coming after them on their chariots And I'm sure that there was more than one Jew in that crowd that said, Moses and his big mouth, you know? I mean it's one thing to talk about what God's gonna do until your back's against the wall, and then you say, we are trapped. Have we bitten off more than we can chew? And to answer that question, I would like to call your attention to one verse of scripture in Psalm 115. One verse that we should consider as we look at the sea of five hundred thousand dollars that lies before us. Psalm 115, verse 3 Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him Now some commentators think that this psalm was written after the exile, the Babylonian captivity. In fact, a number of people think that this psalm was probably written during the dedication of the rebuild or the second temple And that makes this psalm especially appropriate to us because it was a psalm that was written after God seemed to do the impossible out of people who had no means They were slaves, released from Babylonian captivity, and they built this large facility in order to honor God and to worship him. We're not building a temple. We're building something that's just simply a practical facility for worship and for ministry. I'm not comparing the two. The fact is it took a lot of resources, and this was written to honor God when He provided that. One word for us to consider. Psalm 115. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Now, just a word about meditation. If you're ever in a situation where you uh don't have any commentaries, you don't have a whole lot of time, you don't have a lot of helps And you want to be able to meditate on some portion of Scripture, and you only have a little bit of time, and you wonder, how am I going to get something out of this verse? Let me give you one little hint A way of doing that that helps me and I think can help you is when you read that verse to emphasize a different word each time you read the verse and then to meditate on that particular word. And see what meaning that gives to you. So, for instance, when you read this psalm, to read it, our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Meditate on the hour. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. What does it mean that God is in heaven? Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. Think about that. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever. Pleases him. Meditate on whatever. Our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him And think about that. You can do that with any verse, you know, and some a little more limited than others. Jesus wept won't give you a whole lot, but you can meditate on a lot for there. But just to take different keywords or thoughts, phrase of a verse, isolate that and meditate on that and then put it back together again. That's what we're going to do this morning. So I want to look at just those key five, five key little uh ideas Within this one verse. First of all, that it's our God who does this. You see there in verse 1 That the psalmist begins, Lord, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory because of your love and your faithfulness. The word love there is literally your covenant love. That love which you have pledged to us, your people, when you saw us in our need, you saw us in our sin. And you looked down and you determined that you wanted to be our God. And you said, I want to call you to be my own people and for me to be your God, so that by mercy and by grace God has said that we can call him our God. God has said that He has placed His name upon us. You see down there in verses 9 to 12, He speaks of Himself as our help and our Shield. And our blessing. O House of Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. You who fear him, trust in the Lord, He is their help and their shield. The Lord remembers us. And will bless us. You He will bless the house of Israel. He will bless the house of Aaron. Jesus is our help and our shield and our blessing. Some of you may remember many years ago I shared with you an experience I had while I was meditating on this psalm, but probably those who heard that are just a very small proportion now, so I'll share with you that illustration once again. It was about 1969, it was January or February, snow was on the ground about like this, and I was out meditating along the Potomac River, and I was meditating on Psalm 115. And I came to those verses speaking about the Lord is our help and our shield. And I was feeling very much apart from the Lord. I was wrestling with my sin and Lord, how can you Uh give me a sense of your presence. I want to feel like I can enjoy your presence and I can know your smile. And I was wrestling with that whole fact, you know, you wrestle with sometimes of how can I worship God and and and enjoy his favor as a sinner? Knowing that there's things in my life that aren't right. And I, you know, and it's kind of vague. I'm I can't put my finger on them exactly, but it's just kind of a vague sense of alienation, you know And so I was trying to understand what does it mean, Lord, when you say that you are my help and my shield. Just about that time I was looking down the trail a little bit and I was up on a bit of a rise above the river at this point, and all of a sudden The most beautiful red fox came trotting up the trail right in front of me. And his back was to me, and he stopped just about twenty yards right down the trail from me And he was so preoccupied with something that he didn't catch my scent, he didn't even know that I was there, totally oblivious to my presence. I began to approach him and he didn't even turn around All of a sudden I knew why he didn't care about me. I heard the barking of three dogs in the distance coming down the trail after him And these three dogs were, you know, howling and barking, and you know, they were hot on his trail, anticipating a red fox meal, you know. And all of a sudden the fox turned and he saw me And and my heart just went out to him. He was such a needy fox, you know. I mean he looked at me and in his eyes you could just see, oh no, not another one, you know. He was practically exhausted. He couldn't even run. He just trotted off down the trail away from me, thinking there's another pursuer. And at that point I determined, this may sound stupid, but I thought, I'm going to experience what it is to be a help and a shield. I'm going to be that fox's help and his shield. Now he doesn't know it. He didn't ask for it. It's purely by grace, you see. And so I walk down the trail toward these dogs And the dogs were coming up a rise and they didn't see me and so they were all coming up and I'll tell you there were three of 'em. The German Shepherd was the smallest of the three. And as they were coming up around the trail, I sort of crept around the bush so that they wouldn't see me until the last minute, because I've had a lot of dogs and I have some idea of how you psych dogs out. So I crept around this bush and all of a sudden this first thing comes charging up the trail right at me and I came out of the bush and I went, MAA Right at him, right in the face, you know. Well that dog he didn't know what hit him, eh? He just his bark turned to a yelp, you know. He screamed, turn around, knock the dog behind him over, and started back down the trail. Well then the second dog was so scared the first dog hitting him. You know, and he hears his roar down behind him. So he turns around and he goes at this point the third dog didn't even know what was going on up there, but his two friends had just turned around and went the other way. So he just turned around and he went back after him. And I thought about that and I thought, Lord How much are you like that in my life? I have needs. I don't ask for your help. And you've come into my life to be my help and my shield. And Lord, it's just by grace. I mean a fox never knew I even did that. He just wondered what happened to the dogs, I guess, sometime later on. But how many times has the Lord been our help and our shield because he's our God to protect us. He's come into our life by grace. that we can call him our God. Our God is in heaven. And that's the second thing that you see there Our God is in heaven. He's in heaven. What does that mean? Verse 16, you see, it says, the highest heavens belong to the Lord. But the earth he has given to man. He contrasts there heaven and earth. Earth, he says, is the place of our abode. God dwells not only in heaven, but the highest of heavens. Now, what does that mean? I mean, we need to understand something of what he's talking about. Just to give you a moment's insight into what God has for us to understand in that verse. Let's picture our solar system. Now let's picture the solar system scale down quite a bit. In fact, let's say that the distance between the sun and the earth is six inches. Okay? Now that's kind of hard to picture because at six inches you wouldn't even see the earth because the sun's three hundred thousand times bigger than the earth, and so you got something six inches from that, and you're not even going to see it But that's the sun and there's the earth. There they are, six-inch scale. On that scale, if you took the furthest planet out, Neptune, then that would be fifteen not not necessarily the furthest, but Neptune would be fifteen feet. Away from the sun. Where would the nearest star be? Now here's the sun here, here's the earth right there, and Neptune's fifteen feet down the back of the room. Where's the nearest star? On that scale, the nearest star is somewhere on the DC Beltway, about twenty-six miles away. Now that's the very nearest star, and that one's only a bit over four light years away. Our own neighborhood, our galaxy, is about a hundred thousand light years from one end to the other. And that's just our own galaxy. There's ten to a hundred billion of those galaxies throughout the universe. And God says, I dwell in the highest of heavens. Psalm one hundred and thirteen five He says, Who is like the Lord our God? The one who sits enthroned on high, who stoops down to look on the heavens. And the earth. His dwelling place is far beyond any of that. And he stoops down to look to him a small thing. A hundred thousand light years across. And so you see, the psalmist is preparing us here. He says, our God is in heaven. And that prepares us for what follows. Therefore, you see, he does whatever pleases him. And that's the third thing to notice. He does whatever pleases him. You see, my point in sharing with you are This momentous thing, this this mammoth challenge before us, the sea, the Red Sea of $500,000 that's before us this year Is not definitely not for you to conclude from this message. Well Harris is saying, man, we really gotta hustle. You know, we really gotta dig deep this year. Man, you sold your car last year, you gotta sell your house this year, you know. You know, sell the kids into slavery or something. I mean, we know that's not the point. The point is that God is saying, He does. Does whatever pleases him. God is saying if if this is going to be done, I'm going to do it. I couldn't even imagine where the resources for five hundred thousand dollars within one year would come from within our congregation or anywhere that God's going to provide it. Interesting, he provided it for those who rebuilt the temple here. From whom? He didn't take up a big collection among the Israelites. Cyrus of Babylonia, Persia provided that. He provided a tremendous amount of it. And so while we're not called upon certainly to do any kind of fundraising among unbelievers, when God provides through the world a means for us, we don't turn that down. We don't solicit it, we don't solicit it under any kind of false pretenses. The fact is, we don't know where and how God is going to provide. But the fact is that if it's going to be done, He's going to do it. And so the first thing for you and for me to consider as we look at what's before us is to remind ourselves that God is in this. That we believe that in 1978, God brought Columbia Presbyterian Church into being. He's the one who raised up this congregation. He's the one who brought that Bible study and prayer meeting and that vision from Covenant Church to have a church here that would preach the gospel in Columbia into being God's the one that brought this all together. God's the one that we believe that after three years of intensive search of property is the one who provided that property over on 108. We believe God's the one who brought us to that. We believe that God is the one who brought us together as a congregation to agree on that and to agree to do it debt-free. That God is the one who put within the hearts of the Lewises, the owners of that property, to agree to the kinds of unusual, to say the least, terms that we have set in obtaining that property A delayed settlement of nearly two years. We believe that God is the one, therefore, who's raised up that first $212,000 out of our midst. And therefore, our eyes are upon him to say that it's God, who's got to raise up that other $288,000 So you see, what I don't want you to conclude from this is you've got to go re-examine your bank account, first of all. Some of us may have to do that at some point. There's going to be a lot of re-examining. But the first thing is to grit our eyes on Jesus and say, He does whatever pleases him. Lord, therefore, I need to come before you in prayer because if anyone's going to do it, You're the one that has to do this. I can't even imagine how you're going to do it. But brothers and sisters, if we mean business with God in this, we have got to begin to pray We have got to turn our eyes upon him, and not in that last bit of desperation that we come up in next November and we say, you know, we're about halfway there. I think it's time to start praying. Prayer should not be our last resort. It's our first resort. Because our God is in heaven and He does whatever pleases him. We need to pray. When I say sacrificial praying, what I mean by sacrificial praying is fasting and praying. Setting a time extended, self-disciplined, regular times, as individuals, families, small groups, as a whole congregation. For us to call upon God to accomplish what pleases him, to remind ourselves and to claim before him the fourth point, that he does whatever pleases him. You see, while there is no limit upon God, his promise for us here is that in greatness we can't place any constraints. Any limits on what he's able to do. For he does whatever pleases him. Here's Abraham and Sarah. And they're in their nineties. And Sarah's way past menopause. God's promised them a child. And they say, God, you've promised what's impossible. And then one day an angel comes. You remember that angel appeared and said to Abraham. Next year at this time, you're gonna have a little boy. And you remember Sarah laughed. And the angel went to her And the Lord said in Genesis eighteen, verse thirteen, the Lord said to Abraham, Why did Sarah laugh and say, Will I really have a child now that I am old? Is anything Too hard for the Lord. I will return to you at that appointed time next year, and Sarah will have a son And the whole Jewish nation is testimony to today that God fulfilled that promise. Is anything too hard for the Lord? The whole history of Israel is just one string of impossibility after the next They're brought down to Egypt and as slaves they are under the hand of Pharaoh and God sends plagues and he brings them out with a strong hand and an outstretched arm and he divides the Red Sea. I mean, picture yourself, your back's against the Red Sea and the whole Egyptian army is coming toward me and saying, God, how are you gonna get us out of this? I mean, Lord, we don't even know what to pray. You know, I mean, stop them in their tracks cause the horses to get sick real quick, you know. I mean what can you pray? You just don't even know what to pray. Who would have even thought? Lord, how about part in the sea? I mean nobody's seen it done before, you know Isn't it wonderful? Our God delights in surprises. Ten years with Intervarsity Christian Fellowship, one financial crisis after another, one of the things that always amazed me was how God was so creative in the way he would provide for us. You know, and one of the really neat things is we don't know how he's going to do it. But one thing I do know is that if God wants to do that for us, he wants to do it in a way that will be to our spiritual blessing. And not just a way to get the cash there on the table. And the way he's going to do that is he's going to change us. You see, the first thing is he's got to get our eyes on him. Do we begin to claim those whatevers of redemptive histories? We begin to say, God, you're the God who gave Isaac when it was impossible. You're the God who brought your people through the Red Sea. When that was impossible. Lord, you're the God who brought a couple of million people, men, women, and children, through the desert, and you fed them and you gave them water for forty years without cross. Without a river, God, you're the one who provided for them. You're the one who brought these former slaves ragtag group of people into the land of Canaan against walled and fortified cities and armies, and destroyed those armies and gave them that land. You did the impossible. You're the God who, when the Philistines oppressed them, didn't take mighty Saul, who was head and shoulders above everyone else and confident in leadership and lead them against battle against the Philistines. You took this little shepherd boy, the youngest, despised. of his brothers, and you took him against Goliath, and you slew Goliath by the sling and the stone of a shepherd lad. And you used that same boy after you had anointed him to lead your people to finally stop the Philistine nation from ever oppressing Israel again. You're the God who put one of your servants into a den of lions, and you delivered him by stopping the mouths of the lions. And after that captivity, when your people went back and they said, God, what do we have to build your temple, the place where you're to be worshipped? You are the God who put into the heart of Cyrus To put at the Jews' disposal Persian money and goods to build it You're the God who brought these people back to where they could on Ezra's day say, Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory, because of your love and your faithfulness. Why do the nation say, Where is their God? Our God is in heaven, and He does whatever pleases Him. You see, of all the reasons that we might say that we could not get that property and build as we hope, one reason that we can rule out from the beginning is that God can't do it. For he can do whatever pleases him. And that brings us to the last point. That he does Whatever pleases him. Just before we go to that, I wanted to call your attention just to remind you briefly of the very fact of what we saw in Jesus. And do you remember it was at Christmas time that we looked at Psalm two and saw why do the nations rage and the people imagine vain things and they lift their hands against the Lord and they say, Let's cast off his fetters and we saw that this was puny man raising his hand against God and Acts four said, not only does God do whatever pleases him, but even at a point when his own son seemed in his most weak and helpless Hanging on a cross. God said, I used Herod and Pilate to accomplish my very purpose. In my son dying on a cross in order to establish his kingdom. Dying on the cross so that your sin and my sin would be paid for. So that he would be our help and our shield, that he would be our blessing, that would open the gates of heaven that we could go in through Jesus. He does whatever pleases him, no matter how hopeless would appear to be the situation. But you notice that last point, he does whatever pleases him. And so again you look at verse 1, not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name be the glory. It's what pleases him and gives him his rightful glory. And therefore, as we go into this, or anything in your own personal life, whatever personal problem you're applying this to. Obviously, I believe that one of the reasons that God brings us to a place like this so that He can do something impossible for us corporately is so that as we as part of the body of Christ identify With the body, and we see God do that, what a tremendous encouragement that is in whatever personal problem you have. Because now you look and you say, God, I had a real vested interest in that, and I saw you answer prayer and provide. What was impossible in 1987 for us. Now, Lord, that helps me to believe that in my marriage, in my job, in this relationship In that financial difficulty, in whatever impossibility I am up against, health reports, whatever it is, you are able to work for me also. But you do what pleases you. And so there's three questions we ask to determine what is it that pleases him. The first one, of course, is does it bring glory to him or to us? Verse 1 says his intent in showing his mighty acts of power is to bring glory to him. And so the glory is to go to God, not to CPC, not to me, not to you, not to any of us who are building our kingdom. It's a worship and ministry center for the glory of Jesus Christ. It's not an edifice of glory to show how much we could accomplish as a church. So that we'd have a monument to our congregation over on Route 108. The glory is to him. And that has to be part of our pray. Secondly, is it of faith or presumption? Verses 14 and 15 here talk about his giving them increase from what they had. God works with what we have. He's probably not going to create gold, jewels dollar bills and the rest of this and sort of drop them out of heaven for us. He's going to m use from means that we have. And therefore we don't just arbitrarily say, hey, why not make it a million dollars? You know, I mean God does whatever he pleases, you know. I mean there's no limit. So Why not two million? You know, why don't we plan to be the build the building by next year? Because God does what pleases him, and it's pleased him to make us creatures in a world of limited resources And part of our creaturliness is to struggle with limitations. Limitations of time, limitations of money, limitations of all kinds of resources, energy, everything. And God, it pleases God to work within that created system. Therefore, we have to be careful that it's faith that's being exercised and not simply an arrogant presumption in asking God to do what we see that is his will to do. And that leads us to the third point. Is there an indication in Scripture that it can be deduced from His revealed will? And so the scripture needs to give some warrant for what we're doing. In our case, we believe that this is a means of fulfilling the Great Commission which has been given to us revealed will of Jesus Christ. Go make disciples of all nations, beginning right here, you see, in Columbia. Matthew 28, Acts 1. 8. And so we're beginning where God has placed us. And in order to do that, we believe that we need in order to uh increase specialized ministries for the community, in order to be able to unleash more ministries as we get beyond two hundred and fifty as a congregation, so we don't need so much to sustain ourselves. but can begin to minister more to the community. And in order to start daughter churches where we need at least 400 to 450 so we can divide, set off a group of people to start another church, continue to make disciples, we need a facility to do that. We believe, therefore, that God has given us a mandate that we can deduce from that. We don't know exactly how, but we believe that we're following His will in this That's the same for anything in your life. What is it in your own life this morning that you wonder, is God able to do this? And the word of God to you and to me, individually and corporately as a congregation, is that our God is in heaven. And he does as we look to him, whatever pleases him Let's determine, individually and corporately, to please him, our Lord and our Savior. Let's pray Oh Lord our God, lift our eyes that we might see Jesus. And the Lord, if there's somebody here who has no hope, that you would turn them to see that this God can be called their God through Jesus Christ. Lord, that we would see that you dwell in heaven. We'd have our eyes lifted and our imaginations expanded to see your glory. Lord, you would help us to not just turn to our own resources, but that we as a congregation would know that you have to do what pleases you. And you'd make us more a congregation of prayer this year. Is that we would not limit what you're able to do by our own weak faith. That you change our hearts and increase our faith That you give us, Lord, hearts that desire not only to see you do great things, but holy things, things that please you, and that we would learn what pleases you. That our hearts would be set on what pleases you. And that in doing that we would learn to pray in Jesus' name. Amen.