Part five, dealing with the fact that orchids unite men and angels. Turn to the scripture for this morning then from Hebrews chapter twelve. Hebrews chapter twelve Make every effort to live in peace with all men and to be holy. Without holiness no one will see the Lord. See it that no one misses the grace of God and that no bitter roots rose up to cause trouble and defile moments. See that no one is sexually immoral. Or is godless like Esau, who for a single meal sold his inheritance right as the oldest son? That is, as you know, when he wanted to inherit this blessing, he was rejected He could bring about no change of mind, but he sought the blessing with you. You have not come to a mountain that cannot that can be touched, and that is burning with fire Darkness, moon, and storms. For a trumpet blast, with a such a voice speaking word, for that n those who heard it begged that no further word be spoken to them Because they could not bear what was commanded. Even if an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned. The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, I am trembling with fear The views have come from our bodies, to the heavenly great, the city of the living gods. You have come to thousands upon thousands of angels in joyful assemblies, for the coach of the first world, whose names are written in heaven. You have come to God, the judge of all men, to the spirits of righteous men made purpose, to Jesus, the meeting of a new covenant. Unto the filter blood which seek the better words than the blood of God. So far. Like 10 to understand an alphabet. Like that. Father, these words are high and lifted up, and they are beyond us. You will not understand them. We will not apprehend them, we will not find them to enter into us in any life-changing way except you who are working on us. Father, my forepowers is communication. Can I save you people? And can I bring you honor? You must own the word. You must give to us that attention, being praised, and you must lift up Jesus before us, and you must be We submit ourselves to you now and ask for you to do your work now. Will I understand your work now? Understand the process, the feel of voices, in a way that we haven't successful. In the way that you would look at us. The word that we understand. Up till now in the series on worship, we have focused on what we do in worship. That we prostrate ourselves in worship. That we approach God in the ways that He has prescribed with our whole hearts involved, that is, worship in spirit and in truth. that we celebrate, that we respond to his revelations to us. This morning I want to take a look at the theme of what to see what's going on there and notice something that perhaps we've missed. Something very important in our worship together each Sunday morning. That word is is the assembly of God's earthly people with all the angels present. Have you noticed the angel statement here? And saying no, I noticed too little devil going on, but I haven't noticed that many wounds. And we say that's just the problem. We just we don't take winds as seriously. It's like you kids, if I were to ask you, uh do you kids believe in Pentecost? Do you believe in the beast fairy, especially when you see them out? Do you believe in the fairy godless? Do you believe in angels? Because it'll wrap them all up together. Dear God Mother Santa Claus Angels. And we have put angels into the realm of storybook planning. Uh we as adults tend to see angels as as part of the stories that we hear about. Uh something that we somehow pretend are true so that uh So that there's a an an a whole picture of the world that is more pleasant for us to believe. present in a real way very often with the fact that aliens are realists. But there's a whole host of beings, creative beings that exist alongside of us in this universe that are just as real as we are, but we just can't see them with our physical eyes Do you really believe that there are angels all about Jesus? Well, is that something we keep saying? It's not really to be taken seriously. The Bible teaches not only that the angels are quite real, quite present, but also quite vital to our worship. Let's take a look at this. We just did first of all notice anything from the Old Testament portion. Now last week you remember we looked at Jacob and how he fellas we can add valley of rocks. And uh as he was sleeping there, he saw a vision of a staircase. Remember that went from that valley right up into heaven And the angels were ascending and descending upon that staircase. Remember as we talked about them, bringing the revelation of who God is and what he had promised to do Down to himself and then carrying Jacob's heart, his life, his needs, and his worship back up to God. Prophet of worship which is coming to Mount Sinai. Israel has just been brought out of Egypt by God's own purchased people And at that point God in a terrifying way revealed himself personally to his people. And we read of that too in the scripture that we just read in Hebrews chapter twelve. How awesome it was. You notice there in Hebrews twelve, verse eighteen. Uh the author here is confastic, what we have come to with what they came to at Mount Sinai. And he says, You have not come to a mountain that can be touched as Mount Sinai could, and that is burning with fire as Mount Sinai burns when God revealed himself. The darkness, the clouds, the gloom, the storm, the lightning, what trumpet blasted with such a voice-keeping word, so that those who heard it begged no further words is spoken to them. But God speaks too much. It overwhelms us. Please God, stop speaking directly to us. Speak to Moses. Let him speak to you. He can't bear to have your voice come directly to us. It's too much for us. Those fragile creatures should be able to put up with God is so powerful. It is very voice with more than we can damn. And the commandment came, even if an animal touches the mountain, you must be stoned. So holy is this mountain. Because God is there The sight was so terrifying that Moses himself, who got as called as his as his personal agent, said I'm trembling with truth. Moses who had stood at the burning bridge before And it had a direct revelation of God before it said, This is too much for me to bear. Now at that time We read in the book of Deuteronomy that God was meeting not only with his holy ones of earth, But that there was something else going on there too. All of the holy ones of heaven were gathered at Sinai. Deuteronomy chapter 33. reflects on this event when it says, The Lord came from Sinai and dawned over them from Mount Kir, another mountain, many miles to the east, and showed them forth from Mount Khram, way off to the east and to the north. In other words, his glory was so powerful that it extended from horizon to horizon, uh both in a similar direction toward the promised land, but not just as sin eye, it was as far as the eye could see. His glory shone from these mountains and he came with myriads of his holy ones from the south, from the mountain slopes, or other translations have it, with fire Fires and lightnings, but God's glory came with the myriads of his holy ones from outside of us. The angels were present in that worship Of God's people and finally. You come down to the tabernacle where God is saying, This is the place where I'm to be worshiped. And what do you see there? Exodus 26 tells us that in order to remember that the angels will be involved in the worship there, the likeness of angels would be embroidered into the concept remember with the tabernacle. So there were these there were these likenesses of angels to remind the people that angels worship with us before this. And you remember as he went through the veil of the tabernacle into the most holy place, once a year the eyes of the high priest alone would rest upon the Ark of the Covenant. And what would he see at that Ark of the Covenant? A two by four foot box covered with gold and on top of that the seats, the cover of the ark, which we call the Mercy piece, has two ends Periodim, with their wings outstretched toward the center of that lid, that empty spot symbolizing God's own presence. At the very heart of that worship then there were angels who were worshiping with us. As God's people, bowing before the very presence of God, adoring Him, and in some sense leaving us in our adoration of Him too The same thing is true of the temple. You have the same furniture, the same embroidery, the same arts. We have also such indications of Psalm 58 in verse 17 telling us about how God came to the temple. In Psalm 5817, we read that the chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands Thousands upon thousands, multiplied thousands, of celestial beings, of angels. The Lord has come with them into Sinai, in from Sinai, into his sanctuary. He's moved now from the first mountain, Sinai, into the second mountain, Mount Zion. And he's come with a whole host of angels that filled the heavens. You know, you probably say, well, it's nice to slide over that What it must have been like to see would I face the reality of God coming from Sinai unto Mount Lion with a whole sky full of thousands of chariots of angels. Coming along with the Lord and his power and his glory to defend upon that life. God says, That's how I came Uh that's what is the indication of the power of the heavenly host that surrounds us in the worship that is good. Praise be for the Lord, to God our Savior, who daily bears our burden. God is a God who's saved. From the sovereign Lord comes a safe from death. And so this is the picture of God's power in the sum in the temple. But then we move down into the New Testament. And is all of this put away from us or something that still is the Old Testament time but no longer does, have this kind of a theme? Hey, remember that angels are quite common In their attendance to Jesus minutes. Every Christmas we're reminded of angels and say announce Jesus It says to Zacharias, to Mary, to the shepherds, leading them in a chorus of praise and worship that the Lord, the Messiah, has come. Angels were present in Jesus' temptation. They were present at Gethsemane to lift him up. They were present at his resurrection. They were present in the respect. And the New Testament says that there are two ways that they are present with you and me this morning, with our worship of Jesus Christ. You notice there in the bulletin, the first way that they are present with us is that they are with us in the heavenly Jerusalem So the angels are with us in the heavenly Jerusalem each Sunday morning. And the Bible speaks of three key mountains. You see them there, uh grossly worn at the bottom of the exporting outline to give you some sort of a picture of the flow of biblical history Uh first of all you have there Mount Sinai indicating the law, the old covenant. Mount Sinai is the picture of the law, where the law was given. And those who would seek to be justified before God would be justified on the basis of the law, according to Mount Sinai. Then you have the second mountain in the ship to Mount Zion. Firstly Mount Zion also sits to law. So that's where the sacrifices are the pattern of things to come. But then you have the new Mount Zion in the scriptures, the third mountain, the heavenly Zion, or also called the heavenly Jerusalem since Of course, within Jerusalem. And in the heavenly Jerusalem you have the new covenant. You have grace as the basis of salvation Uh you have the law shown to be uh in no way ever to be possible as a means for us to approach God. You have here the freedom to be received in Jesus Christ Because he declared righteous and forgiven on the basis of He shed blood. You have the reality rather than the pictures and the pipes. You have the very presence of God, the fulfillment of all the things promised in the Old Testament. We have the new age. We have the new age of the spirit, the new age of the kingdom, the spoken and upon us. Now all of that is hip by the heavenly Jerusalem, the heavenly Zion. Now you notice there's little the circles there. Those little boxes with them all over. Now what bird shift is the are the angels? And the angels, as we said, were present in the worship at Mount Time. The angels were present in the worship in the earthly mount zion. And the angels are present in the worship of the heavenly zion, of the heavenly Jerusalem with us. Again, take a look at Easter chapter twelve. In Hebrews chapter 12, we're given the concept of our worship with the worship at Mount Phina. That was a mount in which could be touched. And it was all of these awesome things going on there telling uh the uh it's the terrible hour of a holy god In contrast, you see he says then in verse 18, you have verse 22, but you have come to Mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God. And you have come, notice, to thousands upon thousands of angels. Angels in joyful assemblies To the church of the firstborn, whose names are written in heaven. You've come to God, the judge of all men, and to the spirits of righteousness made perfect. And you come to be the leader of a new coven, and that a frugal blood that keeps a better world than the blood of Asian. The Bible tells us there's joy in heaven. When one sinner repents is brought into the kingdom. The Bible tells us that there is joy in the whole home of the Father and the Protestant Son. And we have here uh this morning a hundred and twenty-five or a hundred and fifty of people that have been brought into the kingdom. Imagine the joy in heaven that God and his angels rejoice over your life. The Jews have been brought to Jesus Christ. The Jews passed from death to life. And the angels are all gathered in a joyful assembly in these years. In Hebrews 12, 22. A joyful assembly with us to rejoice with us in the redemption of God's apartment. You see, we're joining with a heavenly choir this morning And we join in with them as we praise God. We need to hear them with the ears of faith. We see them with the eyes of faith. Do you see that? Do you understand that they're there? I'm afraid that when I say that, the tendency is for us to pretend that they're there You know there's a big difference between pretending and real. If you're thinking of pretending that there's a bunch of angels gathered with us this morning A vendor like Yuli, my daughter. Cassius has a collection of plain money. Thousand dollar bills, hundred dollar bills, a big spender around the house, you know. And she'll take this money and she'll spend it quite generously and freely. But there it is, says right on it, uh legal tender, uh one thousand dollars. She pretends that that's real money. But now you take that and you take another little certificate. It's a piece of paper like the other. And that certificate on it has ten thousand dollar certificates. The bank of the first bank or first national bank No, not on a look and cab, let's see a ten thousand dollars certificate. But if you can imagine what a ten thousand dollar certificate is, it's a piece of paper. And it simply says that though you can't see it, in the bank there is set aside to your account ten thousand dollars of interest-bearing money Now when I look at that piece of paper, I don't have to pretend that there's $10,000 there. All I have to do is realize that there are $10,000 behind what that says. You get the point. When we sit here this morning, and every Sunday morning, what God wants us to do is not to pretend that there's a bunch of angels coming with us That's not the point. It it's not just to use our imagination to say, wouldn't it be nice to think of white vein just floating around and just seeing the uh hand and the five uh handles in the phone the Halloween of course or something like that? Well rather God says, realize what they're doing. Realize with the eye of faith and with the ear of faith that we come this morning to a joyful assembly in the heavenly Jerusalem. And to God, the judge of all men, and the spirits of the righteous saints made perfect. We come and gather with them this morning in a festival assembly. That's what the Greek word means. The festival. But we're to not pretend it, we're to realize it. Because they join with us this morning in our worship to God. But not only do they join with us in our worship to God The Bible also states that they are learning traumas in their worships to God's. They learn promise of the many splendid wisdom of God's. Turn to Ephesians chapter three. You see a very remarkable thing. Ephesians chapter three, Paul says In verse 7, I became a servant of this gospel by the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power. And although I am less than the least of all God's people, this grace was given to me to preach to the Gentiles. The unsearchable riches of Christ. And to make plain to everyone the administration of this mystery, which for ages past were kept hidden in God who created all things. They noted to he saying, There is a wisdom from God that for all the ages past, even in creation, was kept hidden. Creation itself did not reveal this wisdom. You look at the mountains, and you look at the oceans, and you look at the animals, and you look at plant life. And you look at all the wonders that you've ever seen in a Walt Disney Nature film or any other film that you've ever seen or a movie science film and all the wonder of what God's creation means in a drop of border or a drop And Paul says God's wisdom is hidden more than revealed in these things. But notice verse 12 His intent was that now, through the curse, the manifold wisdom of God could be made known to the ruler and a farm in heavenly realm, according to his eternal purpose which he accomplished in Christ Jesus, our Lord. All family of a God whose wisdom was given in creation more than it was revealed I said, in these last days, I'm going to gather all of the heavenly hosts, all of the rulers and authorities in the heavenly realms. That's the angels And I'm going to gather all these angels, these thousands and these millions of angels around, and I'm going to display to them the extent, the multi-splendid facet of my wisdom in all its fullness. He's teaching the Greek word there uh it means iridescence. He's talking about literally it means many colors. It's like a fact And God says, before all the angels I'm displaying the full extent of my wisdom. Now, if all of creation gives this wisdom What is it that could possibly reveal the extent of God's God said one thing? The church reveals the expense of my reason. The worshiping church shows to all the assembled heavenly hosts what is The depth and the height and very fastness of my weaknesses. You say no way. You say the church is the extent of God's grace? The church is the display of his glory? I mean, I wouldn't not only want to display the church to all the heavenly hosts, I wouldn't even want to show it to the folks in the next denomination. I don't even barely want to show it to other congregations when I see so many times the beaches of the church. We say, well, you know, only three people showed up to teach the timers and I think one just we have meeting after meeting, prayer meeting, four people show up We have a great revival in nobody's home. The history of the church is marked his head in the time. That's God's wisdom? That's the extent of his glory? That's the best he can do to show all the arrayed heavenly hosts so that they fall down and they worship Look at his says in verse eleven. He says that this wisdom is according to his eternal purpose which he accomplished through Jesus Christ. Rather Christian is less trouble, please, because any splendor or beauty and willsome stars displayed in the church. We need to look again at what the church is. Because the church is a new race to Jesus. It's a people who had sinned against the holy God, and a people who had deserved condemnation, a people who were absolutely Who absolutely had their faith sealed. The soul of sins must die. And there is nothing that God can do except to wipe out the human race and start over again. What is it that God could ever do? Not only to forgive a people who have the sentence of death upon, but to make alive the dead bones as Ezekiel pictures them in the valley of these wild and dusty bones. How can ever a race like this ever live again? Do the God, the divine the Father, God Himself, became God himself became under the law that he had given to the creatures. That God himself would walk with the creatures for a number of years to fulfill that law. But that God Himself would then bear the punishment due to everyone who had broken that law. But that God Himself would bear his sin and my sin. So that we could forgive us and forgive us and give us a new life to make us a new race of people A new creation, a bringing into us, not simply the restoration of the race of Adam, the whole news. A people who are like his own son, Jesus. God restored us. He didn't simply place us as we had been. God himself in his infinite wisdom restored us and beyond become like the son, his own son, Jesus Christ. Do you know God experience of a dental earth? Have you ever come to know Jesus Christ to do good life? So that you might have the wiki and white and become part of our ACA. If you let her have it, it's not the only That's not good thing to you. How could God display this before all the heavenly hills? If you have never come, I invite you and command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come. Come. Become part of that new people, new creation. It's that is Jesus Christ. Because if you understand what God is doing in your life and in my life, and if you see Him crazy As you see him taking out that self-centeredness in your life, and to see him relating you into a person that cares and loves for others And you see him dealing with those things in your life, gently but inexorably, making your life dangerous. Could be any greater display of the infathomable wisdom of God. A wisdom that he displays all the heavenly hosts, and he says to them, Look. Here's my people. Look at them, alive from the dead. Look at them, guilty but forgiven. Look at them Sinful, but being changed and being made like my own son. Look at them who were in rebellion against me, who went their own way now, bowing their knees before me. Look at them, you angels, and learn from them, for angels can never know redemption. Angels have never been believed If an angel is still a holy angel, he's an angel because he never fell. And if he's a fallen angel, he will never worship again. God says to the angel Here's a new room. Here's the people that I've bought with the blood of my own son. You angels who have existed with me for thousands of years and have seen the sun Seen him on his throne. You've seen him humbled. You've seen him live on earth. You've seen him despised and rejected by these creatures. You've seen them nail him to a cross. You've seen him rise again. And you've seen this people following him since. And the angels fall out on the nation. The angels, right? Come on. And when you say in your stammering and sputtering tongue this morning, thank you, man. Thank you that is forgiveness. The angels hold their wings and stand in waiting. He gave some holding ones. But God has for you. We give you mercy. Wingles, warm things, each Sunday morning, and at any time when we gather to worship this. Thus teach the angels for heeding as we gather and sing his praises, that they may learn from us as they see and each unique slang of our lives. Another facet of the wisdom of God, the way God has worked in the life of Alan Harris, to renew him, displays in some unique way the riches of his gleams that no one else does. What is working in your life? Whatever tribulations, whatever afflictions, whatever thing he's doing in your life right now, displays to the wonders of all the angels at Senders. A very splendid book. That's the nice It's the time to come. But you see, it is not only that heavenly Jerusalem isn't you see Columbia and the heavenly Jerusalem linked together by an arrow going both ways There's going to come a day from Columbia, the saints in Columbia, the church in Colombia, and throughout all the world are going to be raised up to and with Jesus Christ If you have a picture of the saints worshiping with the angels there in a number of places in Revelation, take for instance Revelation chapter five. We have seen three concentric circles of worship display. Revelation chapter five. You have in verses six and seven the lamb that had been flame standing in the center, he was in the very center of the throne, encircled by four living creatures and elders. And he had seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven spirits that God sent out into all the earth. And he came and he took the scroll to the right hand of him who sat on the throne Then you notice in verse 8, the preachers and the elders worship. When it taken it, the four living priests and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb The twenty-four elders, by comparisons with other scriptures, appear to be the whole church of the Old and the New Testament. Twelve elders demonstrating from each dispensation the whole Church of Jesus Christ. Twenty-four elders, the church of the Old and the New Testament, joined together before the Lamb. Each one had a heart and they were holding golden bowls full of incense. It was the prayers of the saints. And they sang a new song. You are worthy to take this scroll and to open its field because you were slain. With your blood you purchased men from for God and who sing the song of redemption From every tribe and language and people and nation, you've made them to be a kingdom and priests to serve our God, and they will reign on earth. But you notice what's going on elsewhere. The angels hear that and they join in. Notice verse eleven. Then I looked and I heard the voice of many angels. How many angels? There were thousands of angels. In fact, he says there were thousands upon thousands. In fact, he says there were ten thousand times ten thousand angels in the sec In a circle, the phrase And they're all gathered around us as we stand next to the throne of Jesus Christ before the Lamb. These all these angels are gathered around us and they circled the throne and the living prices of the elders. And a loud voice, the angels sing, Worthy is the Lamb who was slain, to receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and praise. Where did they learn that song? The light is from the fence before the land and same together. The wind is drawing in, and they sing without very possible things, words with the land itself. And then we move to the third contentious circle out beyond the throne. John says, Then I heard in verse 13, every creature in all of heaven and earth, and under the earth, the whole creation itself. Joining in on the on the sea and everything that's in them seems to him who sits on the throne and to the land be praise and honor and glory and power forever and ever Four living creatures says Amen. And the elders fell down and worship. That's what we're looking for. That's what we're looking for. And it could happen at any time. What do we need to know? I want you to be briefly on call the electric number one. You can see there on the back of the bullet. First of all, I believe that we need an awareness of the presence of angels and of the supernatural forces of aid about us. For it is both of good and of evil But these are also telling us in chapter three that God displays his wisdom to all the angels by the demonstration of the worshiping church. President Cathy 6, we've got to remember that we don't wrestle simply against flesh and blood, but we also wrestle against principalities and powers as spiritual forces in high places. You know, there's such a tendency for you and for me only see the battle that we can see with our eyes. And if we see conflict with someone, we see it only from the human side If we experience discouragement, we experience it and acknowledge it often only on the psychological level. And if we are involved in a spiritual warfare, oftentimes And all we see is what happens. We need the seeds that we're arranged for the whole heavenly host, and there's a spiritual battle, a life and death battle is going on. This is what I was reminded of a bad one. Very forceful term. That we're involved in a spiritual problem. That we're involved in something that's more than simply what we see, whether it's in current or disparage. I remember it once, so very vividly The fellow that I had been working with who I had brought to Jesus Christ, who had come to Christ in some period that was involved in the ministry of any of our things I was working with him But a fellow from a motorcycle gang who had been involved in your course. And I remember he said when we talked one evening about his concerns over this We talked about it, we looked at scriptures concerning it, talked about the dangers of it. Then I remember after a couple of hours a week, he and I were sitting alone in the bees I remember a freaking feeling with a hair coming up on my back of my neck. I remember that feel feeling going right up my spine. As he and I looked at each other and said in that moment of recognition, you thought it was independent when each of us was aware of the horror darkness of another presence in our I've never had an experience like that before and I don't ever look forward to them keep my time and I'll never have it again. And the two of us stop talking because we kept ourselves in the same I want to tell you something tonight. Many days after, I live in a different plane. My prayer life is different. My sense of the spiritual battle that I was involved in this system was. Because I had a new reality, a new sense of the reality of things. A new sense of the reality of the spiritual battle that was going on around me. The battle with the normal I could never see it. I had felt it And I had felt in that the sense that God had called us on a life and death spiritual battle that we're involved. We need to realize like Elisha in his servant. Do you remember Elisa was being faced by Ben Hadad and the whole Syrian army and he's brought into the town You read in Second Kings that Elisha's there and the whole Syrian army's gathered around him and the servant says, Elisa, what are we going to do? Uh there's two of us and there's thousands of them. We're a little bit outnumbered, Elisha. Elisa says, Oh no, they're the ones that are outnumbered. And it says, Oh, come on, Elisa. It's two of us. And it's out. You better look out the window, Elisa. You you haven't seen what's out there. And Elisha simply says, Oh Lord, open his eyes And we'll be served in five words, and then the whole world is surrounded with God's voice. And as the servant saw that life, he said, There's more life. You are there. You believe that you're involved in big in a spiritual warfare. God forces are surrounding you. What do you think of us? Are you saying it simply on a psychological level? of the truth and spiritual eye of the understanding what God is doing in that spiritual force that arrayed the basket. So that you might be aware of the angels and aware of the battle that's raising the basket. And the heavenly hosts about us to fight with us in for us. Secondly, we need to recognize that we understand the angels with us, the power of God You know the word of the term Jehovah Shabbat means the Lord of hosts, and the hosts spoken of in that term are the heavenly hosts. So every time you read in the Bible, Jehovah Sabbath, or the Lord of hosts, you're reading about the fact that he's a God who is surrounded with hundreds and thousands of angels, the heavenly hosts. And if you see him that way, it should be of an encouragement to you, and it should produce and compel within us an awe and a worship Remember when Jesus was taken prison? He said to those who fought to defend them, don't try to defend me. Don't you realize? God could call on my Father right now and he would send over twelve millions of angels to Depending no, usually reason is six thousand soldiers. Jesus is saying all I have to do is call on the father to be seventy-two thousand angles right here on the spot. And you, Peter, think you're gonna defend me with a story We need to recognize the power of God if we understand moving, slavery worship, and worshiping the God of power. Thirdly, we need to recognize the splendor of our worship. What is it? That we can see the angels this morning who are gathered about us to learn about redemption. You need to remind yourself that we're teaching them and that they're listening and joining in with us each Sunday morning. You need to remind yourself that the angels are helping us to worship God these Sunday mornings. Uh you know, you have this idea that uh our friend is maybe uh a few straightened voices trying to belt out of him that we don't know and we're doing a pretty poor job of it And this is the whole thing kind of silly to think that this is worship if you've ever heard the uh hallelujah chorus by somebody that really knew how to do it and three or four hundred voices really letting it loose and every thing this is just kind of silly, what we call them. These are people joining in with us is our heart became. About to say, okay, you folks in Columbia. You need some help, all right. We'll send a few thousand angels down there in room one hundred to join with you in that space. I'm serious, you know. That God is sending his angel to join with us. And we need to be aware of that as we praise him, to understand that it is not simply the peace And they're told, and they're learning from us, and they're joining us. And he's saying, Angels, help us to adore him. You behold him face to face. Angels, you behold and help us to worship. And the angels say, You've experienced redemption, you help us to worship. And are joined with our grand company in helping in public to gain the fullest land and saved for the peace members. Finally the last thing as the anticipated To anticipate it when we shall see the movement, we shall see all focused in upon their contentious circles right there in the standard to the land. And upon the throne is the land that we need And it could be at any time. Easy numbers. We got great companies. Very flowing. Is it easy? In a festival assembly. Let's sound and worship us. And anyone who wants to leave it, let Join be worship to our God.