I am going to begin four meditations on Easter to focus our eyes, as we've just sung back on the Lord Jesus to see how wonderful He is To be able to see how great a salvation He has accomplished for us. This morning is especially appropriate because I want to look at one of the few passages in the Bible to talk about Jesus interacting with kids. So if you're a kid here from upwards, or if you're any kid here, I especially want you to notice how Jesus looks at you, especially in your praise and your worship of him. The incident took place just after the triumphal entry, which occurred on Palm Sunday. And uh In this brief incident in Matthew 21, verses 14 to 17, I found in meditating on this seven insights to the heart, the character of the Lord Jesus that I found precious, and I pray that they will help you also to worship and to love him more. Many of us remember the scenes of Palm Sunday etched vividly in our minds from Sunday school classes where we held little palm branches. Remember the party spirit that was going on there was kind of like upwards on the Saturday morning or Saturday afternoon here the last few weeks. Everybody was yelling and screaming. Jesus was being declared king coming into Jerusalem, and he was riding on a lot, you kids. Anybody remember, just yell it out A donkey, yes, great, Trey. And whoever else was yelling it out there, I just happened to see Trey over here. Uh but that's right. He was riding on a donkey. And uh you wanna remember what happened when he got to Jerusalem? You know, what'd they do with a party? Everybody's yelling and screaming, Hosanna said David, the son of David, and goes on into Jerusalem and Matthew doesn't tell us. Mark says he got there late in the day, looked around, and went back home to Bethany. Is it? Now, Mark then indicates that what Matthew tells us in verse 12 happened the next day. So on Monday morning, Jesus apparently comes back into Jerusalem, much lower key now, with his disciples. And we pick up the story at Matthew chapter 21, beginning in verse 12. So let's have that up here so you can see it and meditate on it while I'm talking to you. Notice it and let us hear now God's word as he Gives to us this incident often overlooked in the story of Jesus' death, but is so rich. Jesus entered the temple area, and he drove out all who were buying and selling there. He overturned the tables and the money changers and the benches of those selling doves. It is written, he said to them, My house will be called a house of prayer, but you are making it a den of robbers. The blind and the lame came to him at the temple, and he healed them But when the chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children shouting in the temple area, Hosanna to the Son of David, they were indignant. Do you hear what these children are saying? They asked him. Yes, replied Jesus. Have you never read from the lips of children and infants you have ordained praise? And he left them and went out of the city to Bethany, where he spent the night. I want to look at seven things that this passage reveals about Jesus, verses 14 to 17. And as I said, I found them very precious, but it's very difficult to convey them to you. And so what I'd like to suggest you consider doing is since there are seven of them, that you consider meditating on one of them each day this week, starting with today. Look at the first one, think about it, because you really will only get the impact as you think about it. And as you use your imagination to picture the scene and think about what it reveals to you about Jesus and respond to him in your own heart. So let me encourage you to write down what these points are and then to think about them through this week. First thing to notice about Jesus here is his humble compassion. You see that in verse 14. The blind and the lame came to him at the temple and he healed them. Now, how soon after verse 13 did verse 14 take place? We're not told. But you notice that Jesus is still at the temple. So my guess is it wasn't very long after this Cacophony of chaos, as Jesus is driving out the merchants, the money changers, that somewhere in the next minutes Things gradually settle down. This could be a half hour, hour later. We don't really know. But I don't think very long. Just a short while. Now picture what's going on As Jesus is still hanging around the temple, the blind, the lame, the powerless have seen that Jesus in the temple was one who identified with them against the powerful who oppressed them and take advantage of them. Which prompted in me the question, how do the poor and the powerless of Howard County view Columbia Presbyterian Church? Do they view our church as a refuge, a place of help, or a church that aligns itself with the powerful? I thank God for our deacons who work hard at trying to make CPC known to those who need help. It's a place where they can find help. A place that where we take up the cause and the concerns of the weak and the powerless But I ask you, personally, in your work, do those in your work who you work with view you as someone who is on the side of the powerful or as one who is their advocate How are we as Christians perceived? Jesus clearly here was on the side of those who were powerless. You see, the merchants who were the money changers had a business going where they said you had to use temple currency to buy a sacrifice And so they could justify this on free market principles. It's an honest living, or just simply charging a small fee to exchange currencies. But of course it was much more than that. They were charging large fees and They were using this to rip off the people who were coming. It's interesting that Jesus doesn't debate it with them. He sees right through to their hearts, and he'll have none of their excuses. He simply drives them out with fury. And so when the weak, the blind, the lame see that They say, here's someone that we can come to. And they go to him. Here he is. Now just yesterday he was Acclaimed as the reigning king of Israel, the most powerful man in Jerusalem at the time. And now, just after driving out the money changers at the peak of his popularity. How does he choose to spend his time? Who does he choose to spend his time with? What does he choose to do? Heal dirty beggars. Picture the people that are coming to them. The blind, those that are in rags, they're covered with flies, open sores, lice. Twisted, ugly, these are not the beautiful people of wealthy Jerusalem And here is Jesus in the very precious few hours before his death. This is Monday. By Friday, he's going to be crucified. Lord Jesus, don't you have something more strategic to be doing? Isn't there something more important you ought to be doing than hanging around these people taking away an hour or two just healing these broken people who have nothing to offer to you? What an insight to the heart of our Lord Jesus, isn't it? Do you ever wonder if he is approachable to you? How can you wonder if Jesus would receive you and be open to you in your brokenness and please in Christ? When we have this account of in this strategic time in the last week of his life We see how he chose to spend the time being open to whatever beggar, whatever needy person wanted to come to him for healing. That's what your Jesus is like. That's what he's like for you and for me. He still has the same heart open to needy people. Notice secondly his sovereign power in all of this. His sovereign power. That's worth meditating on also. You notice in verse 14, the blind and the lame came to him at the temple and he healed them. Scripture's so rich, there's a couple of other things Matthew wants you to see from this that besides just what I've mentioned. And you see the clue to that in verse 13. Verse 13, notice that Jesus calls the temple what? House of prayer. And uh Mark adds to that a house of prayer for all peoples. And so The scripture said that the temple was where you could come to offer your request, your prayers to God. So here's all these needy people, and they're coming to the temple to be healed. Who are they coming to? Jesus. But notice this and don't miss it. Jesus does not pray for them. They don't come to him, and Jesus says, I understand. Let me pray to the Father for you to be healed of your blindness, your lameness, your leprosy. Jesus Himself heals them. So what's he doing? Jesus is answering their prayers himself. He doesn't need to go to God for the answer. He himself answers. Therefore, Jesus in this act is claiming to be God. He is acting as God at the house of prayer to answer the cries of his people. Also, four days from this, Jesus will stand apparently passive and powerless before Pilate and Herod and the Sanhedrin. And Matthew wants you and me to know That just days before, he had been exercising sovereign power to heal the helpless. Jesus is not helpless. The only reason he stands passive before them is because he is choosing at that point. to make himself weak and helpless to bear your sin and mine, as the Lamb led to the slaughter. Jesus chooses to submit himself to the indignities, the mocking, and the rest of it. Compelled only by his love for you and for me as sinners He is the God of sovereign power who answers prayers himself and then submits himself to be cursed just days later. Notice thirdly, his delight in the children. Notice his delight in the children. Verses 15 and 16. When the chief priests Notice the blind and the lame that come to him at the temple, he heals them. Notice, by the way, he doesn't heal some of them. He heals all of them that come. He doesn't cast any out. All of them who come, he heals. Lord Can you give me sight? You believe I can? Yes, Lord, I believe you can. Then be healed. I can see. And while this is going on, the chief priests and the teachers of the law saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children shouting in the temple area, Hosanna to the son of David. And they were indignant. Do you hear what these children are saying? They asked him. Heads up, all you upwards kids, or any of you kids, or any of you adults, use your imagination here What's going on? He's just driven out the money changers. Things have calmed down some. So, blind people, lame people. The cancerous, the lepers, are being brought to or coming to Jesus. And you're looking off from a bit of a distance. You're one of the kids that's playing in the area. And what do you see? Somebody goes up to Jesus. There's this interchange between the two of them. And then all of a sudden you hear a shout. I can see! I can walk! I can dance! And these kids playing knew these beggars from their own neighborhoods. There's old Eli that has sat for years at the corner of our street He's brought in every morning and he's taken away every evening. And for years we've been giving that guy money. And there's Eli dancing a jig or a hoya. And so they see one after another coming and shouting and singing. Now they're kids. What do you kids do? You are so good at imitating, aren't you? And so what do the kids do? They say, What was going on yesterday? Remember the big party we had coming into town? And everybody was singing this song, Hosanna to the Son of David. And so they remember that and they sing that, they imitate that, they repeat that song. Hosanna to the son of David from Psalm 118. And as the kids start singing, they start dancing, and they probably get a little rowdy, as you kids do sometimes, you know And they maybe get a little out of control, but they're just dancing all around the area and things are just breaking into the serendipitous party. What had been before, just minutes before, a terrifying atmosphere. of Jesus yelling and shouting and chasing has now become a party of healed sinners. And the kids get caught up in this. And they start singing his praise. And they start making things up and they start dancing all around. Now, notice the contrast between the religious leader's response and Jesus' response. But don't be too quick to think it's obvious. Clearly, the religious leaders are indignant about this. I mean, to them, this is utterly unacceptable. Sir, don't you see? These kids are implying you're the Messiah. And they're getting out of here. I mean, this is the temple area, you know? Supposed to have a little dignity and reverence around here These kids are dancing and yelling and screaming. Quiet 'em down. Now how does Jesus respond? I think perhaps from some of our stereotypes we would picture this rather beatific smile on his face, and he's going, Yes. No. I don't think that's it. I think if the kids are dancing and yelling and singing, I think Jesus is laughing. Now we're not told that, but clearly Jesus' response is to vindicate the kids. There's not a word of rebuke from Jesus to the kids. Rather, I think as they speak, Jesus is laughing and he's saying, Yes, I see them. Now have you guys never read in Psalm 8, verse 2, what the Bible says? And before we deal with that, notice the fourth point that Jesus welcomes exuberant worship. Jesus welcomes exuberant worship. Here's an amazing thing. The kids are applying Psalm 118 to Jesus. That is the chief of honors. Hosanna means save now. Son of David is the title of the Messiah, so they're saying, Messiah, save now. Come save your people. Now here's Jesus who just yesterday came in acclaimed by Israel to be the king, the Messiah, and he did not take up that acclamation. He did not receive the position of king, because he knew their understanding of king was totally wrong. So he chooses, after cleansing the temple, to spend his time with beggars, broken people, and children. And yet he's perfectly comfortable being worshipped. Now, how do you put that together See, psychologically it makes no sense. You cannot conceive of a person with the humility of Jesus Who seeks no status, no power for himself, and yet has no problem being worshipped Unless He really is God. Because you see, if you try to conjure up in your mind, what would God act like if He came? in flesh. And wouldn't it be that he would not need anybody to give him acclaim for his self-esteem, he wouldn't he wouldn't need to have any honors keeped in any artificial way But of course he'd be perfectly comfortable being worshiped because he is God. And that's exactly what you see here. You see, it's not stated, it's just so naturally written by Matthew, a tax collector. Three of the four Gospels are written by simple, common people. And yet the most brilliant of novelists and artists could not construct psychologically what it would be like for God to become man. And this so naturally just pours out what Jesus was like. He deserves their worship, and he deserves your worship. Because he is God. Let me ask you. Have you ever bowed your knees to Jesus and confessed that he is God? To be worshipped and adored and served by you every day of your life If you haven't, you haven't acknowledged God as He is in the person of Jesus. And if he so delights in the praise of these children, maybe there's a lesson to us Presbyterians of the need that we have to cultivate a little bit more of a party spirit in our worship. Amen? Amen. A hearty one. Thank you, Tim, for helping us to do that earlier in the service. In fact, let me make a couple of suggestions to you. Have you ever danced before the Lord? I mean I don't need to show a hands here, but y I mean, you know, really you think, php, you kidding? You know, I I can't dance at all, but I don't mean with somebody watching you. I just mean to enjoy the graceful movement of your body before the Lord as an act of worship. Why, you say? Well, because you're physical, that's why And because God has made us as physical creatures, these kids, I dare say, were probably not standing still worshiping the Lord. They were probably jumping and dancing. They were getting into it. And I think sometime I'm not don't don't relax. We're not gonna dance before the Lord right after the sermon here. You know, get up and grab hands and we're gonna Relax. But perhaps sometime this week, you know, this fourth point, it's going to be Wednesday, you'll be meditating on this. You get a whole spot Wednesday, you're alone, and you can just say, Lord. I just want to dance before you with a delight. You receive sinners like me. You're just so wonderful. Or maybe if you're not into dancing, you can't get to do that. How about making up your own praise song for 'em? You ever done that? It's really not that hard. I'm not going to share any with the ones I've done, and it probably will never get to be sung by CPC as a whole. But you can take a snatch of a psalm, a verse, a couple verses, or just some thought of your own in praise. And make up a tune. Really in the hard. Just start singing. Something will come to mind. Adapt something you know. And just use that as an expression of your own worship, just because in that there is something that is uniquely you being offered to the Lord. That's what these kids were doing. And so imitate or make up. But may it come out of your heart in exuberance. Because Jesus delights in that. He enjoyed that. Or, if nothing else, at least, have you ever tried shouting to him? Now you think, big deal. Well, not as easy as you think. I remember the first time I tried to do that. Now I don't even know if you're aware how you pray. Do you pray silently? Do you whisper? Do you talk? I mean, what do you do? A lot of people don't think they think, well, I don't know. I guess I just think Well the problem is if you just think, your mind is much more apt to wander. If you at least whisper, it'll help you to focus on what you're saying. If you talk, that's even better Of course you don't want to be talking with somebody else around. You know, I mean you want to have a little bit of privacy if you're going to do that. But sometime try shouting Why? Because in the shouting there is a release of your spirit to the Lord of exuberance, the kind of thing that was going on here with these kids around Jesus That He delights to receive and engages you more fully. Do I want to shout to the Lord You know, it's kind of a cycle. If I shout, that helps me to see, yeah, it's true. This is worth shouting about. Lord, I love you. And to be able to let that out. Bring it to him. He deserves it. And it will help you in your relationship with him. But now notice fifthly his penetrating wisdom in this situation. How is he going to answer his venerable accusers? They're trying to intimidate him, and one of the things I love about Jesus is that he was never intimidated. How's he going to respond to them? What's he going to say? He could have said something like, Oh, knock it off. Will you guys lighten up? I mean he could have, but that's not what he did. It wouldn't have been very helpful. But you see, his mind is full of scripture. And so when he sees the kids dancing around, possibly Psalm 8 comes to his mind. You want to grow in wisdom? Fill your mind with Scripture. You want to be able to respond in difficult situations, memorize scripture. Because when Jesus accusers come and they say, Huh, sir, you hear what these children are saying? Got to put a stop to this. Rather than just some off-the-cuff remark, what he does is something brilliant and insightful. He takes Psalm 8, verse 2, which has been in his mind as he sees these kids. And he quotes the first half of verse 2. So you see what he quotes? I have it up there, Psalm 8, verse 2a. Yes, Jesus says. Now have you never read? Of course he knows they've read, they said, Well, we know the Bible as well as you do, we know it all. Well, have you never read then? From the lips of children and infants, you've ordained praise And he stops. He stops because he knows that they know what the second half of the verse says. And he doesn't want to spell it out for them. He wants them to figure it out themselves. Because you see, the second part of the verse says, Remember it? We read it earlier in the service. Remember the responsive reading? Did you notice? The first part of the verse, from the lips of children and infants, you have ordained praise. Second part, because of your enemies to silence the foe and the avenger. Whoa He's a real huh? You see what's going on here These kids are fulfilling Psalm eight, verse two. You guys are the enemies of God. Their praise shows that as they've seen me glorifying the Father by healing as Messiah. These kids get the point. And they sing Psalm 118 to me. You see, Matthew says, they saw the wonderful things that Jesus had done, and all you can do is complain. And in your rage wanted quieted. But the praise of children will silence the foe and the avenger. And so notice the sixth point, his undaunted courage. His undaunted courage, because you see, what Jesus is doing is he's appealing to their conscience Do you see you are acting as the enemies of God? He takes that scripture brilliantly Quotes the first part, leaving for them to apply the second part to their hearts and consciences, and they will either repent or they will want his blood. Matthew chapter eleven in verse eighteen Mark, they say Matthew, Mark chapter 11, verse 18 tells us that at this point, Jesus signed his death warrant. Mark tells us from that point on, the Jewish leaders decided that they were going to kill Jesus before he left the Passover. And Jesus knows how they're responding. And he doesn't flinch. Look at verse 17. He left them and went out of the city to Bethany, where he spent the night. And I'll bet you had a good night's sleep. That's courage. That's guts. I'll tell you, you may not be following Jesus Christ this morning in your life. But you can't help but admire a man like that, can you? You've got to at least admire him. And why don't you follow him? Why would you not want to follow such a person as Jesus Christ? And then finally, the seventh point. He is so focused. He's so focused, even as he quotes from Psalm 8 He knows he's in the midst of the world's greatest spiritual battle. Because in Psalm 8, after verse 2 The psalmist goes on to talk about what is man that you are mindful of him and the Son of Man that you visit him. Hebrews chapter 2 quotes that psalm And applies it to what is going on during that week and what's going to happen to Jesus. Let me read that for you. In Hebrews chapter 2, beginning with verse 6 The author of Hebrews says, There is a place where someone has testified, and he's quoting from Psalm 2. What is man? This is verse 3 now, right after verse 2. What is man that you are mindful of him? The Son of Man that you care for him. You made him a little lower than the angels. You crowned him with glory and honor. You put everything under his feet. In putting everything under him, God left nothing that is not subject to him. And yet at present we do not see everything subject to him. We're broken. Like these beggars, blind and lame. We're not glorious as we should be, but we see Jesus. Who was made a little lower than the angels, you see, like us, crowned with glory and honor, because he suffered death so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. The compassion of Jesus Christ for the lame and the blind and the leprous and the cancerous that day was nothing. Compared to the compassion of Jesus Christ four days later when he went to the cross to take the curse of God for you and for me. To taste death for you. Oh, admire him. Marvel at his uniqueness. So humble and yet so comfortable being worshipped, so compassionate So marvelously insightful, brilliant in his dealings with his accusers, but ready to receive sinners like you and like me. Let's pray. Oh, Lord Jesus, how superficial so often our view of you And here's this little passage that we don't very often even notice. And Lord Jesus, what it speaks of your heart Lord, help us that we might see you as you really are. Open our eyes, open the eyes of our heart, Lord. We want to see you. So that by seeing you we would love you more and trust you more, we would be more confident that you're there to receive us in our brokenness, in our weakness and lameness. And all of our needs that are overwhelming to us, Lord, we come and we bring them to you now. We bring them to you because you alone are Savior. You alone can receive us. You alone can forgive us and change us and meet the needs that overwhelm us. But Lord, that you are sufficient this week. To take care of.