I want to thank George for the well-arranged worship service this morning. Its continuity. its order, its structure. Our eyes have been focused upon the King. He and he alone is to be exalted in our midst And we must fall prostrate before him, the Lord of Lords, the King of Kings. Hear now from the scripture of Psalm 24, this magnificent description of the triumphant shepherd. Psalm 22 speaks of the suffering shepherd. Psalm 23 speaks of the satisfying shepherd. Psalm 24 speaks of the triumphant shepherd. This is a holy triad in our understanding of the structuring of the Old Testament and the magnificence of the book of Psalms. Which speak to us of the Savior. Hear now God's word. The earth is the Lord's, and the everything in it, the world and all who live in it. For he founded it upon the seas and established it upon the waters. Who may ascend the hill of the Lord? Who may stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, who does not lift up his soul to an idol or swear by what is false. He will receive the blessing from the Lord and vindication from God his Savior Such is the generation of those that seek him, who seek your face, O God of Jacob. Lift up your heads, O you gates. Be lifted up, you ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is this King of Glory? The Lord strong and mighty. The Lord mighty in battle Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Lift them up, you ever you ancient doors, that the King of glory may come in. Who is he? This King of Glory, the Lord Almighty, He Is the King of Glory. Sovereign God, open our hearts That we may behold the Savior. Open our lives That we may be filled with His perfections. Move in us, O Lord our God. May our hearts burn, burn within us, and yearn for a better, closer knowledge and walk And turn toward that pathway of obedience and devotion. O Lord, come bless thy word and thy people as we gather. If there's special need here this morning, a problem of sin to be forgiven, fear of death The grip of loneliness, the anguish of fear, the wilting of depression Lord, come to that one, and may that one see Jesus In whom we live and move and have our being, we ask in thy name. Amen. Psalm twenty-four is a magnificent opus on the person and the work of our Lord Jesus Christ. It sets before us His sovereignty over us, His propriety within us. It sets forth upon that foundation his requirements of us. And then hallelujah. It sets forth his provision of his own requirements. The structure of Psalm 24. The first two verses are based upon his divine sovereignty as manifest in his work of creation and providence. The king's requirements, found in verses three through six, are spoken to all universally. The nature of the king's requirements. Nothing less than absolute perfection, inward and outward. The reward of the king's requirements is acceptance with him. The king's provision. Found in the last portion of the Psalm seven through ten, sets forth his perfect person. His perfect work and his perfect invitation. Thus the outline of Psalm 24 that we will pursue this morning. The king's authority. Authority is the basis of demands. And commands. Some of you are in executive position at work, and you issue words of instruction and direction. And counsel. You have the authority because you have been hired to that position. You have been bested with that right And so out of the basis or on the basis of your authority, you communicate just demands and requirements of those who are subordinate to you. And this is the way our society is structured. And so in the fifth commandment, children, obey your parents in the Lord. This is the structure of society. Authority. But what is the very basis of divine authority? It is nothing less than in the very nature of God Himself I, the Lord, change not. He is before all things. Before all things he exists, and by him all things consist. In First Chronicles chapter 29, verses 10 through 13. Here this magnificent portion David praised the Lord in the presence of the whole assembly, saying, Praise be to you, O Lord, God of our Father Israel, from everlasting to everlasting. Yours, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the majesty and the splendor. For everything in heaven and earth is yours. Yours, O Lord, is the kingdom. You are exalted as head over all. Wealth and honor come from you. You are the ruler of all things. In your hands are strength and power To exalt and to give strength to all. Now, our God, we give you thanks and praise your glorious name. The ending of the first book of Chronicles, chapter 29. The authority of our God Rests because of his very sovereignty and his very creation. Are we not told this in the first chapter of the Gospel of the Book of John In verse 3, all things were made by him, and nothing was made that was not made by him. He is the Creator. His is the word of absolute authority. His demands are therefore just and righteous altogether. He is in the glorious, exalted position of demanding what he will, of whom he will, why he will, when he will, where he will, for what reason and purpose is his own. He is Lord God Almighty. It is not for us to question God in rebellion that we may ask him. as a child seeking instruction, but never to stamp our foot and to shake our fist in the sight of the eye of Almighty God And demand of him that he comply with our human and puny and fallible faltering will. He Is God. Let God be God, and let the hearts of men tremble in his presence. I am the Lord He said, and there is none else in all the world. I am the Lord. Beside me, there is none other. The King of Psalm twenty-four addresses, approaches Is concerned with and intercedes for the earth and all its inhabitants that He has created for His own glory and for His own praise. Hallelujah! Blessed be the Lord, the Lord our God, who daily loadeth us with his benefits, and his first benefit that we receive is his absolute requirement. Look, look. Who may ascend into the hill of the Lord? He who has clean hands and a pure heart. Who has not sworn deceitfully nor lifted up his soul in vanity? He will receive the blessing of the Lord. The nature of the demands of Almighty God are summed up for us in the Ten Commandments, and this is why I asked George to read it for us, or to lead us in its reading. The decalogue is the absolute requirement of the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. You say I am not under the Ten Commandments. Oh, which one don't you want to keep? Tell me now, which one don't you want to keep? We are under the Ten Commandments by the grace of God. They lead us, they guide us, they draw us inexorably to the King who gave them. That we might find in him the satisfaction of his own just demands That they might then lead us and guide us, of those who have entered into the entourage of the king, of those who walk subjected to him. Yes, the Ten Commandments are still for this day and age, not to save our souls, but to condemn us And to guide us and to direct us to King Jesus, that we may find in him the perfections, the fullness, the provisions of grace and of mercy. Oh, who shall enter into his king? Who shall enter into this throne? Who shall enter into his presence? Those who are inwardly and outwardly perfect. Oh, but here Here from Psalm or from Romans chapter 3, the judgment of Scripture, in answering that question, who shall enter There is none righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands, no one who seeks God. All have turned away. They have altogether become worthless. There is none who does good, not even one. Their throats are open graves, their tongues practice deceit, the poison of vipers is on their lips, their mouths are full of cursing and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. Ruin and misery mark their ways and the way of peace. They do not know. There is no fear of God before their eyes. All have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Who shall ascend into the throne room of the king? Who shall enter into his presence? The one who is perfect, and only that one. I am left out. And so are you. For we together and singly are sinful men and women God's requirements are not abated. His demands are not diminished. There is no lessening of his requirements. Clean hands A sinless external life, a pure heart, perfection of holiness within, I fail. And so do you, for we are sinners in the sight of the absolute, irrefutable demands Of a sovereign, authoritative King of Kings, and Lord of Lords. But the question is still there: who shall ascend And the scriptures go on in a marvelous answer. In a marvelous answer. There in that beautiful Psalm 24. And now we move to the king's provision. This is a most Visionary psalm. Let your mind exercise a little imagination. They say that Years ago, when the King of England would approach and enter the city of London through a particular gate, he would come and he would knock at the gate for admission. And the gatekeeper would ask who is there? And the king would respond, the king of England, at which the gates were opened, and he entered. To the celebration of the citizens there gathered. In ancient times, the gates were built in different ways Some were built in two parts. The upper portion would rise, go up as in a channel, lifted high. The lower parts would swing open. So that there were the two parts in the gates. In some cases, the gates simply had one part and in two doors. In other cases, the door simply the gate simply rose as one piece. But you get the picture of gates that are movable, that are opening, gates that are seals against those who ought not to enter in. The answer to the question is who shall ascend is given in verses 7 through 10. The king approaches. Oh, can you not hear him coming? Hear him with those who he has touched? Hear him with the blind who see the hall to walk, the dead who live, the hungry fed. The naked, clothed, the lonely accompanied. Hear him come Our minds are taken back to the day of the so-called triumphal entry of our Lord into Jerusalem, when they strew palms before him and sang, Hosanna, save now! O son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. In a very real way, the triumphal entry enters into this presentation. Of Psalm 24. But there's beyond this the triumphal entry. There is a greater presentation. It is the ascension of our Lord Himself Into the very presence of the Father from whom he came when he came to take in his own body my sins and yours. He left the gloried vaulted halls of heaven, that he might stoop, take upon himself the form of humankind. Being conceived by the Holy Spirit in the womb of the Virgin Mary, a sinless man in whom there was no guile, neither deceit found in his mouth. The absolute perfection of the sovereign God Himself, for He is God born as man. Taking upon himself his favorite self-designation, the Son of Man. For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which is lost, and to bring many sons unto glory. This is the King, perfect, perfect in his person, conceived by the Holy Spirit Living in perfect active obedience to the law that he had written, the just demands that he had made, he now fulfills those just demands. In his active obedience, he must, as a man, for he was a man as well as God, he must obey his own word He could not strike off the requirements that he had made, and so he fulfilled his own law perfectly for himself. His active obedience and his perfect person well qualify him now for the exercise of his function in his passive obedience. And his passive obedience was not his inaction. His passive obedience was rather in his bearing our sins in his own body on the tree. That's his passive obedience. The burden that he bore, even as a woman, is passively obeying and fulfilling and bearing her child. So our Lord Jesus passively bore your sins and mine. This is the King of Glory. This is the King of Glory of whom the Apostle Paul spoke when he referred to him. Oh, if men had known what they were doing, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. The highest, most exalted name that the Apostle Paul, under the leading of the Spirit of God, could use. The perfect person, the perfect work, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, hallelujah. Now issues to you and to me. Come, come unto me All ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come unto me, you who are hungry, and I will feed you. Come unto me, you naked, and I will clothe you with my righteousness. Oh, behold the entourage gathering at the gate The tawdry masses that flow. What a scene. What a scene See the king at the gate, the king in all of his perfections, the king in all his holiness and righteousness gathered there at the gate of heaven itself. The hill of the Lord. And the multitudes cry out Lift up your heads, O you gates. Be lifted up, you ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. And heaven's side calls out as custodians and watchmen of the gates of heaven, of the throne of the king Who is this king of glory that seeks admission? Those that are with him, Who have been raised from the dead, who have been cleansed of their sins, who have been fed and nourished, who have been pardoned, who have been companioned, cry out, the Lord! Strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle They repeat their call. Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Lift them up, ye ancient doors, that the King of Glory may come in. Who is he, this King of Glory, the ancient ones cry from within heaven? And again, those who are the redeemed of the Lord cry out, answering the question: Who is he, the King of Glory? Cry out with newly opened eyes. Cry out with cleansed souls. Cry out with purpose anew and hope aflame. Cry out in gratitude and in praise. The Lord Almighty, He is the King of Glory. This is he who shall enter in. This is he of whom Isaiah spoke so long ago in the 45th chapter. This is the king. It is I who made the earth and created mankind upon it. My own hands stretched out to heavens, I marshaled their starry host. This is what the Lord says. He who created the heavens, he is God. He who fashioned and made the earth. He founded it. He did not create it to be empty. But formed it to be inhabited. He said, I am the Lord. There is no other. I have not spoken in secret from somewhere in a land of darkness. I have not said to Jacob's descendants, seek me in vain. I, the Lord, speak the truth, I declare what is right Turn to me and be saved, all the ends of the earth. For I am God and there is no other By myself I have sworn, my mouth has uttered in all integrity a word that will not be revoked. Compare that. Behold the King of Glory, and hear this most majestic heavenly scene. Of those who have entered into the righteousness of Christ, who have drunk deeply of the water of his blood of cleansing. Who have eaten of his flesh and have found solace and satisfaction and suffice for their soul. Here from the fifth chapter of the book of the Revelation. Then I looked and I heard the voice of many angels numbering thousands upon ten thousands and ten thousands time ten thousand. They encircled the throne and the living creatures and the elders in a loud voice they sang. Stand at the gate and hear this heavenly song. Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. To receive power and wealth and wisdom and strength and honor and glory and praise Then I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea, and all that is in them singing to him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be praise and honor and glory and power. Forever and ever. See? The lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has triumphed. He is able to open the scrolls and the seals. Oh beloved This is a majestic psalm that absolutely beggars our ability to proclaim it and to portray the Christ. But do you not see him in your mind's vision standing at the very gate of heaven? And look, if you will, at the motley mob. At the tawdry ones are in his entourage, not of the high and the mighty, not of the rich and the noble. Not to those who bear earth's plaudits and fame. Oh come, come to the gate, and there behold The sinners. There behold sinners. They have gathered. The harlots have gathered. Those who stole have gathered. Those who have wasted their substance in riotous living, they have gathered. They wait. They meet the king at the gate. The dying have gathered For in them there is no hope. For it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the judgment, the dying have gathered. The lonely are there. They have met him at the gate, and they have found in him their boon companion. The hungry are there, and they heard him say, I am the bread of life. The thirsty are there. The plaudits of praise of men will never assuage the cracking thirst of our souls. And they heard him say, I am the water of life. The hopeless are there The fearful are there. Fear not, he said, I have overcome the world. The troubled and the depressed are there. Peace I give unto you. My peace I give unto you. Not as the world gives, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled. They're that the gate The empty of life are there. Having sold their souls for a mess of pottage, they're there. The world has not rewarded them. There's an emptiness, a lack of purpose. Having all of this, they have nothing. They have come. For they have heard him say, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added unto you. Oh come. Come, my friends, this morning, come to the gate. The king is there. The king before whom the gates of heaven opened, and he entered in. I say, come now. For Jesus said, I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall go in and out and find pasture. Come. Enter into the very presence of the Father of light. Come to the throne of the Lamb. Come with your burdens, come with your sin, come with your heartache, come with your doubts, come with your fears, come with your need. Here the glorious invitation of the authoritative king, whose requirements are beyond your filling or mine. The King who provided the answer Do or ask what you will, and do what you require. For Luther the agony of his soul was, how can a man be just in the sight of Almighty God? And he found his answer. And the righteousness of Christ, which clothed him. Oh my friends, what is your need this morning? Behold the Lord of glory, the King at the gate The triumphant Lamb of God. The theme of the book of the Revelation, I believe, is sounded in the 17th chapter in the 14th verse. They will make war against the Lamb, but the Lamb will overcome them, because he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings. And with him who he is called, he is chosen And his faithful followers. Hallelujah. The king at the gate Have you met him? Have you joined that glorious eternal entourage? Come. Let us pray. O Lord, our hearts do cry out to thee In praise and in adoration. Hallelujah. What a Savior Who can take a poor lost sinner, lift him from the miry clay, and set him free, fill the lonely heart, open the eyes,