For this Christmas season, we have been looking at the first of the songs of the servant in the book of Isaiah, prophesying the coming of Messiah, the hope of Israel, the hope of the nations. We've seen in the first message that the singer of this song is the sovereign creator, God of the covenant, the God who is able to tell the future in specific detail. We see that he is the one who not only speaks this, he accomplishes it. We have seen that he has a unique relationship with the servant that he speaks of in verse 1, or unique relationship that extends to you and to me by virtue of our being joined with that servant by faith. And we've seen last week that the one main task that the servant is to perform is to establish his rule among the nations. A just and merciful rule among all the nations. Just saw Elaine there. Welcome back, Elaine. Good to have you with us again. Hope that a number of people get to talk to you afterwards. Great. Um And we have seen that this rule being established among the nations is a rule of justice and mercy. And so follow with me as I read God's word to you from Isaiah chapter 42, with these things in mind, verses 1 to 9. Here is my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one, in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him and he will bring justice, his perfect rule of justice and mercy to the nations. He will not shout or cry out or raise his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. In faithfulness he will bring forth justice, his rule. He will not falter or be discouraged until he establishes his rule of justice and mercy on earth. In his law the islands will put their hope. This is what God the Lord says. He who created the heavens and who stretched them out. who spread out the earth and all that comes out of it, who gives breath to its people, life to those who walk on it. I, the Lord, have called you in righteousness. I will take hold of your hand. I will keep you and make you to be a covenant for the people and a light for the Gentiles, to open eyes that are blind, to free captives from prison And to release from the dungeon those who sit in darkness. I am the Lord. That is my name. I will not give my glory to another or my praise to idols. See, the former things have taken place, and new things I declare, before they spring into being, I announce them to you. So now this fourth of the five weeks, the question that we want to turn to in this passage is how does the servant accomplish this task? We'll spend the last two weeks on that question. How does the servant accomplish this task of bringing his rule among the nations? And I want us to see how precisely and uniquely it describes and fits only Jesus. Three points, and as I've meditated on these points again this week, I have been utterly amazed to see God's precision. It's been an encouragement to my own faith, and I pray that God's Spirit will draw you to the Lord Jesus as you see this with me. First point. He accomplishes this task of worldwide rule by the power of the Spirit. He accomplishes this by the power of the Spirit, that is not in his own strength. Look again at verse 1. Here is my servant, or behold, my servant. Whom I uphold, my chosen one in whom my soul delights, I will put my spirit on him. And he will then bring his rule to the nations. The condition, what enables him to do this, is that I will put my spirit on him. And here you and I tread on holy ground, because at this point, Isaiah points us to the mystery of the incarnation. The fact that this one, the servant, who was fully God in his being, God and man fused in one person would come, but all of his ministry, all of his miracles and his wonders, would not be done by virtue of his Godhead He would restrict his powers to that of mortal man. The power by which he would exercise his ministry And his messianic claims was the power of the Spirit. This is clear from the Old Testament to the New Testament. Do you remember how Isaiah chapter 11 Elaborated on what 42. 1 says in simply one statement. I will put my spirit on him. In chapter 11, Isaiah, remember we'd looked at this a couple of uh years ago. Isaiah said, shoot will come up from the stump of Jesse, life out of death from his roots, a branch will bear fruit, referring to this servant, Messiah. And then he says, the Spirit of the Lord will rest on him. Now that Spirit is the Spirit, he says, the Spirit of wisdom and of understanding. The Spirit would give him wisdom and understanding. The spirit of counsel and of power, he would give him his ability in counsel and power. The spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the Lord You turn to the New Testament. And all the Gospels, all four Gospels, make a point of the fact that Jesus' ministry began by the baptism of the Spirit. It was by his water baptism joined with the spirit baptism that Jesus was endued with a power by which he could perform his public ministry. Do you remember in Matthew chapter 3, for instance, in verse 16, Matthew tells us that as soon as Jesus was baptized, he went up out of the water At that moment heaven was opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting on him. And a voice from heaven said, This is my son whom I love, with him I am well pleased. You see the reflection of Isaiah forty two one. Here's my servant, my son, the one on whom the one on whom my The one in whom my spirit, my soul takes delight. This is the one, he says, I will place my spirit on him. And in Matthew, you see the Spirit descending like a dove upon Jesus as he begins his ministry. Interesting that the fourth gospel does not give the account of the baptism, but rather you have John the Baptist's commentary on it. And so you read in John chapter 1 in verse 32, John the Apostle says, then John, who's called John the Baptist, gave this testimony. I saw the Spirit come down from heaven as a dove and remain on him. I would not have known him except that the one who sent me to baptize with water told me, the man on whom you see the Spirit come down and remain is he who will baptize with the Holy Spirit. I have seen and I testify that this Jesus is the Son of God. This was the fulfillment, you see, of Isaiah chapter 42 in verse 1. But don't miss what John says in verse 33 there. Do you notice tucked in between the beginning of his testimony and the end is that one little phrase, that statement The man on whom you see the Spirit come down and remain is he who will baptize with the Holy Spirit. Now, brothers and sisters, I ask you, try to hear with fresh ears right now what I'm going to say, as if you had never heard it before. The This Jesus, the servant, the Messiah, whom Isaiah foretold, accomplished all of his ministry Only through the power of the Holy Spirit, not his own power, not the inherent power he had as God. But it was through the power of the Spirit that he performed his wonders and that he served the Father as the faithful servant Son. That Jesus baptizes you and me and everyone who follows him With the exact same Spirit that enabled him to do all that he did in his walk and his service on earth. It's the same Spirit. Paul, you remember in Ephesians, makes that point. That we would know his power that raised Jesus from the dead. That power he says that same power that is at work in us who believe. Do you believe them Do you believe that you have in you the same spirit that was in Jesus and enabled him to do his condescension, limiting himself to dependence upon the Spirit that He would be an example to us not simply of His godliness, but also of how to live by the power of the Spirit. Perhaps some of us here this morning are trying to dance the dance of the gospel without the music of the Spirit in our hearts, and you can't do it. It's an imitation. It's trying to go through the steps without the power of the Spirit. Some of you kids miss out on what I was able to enjoy when I was a kid. Back in the old days Cars were had some advantages for kids at least. Um the wheels didn't lock. You know, now you take the key out, you can't turn the thing. Back when I was a kid Used to be able to turn the wheel. Without power steering, the wheels turned real easily, you know, and 'cause it was lighter and he could turn it. And um U You know, back in when I grew up our cars were all stick shift. Most people have automatic. We still have stick shift. But most people have automatic and I can't do much with that. But when I was a kid, you see When my parents, my mother was in shopping or something, I'd sit in the car with my dad. A lot of times, I'd get in the driver's seat and I'd pretend I was driving. I could turn the wheel and I could shift and I'd say, Dad, where do you want to go? You know, and he'd say something, Okay, we're gonna go you know, and try to reach the clutch, you know, but even if I couldn't I'd jam the gear anyway. You know, and I'd just, you know, have all kinds of fun j just steering it and shifting and doing all this stuff. But uh did I get us anywhere? We're still in the same spot when I finished as when we started. Why? Well my parents weren't about to trust me with the keys of that car Somebody grew up near where I was after the second service had and we were glad of that too. You know, because that that toy in my hands would have become a a weapon of mass destruction, you see, if I had had the keys there. But what was lacking, you see, was the connection to the power, the engine, that would move that ton and a half of metal down the road. And so you you kids, just as you would play with a car, would not be able to move it because you weren't connected by the key to the power, so many of us play at the Christian life. Trying to live it, but without consciously connected to the fact that God has given to us the same spirit he gave to the servant Messiah in order to accomplish what he had intended. That's why Peter says in 1 Peter, in chapter 1, In fulfillment of this verse, Peter says, to God's elect the strangers in the world scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, Bithynia You see, all the nations, this Jesus is establishing his rule. How? Who have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God, the Father, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit. You and I have been chosen, transformed, made new people, had our hearts changed by that work of the Spirit For, he says, obedience to Jesus Christ and the sprinkling by his blood The purpose, you see, is that we would be servants submitted to his rule, that just and merciful rule of Jesus, by which he delivers us from the bondage of our sin. The Spirit is necessary for you to be able to fulfill what Isaiah has spoken of here in chapter 42, verse 1. That he who gave the Spirit to Jesus in order that he might establish his rule among the nations, gives that spirit to every one of Jesus' followers. that you might live under that rule and be engaged with him in establishing it among the nations. That rule is a unique rule, the rule of the Spirit, and therefore it is unlike any other world ruler. And that you see in verses two and three. Because his rule Is by the Spirit, I didn't cover that point of the Spirit, which is the Spirit who ministers the sense of His presence to us. That sense that Jesus is with us, as real as if he was holding your hand, the Spirit who is the Spirit of wisdom, as he said in Isaiah 11. who gives you God's perspective as you read your as you read the His Word that you might live skillfully this week with understanding of how to live in relationships with other people. And that spirit of power that delivers you from the bondage of sin, the bondage of lifelong habits that you regret, that you wish you could escape from. God can deliver you. He can begin to move you out of those patterns. Because of his spirit. That rule that he is accomplishing, you see, in verses 2 and 3, is a rule that is in gentleness. It's unlike, in the contrast, I believe Isaiah had in mind as he thought about the current situation in which he was writing. Two ways he expresses this. First of all, he says that this one, the servant, speaks with quiet authority. He does not speak with force or try to rule by intimidation. Look at verse 2. He will not shout or cry out or raise his voice in the streets. The word there, shout, is a word in the Hebrew which refers to thunder, used of a thunderclap, used of a bellowing bull. It's a shout of intimidation. A shout. Of force. You recall that after the fall, in the early chapters of Genesis, God says that there were two camps in humanity. There was the seed of the woman following It followed in the line of Abel and then from Abel uh Shem, uh Seth, and then Shem, who called upon the Lord as their deliverer. In contrast to that, there was the line of Cain, a man of violence. There was Lamak, seven times more violent than Cain. who ruled by intimidation all the way down through Cyrus. What's interesting here is why I think Isaiah has this in mind, is he is speaking in these chapters about the deliverer of Israel to come, Cyrus. Who's going to deliver them from the hand of the Babylonians? But how is Cyrus going to do that? By brute force. Do you remember I told you about how he dammed up the Euphrates River, sneaked in under the walls and then attack Babylon from within, bringing it to his knees, crushing all opposition and taking control. You contrast that to Jesus. Matthew tells us how Jesus fulfills this verse. He will not shout or cry out or raise his voice in the streets. Remember the incident? To Matthew chapter 12. Do you remember how on that occasion Jesus healed a man who had a withered, shriveled hand? And Jesus had compassion on him. He healed him. And then he told that man something very strange. In Matthew chapter 12, he says, Now go out and don't tell anybody who did this. Don't tell them who I am. Now why did Jesus say that? Was he trying to hide his identity? He didn't want anybody to know that he was Messiah? Well, of course that wasn't the idea The idea is rather that there are two ways that people seek to gain power and force. Gain power. One is by brute force. Ruling by intimidation. Either you obey me or I will crush you. That is the rule of a man like Cyrus. The other way that we in the world seek to accomplish power is by charismatic force, brute force, and charismatic force. Charismatic force is the force of personality. It's seeking to impress you that I am irresistible. I will give you what you want or need. And so there are many charismatic leaders who would seek to gather followings by saying that they were Messiah, they were going to deliver Israel from the Romans, or that they could do miraculous things. Now just picture for a moment. Here's a man who's had his hand healed. He goes back and he tells his friends, I'm whole. Look at this. It's a miracle. Who did that? This Jesus. He can do that. And so what's going to happen? You're going to have hundreds, you're going to have thousands of people clamoring around Jesus, and they were all going to flock for the simple fact that they want healing from blindness, from leprosy. from paralysis, shriveled hands, lameness, whatever it is. That was a problem in Jesus' ministry. Now think for a moment, what would it look like if you did not have the gospel records? Can you imagine for a moment what deity with skin on would look like? What would God be like if he came in human form? Well, one thing that's probably fairly obvious is that he would be a pretty secure person. I mean he wouldn't need to prove a point, right? He wouldn't need to establish his power. Here's somebody who is absolutely secure in his identity and his power. He doesn't need you to, he doesn't need your approval. He knows who he is. He's somebody who has a quiet, secure authority about him. And he is able to accomplish what he has in mind, his purpose and his mission, and be utterly undistracted by people's response. Very interesting that as you read the Gospels written by people who are just fishermen and simple people, not literary geniuses, but you have the world's greatest record. Of that kind of quiet authority, sovereignty with skin on it. You read about how Jesus speaks in the Sermon on the Mount and other occasions, and the response is the people heard him and they marveled. That he spoke with authority. He didn't quote the scribes, he didn't say, and as so-and-so says, he simply said, I say to you Didn't have to lift up his voice, didn't have to shout, didn't have to cry, didn't call attention to himself. He simply spoke with a quiet authority didn't need the healings in order to bring crowds to hear him. The crowds would have been a distraction to his purpose for his messianic claims, his teaching. And so he was able to keep his eye focused straight on that and be undeterred. Here's a man who could come into a guy like Matthew sitting at his tax tables. Walk in and say, Matthew, follow me. And Matthew turns in his resignation, you know, cashes out, goes, follows Jesus. That's it Imagine if I walked into your office or place where you work tomorrow and I said, follow me. You'd say, why? Where? Who are you? What for? I mean why? Well you see I don't have that authority. I say it and people laugh Jesus sayeth and they get up and they follow him. He says to James and Gone, Follow me and I'll make you fishers of men. They don't laugh at him They leave their nets and they follow him. You see that kind of quiet, simple authority. Doesn't lift up his voice, doesn't shout, doesn't intimidate. He's sovereignty That's Jesus, unique. No one, no one like Jesus. Secondly, he says, Isaiah says that he shepherds with a gentle tenderness, not a harshness. Look again at verse 3. It says, A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. What a picture. Cyrus crushed the reeds along the Euphrates River with his armies. And he said, if something gets in my way, too bad. I'm moving in. In contrast, Jesus takes the reeds, he straightens them, and is tender. Many historians think that Germany lost World War One because of its brutalizing force in Belgium. Germany so brutalized poor, helpless, rather defenseless Belgium that it turned world opinion against it and gradually isolated itself. They would go into Belgium and where there were art museums, they would be bombed, some priceless treasures destroyed. If there was resistance, they would take the leaders of the town, the mayor, other town leaders, and they would be shot there in the public square as an example of what it would be what you would get if you resisted the German army. If you had asked the Kaiser at that time, why is that your policy? He'd have said, How else are you going to conquer the world? Look at the contrast of Jesus. Jesus conquers the world by winning our hearts rather than by intimidation. Your heart may feel to you this morning like a bent reed that's about to totter over. And Jesus comes along and he doesn't just say, if you can't get with the program out of my way. But he takes your heart, he takes your life, and he tenderly straightens it up. He supports you, he comes alongside you. He doesn't necessarily remove the affliction. He doesn't take it away But he gives you grace, the grace of his presence and the power of his spirit, that you are supernaturally able to bear that. The second picture that he gives here is a smoldering wick that he will not snuff out, a flickering candle. Picture of a candle that the wick is burned down quicker than the wax has melded. And so the wick is down now and it's about ready to drown in this melded wax and it's beginning to smoke. You say, well just blow the thing out. It's irritating. But the picture here is that even something like that, this one, the servant, comes, and he pours out the melded wax. He straightens up the wick and he fans it into flame so that it burns more brightly. Maybe you feel like the flame of your faith is about to expire this morning, and why is God doing what he's doing in your life? Does Jesus care about that? There's people in your life that simply want to use you for their own ends. You wonder if Jesus really cares and is maybe He just using you for His program in His kingdom. Brother and sister, never let Satan deceive you with that kind of view of our Lord. Jesus gets alongside you, he gets with you, and he fans that flame of your faith. He will not let it flicker out. A smoldering wick, he will not snuff out. He supports you. Notice how this is connected to the third thing that he says. He does this, Isaiah says, in faithfulness. Look at verse 3. A bruised reed he will not break out, he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not snuff out. In faithfulness he will bring forth his perfect rule of justice and mercy. That word faithfulness there means literally according to truth. The idea is of reliability. You can count on him. Now, here is where you see another one of these details to encourage our faith and to understand the Lord Jesus. It's precious. It was very precious to me as I studied it. I hope it will be to you too. If you look at verse 4, you see what it says about Jesus. He will not falter or be discouraged until he establishes his rule. of justice and mercy on earth. Those verbs there, not falter or be discouraged, are the same two words in the Hebrew that you have in verse 3. They're in the reverse order. A bruised reedy will not break is the word discouraged. Literally, you could translate verse 4, he will not flicker out or be crushed. Be broken as the reed until he establishes his rule on earth. Until he establishes that rule of truth and grace among the nations. And I believe this teaches us four things. They're of immense practicality for your life and for mine. Number one. It shows that his task was more difficult than you will ever know. What Isaiah is saying here is that what the servant is going to do is so difficult that there's danger of his being snuffed out as that smoldering wick. or his being broken down like that bruised reed. But he will not, he says, be snuffed out. He will not flicker out or falter, the NIV, or be discouraged, bruised, crushed, broken down. He could, there's danger, what he's going to do is so difficult, his resisting of the devil in the desert His living three years, a perfectly sinless life among sinners and all the provocations, his wrestling in Gethsemane With the fact that the Father is about to abandon him, that all of hell is arrayed against him, to mock him and to isolate him, you and I will never know. What Jesus went through and what he endured emotionally, spiritually, because of his love For you and for me. He will not be snuffed out. He will not allow himself to be broken until he accomplishes the rule of his kingdom because he loves you. And he will not let you go. Secondly, you notice in this that his understanding of your weakness is assured He understands your weakness. He suffered. He was broken. He was tempted. He was tried. And so he can sympathize with whatever you're going through this morning. Jesus is here. And he's here as the one who has suffered and who sympathizes with whatever afflictions you're going through. You cannot say to Jesus, Lord, you just don't understand. I can't go on with this. You've never been in my situation, not the circumstances. But in terms of the affliction of his heart, the temptation to his spirit, he has been in your situation. He has understood what it's like when things appear hopeless and you're utterly abandoned and isolated and you're totally misunderstood by all that you care for. Jesus understands your heart. He understands your wounds. And he says here that he who went through that, who was not snuffed out or crushed. Will not break the reed of your broken heart. He will not snuff out that flame of your weak faith this morning. Come to Jesus. Come to him as one who understands and be assured that he knows your heart and he's ready and here to minister to you this morning. Note thirdly that this assures us that he has persevered. How? By that same Spirit that He's given to you He was not snuffed out or discouraged to the point of brokenness. And so you can persevere too, because you have the same spirit that Jesus had. And therefore, you are able to persevere in the strength that he gives you. That his kingdom will prevail over all the nations. We are all called to that task of joining with him in extending and establishing that kingdom. Whether it is in writing the words of encouragement, cards at Christmas time to the missionaries. Whether it is in giving to their support, whether it is in praying for them, whether it is in identifying with someone like Elaine when she's far away that we might encourage her. Or whether it is to go, as Elaine did for a brief period of time, to go and to give yourself and to join with them. We're all called to join with him in that task. But we know with the assurance that Isaiah gives to us here that the day is coming when Jesus will come back, and that's a day, a calendar day, just as December the 6th, 1998, a day when Jesus will return. And he will return as the ruler of the nations. He will return to establish that rule of perfect truth and grace, of justice and mercy. He will establish it and we will all who know him join with him, who have persevered by his spirit to rule with him forever and ever in that kingdom. Are you ready to go there? Can you see that? Can you see it with the eyes of faith? Jesus is coming, and he's coming as the one who's won, who has overcome and persevered for you and for me. Amen. Let's pray. Let's pray. Oh, Lord our God, open our eyes that we might see Jesus. We might not be deceived by the evil one to see you as a harsh taskmaster, as one who simply wants to control our lives and to use us for your own benefit, who doesn't care about our weakness. And our afflictions and our discouragements, that we might see here, Lord, in the words of Isaiah, the tenderness of this servant. This one who doesn't call attention to himself and rule by intimidation, but rather in tenderness, Lord, you come to bear us up. To show us that you understand whatever each of us is going through, the Greece The discouragements you understand each heart here this morning. Lord, we pray that you would show them that you are that only necessary and sufficient Savior from sin. To take away the burden and the guilt of sin, to be able to replace that void with your spirit who can deliver from the sin and its habits. Lord, may we see you. May we turn toward you. May we look with keen anticipation to your soon return. When we will rule and reign with you among the nations, may we be involved in that great task, joined with you, committed to it. That you would use us even as you support us in Jesus' name. Amen.