Good evening everyone. This is a first for me to stand before you in this way, and uh you know I've uh actually served the Lord's Supper many times in Japanese, but this is only the second time I've served it in English. So if I'm a little rusty, uh you'll know why. You know, but I will never forget the first time I served the Lord's Supper in English. Let me tell you about it. The date was March 16, 2011. Only five days before a huge earthquake had struck Japan. And immediately after that earthquake, a tsunami wreaked devastation on much of the east coast of Japan. In that, uh, in as a consequence of all of that, nearly 16,000 people were confirmed dead. And even today, there are 2,500 people who are still missing. The destruction wrought by that tsunami was unspeakable. Entire towns were destroyed, leaving nothing but the foundations of buildings. And there were many heartbreaking stories. Teachers attempting to lead their classes to safety unknowingly led them into the path of the tsunami. Mothers holding their children in their arms had them ripped from their arms by the power of the waves. The area where we lived wasn't struck by the tsunami, but everyone in East Japan was affected by the situation at the nuclear power plant that was damaged. Our city is about 150 miles from that power plant. And no one knew for sure in the days right after the incident exactly what had happened there. But there were fears and rumors about radiation being released. As missionaries in those days, many things were going through our heads. On the one hand, this tragedy presented us with a unique opportunity to demonstrate God's love to Japanese people in very tangible ways. And thanks to the leadership of Dan Iverson and OPC missionary Cal Cummings, very soon after the tsunami Our missionaries were able to begin transporting much-needed relief supplies to a town called Ishinomaki, which was very hard hit by the tsunami. CPC, you here, and many others around the world gave very generously to provide for basic supplies for thousands and thousands of people who suddenly had nothing. And through weeks and months of demonstrating God's love in deeds, we were able to have the opportunity then to begin to proclaim God's love in words. But at the same time, in those days right after the tragedy, we were very uncertain about our own future. By staying in Japan, were we exposing our families to the dangers of radiation? Was our mission mission board going to order us to leave Japan? We really had no idea what the effects of the nuclear problem were. The Japanese government evacuated an area within 20 miles of the nuclear power plant. The U. S. government advised that its citizens not go within 50 miles of the plant. And we were outside of both of those limits, of course, but really nobody knew. Nobody knew what the situation was. On that March 16th day, we held an English worship service for missionaries. And I told those who were attending that worship service that I was waiting for a phone call. I knew it was going to be a very difficult phone call. It would be from my mother. And she would be calling to tell me that it was time for me to bring my family home. You know, actually the phone call never came. My mother displayed self-control that I have I could not believe. But but at any rate, on March sixteenth I was still expecting that phone call. But God had led me uh to the conviction that it was his leading for us to stay in Japan. And so I knew that if that phone call came, I was going to have to tell her, no, that I wasn't going to bring my family home I knew that the consequences would be very long-lasting based on whether we decided to stay in Japan or to leave Japan. Many foreigners did leave Japan in those days right after the earthquake. And in fact, there were businesses that ceased to exist because so many foreigners left the country. And I knew that if we left to Japanese people, it would seem that we abandoned them in order to avoid having to face hardship ourselves. They certainly couldn't leave Japan. But if we stayed, I knew it would be a clear message to them that we had thrown our lot in with them. And that was the message that we wanted to give our Japanese neighbors and friends. That message we knew would give us a platform from which we could share with them the gospel of Jesus Christ. As we celebrate the Lord's Supper tonight, we're celebrating the fact that our Lord Jesus did exactly that. In 2 Corinthians 8:9, Paul wrote, For you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor. So that you, through his poverty, might become rich. Jesus threw his lot in with us. He didn't seek to spare himself hardship. Instead, he went through great hardship, some of it hardship-like things that we have to face. But much of it far greater than any hardship that we will ever face. And he did this for our benefit. He did it on our behalf that we might become rich. How did Jesus become poor? First, Jesus became poor by being born. It's not just that he was born into humble circumstances in a stable and laid in a manger, but the one through whom all things were made became a man. And in doing so, he accepted certain limitations as a man. For example, it became possible for him to get tired. To become thirsty or hungry. Jesus accepted these limitations and was born as a man in order that he might become like us, so that he could be our representative before God. But for Jesus, being poor didn't end with those circumstances. The reception that Jesus received when he came to earth brought him into much greater hardship. The Bible tells us that he was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. And so the people of his own town, his hometown, attempted to throw him off a cliff when he tried to uh say to them that he was the one sent in fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy. He was accused of blasphemy when he forgave the sins of the paralytic. He was laughed at by the mourners when he came to heal Jerusalem's daughter. He was accused of having an evil spirit and of driving out demons by the power of that evil spirit. Steadily the insults and the opposition increased The Jewish religious leaders began to more openly revile Jesus and behind the scenes to plot to kill him. Yet in the face of all this, Jesus didn't seek to spare himself hardship. The Bible tells us that as the time approached for him to be taken up to heaven, Jesus resolutely set out for Jerusalem. He willfully and willingly went to the cross. And it was at the cross that Jesus faced the greatest poverty for our sake. There he endured the indignity of being branded a blasphemer and a subversive. There he was mocked by those who should have worshipped him. There he suffered terrible physical agony. But more than all of those things, at the cross, the wrath of God was poured out on Jesus And there is no greater poverty than to be the object of the wrath of God. But as Paul reminds us, we, through Jesus' poverty, have become rich. Because Jesus bore God's wrath for us, we don't have to face God's wrath for our own sins. Our sins are completely forgiven. Though Jesus faced temptation as we do, because he never sinned, in God's mercy we have been granted his status of righteousness. And in God's eyes, we are justified. And we've been granted the rewards that Jesus was due for his righteous life. We've been granted the status of children of God. We live in fellowship with God as His Spirit dwells in our hearts. And we are heirs of the kingdom of God. Where we will live with God and reign with Jesus for eternity. And so as we celebrate the Lord's Supper tonight, we remember all that Jesus did for us. We remember with thanksgiving the great poverty that He took on Himself for our sake. And we remember with assurance all of the great riches that have been poured out on us as a report. So now we'll go on to observe the Lord's Supper. As we do so, what is it that we're doing? In 1 Corinthians 11, Paul wrote the following. For I received from the Lord what I passed on to you. The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way after supper, he took the cup, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this whenever you drink it in remembrance of me. For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Jesus told us to observe the Lord's Supper in remembrance of him. And so tonight we remember that Jesus' body was broken for us, and Jesus' blood was shed for us. Paul went on to say that whenever we do so, we proclaim the Lord's death. We proclaim that because of Jesus' death, our sin is really and completely forgiven. But the Bible also gives us warnings about the Lord's Supper. In 1 Corinthians 11, Paul went on to say, Therefore, whoever eats the bread Or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner, will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord. A man ought to examine himself before he eats the bread and drinks of the cup. For anyone who eats and drinks without recognizing the body of the Lord eats and drinks judgment on himself. Paul was saying that it's possible to partake of the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner. And he goes on to say more specifically that to partake of the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner is to do so without recognizing the body of the Lord. To partake in an in a worthy manner, we need to recognize that Jesus died for our sin And we need to look on Jesus and on his death for sin with faith, trusting only in him for our salvation. And so tonight, if you believe in Jesus, and if you are trusting on His in His sacrificial sacrificial death for your salvation. If in obedience to his command you have been baptized and are a communicant member of some Bible-believing church, then I invite you to partake of the Lord's Supper with us tonight. However, if you have not yet believed in Jesus, if you've not been baptized or are not a member of some communicate member of some Bible-believing church, Or if as a result of church discipline you've been barred from the Lord's table, then I urge you to refrain from partaking of the Lord's Supper tonight, that you might not fall under the judgment that Paul warns us about. Let's pray. Father, when we celebrate the Lord's Supper, it's a time to give thanks. It's a time to give thanks because he who was rich became poor that we might become rich. We thank you for all that Jesus did, all that he gave up in order to become our Savior, in order to rescue us from bondage to our sin. We thank you for him becoming a man and taking on the weaknesses, taking on the circumstance the limitations that come came with being a man. We thank you that he went even beyond that, but in uh in securing our salvation, he was willing to undergo hardship. Terrible hardship, unimaginable hardship, hardship that we will never understand completely, that we might be spared from that very same hardship. And so we thank you for our Lord Jesus. We thank you for his sacrifice for us and for our sins. We uh we take this ordinary bread and this ordinary juice tonight and we set it aside for a sacred purpose. We pray that You will use it to strengthen our faith, that our conviction in and confidence in what the Lord Jesus has done would be strengthened. And that we would have assurance that the work that Jesus did on our behalf has been uh has been uh effective and has indeed secured our salvation and our forgiveness. We pray that we might find joy in this celebration of the Lord's Supper as we understand the great love that was Jesus' motivation in doing And we pray that that love might in our hearts become strength, which uh gives us uh gives us power to serve him and to live to please him. We pray in Jesus' name.