So I want to take a couple of minutes to look at what we're going to look at this morning in Isaiah 53, 4-6. And again, see the flow of Isaiah's thought, because what's really important is not whether I say something that moves you this morning. What's important is that you feel like I'm understanding what Isaiah intended. To picture about Messiah. And my eyes are directed to him because he's my hope and he's my rest So let's look back and let's uh have Michael up the the overview. You remember we're looking uh during These last year, this year, next year in our messianic prophecy preparation for Christmas at Isaiah 52, 53. Those are the five stanzas, each three verses, and Boil them all down. The first is that he is unique. He is despised. He is punished. That's what we're looking at today. He even though he was innocent. And he was ultimately eminently successful in what he sought to do. Now again, let me just kind of talk that through what I what John had just read from that. The first point that Isaiah makes Is that this Messiah is so unique? It's hard for us to appreciate the uniqueness of what Isaiah is prophesying 750 years before Jesus was born. Because what he says is this one is going to be in the highest place. He is the highest of the high. He will be glorious among all the nations. And yet, he's also going to be the lowest of the low. He will be so disfigured that he will appear inhuman, so defaced and so marred. He will be highest because his glory demands it. He will be the lowest because the gospel demands it. And he is unique in that He ends that section by saying, the nations will shut their mouths in amazement over this new thing that God has done. Then he starts chapter 53 saying, however Who among God's own people that have been looking for Messiah are going to believe in him? Few. Because he doesn't fit the image, even though through him, the arm of the Lord, God created the heavens and the earth. with his hands. He says, but now if you want to see his muscles, you want to see what God's strength is really like, look at redemption. Look at what he's going to do through Messiah. And even though his arm is displayed through him, he says when we looked at him, we were not impressed. There's nothing majestic about him. He's you know, this is the best God can do, this is the display of his power and majesty He was despicable, is basically what Isaiah says in verses 2 and 3. He wasn't even good looking. We wouldn't have even put him on a cover of a magazine. Nothing to attract us. And then he goes on, and and by the way, you know, we we observe that this is the same problem we still have today The church wants to appear successful. Join us, the beautiful people. Be a Christian. And uh I came across a quote this week that arrested my attention. Uh somebody was writing on revival and they said, the church will not see the power of God today until it ceases its strut. And takes up Jacob's limp after wrestling with God and being humbled by his power. But we want to strut rather than to limp. We want to say the gospel is for successful people rather than for shame-filled, weak failures. And Isaiah keeps coming at this. He keeps going at it again and again. See what the gospel is about. It's for people who are shame-filled and need a Messiah who comes as a root out of dry ground. To show that he is hope for the hopeless. And then he goes on in verses four, five, and six, and he develops this even further. And what he says basically is we were so moralistic. And we were so obtuse that when we saw him suffering, the highest made the lowest We assumed in our moralistic framework that he must have done something to deserve it. We were just like Job's friends. And said, Boy, what did he do to deserve being treated like that? Surely He took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows, and yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. And then Isaiah says, I want you to see how utterly, radically mistaken that notion is. And he seven times then states That he was in fact punished, bruised, not for himself, but for us. Seven times in these Three verses and then three more times in the rest of the chapter. It says ten times. Like, you know, do you get it? Ten times. It was not for what he had done, it is for what you had done. What did he do to deserve this? Nothing. What did we do to deserve it? Everything. And that's what he portrays. So I want to give three questions that'll help us to understand what I believe he's trying to say to us in verses 4, 5, and 6. First question is: how does he suffer? Notice the depth of the suffering. Seven words that he uses to describe how God smote him, how God cursed him. And you see that in your bulletin outline, there's three in verses in verse four, and then there's four in verse seven, in verse five. He's first of all, verse 4, stricken, smitten, and afflicted, from which we get the hymn. And we'll sing that after the message because it is taken from Isaiah 53. 4. Stricken, the word stricken means to strike somebody, to afflict them with a loathsome disease. Particularly leprosy. It's used, uh word is used in 2 Kings 15, verse 5, of Azariah in Judah, who was stricken by God with leprosy. And very interesting, if you read the writings of the rabbis back at the time of Jesus, there was a tradition of rabbis who expected Messiah to be leprous. the tradition of the leprous Messiah because of this verse that Messiah would be leprous. You don't have to translate it that way. It just means to afflict with a loathsome disease like leprosy. It's very interesting that they never took that and carried it out to expect expecting Messiah to be um disfigured and shameful, but it was just kind of the stream of thought Because this idea got through. It also says he was smitten. The word has to do with striking somebody with a heavy blow to beat them and then to afflict them Now it's interesting if you look at these three words in verse 4, stricken, smitten, and afflicted, remember we've talked about in Hebrew to say something and then to say it twice means it's really true. And if you say it Three times that's the extreme, holy, holy, holy, and the rest of that. So this is stricken, smitten, and afflicted, the extreme affliction The ultimate of expliction. Then you contrast that back with what he had just said in chapter 52, in verse 13. He will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted. Now think about that for a moment. You know, don't be so familiar with it. Kind of let it hit you like you hadn't heard it before. Here's the one the messiah that's going to come And he is going to be raised and lifted up and highest and exalted. He's going to be exalted to the highest place above all among the nations. He's also going to be stricken and smitten and afflicted. In other words, he's going to be in the lowest place. Who in history fulfills that? Now, you can't appreciate that very much until you talk to some rabbis who look at Isaiah 53 and they say, now that's nothing to do with Jesus. But who, who could fulfill such a prophecy? of being considered exalted among the nations, and yet cursed by God, smitten and afflicted in the process. But our Lord Jesus. Seven hundred and fifty years before that happened. Second question. No, then you look at the other um Words that he uses there. He's pierced, he's crushed. The word means to be broken in pieces. Pierced, of course, is literally true in verse 5. He was chastened, he was punished for wrong, he was wounded, the word uh means to torture someone. Uh these are the things that he endured. And and then he goes on to say, um that we considered this to be what he deserved. This is what God was doing. And you see that literally fulfilled in the New Testament. You remember during Jesus' trial The Jewish leaders came and and they said uh to Pilate, He is worthy of death. And the more they tortured him and abused him, the more they convinced themselves that he really deserved this. And Pilate says, I don't see him deserving anything. You know, he hasn't done anything to deserve death. And they shout all the louder, crucify him, he deserves to die, he is worthy of death. So blinded were they by the one who, ironically, the man of compassion and love. All he did to deserve the death was to expose the hypocrisy of their own hearts. And Isaiah pictures that here. He's describing that But then look at the second question. Why does he suffer? Why? And there you notice what I have in blue five times He couldn't be clearer. He says it was not for what he had done, it was for what we had done. He pierced for our transgressions. He crushed for our iniquities. Punishment that brought us peace was upon him. By his wounds we were healed. We, like sheep, gone astray. We've turned to our own way. The Lord laid on him. Our iniquity. And I've said last year, and I remind you again, when you read that, take that today sometime. Go back over this passage and insert your name. In every place where you see the our and the us, and put the name of Jesus wherever you see him. Jesus was pierced for Alan's transgressions. For your transgression. Jesus was crushed for Alan's iniquities. Pray through that. Think about that. Think of what all of that means And when you take all those words, you see that they are reduced in the meaning to just the first two lines. That sums it up He was pierced for our transgressions and crushed for our iniquities. The reason I say that is because of the meaning of the word transgressions and iniquities. The word transgressions means deeds of rebellion. It's uh revolt, its actions. It has to do with what you and I do Think of this past week. What have you done? You think of how you placed your will before God's. How you demanded to control, how you defended yourself and blame shifted How you wanted to use people rather than to serve and to love them. How you and I, I think of myself and my own defensiveness. I think of how I complain rather than give thanks to God about things in my life. These are the things that we do. And what Isaiah says is that he was literally by nails and a spear pierced for what you had done. God looked at him as if he had complained and demanded and put himself in the first place and had all the vile vindictive lustful, vengeful thoughts that you've had. And he took your place. And then he goes on, he was crushed for our iniquities. And the word iniquities has not so much to do with actions as condition. The word iniquities has to do with the heart You do these things because your heart is twisted. It's bent. It is unable To love God, to put him in this proper place. You're unable to love those people you want to love. Isn't that frustrating? You feel so helpless. I want to love my wife and my family And yet it seems like something just keeps me, and every time I try to convey and communicate love or to serve my own will and my own heart Get in the way and I'm frustrated with what I'm not able to do and the temptations I'm not able to resist. And that's what Isaiah's talking about. He was crushed for your condition. Crushed because God looked at his heart as if it was your heart. He was in your place. And they missed the very heart of the gospel who crucified Jesus. Missed the fact that he came to rescue you and me. by addressing the root problem in your life and my life. He came To address the problem more than someone who could rid our world of all the terrorists once and for all. Because Jesus came to address the root problem of your life. And that root problem is the condemnation of the law. The bondage to Satan's kingdom and death and hell itself. And because Jesus was pierced and crushed and punished and wounded and tortured and killed. In your place. He has broken the condemnation of the law because he's kept it and he's been punished in your place. Amen. And he has released you from the bondage of Satan's kingdom once and for all. And he has delivered you from death and from hell itself. That's what Jesus has done. That's what Isaiah is prophesying 750 years before it happened. Perhaps a way of glimpsing this and trying to grasp it. Is to remember once again that classic by C. S. Newest the Lion, the witch in the wardrobe Do you remember that that story is about a world that's enslaved under the spell of the witch, where it is always winter And what? Never Christmas. Remember? Always winter. And never Christmas. But there's a rumor that Aslan is on the move and he's about to bring spring. To this cold, barren land. In the process, one of the kids who have entered this kingdom betrays his Companions because of irresistible candy. I've never tasted Turkish delight. I have no particular interest in doing it. Sounds like something that would break your teeth, but this was irresistible. And so he takes this, and as a result, Aslan, the Great Lion, subjects himself and places himself under the dominion of the witch. Places himself at her mercy. And she gleefully tortures him and places him upon a stone table. And disgraces him, destroying his mane, and then kills him. The children watch horrified. What did he do to deserve that? We know his character and his purity and his goodness. And they're heartbroken. And then Lewis describes them coming back the next day. The rising of the sun had made everything look so different All colors and shadows were changed. And for a moment they didn't see the important thing. And then they did The stone table was broken in two pieces by a great crack that ran down it from end to end, and there was no aslan. Oh, oh, cried the two girls rushing to the table. Oh, it's too bad, sobbed Lucy. They might have left the body alone Who's done it? cried Susan. What does it mean? Is it more magic? Yes, said a great voice behind their backs. It is more magic. They looked around. There shining in the sunrise, larger than they had seen him before, shaking his mane, for it had apparently grown again, stood Aslan himself. Oh, Aslan, cried both the children, staring up at him as much frightened as they were glad. Aren't you dead then, dear Aslan? said Lucy. Not now You you're not not not a asked Susan in a shaky voice. She couldn't bring herself to say the word ghost. Aston stooped his golden head and licked her forehead The warmth of his breath and a rich sort of smell that seemed to hang about his hair came all over her. Do I look it? Oh, you're real! You're real, oh Aslan! cried Lucy, and both girls flung themselves upon him and covered him with kisses. But what does it all mean? Susan asked. And that's the real question, isn't it? What does it all mean? And Aslan goes on to answer. It means, he said That though the witch knew the deep magic, there is a magic even deeper still which she did not know. Her knowledge only goes back to the beginning of time. But if she could have looked a little further back into the stillness and darkness before time dawned, she would have read there a different incantation. She would have known that when a willing victim who had committed no treachery was killed in a traitor's stead, the table would crack. And death itself would start working backwards And there Lewis has precisely stated something that is a significant clue to one of the great mysteries of Isaiah 53. Death itself will start working backwards. What does it mean? To answer that question, we need to look at the third question to answer of these three verses. What is the result of his suffering for you and for me? And Isaiah describes that at the beginning of verse 4 Surely he took up our infirmities, carried our sorrows, and then down in verse 5, he was crushed for our iniquities, and the punishment that brought us peace. was upon him, and by his wounds we are healed. The two key words there you see in the gold Peace and healing. Or in your blank, I have peace with God, reconciliation. Remember in Isaiah 59, verse 2, Isaiah had said Your iniquities, again, your heart, the way your condition, what you're like, what you do, have separated you from your God. Your sins have hidden his face from you so that he will not hear. Why is it that God seems so distant, so remote, so untouchable? Well, quite simply, the Bible says, because you were alienated from him. Your sins have separated you from him. What's interesting is that in the Bible, the alienation that we have from God is presented not so much that we are alienated from Him as that He is alienated from us. And the gospel message is that what is so amazing is that you and I are so stubborn that we make no initiative for there to be reconciliation. All the initiative is from God's part. He is the one who reconciles himself to us. And so he is the one who brings about the punishment on his own son that brings to you and me peace. That peace is an objective peace through Christ taking the punishment you and I deserve. God is no longer angry at you. He no longer threatens you. In fact, he invites you to become his son and his daughter. You have that. Amen indeed. You have that. When you admit that there is nothing you can do to be reconciled, it is at that point God reaches forward and takes the gospel and he pronounces. The wall has been taken down. There is no more enity. You are no longer alienated from him. You have peace with God. That's totally objective. Doesn't depend on how you feel. But then he goes on to say something else. He says, by his wounds we were healed And that's talking about something profoundly subjective. That's talking about what happens in you and me. And so the second point there is that I am healed. That refers to regeneration. Reconciliation is a change in the relationship. Regeneration is a change in your heart. That means that God comes into your life and he gives to you a new heart and begins a work of healing. Now, it's at this point that many Christians find that in a mystery that we have here, great confusion. Because if you connect what he says here, by his wounds we are healed, with what he says in verses 3 and 4, 3 and 4 kind of amplify what he sums up there. Because if you look at verse 3, it says he was a man of sorrows and familiar with suffering. Then verse 4, he took up our infirmities and carried our sorrows. Maybe I should have put this on an overhead for you to see. But the word sorrows, you see in verse 3 and in verse 4, that's the same word. He was a man of sorrows, he carried away our sorrows. Between those two statements, you see, he was familiar with suffering. The word suffering is literally sicknesses. He was familiar with sicknesses. Then the beginning of verse 4, he took up our sicknesses. Same word again. So you have sorrow, sickness, sickness, sorrow. Then he finishes by saying, by his wounds we are healed. So many Christians say we have in these verses the mandate from God to claim physical healing whenever we're sick. Because Jesus took away our sickness. Now, what does this in fact mean? Here's where Lewis is helpful. Death begins to work backwards. How is that fulfilled? You don't have to guess. You go to Matthew chapter 8, verses 16 and 17. And it talks about all the sick coming to Jesus, and it says Jesus healed them. Matthew says this was to fulfill what Isaiah 53, verse 4, verse 6 said. He was wounded for our uh excuse me he was um by his wounds we are healed now does that mean everybody is healed well of course not all the people Jesus healed died eventually But what it means is that we are now in the first fruits of a new age of Jesus' power over the physical realm. And so Andrew Loyes, in response to many prayers, has been healed. We can pray that continues. And we have seen God do uh a miraculous thing in uh keepak twenty years Of gastrointestinal problems that the doctors were not able to do anything for? In answer to prayer, God has healed her And we've seen this in a number of cases, in Dudley Whitaker with his heart, in Brooke and Ray Kessler with their twins, one of which was pronounced certainly would not live, and has and is healthy. And so we see God answer prayers, but does everyone heal? No, we continue to pray for Kathy McNill to be healed or Lisa House to be healed or others of us who go through afflictions. Now connect that with the other problem that many of us wrestle with, and particularly since Bert's death The problem of depression and mental illness. It says here that he was a man of sorrows, and then it says he carried our sorrows. And verse 4 carried our sorrows there. is a word, uh carried is a word which means to pick up and carry away. So if that's what he did, why do we still have depression? Is a person who is a Christian who takes medication for depression, sinning, and not claiming the gospel What about a person who goes to a doctor for medication for physical healing, you see? We are in a time where we experience the first fruits of healing. But some Christians, interesting to me that after Bert's death, a number of you were talking about being on medication for depression. And I noticed that with some Christians there's a perfect freedom, that that is simply something God has provided that helps me, and that that's part of the curse, and this is part of what God has given for this time. Other Christians kind of feel guilty of, you know, maybe I'm not really trusting, I shouldn't take medication, and if I take medication it's really not faith in what Jesus has promised. But you see, see the analogy. Just as physically we say, you know, I could really understand the gospel better if I can take a painkiller for this headache that is crushing me. So, some depression has chemical basis to it, and there's always the witches first, but I can hear the gospel better and understand it if I am taking something that medically will enable my brain to function more effectively emotionally. There is the danger on the one hand of going too quickly to a medical fix, but on the other hand, to not take advantage of what God has provided. In these first fruits of the time when death is working backwards. Let's not err on either side to say that the gospel provides all physical healing, all emotional all spiritual healing and ignore what God has given graciously through medication to enable us both physically, emotionally, mentally to be able to gain better healing in connection with the gospel. It's not an either-or situation. Isaiah is not presenting that. But he says, by his wounds we are healed. And many Christians say, I don't understand. Why do I have this heavy rock? This weight of despair upon my life. The gospel says in Galatians, the fruit of the Spirit is joy. Why do I have this weight? Many of us look at the gospel and look at God's character so circumstantially. How do I know if God loves me? My Christmas tree has a big bear spot in it. Why didn't God help me to see that? Why did my chocolate chip cookies turn out so bad? Why have I not been able to get the presents for my family that I wanted to get? Why did I have an accident during the Christmas season? Why do I have cancer? Why can't I get a job? And we pour all the circumstances into saying, why, why has God done this? And Isaiah is saying, we have the final answer to God's love because uniquely we have a God with wounds. A God who has suffered in taking the punishment that you and I deserved upon himself, and for that suffered for you. The other gods were strong, but thou wast weak. They rode, but thou didst stumble to a throne. But to our wounds only God's wounds can speak. And not a God has wounds, but thou alone. Mark Twain wrestled all his life with the gospel. He could not reconcile The pain of his life with a gospel of grace and love. I don't have the quote, but at one point he wrote something like this. He said, I'm a humorist. But all laughter is born in pain. And therefore I tell you, there will be no laughter in heaven. Did you ever wonder why you don't picture in the gospel Jesus laughing? Why does Jesus seem so sober So heavy. There are those times of joy. But why is it that we don't have a Jesus of laughter throughout the Gospels? I believe the answer is here. You read that he was a man of sorrows, familiar with suffering. Verse 4. He carried our sorrows. I believe that part of Jesus' suffering for your sin and for mine was that through his life, he literally was carrying your sorrows. But as the picture is displayed by Lewis, and Aslan comes after the table is broken, do you remember just after that? He dances and he romps with the children. And we have pictured here in the beginning of the new age a Jesus who laughs. A Jesus who, when he comes back at the end of time, to bring you and me and in all of our heaviness. Looking, we have a God with wounds. And I wait for that day when all of the hope of my life points toward that time when I will hear from Him Welcome home, my son and my daughter. Come and laugh with me. Come and party and feast. And I will know at that point that all that he did, all that he took of the wounds and the tears and the sorrows have been fulfilled. And at that day you and I will romp and laugh and laugh and dance with a Jesus of joy and delight. And we will play and we will enjoy the fullest of life because He took your place Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, how can we fathom a God with wounds? How can we fathom a Messiah Who deserves nothing to suffer for, who would suffer such excruciating treatment simply because we deserved it. And have removed the curse from us. Lord, I pray that you would help us to see that. Help us, Lord. Help us that we might not be so blind as to see Jesus irrelevant. That we would both be in touch with our hearts and see the bent, twisted nature that is us. And then also, Lord, to be in touch with the gospel and see what you have done freely and fully to take away our sin and our guilt and our shame and to work in us the first fruits of that new day. That day of tearless joy, that day of reconstructed Eden, and the delight of your presence. Lord, fix our minds and our hearts upon Jesus, who is our joy. May none of us miss that. In Jesus' name. Amen.