Excuse me, you recall that we've been looking through Isaiah 52 and 53, where Isaiah says in verse 13 of chapter 52, See my servant. Look at him. He will act wisely, he will succeed phenomenally, and he will be raised, lifted up, and highly exalted. Then the end of chapter 53, after the suffering of his soul, he will see the light of life and be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant will justify many, and he will bear their iniquities. Therefore, I will give him a portion among the great. And he will divide the spoils with the strong, because he poured out his life unto death, and was numbered with the transgressors. Now I want you to fast forward about 750 years and come up to about 6 BC. Israel has been conquered by the Babylonians. They have been transported into exile in Babylonia for 70 years. After that time, released, only about 50,000 of them went back into Judea, and there they rebuilt the temple, a small pathetic copy of Solomon's temple, No Ark. Then Alexander the Great comes through about 333 BC and he conquers the whole world and he brings Greek culture and its pagan influences and imposes that on the various cultures. Judea becomes a battlefield between the Syrians in the north and the Egyptians in the south. Until finally a Roman general by the name of Pompey, about fifty-seven years before, has come through and has subjugated Jerusalem and all Judea to the Roman government. And what's even worse is that the Romans have placed this mad Edoumean by the name of Herod as a puppet king over Judea, and he calls himself the Great. And so all Jerusalem speculated the time of Messiah must be ripe. The time of the fulfillment of the one who is to come and be great and highly exalted. And the rabbis outdid one another in their dreams of the greatness. That Messiah would bring to Israel. But all of that is in sophisticated Jerusalem, where for eight Eighteen years now, they've been building a temple that was going to outdo Solomon's temple, in fact, be vastly larger and more splendorous. But eighty miles north from Jerusalem, in despised Galilee, there's a small town of Nazareth. A rural town of no account, not mentioned in the Old Testament, a place where there's a Roman garrison to even humble it further, and in this small inconsequential town there lives. A Jewish teenager by the name of Miriam. Miriam is not particularly caught up in all the rabbinic speculations of the grandeur of the specific details of Messiah and his kingdom, she's much more concerned right now with the events of her own life because she's recently become engaged to a fellow she grew up with who's a carpenter's apprentice by the name of Joseph And she's waiting for Joseph with his father to prepare a place, a home, so that one unexpected day he will come With his train and they will walk off together and he'll take her as his bride. And they'll live together in this humble but hopefully happy dwelling As a carpenter and his wife, to have children and serve the Lord. And it's In the midst of that time, six months after Miriam's relative, Elizabeth, as miraculously as an old woman become pregnant That is the scene from which John read The Visit of Gabriel. Notice again what it is that Gabriel says to Mary on that occasion. He greets her. Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. And Mary, of course, is greatly troubled. What does this mean? She's wondering what kind of greeting, but the angel says, Don't be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with child, and you will give birth to a son, and you are to give him the name Jesus. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. Hold on. Recognize something there? Remind you of the words of Isaiah? Here's the one that is going to succeed phenomenally. He's going to be high and exalted and lifted up above all. He's going to be great, the angel says. He will be great. And he will be great, I believe, as you look at this passage, in three ways. Three ways that the angel describes his greatness that I would like to propose for your consideration so that once again you and I can get our eyes off ourselves. And simply look to Jesus to see him in his greatness. Three ways. First of all The angel says that he is going to be the son of the Most High. So notice the greatness of his person. That's the first blank. As the God man Notice, the angel says, he will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. And he describes that more specifically in verse 35, where he says, the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you So that the Holy One to be born will be called literally the Son of God, you see, because the Holy Spirit is his Father This one will be the union of the world's great mystery, God and human fused together in one person. I want to look at that mystery more fully with you on December the 30th, the Sunday after Christmas. And I figure that's a good Sunday to do it because what I want to do is offer to you a verse of Scripture that I think explicitly states the deity of Christ So that we can look at his two natures, and the Sunday between Christmas and New Year's is not generally the best attended Sunday at CPC. It's when the hardcore are here. See, so I figure that's that's the week for some heavy theology We're going to look at the two natures of Christ and explore his greatness in his person to a verse that I'll offer to you at that time that I think is a powerful verse. If you're talking to somebody that believes the Bible doesn't teach that Jesus is fully God. But for now, let me simply say That the angel here is indicating that by this one, the baby that Miriam is about to have Will be fully God and fully man. He will be all that God is as he is fused to a human body. He will be all that humans were meant to be. He will be all that God is, and he will transcend every category of human thinking. He will even stretch the minds of angels to comprehend in new dimensions God's wisdom and love. Excuse me Can you imagine the angels sitting around with their Starbucks one morning and they're talking about, is there anything God can't do? And one proposes, of course, God can't lie. They say, well that's true. That's one thing God can't do. And another says, well, of course God can't become human And they all agree, well of course, the God who is essentially spirit and omnipresent and all the rest could never confine himself to a human body. That's something else God can't do Can you imagine when they get the message, God is going to confine himself in a human body I mean, I'm sure that would stagger the imagination of the angels more than it would stagger yours and mine because they understand more of the fullness of his glory and what his deity really comprehends, what it encompasses. Do you remember the Abrahamic covenant where God came to Abraham and promised him that he The nation that would come from him would be blessed in a blessing. And in stating that blessing, God ratifies it by covenant, which was what was done in that culture. And so what God does is he says to Abraham, take three animals and two birds, cut the animals in two, lay each half of the animal on each side of a gutter. And the blood of those animals will flow down into that gutter. And then he brings Abraham into a dreadful darkness. And Abraham dreams as he sees these pieces, he sees a blazing torch come down in that bloody gutter between the two parts of the animals. And Abraham understands culturally what that's saying. When a person ratified a covenant and they would divide the animals, what they were saying is, here's my promises. And may I be dismembered like these animals if I break my promise. What would have Abraham thought if he thought Here is a flame coming between the pieces, and God is saying, may I be dismembered if I break this covenant? Well, of course, Lord. What a creative way to show you could never break the covenant. Because you are spirit. It is impossible for you to be dismembered. Therefore, it's impossible for you to lie. Makes sense. What Abraham doesn't see is that what God is saying is that I will become flesh. so that I will be disfigured, as if I had broken every stipulation of the covenant. Because I will take upon myself your sin, your disobedience, and I will pay for it as the arch covenant breaker of all human history. And Paul speaks of this idea in an amazing, staggering phrase in Acts 20, 28, where he talks about the blood of God. Can you imagine the blood of God? In Acts chapter 20 and verse 28 In leaving the saints at Ephesus, Paul says, Keep watch over yourselves and all the flock of which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. Be shepherds of the church of God, which he bought. Who? God. The church of God, which he bought with his own blood Another verse for you to speak of the clear deity of Jesus Christ, because there it speaks not of the blood of Christ, it speaks of the blood of God. And so you see that the angel is saying, He will be the Son of the Most High. He will be the fullness of deity, come in flesh. Why? The second reason for his greatness, you will name him Jesus, that is Yeshua, or Joshua, which means deliverer. So the second point of his greatness is his work. That's the second blank. His work as deliverer. The angel says, You will be with child and give birth to a son, and you were to give him the name Jesus. You don't have discretion in this. I will tell you his name, because that name describes his work. He is deliverer. He is the Joshua. Joshua brought God's people into the land. This one is going to deliver far better than that. He will bring his people back into Eden and something better to Eden This deliverer, this Joshua, is going to bring an end to the cosmic disruption. You remember this fall we looked at how at some time in the dim past Satan And all of his angels rebelled against God, attempted to dethrone God and rob him of his glory and control. And when they were cast out of heaven and down to earth, we read that because they knew they could not assault God and attack him with raw power. All they could do was to take their revenge and wound God as deeply as possible. By stealing the affections of his beloved, those he had made in his image, through seduction. And so when Adam and Eve disobeyed God and distrusted him and fell, the demons danced with delight. Not only had they severed God from his beloved, but they had placed God in an impossible bind. They've got God Himself checkmated. Because you see, like King Arthur, when he discovered the adultery of his precious wife, Genevere. Either he continues to love her, and he's no longer just Or he is just and he must destroy her. And they say, We got him, we got our revenge The angel says, the God in his inscrutable wisdom and his infinite love has found a third way. God himself becomes flesh, so that in his justice he bears the condemnation. And is able to continue to love his beloved. Do you see the greatness of that? Who could conceive of such a message? Great because our need is so great, you see. Not just cosmically, but personally. Your need is great. Your sins lie heavy on you Generations of family sin patterns have passed on to you. And you need a deliverer not only to forgive you, but you need a deliverer to rescue you out of bondage. Ed Welch. has a new book called Addiction, Banquet in the Grave. It speaks of the bondage of addictions, of which only the gospel and of only Jesus in his greatness can deliver us. And so the angel comes and says, Mary, this is the one that is going to come from you. The deliverer, Jesus, to meet this great need, and he'll do it because of the greatness of his suffering. We saw that in the last couple of weeks, remember? From Isaiah 52 and 53 How he was despised and rejected and scorned and misunderstood, and then he was so disfigured that he appeared inhuman. In the contortions of his suffering, physically, emotionally, spiritually. We see that he suffered even in his incarnation, when he who was limitless and dwelt in ineffable lights and beauty came into a world of ugliness, of desolateness Most of us have seen over and over in the news pictures of Afghanistan, bombed out pictures of Kabul and other areas. How many of you have seen those pictures and then gone to your travel agent and said, next summer I'd like to take a vacation in Afghanistan, you know? Love to visit some of those parts of Kabul I've seen on the newsreels. For us to go and to live in the most bombed-out area is nothing compared to what it meant for Jesus to leave glory And to come to live on this earth, to rub shoulders with sin, sickness, and death as a creature. To be misunderstood, despised, have his motives twisted, come to a trial in which he was judged falsely, treated with contempt, scourged, beaten, crucified between two thieves, abandoned by those that claimed to be his friends And cursed by his father. His suffering will be great. He's so great in his suffering And Mary at the cross sees him hang there. And she must have thought of the words of the angel. He said to me, he would be great. He said to me that he'd have a kingdom, that he would rule forever. What has happened? What's gone so terribly wrong? Where is God in his promise? Is there some area of your life where you can't square what's happening with the promises of God in the Bible? How could Mary have made sense out of what she saw? How could Mary have known that this was in fact the only way For him to conquer the enemy and to establish his kingdom. The only way that he could bear your sin in mind so that we could be part of that kingdom. That his greatness would be known in his suffering. How could she know that? How could she know that the greatness of his salvation Could only be reached through the greatness of his suffering. And so this Jesus is great in his salvation. He's great in what he's accomplished, great in what he's given you. Forgiveness of your sin because he's borne it, and there's nothing left for you to suffer for. Nothing you need to punish yourself for. Nothing that you need to pay penance for. It's all been done. And the greatness, the completion of his salvation. You have the assurance of heaven. You know, as Christians, we can get used to that And after a while, it doesn't seem like such a big deal. This past week I had the privilege of talking to two unbelievers Conversations about the Lord Jesus, totally separate situations, but the thing that was in common was what I call Max's question. You know, if you had been where Max Bilke was on September the eleventh, where would you be now? Max who had been killed by the plane that crashed. And uh the first person said, Sometimes I think I know and sometimes I don't think I do. And then poured out a Sad tale of self-condemnation and shame and failure, with no real hope of forgiveness and cleansing. The second is a friend of mine that I've prayed for for years and had surgery this week, and they asked me to pray for him. And I said, if God were to take you in this, what would happen to you? He said I'd probably go straight to hell. Talked about how he looks at the obituaries to see how many are younger than him and how many are older. And how much of life is still left? No hope. Do you see the greatness of the salvation that Jesus has given you? The hope of eternal life. Do you see that? Do you see his greatness? You see how wonderful that hope is to have So great because Jesus has taken the foulness of the stench of your sin and He's replaced it by covering you with the odor of the fragrance and the beauty. of his righteousness. He's taken your rags, and he's clothed you with a robe of his own righteousness. He's taken your blindness and he's given you sight to see things you can't see without the gospel. He's taken your death and he's given you life. He's great. Isn't he great? Amen. What he has given you. And then finally the third thing. Notice his reign over his kingdom forever, his glory as king. The angel said, He will be great, and he will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. He will be great. Though he's born as a little child and appears helpless, this is the one who is going to be above every name that is named, every power and dominion Every title that is given in this age and the age to come, he is the one whose glory was just glimpsed as it outshone the sun in his transfiguration on the mount. Peter and James and John. He is the one who was glimpsed in his glory by Stephen as he's being stoned for the faith and said, I saw the Son of God at the right hand of power, ready to receive me. Have you ever tried to imagine the greatness of Christ? Have you ever tried to think what does that mean? To somehow wrap your mind around the glory of his being. To think, what does it mean when Isaiah says he will be high and lifted up and the highest of the high? What images enable you to touch the fringes of his splendor? Maybe it's thinking of the sea, calm after a storm, the vastness of it, the power. Or maybe it's to think of a choir singing, hundreds of voices singing gloriously in parts melody the beauty of the sound and the delight of the music. Or maybe it's to picture a sunset after a storm as you see the streaks of pink and gold and red and purple. Streaking the sky and you just about can hear the sound of the trump and picture Jesus coming in the glory of the heavens ready to receive you. And it catches your breath and you think, wow Lord, now wouldn't it be great? What enables you to picture greatness? The galaxies are small, and Jesus is great. Our minds can't begin to fathom greatness. Our minds are so small we can't begin to comprehend the greatness of Christ. We see his greatness and the power of the gospel that goes forth to the nations, and we see a trickle of conversions here and there, and we talk to people even at Christmas How many of those people do you really believe are pressing into the kingdom? And you say, I know this gospel is so powerful and Jesus so great they won't be able to resist them Or do you think, well, I know they really don't feel like they have any need for them. It's kind of irrelevant to their lives, and there really isn't much I had to share. Brothers and sisters, we need to grow in our view of the greatness of Christ, to realize we have a treasure to share those that hear it. To realize his greatness is such that even terrorist attacks that intend evil and to bring Christianity to its knees has the effect Of waking the church to one point three billion Muslims who are without Christ and who have been basically ignored. And we see now that the gospel rather than sitting in a vacuum uncompared to anything else, losing its glory in our imagination, as it is compared and contrasted to Islam. Becomes more glorious, and the nation see that Allah is great in his aloofness But the God of the Bible is great because he bleeds, because he's become flesh to suffer for his people and die. And that in his suffering is his greatness. In his resurrection and his reigning, with an elf prince still in his hand, is the greatness of your Savior and mine. And John pictures in that day. When we see in Revelation the multitudes gathered around the throne from every tribe and tongue and nation. And John said, I heard the praise, and in the distance it was like the sound of mighty rushing waters, like the sound of the ocean in a storm, or the sound of Niagara tumbling over the cliff. In fact, he said it was like the sound of thunder. But he says it it wasn't so much scary As it was awesome. In fact, the sound was more like millions of harps playing a melody That no ear or mind had conceived of on earth to declare the glory and the greatness of the Lamb slain for his people. That's the greatness of Christ, where he will reign in heaven without a rival, where the angel says His kingdom will never end. His is not a camelot, perfect in imagination, but fragile and able to be despoiled and tumble into oblivion. But his is a kingdom that will be secure forever, where his subjects are not on privation, and you are confirmed in the righteousness of Jesus. There can be no disobedience. There is no possibility of dishonoring him. No rebellion could ever take place, and you are secured in his peace forever. Amen. He is great, brothers and sisters. Do you see? Do you see that he's great in the final judgment that he executes? That this one who comes at the judgment, his enemies will hide their faces from him, whose eyes are as blazing fire And whose robes are dipped in the blood of his enemies as he comes to wreak the wrath of God against all evil. Let me ask you, are you safe from that wrath? Are you safe in what Jesus has done to secure your salvation? Do you see there's no other possible way? Any other possible way would make God a monster who slew his son and caused him to suffer and be cursed when there was another way possible. That would make the sacrifice of Christ needless. He is the only way. Are you safe in Him? Are you resting secure in His finished work? To deny it is to dishonor him. And you do that at your peril. For he is great and uniquely great. He is great. And so he asks you to come and to taste of his salvation. The first fruits of it here, in anticipation of that final bliss. That you and I will experience when he comes again. When we will see that he is great. That he will rule paradise forever, in that place where there is no terrorism or war or death. And just to see him will be a delight beyond description. To behold him in his glory The dazzling radiance of his being, the loveliness to be charmed by his presence. He is so great. I can't describe it. I wish I had the words to open up our minds to his greatness. But we can't. All you can do is meditate on them. Yeah, this is where sermons fall down. I can think about this and I can get all worked up and wish I could pass it on, but all you can do is get it yourself You can only get it by meditating on him, by thinking about him, by thinking that Jesus is the light such that there is no need for a sun and that he so outshines the sun and the stars. Like our sun outshines the stars at noon. In fact, his light is so perfect. That look around at the shadows you see. And every time you look at his shadow, think, not how many shadows in heaven. You know? Why not? Because his light suffuses all And I believe that the light of Christ in that new heavens and the new earth will be a light like we have never seen, neither glaring nor darkness. A perfect light suffusing and bringing a glow and delightful appearance to everything that we see. Think about him. Meditate on him. Let me ask you. Is Jesus great to you? How great is he to you? Is he great enough that it's worth taking 20 minutes each morning this week just to think about him? To meditate on him? To bring your hunger and your thirst and your longings to Him, to see that He alone can satisfy the deepest needs of your soul. Do you see that he's worthy, so worthy that this week you want to serve him with every fiber of your being? That he is so worthy that you want to talk about him with the hope and the expectation that God's Spirit can use you to bring people to see something, just something Of the greatness of Christ. You know, the thing that struck me in the two conversations I had this week was in neither case did either person argue They were sobered. They were chastened. You could almost sense there was a longing, a hunger. I wish I could have it. Don't you know what you and I have to share and to offer? He's great. He's wonderful. He's delightful. He's sufficient. You're like Rory and Jennifer. Rory and Jennifer have everything that they need or could want. They just don't know it yet because they're only three years and five years old, but their last name's Gates, and their old man has $80 billion. And they play with toys. Think of the story of Oprah this week. Oprah gotten a hold of this fellow at 10 to 12 years old, somewhere like that. is confined to a wheelchair with a very aggressive and rare form of multiple sclerosis that's incapacitated him. And Oprah said to him, What would you like for Christmas? The magisterial greatness of Oprah bids you to bring to me your fondest wish. You know what he asked for? He didn't ask for vacation, didn't ask for things, didn't ask you know what he did ask for he asked for life And all Oprah could do was get onto her show. Now don't ask, I didn't see it. Don't ask. I got my sources. Got onto her show. And she said, all of those of you out there that believe in prayer, pray for this kid. It's all she could offer. We should see Jesus is life. Jesus uniquely can meet every need. Yours and mine. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, open our eyes, open our minds. That we would escape from our small thinking, trivializing your glory and your greatness, thinking that we have got to take care of ourselves and that somehow we have to provide for ourselves and that Somehow we need to go to human resources. Ah Lord, help us to see your greatness. to worship you and to adore you and to to cherish the gospel and to live out of it this week and to delight to share it To delight to think about you. Oh Lord, how ridiculous to think. Oh, how can I think about Jesus for 20 minutes? What would I think about? Oh Lord, Lord, open our minds to see what there is to think about. To meditate on the words of the angel and of Isaiah and to open up to us new realms of the delight in your greatness. We ask that. As impoverished people, the people who have the Spirit and have the gospel and have you, and if we don't, Lord, bring us to our knees to come and run to you for it. But that we would have that and live out of it and delight in it, to bring you the glory that you deserve this week in Jesus' name. Amen.