We turn this morning to the book of Ephesians as we come to the second part of this two-part series on a marriage primer. Last week began with the vision for marriage. And if you have not heard that, I would invite you to go to our website where you'll find a link to that sermon. This week we move to healing marriage. And this morning we turn to the book of Ephesians, chapter 4, verses 25 to 32, and then chapter 5, 15 to 21. Hear now God's word. Therefore, each of you must put off falsehood and speak truthfully to his neighbor. For we are all members of one body. In your anger, do not sin. Do not let the sun go down on your anger while you are still angry. And do not give the devil a foothold. He who has been stealing must steal no longer, but must work, doing something useful with his hands, that he may have something to share with those in need. Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building up others according to their needs, that it may benefit those who listen. And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God with whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Get rid of all bitterness, rage, and anger, brawling and slander, along with every form of malice. Be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other, just as in Christ God forgave you. Be very careful then how you live, not as unwise, but as wise, making the most of every opportunity, because the days are evil. Therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is. Do not get drunk on wine which leads to debauchery. Instead be filled with the Spirit. Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Sing, make music in your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Submit to one another out of reverence. For Christ. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Again, will you pray with me? Now, Lord, I ask that by the power of your Holy Spirit, that you will bring your word to living and active power in each of our lives. Whether those who are here this morning are single or are married, Lord, there is hope for bringing healing to marriage. We ask that you would do this because you're the only one that we can turn to for an unending source of grace. That will enable us to walk before you in relationships that are healing because your grace is at work. Help the teacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. It was a normal Saturday morning in 2005. We were four years into our church plant. Good leaders and people committed and excited about the work, and no more so than this one particular couple. And at 10 a. m. I received a phone call and I could see on the caller ID who it was, and I answered the call, and I called them by name. I said, good morning. What's going on? And I was greeted with sobs of crying. And she asked me, could I come over to the house as quickly as possible? So I got in my car and drove five minutes to their home. As I pulled up to their driveway, I could see that things were strewn all over the front yard. This wasn't the first time I had been called to such an incident, but this time was worse than it had been in the past. After a long argument, her husband had finally had enough And so his way of responding to her, instead of hitting her, he simply wanted to destroy anything that he could find his hands on that was precious to her to break it. I helped her sweep up the glass, pick up the family pictures from the front yard, and we simply knelt down in the entryway of their home and we prayed. What looked like at that moment was a nuclear bomb had gone off in their home, I knew all too well that that day did not arrive out of nowhere. There is absolutely zero, and I mean zero, defense for his actions But she recognized her sin too. You see, he was a peace faker. He would go on for weeks and weeks. As if nothing was wrong. And then finally, when he had had enough, he exploded. She, on the other hand, was a peace breaker. And what she would do is she would walk in on just a regular day. If he happened to be sitting down, not knowing whether he'd been sitting there for five minutes or five hours, it didn't matter. She would start in, needling him, asking him questions. And he would start with needling questions to questioning his manhood. Questioning when was it exactly he was going to find full-time work instead of contract work? And when was he going to be able to provide fully for their family? She knew precisely how to, with scalpel precision, So remove any shred of respect that she had for him, and even respect perhaps that he had for himself. And his normal response was, oh, and just he would get up off the couch and But after about three weeks of that, he would explode. And what often gets the attention is that moment of explosion And I would grab him by the shoulders and I would shake him. I would be so angry at him I could barely see straight But then we would sit down together. And we would spend nearly seven years in counseling on and off. Their marriage did not survive. After twelve years of marriage. And three children. These were two people were my go-to prayer warriors. They were there when 9-11 hit, and we had no idea whether three out of our four trustees were even still alive. They were the first to call for a prayer meeting at their house. They were the first there to help set up and the most energetic. And there I stood in the ashes of their marriage. Here's the reality. Many of us don't want to be so honest to acknowledge that many of us are very close to standing in the ashes of our own marriages. You know as well as I know that being a Christian does not prevent one from having a deeply broken marriage. But what begins to happen is we begin to put on religious platitudes and looks, and we become fearful of letting the dark side be known to others. And we live in silence. Silence with our spouse, silence with others. And then everybody around you is surprised when the house goes up in flames. I believe that God's word means that we can turn to it to find healing God's grace is greater than all of our sin. But what it will mean for us, and what it will mean for you, is that we must be willing to expose ourselves to the gospel in the most painful of places. Even in the places where you perhaps feel the most self-righteous in your anger and bitterness. Because there is healing for those who need it. And I perhaps also recognize That even after just two weeks of sermons on marriage, we could go on perhaps for weeks. But there may be some of you here this morning who need someone to talk to. I beg of you, for the sake of Christ, and for the sake of your marriage, do not leave this house of worship in the world. Silence. Talk to me. Talk to an elder. Tell someone you need help. And we will, by God's grace, do whatever we can. To make sure you receive the help and care that you need. Because this is God's body. He wants this for you. So let's turn together and look at healing marriage. You see in your outline, sin's destruction. The scandal of forgiveness and divine design. Let's look first together at sin's destruction We hear about it in verses 25 to 27 of chapter 4, where he talks about putting off falsehood. And speaking truthfully. How not to sin in your anger. Note, he's not saying anger is wrong. He's saying anger is a very dangerous emotion. Because guess what? It's not an emotion. It's a verb. We anger. We do anger You know, if you feel anger, you do something about it. You speak it, you act it, you genuflect, you do all kinds of things We do anger. So the issue is not whether it's right or we can feel anger. The question is, have we allowed anger to become sin? Because sin destroys things. So let's look at how it destroys things. He tells us if you let your the sun go down on your anger, in other words, if you ignore it. It's going to become like thorns in your soul. I will get to that in a moment. But what he says here is, do not give the devil a foothold, meaning sin's destructiveness is not about a particular sin. It's talking about sin in general. That when we allow sin to exist, And here I will apply it within marriage that goes undetected or unexposed or undealt with, what begins to happen is we begin to be destroyed from the inside out. Because sin destroys like rust. Destroys. Rust is never apparent at first. Rust always begins in an invisible dark place. And then it works its way out. And where it begins is a place where there's darkness and water and metal. And when that happens, it begins to corrode. The same happens when sin is trying to be held is trying to be kept safe in a dark place where no one will know either our spouse or anyone outside of our marriage, and when it begins to happen in that way, it begins to destroy the relationship from the inside out. Now, how does that happen? One of the ways it happens is this is before marriage. Meaning That oftentimes, and I believe every single one of us, carries around with us scars from sins that we have committed and scars of sins that have been committed on us. And we bring that like baggage, like a U-Haul into our relationships, and most particularly we bring it like a U-Haul to the new house of a marriage. And one of the ways that sin destroys and disrupts the shalom, the peace of Christ in marriage, is when sin before marriage is not talked about and even after marriage it's never talked about or dealt with. And when that begins to happen, that U-Haul gets unpacked. And it brings into your new house things that you don't like, decorations you thought you were done with. Things that you thought you could just drop off at the Salvation Army and not have to worry about it anymore. Things that you could write in a diary and put us in a safe place under lock and key, but it has the uncanny knack of this. When sin happens to us. And when we commit sin, we begin to form patterns of dealing with it. And those patterns become like a default setting And when we get into marriage and we're not dealing with those or haven't dealt with those, those default settings come out when things turn sour. And we begin to deal with one another, not because we learned it in the marriage, we learned it before. The same is the case as every couple I have who I've had the opportunity to marry, I tell them, the first meeting out, tell me about your parents' marriage. That's what I want to hear. And what I want to hear is I want to hear you critique it. What was good? What was not so good. Did you ever see them argue? And if so, when they argued, did you see them confess to one another? and to forgive one another. And I will tell you, this many couples, and I've now lost count how many couples I've married, this many couples have told me that they have actually seen their Christian parents. Both confess sin to each other and visibly forgive one another. Five. Is it any wonder then that when we get into marriage, that when we see sin perpetrated not only on us and our being the perpetrator of sin, but when we see sinful patterns in the marriages that we are the children of, and those were never dealt with, we learn by catching, by observing, and by walking what is modeled for us. Is it any wonder then that when we enter into marriage, the sin which was patterned for us we just bring right with us? So since destructiveness often will have its work before we ever say I do. And I will tell you, some of you this morning know that perhaps you had the expectation you knew all of this stuff. And you have the expectation that maybe if I marry the right person who's gracious and loving and caring and forgiving and patient, that maybe all of that scar tissue will be removed. But now you've learned, oh, nope, it doesn't happen. And what does scar tissue do? If you've ever had scar tissue in a joint, you know very well that as that scar tissue builds, it restricts the range of motion. And if you come into marriage and continue in marriage, not dealing with all of the stuff back there in some way, shape, or form. It's going to add to the scar tissue in your marriage and the range of motion that God intends for you to have as a couple in Christ will be restricted. Sin's destructiveness in your marriage began before you said, I do. Let's reflect on that Secondly, sin's destructiveness has its way inside marriage. We know that. It doesn't take very long. We know that we've committed ourselves to another sinner. And I bet that there is a large number of people here who received zero premarital counseling. And what it was like to enter into a marriage relationship with another sinner. And so when that has happened, and even when you've had premarital counseling, depending on its value, And it's death. What begins to happen is we move into marriage and things go well. And and we we move and and we we try to communicate and things go along for a while, but then life happens. And when life happens, it's like we go to the pool for the first time in the summertime. We're a married couple. Things are going great. We love the pool. We love this new life that we've built. And we start at the kiddie pool. That's what it's like first being married. And those of you who've been in my premarital counseling know I use this image. We love the kiddie pool. We like the shallow end. It feels good. It feels safe. But then life dumps us into the deep end of the pool of when the sin patterns of our spouse come into full acknowledgement, both to them and to you. And very quickly, if you weren't ready for the deep end of the pool, you begin to struggle and try to dog paddle. And then it feels like you're going to drown. Why is that? It's because we settle for a certain level of intimacy even in marriage. We settle for a certain exchange of things that we want from one another. But then we get angry at each other when we we don't get what we want and we skirmish. And instead of actually talking about it, we just hope that maybe if we don't talk about it, everything will be okay. And it doesn't matter whether you've been married a year or you've been married for decades, you know what it's like. When in fact you leave those things untalked about and unstated, they don't get better. They just go away for a while. And then when we get angry at each other, the devil gets a foothold, and what begins to happen? We begin to open up the closets and yank in each other's Bones right out the closet and say, look at your skeletons. How dare you accuse me! And then we fight. And then that scar tissue builds. And when we don't deal with that anger, it becomes what is this word? Wrath. The word wrath comes from the English word that we also get the word wreath The word wreath has the idea that when you make a wreath, you twist things, you take limbs and you twist them together, and you make a circle, a wreath. It's also the same word that we get the word raith. If you're a lover of the Lord of the Rings, you know what I'm talking about. Wraith. were those who had who had since stopped being fully human because they were so angry they had not been released from their anger. And they were twisted up inside with their wrath. Because wrath if in anger if left undealt with becomes a like a wreath of thorns that are twisted together inside of your soul. And what begins to happen is it becomes this settled thing in your core. And when it goes Undealt with, marriage begins to deconstruct. And we become bitter. Sin destroys relationships. And it destroys and can deconstruct marriage before you say I do, and most certainly afterward. Are you feeling encouraged yet? So what in the world do we do? Paul tells us. It's the scandal of forgiveness. He says, he who has been stealing must steal no longer. But must work and do something useful with his own hands. He may have something to share with those in need. Do not letting an unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building up of others. according to their needs. He's saying, if you are a child of the living God and been made and been reconciled to your heavenly Father through Christ, you have the grace and the ability to turn against those ways that lead to death But he then says, you may walk in new ways, but then in 30 he says, but do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God. How can we grieve the Holy Spirit? In whom we've been sealed for the day of our redemption. Well, it's if we grieve him, if we don't get rid of bitterness. And rage, wrath, as I was talking about, brawling and slander, along with every other form of malice. And then he says, be kind and compassionate to one another, forgiving each other just as Christ forgave you. The scandal of forgiveness is this: it is to be a way of life and not just a private antidote for what ails us as individuals. Forgiveness is not meant to be a private antidote for what ails you as an individual. It does bring forgiveness through the blood of Jesus Christ, reconciling us to the Father, renewing us in our walk with Jesus Christ. Yes and amen. But it's never meant to be just a private individual act. It is meant to be a way of life. Isn't that what he says? Forgiving each Other. It is an on-going thing, not something we do once in a while. Not an address that we visit now and then Or that we constantly need to find on our little GPS devices because we forgot the address. Forgiveness is intended to be the air that we breathe. It's scandalous because it's meant to be ruthless. To get into every corner, every crevice of all of your sin stuff and all the sin stuff of your spouse. All of it. And it's meant to be a way of life. Because there is a logic to it The scandal of forgiveness has a logic to it. It begins with you and me, and not first and foremost with my spouse. It begins with you and me. Not first and foremost the one that I'm married to. That's what he says. Forgive, forgiving each other just as in Christ God forgave you. In other words, if you have received forgiveness from your Heavenly Father through Christ That is the logic. You cannot offer that which you have not received yourself. We can play act. We can utter the words But if you are not ready to lay bare before the Savior, between you and the Savior, all of your baggage, all of your stuff. Then how will you be able to offer forgiveness to your spouse? The logic is. It begins with you and not you saying, Lord, forgive my husband, forgive my wife. Wow! What a colossal sinner they are! I've been there. I've told Kate this story. Early on in our marriage, I went to the basement a couple of times. to the to the utility sink because I was angry and I was like it's her you know and God did something in the basement He made me go to the basement of my own selfish desires And he brought to mind that sweet word from James. Why do you quarrel and argue among you? Because you desire, but you do not get. And when you do ask, you ask it for selfish reasons. It is a hard and ruthless logic, but it is beautiful because his grace and forgiveness Remember where I started is greater than all of your sin. And if you are beginning to drink that in, You can then pour it out at the deep end of the pool with your spouse and all of their sin. But it's a progressive work. Sometimes God will take you to the basement where all of your sins lurk long before He may take your spouse. And what you find in the basement may not be immediate. It may take a lot of time. It may take the flashlights of God's word over a period of decades to learn all of yours. So you learn how to be patient. If God has been patient with you, you learn how to be patient with your spouse, recognizing that rarely does God suddenly bring you the 411 bulletin on all of your stuff. So we learn in every way that Christ's character is exposed in the cross, patience, humility, grace, forgiveness. Has been applied to you, that then is formed in you as you drink it up. And then by God's grace poured out on the earth's face. This is the scandal of forgiveness because there's not a place to hide from it. And he offers you to receive it to be applied to sin's destructiveness. But then finally there's divine design. In chapter 5, verses 15 to 21, the divine design of the Lord for marriage is this. He gives us the source of love and power. He tells us. He says to them, therefore, verse 17, therefore do not be foolish, but understand what the Lord's will is. In other words, It's not what's native to your will. It's what the Lord's will is. Okay, what's the Lord's will, Paul? Lord's will is that I not be drunk on wine, which leads to debauchery, meaning it deadens me to what? I should be careful of. Something else begins to control me that does not have my best interests at heart And so he said, instead of being filled and drunk on wine, to be filled with the Spirit The Spirit is the source of God's divine design for what we need for the power and grace of the Word of God to be living that out in marriage For healing. He says to be filled with the Spirit. And then he says, by the Spirit, then, he implies. Verse 19, speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs. Let me ask you this question. When was the last time in the midst of an argument or just after the argument with your spouse that you find time to pray over a psalm for your spouse? It could not be an impregatory psalm, by the way. That's inside Jesus Speak. I get it. It's the Psalms where you're wishing ill on your enemies. Not those psalms. When was the last time you you prayed over a hymn of praise for your spouse? When was the last time you perhaps sang a spiritual song for your spouse? Speak to one another with psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs It's the word of God. What else do we have to give one another that has that kind of eternal power? Sing and make music with your heart to the Lord, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. When was the last time you prayed to the Lord and thanked him for your spouse as being the instrument of his sanctifying power in your life? Iron sharpening iron. I know that's hard. But God's divine design is not only to show us what the source is of his love and power, which is the Spirit, it's also mutual submission. Unfortunately, for most of our English translations, verse 21 is separated from verse 22: Wives submit to your husbands. It was not meant to be that way. Verse 21 is the control verse for everything Paul says about relationships. And he says, submit unto one another as unto the Lord. Meaning, our submission. Our humbling ourselves before our husbands and wives is to be patterned after our submitting ourselves to the Lord's work in our life. It is a pattern for how we're to do so with each other. Meaning, I need to submit myself to my wife. Because I've submitted myself to the Lord and I've said to him, Lord, by your grace and by your spirit, forgive me of my sin. Give me the wisdom and grace of your word to uncover. sins that perhaps I cannot see. And then to be able to turn to my spouse and say, If you see a blind spot in me, it is your duty of love to show me Because your spouse is to be God's agent on earth, to be a tool of his grace, to make you more into the image of Christ. But that is hard to do. I want to close this morning. Instead of describing it, I want to show it to you. The first is a true story of what a husband and wife wrote for each other. And now sits together as they both have owned it in a plaque, in a framed picture next to their wedding pictures in their home. This is what they said to each other. I have failed you as a spouse. I have been weak, voiceless, and disengaged from my pain and sin. I have refused to ask you questions, not only about your day, but also about your life I know you so well, but so very little. I don't know why you avoid conflict to the point of sacrificing your integrity I don't know why success is more important than honor and love. I don't know why your heart really knows, I don't know what your heart really knows and desires from God. I want to pledge to you my curiosity. My pain and my dreams for you. We have never asked one another what we find unlovely about each other. We have not invited one another to speak into each other's lives honestly. We have been afraid to hear from one another. We have been afraid to hear because of unseen cancers, unsaid secrets that will continue to rot away our heart for one another and for our Father. We have never asked each other what we really want in marriage and how we can make it better We have settled for quick assurances and religious pattern. We have never asked each other really for our hearts We will not live in this marriage without hearts that are broken and contrite. We ask one another to find a friend, a prayer partner, a counselor with whom we can both talk, pray, and envision for what we were meant to be. We will not settle for cheap commitments. We would rather end the charade and the facade of self-righteousness and patronizing. Spirits. And we will want to do more than just survive. We will not quit. We will not harden We will not flee to our forests. Be with us, O God. Amen That was written by a pastor and his wife. I don't know them. We have a lot to attend to. Even in this room. But there is hope because of the power of God's grace. It is insanity. at times, is it not, to say, I want to marry you, a sinner. I ask every couple, are you sure you want to do this? Of course they all say yes. But for those of you who are in it, you're in it. And God wants to renew you and promises to give you the grace that will require hard work to bring about that renewal. Why? Because I close with this final story. Written this week, on the occasion of their anniversary I also don't know them, but it was sent to me by a member of this church because they knew that I perhaps would appreciate it. And I said I wanted to read it, but I would remove the names. And she said, whoa. But this is a story of hope. A story of healing marriage And I quote: It comes, there's a picture of the two of them on their wedding day. These kids, twenty and twenty-seven, had no clue. Here we are today, eleven years later. I feel like people aren't honest enough about marriage. Just so you know, we have threatened murder. Suicide and divorce. I tell no lies But also let me just say I can testify to the mercy of a great God for getting us through our darkest days, breakdowns, losses, and deepest wounds. He is graciously led even when we could not see. He shines light on the broken places, and although you nearly drown in the wake, mercy eventually always comes. In the morning. This amazing man is no knight in shining armor, but he sure is a superhero of commitment, kindness, and perseverance. He gives his all to slay the dragons of lies and fear and pursues growth and freedom. He has wanted to quit as I have, but he's still here. And we both assuredly say we will be that couple sitting on the front porch, rocking chairs, laughing about our youthful days of stubborn obstinence and big ideas. As I age daily, my spirit grows younger in gratitude and love for you. When my skin is wrinkled and weathered, My heart will be 18 in joy. Thankful for all that you have done to love me well. To pursue my heart and to be the sweet resting place of unconditional love. The hard places have become rich soil for beauty and security to grow. There are times when I couldn't say this, but I surely say it now. I have no regrets saying yes to you. On Folly Beach years ago. And this is our life we have built and love and grown. I wouldn't have it any other way. You are still. The one God makes a happ Of bringing that which is dead back to life. And His grace can do that in you He did it for our Savior. And he gives you the grace today to begin anew. His mercy and his compassion is made new every morning. Thanks be to God. May your grace flow like a river to flood us in this body With the renewing power of your Holy Spirit working together with your word to bring new life in our relationship with you and to renew our marriages. Lord, you know this is hard work because your son died to redeem his bride, the church. Lord, we will stumble when we fall, but your grace is greater. I pray, Lord, for those marriages that need healing and renewal. I pray, O Lord, do this. This hour, begin to work anew. That we might be humbled in our need of grace, empowered in the walk of grace And shaped by the hope of your grace. In the mighty, matchless name of Jesus we pray. Amen.