No, look here at Isaiah chapter 6, 1 through 8. Here I am, send me. We want to think about it in conjunction with your World Missions Conference. I I don't want to see an Exodus to the door. Oh boy, here I am, send me. He must be talking about becoming a missionary and Let me run for the hills here. Anything but that, Lord? No, we want to talk about here I am, send me in the context of all of life. Lord, here I am, send me. Wherever you cross the street, across the ocean, to the bank, to the prayer meeting, you know, wherever you're calling me to go. But we do want to make the connection, especially to verse 3 and the whole earth. Because the whole earth is filled with his glory, and yet in so much of the world he's not worshipped. And yet this is the main, uh, the most Uh the central thing of of history is the gathering of the elect from every nation. I think I mentioned the last time I was here how uh how this is the the this missions thing is the longest ongoing human endeavor, which is really a divine endeavor, this this going to every people and tribe in the world and taking the gospel there. It's the longest ongoing human endeavor which is really a divine endeavor. When I was uh on an airplane one time, a Japanese guy was next to me and I think I mentioned this last time I was here, and he asked me Uh he said, Well what do you do in Japan? And and I said I I told him just what I said. I said, I am part of the biggest group. uh in the whole world we're in every single country in the world. Uh and he's you know you can see the puzzled look on his face and he And he said, hmm, Anatsunokaishua, IBM Dishoka, he says to me. And he uh and I told that to him and and you know that's really true That what we're talking about in your mission's emphasis here is not some little aside to the to the Christian life, but it really is central. to history. We think of uh of the the river of Ezekiel flowing from Jerusalem, this little trickle that that grows to this great, deep, wide river that gives life wherever it goes. So we want to make the connection this morning. Here I am. Send me. In terms of the whole world and your part. In taking the gospel across the street, across the oceans of the world, by by your going, by your giving, by your praying, by whatever you do. Now as we look here in Isaiah 6, 1 through 8, We uh you know want to ask the question, what would lead someone to say with Isaiah in verse 8? What would lead you to say with Isaiah in verse 8 and really mean it from the heart, Lord here I am, send me. And that's a hard thing to say. You know, why would those Moravian missionaries of a couple hundred years ago get on that slave ship and go uh across an ocean as slaves to take the gospel to slaves? You know, what would possess someone? To do such a thing? Or who would possess someone to do such a thing? On our team, Fred and Mellie Reid, some of y'all have prayed for them. They have a little boy with leukemia, three years old And they went back to Japan last year with a little boy. He could die uh in Japan. Uh three years old, leukemia, you know, people here said, Fred and Millie, why you know, why are you doing this going back to Japan with a son? that that could die in in in Japan. Japanese people, Christians and non-Christians alike, said they're coming back? You know, why would they do that? You know what would compel them to say, Lord, here we are, send us back in such a situation. Or a man recently, I was at his house, he's from this area, a wealthy man, and I went to visit him. and uh to spend the night with him and I had been in contact with him for six or seven years, knew his love for the Lord through emails and letters and everything and and uh but when I went to their house I w I knew he was a a very wealthy man And as I went to their house I was surprised because the house was very small and there were two cars from uh about nineteen eighty five and nineteen eighty seven sitting under the house in front of the house and I said I must have the wrong house. Must be a north and a south, you know. And so I I uh I went back up the street and I tried to cross the main roof with me. There's a south. No, there was no south. I went back, this must be the house and And I went in, and as I got to know them over the next day as I stayed with them, I I realized that yes, they were wealthy, but The Lord had really led them in a special way to to not just give ten percent and not just give fifteen or twenty percent to this cause of taking the gospel to to every tongue and tribe. But to really give as much as they could. I mean their goal was to live on ten percent and to give ninety, kind of a thing. I was so surprised. Now God Doesn't call us all to do that. Don't anybody leave here saying Dan Iverson said you had to do that. But you know, it really made me think. What would what would cause someone To say, Lord, here I am, send me to the bank. In that sort of a way to be a part of what God is doing in the world. When I was uh, you know, one of my most encouraging times this year, you know, it's been a furlough, don't anybody call it furlough to me, okay? It's not a furlough. I'm traveling here, there, and everywhere all the time and but you know one of my most encouraging times was when I was here in October with y'all and the worship was encouraging, uh your interest was encouraging, but the most encouraging thing Maybe this whole furlough was that Sunday afternoon we went to the sharp's house and people were praying for us. And they took time to pray like they do every month for an hour or so about uh for us and our work in Japan. You know, I I I emailed the team and said, you know, they really do pray. You know, what would possess people all around the world to say, Lord, here I am, send me to pray, to be a part of your kingdom coming by my prayers. You know that a a lady wrote us in Japan and said, uh, you know, I'm getting up a half hour earlier every morning to pray for y'all. You know, what would what would bring somebody to do that kind of We got Carol and I got a letter yesterday. We opened it riding up here in the van yes yesterday. And it was from an 86-year-old lady. It said she you know just a beautiful two-page letter of of uh her interest in what we're doing and you know I'm praying for you. I don't remember if she said daily or not, but it was regularly and it was ongoing kind of a thing You know, what would what would bring someone to do that? And in this passage, we really see what leads Isaiah to the point in verse 8 of saying, Here I am, send me. And I want you to be thinking as we go through this, what about you? What do you need to say today? Lord, here I am, send me, in terms of these kinds of things. And it was hard for me to to to say here I am, Saint May friends. I was uh my heels were dug in. I was a career marine My story is mercenary to missionary, and I was not going to go to seminary, and I it was in your mother church, Covenant Church down in Burton's. I was a Marine Station at Fort Meade. And maybe some of some of you work there too. And uh and that was not me. You know, nope, here I am, but don't send me, you know, was uh the way I went. And the Lord threw the elders there and the pastor there sent us off to seminary. And then at at seminary, it was another three-year battle, heels dug in. Lord, no, no, not overseas. Don't send me But through God's grace and his leading to come to the point of saying, Here I am, send me. Maybe there's some of you that that is where you need to say, maybe that's a call to full-time Christian service. Maybe that's something you need to think about today. Uh all of these things, let's consider them as we as we look at at this passage. It was read to us already. We see from verses Isaiah 6, verses 1 through 3 verses 1 through 4, we see the majesty of God. Basically, we want to see just a simple outline, two parts in this passage. God's greatness And God's gospel. His greatness and his gospel really does lead us to the place where we cannot help but say, Lord, here I am, send me, and in every aspect of our life. When we see the greatness of God here in verses 1 and 2 and 3, as Isaiah he sees the Lord high and lifted up, he sees him on his throne. The train of his robe filled the temple in verse one. Above him were the seraphs, each with six wings, with two wings they covered their faces, with two they covered their feet, and with two they were flying. And they were calling to one another, holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory. At the sound of their voices, the doorposts and the threshold shook and the temple was filled with smoke. Can words fully describe the awesomeness of God? You know, we sing, Our God is an awesome God. Do any of us grasp well enough how big he is, how awesome he is, that the angels would even have to cover their faces as they look at him. You know, we sing these hymns, we sing these songs, you know, so often I I find myself my mind does wonder, I'm sad to say I dunno I'm not filled with the awesomeness of who God is. with the sense of his greatness and his majesty, even as we sing those songs about him. But you know, when you when you see the awesomeness of God, you can't help but bow down. And say, Lord, what do you want me to do? You see it all through the Bible. Isaiah, he falls down when he sees God. You know, you see Peter in the in the New Testament. When he he's confronted with the deity and he begins to see who this Jesus is, he falls down. He bows down. He he says what you he says you know The same kind of thing as Isaiah. When we see the greatness of God, isn't that what happens to us as well? Lord, what do you want me to do? Here I am, send me. You know, when I was in the Marine Corps, people used to ask after I came back from boot camp, you know, why do you guys ob why do you obey them? You know, why do you do what they say? And you know, and I I I wasn't quite sure how to answer that. You know, it never crossed my mind not to, you know, after you go through all these big mean drill instructors hollering at you and and and you know, their awesomeness is so little. But no one ever thought of not obeying. Yet when you see the thrice holy God, the one that Isaiah describes here, don't we say, Lord? Here I am, send me. Your greatness is so great. Don't we long for him to be worshipped as we see his greatness more and more? Don't we long for him to be worshipped over the whole world, as it says in verse 3? You know, don't you long for him to be worshipped around the world? We talked about this a little bit the last time I was here. You know, someone asked me, you know, Dan, over the last ten years, what was the most thrilling thing of being in Japan? And they always think it's going to be that first person who came to Christ. And uh yeah, that was thrilling. The first person to come to Christ, that was thrilling. It was thrilling when our team arrived. We were there alone. It was so hard being alone there at first It was thrilling when the first man, Mr. Tsuyoshi, was baptized and, you know, standing against his culture, his family, who was just so against him being baptized. It was uh it was it was a thrilling moment. When our team started a uh a church planting seminar and over forty Japanese pastors came. That w that was a thrilling day. But you know the most thrilling thing if I had to pick was the day that this awesome God described here in verses one through four that people in a place called Oyumi no Japan where he had never been worshipped before. Bow down and worship. And there was a worship service. It was so thrilling to think that never in all of history has this been done here before He's never been worshipped. You know, I remember one of our favorite songs when we were here at CPC uh 10, 12, 12 years ago, we began singing Psalm 108. Do we still sing Psalm 108? I will give thanks to thee. Do you sing that? I won't sing it. Okay. O Lord, among the peoples. What's the rest of it? Somebody help me out? I will sing praises to thee among the nations. You know when when you sing that, do you think what you're singing? Is that true? Are you doing that? Well well yes. You're doing that. As we participate in this cause of the whole world, which is filled with his glory And yet isn't glorifying him in so many places, worshiping him and giving glory to his name. You know, we sing from the rising of the sun to the going down of the sand, the name of the Lord must be praised, Psalm 113. And there are so many places on the face of this earth like Oyumino was where he's not being worshipped, this great awesome God we see here in these verses one through four. I was in Oyumi no, just in January I had to go back to and you know and and it was thrilling to go there and preach and uh even though I had to do it in Japanese after hadn't hadn't preached in Japanese for six months and uh and to to go there and uh To to see eighty people gather and worship. Christ, you know, you're a part. You sent us there to to start that church. And this morning, well actually la uh last night, because they're fourteen hours ahead of us, God was this awesome God was worship there because you, Columbia, very much, more than any other church Because of you participating and sending our team there to start that church. And yet, friends, there are so many places in the world where he's not worshiped. I was at a mission conference a few weeks ago, and the Gücher people were one of the target group peoples, a people of two million, two million people on the slopes of the Himalayas. And there's a team there the Lord has raised up to go to this people group. Not one Christian yet, not one worshiper yet, worshiping this true and living God. And they have to hike up in the mountains and follow this nomadic people to to learn the language and to begin translating the scriptures. in order to someday lead that first person to Christ. And as as we talked about that at the missions conference, you know, we and and y I thought Won't it be thrilling when by email somehow this this missionary there has email on the slopes of the Himalayas? How they do that, I don't know. But when that church I was at her home church, when that church gets the word That someone believed in Christ. The first Guter people of two million people believed in Christ. Won't that be a thrilling day? But I said, you know, it'll be even a more thrilling day when they get the email that there was the first worship service. You know, and that God is being worshipped there on the slopes of the Himalayas. This this awesome God that we worship Friends, in Japan, where you've sent us, there's so many places he's not worshiped in front of our house. They walk by carrying the spirits of their ancestors. Up to the shrine a hundred yards away to bow and worship their ancestors. Our our denomination, fifty pastors only in a church of in a country of a hundred and twenty-five million So few Christians. The 50 pastors, every one of them is a is a first-generation Christian. No second generation Christians at all. I was at a church not too long ago and uh as I came in that the church secretary knew who I was and she said now listen don't you steal our youth pastor You know, Dan Iverson, don't you dare talk to him about coming to Japan. He was he was very interested and open and and they said, We need him here, you know You know, the there's a lot of problems here. You know, we're losing the abortion debate, you know. And I I pulled up a chair next to the secretary and I said, Ah, you know, I know we need people here so badly I said, but there's just no comparison. The church the street we were on, there were three churches, church buildings on that street. You know, I said, you mentioned the abortion debate. There's not even a debate in in Japan. There's not even a whisper against it, never a headline, never even a news report acknowledging that there's another position. And on and on and on. Friends, that's the way it is in so many places of the world. And yes, we need people to be like Isaiah and to say, Lord, here I am, send me Across the street, across the oceans, to cultures like like this where he isn't worshiped yet. But as powerful as it is to see God in his greatness in verses one through four. You know, when we come to verses 5, 6, and 7, it's even more powerful. You know, it's something to see the greatness of God, but when we see his gospel, This love, this compelling love to say, Lord, I mean it, here I am, send me, really comes out. You know in verse 5, Isaiah when he sees The holy, holy, holy God lifted up. What does he say? He says what all of us need to say this morning as we sing these hymns and we look at his word. He says, woe is me, I am undone, I am ruined, I am a sinful man. When you come into the holiness of God, his cleanness, his brightness, if you really see that you can't help but bow down and say, Woe is me, I am a sinful man. I am a man of unclean lips. I live among a people of unclean clean lips. Yeah, I remember when I was uh when I came back from a a field exercise in the Marine Corps one time and I'd been out in the field seven days. friends and you know I and no shower, you know, didn't didn't smell too good. I came in the house and I was, you know, when I come back I first thing I want to do is hug Carol and And it's I hate being away from her, you know, and I came in and I was went up to hug her and she said, get away from me, you stink, you know. And uh I said, I don't smell anything, you know. The people I had been around, they had all stunk, you know, I'd you know You know, you get used you get used to your filth, don't you? And and you can't tell it. I really she I said, Is it that bad? She said, You get away. It is it is worse than that. She sent me to the shower, came back and and you know after I came back from the shower and I Been in the cleanness of uh you know, my wife uh she leans that direction of uh she's the opposite of me in terms of uh everything clean, everything great. Man, I could tell the difference. I said, burn that uniform, you know. It was so bad. And in an infinitely greater way, don't we? As we come into God's cleanness, his holiness, his purity, as we're with his people, you know, and we slowly come to see our sin more and more. Don't we bow down and say, Woe is me, I am undone. I am a sinful man. And then Verse 6 means so much more to us when we see that, doesn't it? When we see this little picture of the gospel. Course we have all of Scripture, but uh but Isaiah, you knowing something of the God who is a forgiving God, not nearly what we know from all of Scripture. But we see in verse six And verse 7, how the angel comes and see this has touched your lips in verse 7. Your guilt is taken away. Your sin is atoned for Your guilt is taken away. Your sin is atoned for. And of course, Isaiah went on to write Isaiah 7. 14 of this Messiah who is going to come. Isaiah 9. 6, a couple chapters later, of this baby who would be born, who would be the one to atone for his sin. And a few chapters later, Isaiah 53, that all of us like sheep have gone astray. Each of us has turned his own way. But the Lord has laid upon him the guilt of us all. He was smitten and afflicted for us. Now, friends, we know more about what verse 6 means than Isaiah knew. But Isaiah's response when he sees his sin and he sees forgiveness. He says, here I am. Send me. Isn't it powerful when you begin to see how much God loves us and forgives us? Doesn't that become the strongest motive? That's why the Reeds went back to Japan with their with their son, three years old, who could die? Because they know of another who sent his son for them to go on a to to die on that cross and give his life for them. And they say, Lord, here we are, send me. We have no rights. We're yours. Our children are yours. Take us, send us, as we come to see his forgiveness, as we come to see his love in the gospel. We can't help but say that. Think of the woman You know, who she's washing Jesus' feet in Luke, and the Pharisee is criticizing, you know, this clean s thinks he's a good Pharisee. And you know, Jesus talks about what really brings about love. You know, who is it who loves much? who loves enough to say, meaning it from the heart, no holes barred, here I am, send me. Jesus says, the one who's forgiven much loves much. And as we come to see just how big that gap is between us and the thrice holy God we sang about today, don't we come to him and say, Yes, Lord, yes, Lord, and don't we love him back more and more? It's kind of like it seems uh illustration I heard of when they blast through the mountains. You know, in Japan we have mountains everywhere and as they as they blast through these mountains, they don't just they don't blast all hundred yards at once You know, you'll you'll dig they'll dig a hole about five or ten yards, they'll blast that, and then dig another hole five or ten yards and blast that. That's the way I feel that God has been doing in my life these last twenty years as I've grown as I've grown in him. And his last Five years in Japan, coming to see my sin a little more. And then he blasts it, so to speak, and I see his forgiveness afresh. He didn't show it to me all at once. Thank thank the Lord. But a little more. And then he blessed it. And our whole life is that way. Coming into his cleanness and holiness. And seeing our sin more and more and our response, if we really see it, cannot help but be, Lord, here I am, send me. Some people say, well, this gospel, if this gospel is that free, if forgiveness is that good, isn't there the danger that people they won't, you know, they won't really try hard enough and they'll become licentious or something. You know, but friends, all through church history We've seen when this gospel of free grace is preached, the way it really is, free, total forgiveness. You're accepted not based on what you've done, but what Christ has done in your place Your guilt is taken away. Your sin is atoned for only through Christ. That's when there's zeal. That's when People really say, here I am, send me. You know, you look at missions history, it's the same thing. It's when that gospel is preached, that's when people respond and say, I'll go, I'll give, I'll pray You look at church history. Was the church most zealous up until Constantine or after Constantine? You know, before Constantine, when the gospel was preached purely and it was a gospel of free grace. The Christians said, here I am, send me, and it meant, you know, to the to the Colosseum, to be thrown to the lions. And then Constantine became a Christian and he was baptized. And he made everybody else get baptized. Now when you make people get baptized, you know, do they say, Here I am, send me? No. You know. And it was it was uh some were Christians, I'm sure. Many were not, of course. And so there wasn't real zeal. There wasn't uh the church began to get weaker. So what did the church do? The church made more rules. The church pushed harder And what happened? Did people get more zealous? No. It goes the opposite. And and and you know the the guilt and the pushing and the rules, they only last so long. There is no power in the law. The law only leads us to the gospel. There's power in the gospel. And what happened? The church. The people got less zealous. And what'd they do? Made more rules Push the law more. And the result? Less zeal. Less passion. He who's forgiven much, loves much, and says, here I am, send me. You know, in our team in Japan, we have a four-hour, five, uh, four, almost five-hour concert of prayer every month, and then we have worship together. And at the beginning of that time, we take about an hour, hour and a half, just to praise and to sing the hymns about the gospel. Now friends, I have to be honest with you, I am a busy man, and every fourth Wednesday of the month when we do that I do not want to go. I don't have five hours. I'm too busy. I don't have the time to go to what we say is the most important meeting of the month. But you know, when we go to that meeting, it's a covenant, we're committed to that. Uh we go as a response to God's grace, as a covenant we've made earlier. And you know, as we sing those hymns and we read the scriptures, we confess our sins and experience God's forgiveness together as a team. Friends, when you have those times of really seeing the gospel, do you want to do you say, well, I'm going to go out and sin some more? How do you respond? I know as one of God's children, when I see my sin more and when I see his forgiveness more, my response Is is one of Lord take me on yours. How could I think of not coming here today to have this time with you? It my heart changed it. Recently I was driving to to a a church in Florida. I had to rent a car in Florida. I had to drive three hours all the way down to South Florida. And as I was driving in the car, my brain my mind was filled with garbage, to be quite honest. I was I was going to preach at a church and to talk about God's kingdom being extended over the whole earth and to be honest I couldn't care less. About his kingdom being extended over that. I was away from my family. I'd just come back from Japan. I was so tired and feeling sorry for myself. And you know, I I you know and I wasn't sensitive to my coldness of heart to God. All this time I could use to enjoy him and finally The Lord helped me to put my sails up into the wind, you know, the our means of grace. But we have to put our sails up. And and I put a tape in the tape player and just heard a great gospel sermon about what God has done for us in Christ. And and the and the preacher, he showed me some idols of my heart I haven't seen before about family and about the pride in my family. I was convicted of my pride of my son Daniel has gone back to Japan as a short-term worker. And you know, even as I mentioned that to you now, it was that was the sin. He that the Lord convicted me on that day that I was proud of that You know, that he went back to Japan as a short-term missionary. And God showed me other sins in my heart and in my thought life that I that I'd be embarrassed to say to you And the and he showed me the gospel. And I started singing And Can It Be and other hymns. And You know, tell friends, do you think I wanted to say, Lord, here I am, send me? Or did I want to say, wow, what a good God. I can go send some more, you know? No, it's not that way When we're forgiven much and we see how much we're forgiven, don't we say, Lord, Lord Take me on yours. It begins to affect us more and more. This gospel compels us to go and be a part of what he's doing in the world. You know, some do you ever want to shake your kids that they don't understand what their parents have done for them enough? Anybody ever want to shake your kids, you know, you know, uh I love the way my kids are growing up, but sometimes, you know, my teenagers especially, you know, say if you understood what your mother went through for you, you know Carol, she has so much the the pregnancies are hard, you know, just throwing up for six or seven months and and you know we haven't she's gone through it nine times. Now that really is a miracle, you know, that she has done that nine times You know, a it is so hard every time our our youngest recently we've been you know having to walk with him at night. He'd been sick a lot and you know, two to four AM, you know, taking turns All you parents remember that kind of thing? And you know I want to say to John and Joel, they're not here today, so I'll mention their name. And they're great kids, but you know, if you only knew what your mother and your father have gone through for you. Now Seth and Micah, they don't care. They have no thankfulness for what their parents have gone through. I mean it is zero. But as they grow, as we grow, friends, and we come to see what verse 6 means that this thrice holy God is the one in Isaiah 9, 6, who became a baby. To go to a cross for us. Shouldn't that shake us? We shouldn't need to be shaken. Don't you? When you get to be adults and you have your own kids or you know different things in life, don't you begin to appreciate your parents more? And don't we begin to appreciate our perfect, holy, Heavenly Father, this one who is so majestic that became a baby and went to the manger for us? How could we not say, here I am, send me? Let's make more application. Last time I was here, I didn't make very much application to missions, but I want to this morning and to think of your part as a response to this gospel. Your part in taking the gospel to the ends of the earth. Your part in this. Your giving, we think of your giving, your praying. and your going. My giving. My praying. My going. I want to be very concrete about it. You know, l last time we we when we were here I did mention Psalm sixty seven. And not time to look at it, but in Psalm sixty seven it talks about you are blessed. So that the nations might worship. You were blessed that the nations might worship. Over and over again. Let the peoples praise thee, O God. Let the nations be glad and sing for joy. And down in the last two verses it says, God has blessed us with a harvest. Why? That all the peoples of the earth might fear him. You know, I'd never seen that before until recently. The harvest that you and I have received from the Lord, it's not just so that we can, you know. pad the den a little more and and and get bigger, nicer houses and better cars and you know I'm not saying friends that God that we're not to enjoy what he gives and all that. I'm not saying that at all But to see the harvest that He has given to each of us as connected to the nations worshiping. And all the peoples, rejoicing and being glad in the earth. And you know, it it's that God, for some reason, has has made the taking of the gospel to the ends of the earth our job instead of the angels. At family devotions one night about a year and a half ago, a young gal who had come to Christ named Kimiko, 25 years old, Carol was discipling her. She'd come every Every uh Tuesday night to our house and she'd eat with us and we have family devotions and and Carol would talk to her and spend time studying the Bible. And that night we had we our t we had really been in a deficit with our support and it and it looked like, you know, things the yen went from one sixty to eighty, we had lost half the value of our support. Things really looked bad. We had been in the red And we had been praying at family devotions that God would raise up the money we needed to to be able to stay in Japan and and for our team, our whole team was was really struggling financially because of the exchange rate. And God had really answered And I and I I brought our computer printout we get from Mission to the World to Family Devotions because I wanted to read all the names of the twenty-one churches and seventy individuals who sent us to Japan with by using their harvest that the nations would worship and and and pray or stand behind us. Seventy individuals, twenty-one churches. Columbia Presbyterian Church, the main church on that list and you know I let the computer one of these green computer prints, I let it drop down, you know. Maybe your kids are always thankful for everything that comes their way, but my kids often they're not, you know. And And no and I wanted them to have a sense of thankfulness to you and to others. And we read through the names and read through the the people's names and and had a good time of prayer, of thanks and and after family devotions, Kimiko came over, she said she said, Don Son And she's looking at the printout. She said, You mean that if these people that you just and you know the the the dollar figures are there, the the names of the people, the names of the churches, Columbia Presbyterian Church, you know, it's on there. And she said, Do you mean that if these people hadn't given their Kenkin, their offering, that You and Carol and the kids wouldn't have come till Yumino and stored our church and wouldn't have led me to Christ and the other people in our church to Christ. And you know it kind of seemed like a dumb question. Of course. I want to say, Kimiko, you think there's some big bank somewhere that funds this? Yes, that's right It's these people, God's people, just like you give your offerings. Kimiko started supporting a Japanese Wycliffe missionary in the Philippines as a result of that night. She came to visit us about three weeks ago here in the States and w went to one of the church supporting churches with us. She asked if she could tell that story. I'd forgotten about it. To that church. She said, Are these one of those on that list? She said I said, Yes they are See, you're connected to them. We're partners. It's not my commission. It's our commission. This great commission. And you're part of it with your giving. Like that doctor was that was really taking it seriously that I mentioned at the beginning. How what else can I do to be a part of this? Not from guilt, but out of a response like Isaiah to what Christ has done for me. Do you know that the OPC had to cut back the number of missionaries? There are missionaries in Japan now that were fully supported, OPC missionaries that have to be tent makers now, partial tent makers, because there's not enough funds. Yeah, it just seems strange to me that in our with all the harvest God has given us in America, that that would have to happen. You participate by your giving. What would God say to you today about your giving? Here I am, send me. Maybe to the bank, to do something about that as a response to his gospel. And you're praying. You're being a part of what he's doing in the world through your praying. You know, like I said, I was so thrilled being with uh with our brothers and sisters the last time I was here. Yeah, it it's it's like in the in the Gulf War when the um when the you know we we Marines we give a hard time to the Navy and the Air Force. We call them the Air Force and and we uh the Navy, those squids, you know. But We used to always the guys in the rear with the gear and but it was interesting during the Gulf War on the front lines, those Marines waiting to go into Ku Kuwait. All that infantry bravado that uh that I experienced when I was in, there was none of that. They weren't saying we don't need the Air Force, B-52s, we don't need 'em. Naval sixteen inch guns on the battleships, we don't need 'em. High diddle diddle up the middle, we're ready to go, you know? No way they were saying more B-52 strikes, you know, more overhead cover. You know, and Sometimes I want to say to the church back home as I go around, don't send us into battle if you're not going to cover us. With airstrikes, with thunder from heaven. Revelation 8, it talks about the prayers of the saints going up before the throne. And the prayers and the mystery of prayer are turned and they come down on the earth like thunder and lightning. And it's not some some uh prophecy of atomic warfare or some things like that, like some people would like to interpret Revelation. The point is the prayers of the saints are powerful in bringing thunder on the earth more than B-52 strikes or anything else. And see, friends, we partner in that. You know, the most important task might be your task, more than my task, in the mystery of prayer. To be in a prayer group or in your small group or like that lady who said, I'm going to get up earlier and pray for y'all. To be a part of this work of the gospel around the world through your prayers. It brings thunder from heaven. We think about China. Fifty years ago the missionaries were thrown out of China and they all threw up their hands and said the cause is lost. China is barely less than one percent Christian like Japan. Only fifty years ago, you know, so few Christians and the uh in the and the people in Japan and uh the missionaries went home and what did they do? They started a prayer movement like has never been seen on the face of this earth for China. Pray for China. Pray for China. They mobilized prayer. Friends, in this last fifty years, there's never been a place where more people have become Christians on the face of this earth than China. You know, there are more Christians probably there than he than in America today. And no missionaries. You know, may I say that? Sometimes I say, that's what we need in Japan. Persecution, throw out all the missionaries, you know, and let us go home and mobilize prayer for Japan. Through your prayers you participate again as a response like Isaiah. Maybe some of you today need to say yes, let's start a prayer group like that for the Padiyas or for others that we support or for your pastor and elders and assistant pastor and the small group leaders, you know, it's all together, not just for the work around the world, but the work right here as well. And you're going. You're being a part of going. I was at a missions conference uh three weeks ago and uh and really stressed this this going They wanted me to really talk about that. Forty people on their cards. Down south a lot of churches they they have these faith promise where you you know your giving to missions is separate from your normal giving. And on the card it was, you know, how much you're gonna pledge to missions. And how m and how about your praying and opportunities to make concrete commitments to prayer? We need covenants, friends. Covenants help us, not out of guilt, but as a response to what we're talking about today, to what Christ did for us And uh and the last one was was was going, being willing to go. Forty people wrote they're willing to go and said, Lord, uh, you know, where would you have me to go? And I had really stressed during the conference being willing to give of your sons, like the hymn we're going to sing in the second service, O Zion haste. Give of your sons to spread the message glorious. Give of your wealth to speed them on your way. Pour out your soul for them in prayer victorious, and all thou spendest, Jesus, will repay. The hymn goes And uh and we had really stressed you know, giving of your sons and your daughters might be the hardest part. You know, my mom who went to be with the Lord uh two years ago, she used to say, Dan, when I'd sing that song for you, I'd think about you and and didn't want to send you, but Lord, okay, I'll I'll give of my son. And when she came to Japan and visited the grandkids, she said, but I didn't sing give of my grandson. She said, This is too much. That may be even harder, you know. But how about you, parent, as you raise your kids? Sunday school teacher, as you as you teach these children, as we raise the kids in this covenant community called Columbia Presbyterian Church. You know, to raise them to say, Lord, you know, we'll give of our sons, our daughters, our grandkids to be a part of what you've done in the world. The pastor of that church he said he wrote on his his card, my children. He said that was very hard for him to write. Lord, I will you know pray and begin to think about raising my kids more as world Christians that they might be a part of verse three. becoming reality that the whole earth would be filled with his glory. And one of his kids said, uh, Well Dad, I wrote you on my card. I'm gonna give up my father. You know, maybe that too. Maybe your pastor is supposed to come to Japan or assistant pastor or or elders. You know, when Paul came back on his missionary journey, he always took somebody back with him, you know, that hadn't gone the first time. Or maybe you Maybe God's calling you to something new, full-time Christian work, or or or to go to some to the Gujarat people where there's not one worshiper yet. Friends, uh pastor that came to see us. He came about two hours to visit us to talk about new church planning opportunities, Reverend Goto, and he said to me, Uh or as we were leaving, Tom Patton on our team said to him, he said, Thank you, Reverend Goto, for coming two hours to visit us And Goto Sensei turned around and said thus, he said, Ah, Nansan, Tong San, thank you for coming all the way from America. to preach the gospel and to work with us here in Japan. And as he said that, I have to confess my heart got a little proud. I said, yeah, you ought to be thankful for you you don't know how hard your language is. You don't know how difficult this this this culture is for a foreigner to live in and have to lead a church and all the problems. The Lord really convicted me. You know, who came so far? You know, who left the majesty of verses 1 through 4 in here And went to the manger of Bethlehem and then to the cross of Calvary for us. You know, who came so far? Why did those Moravian missionaries get on that ship? It was because of what Isaiah experienced, the forgiveness of what we see in the gospel. As the Father has sent the Son. Jesus says, so send I you. And as a response to that gospel, may we say, Lord, here am I. Send me. Let's pray. Lord, we do just praise you for your gospel, how good it is, how it warms our hearts when we think what you've done for us that we could not do for ourselves. Lord, even as we worship you here today, we have thought other thoughts. We have not fully worshiped you as the thrice holy God. The forgiveness that these unclean lips have experienced has gone so shallowly into my heart. And each of us were not thankful this morning like we should be. And yet you love us. You continue to help us, forgive us. You intercede right now at the right hand of the Father for our sins and the sins of the whole world, you say, Lord Jesus May we indeed respond to your gospel as you would have each of us to do. Maybe a new baby step in terms of being a world Christian. Maybe with our giving, maybe with our praying. Maybe with our going. Maybe someone who's been praying about, committing their lives to full-time Christian work. Maybe the first step, talking to an elder or a pastor. about going to seminary or some other kind of Christian work or being a missionary. Lord, we don't know, but all of us this morning is a response to your love. We ask your spirit to work and say, Lord, may we say from our heart, here am I, send me. Thank you that the Father sent the Son. In Jesus' name, amen.