Well, I really appreciate the song that Tim picked there. It's one of those things where we work together and I didn't know that song before this morning, but uh you don't know how very appropriate that song is for the message. And um kind of wish you could hear it afterwards and say, yes, now I understand more deeply. So thanks for picking it at him and Setting the context for the word this morning. This morning, the message is the first of a series of three messages. From three different texts. I'm going to preach in the next three weeks from Luke, from Romans, from 1 John. Three different authors, Luke, Paul, and John. One gospel. All speak in these texts of atonement. Two of the three speak about justification. And uh that may put some of you off Like, what do I want to hear about atonement and justification for? Well, let me put it this way. They all speak about the gospel and how we view ourselves. In fact, um I am going to try to make the point in these three messages that the gospel with which many of us are very familiar Has some implications. There are some things about this gospel that we can either let slip or never really fully understand. So some of the more the deeper and freeing truths of the gospel that I want for us to grasp. So that uh it will make a difference in how we think and how we live, and whether it is in a Christ-dependent peace or a self-dependent anxiety. So hopefully that will become clearer to you by the end of May, what I've just said. The passage that I've chosen from Luke is one that was brought to my attention forcefully last General Assembly, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, last May, just about a year ago. It was at the Lord's Supper service, and this text was preached. And I found myself really convicted and struck powerfully by that message and by this text to repent more deeply of my Pharisaic ways. And to see a larger view of Christ. And so I hope that God will be doing something like that in your heart as well, particularly this morning from this text. It's the parable of two men who go up to the temple to pray. One is a Pharisee, the other is a tax collector. Jesus contrasts everything about these two men. He contrasts what they say, he contrasts their posture, he contrasts how God responds to them. The problem is that you and I may not hear this parable at all like Jesus' hearers heard it. We may actually look at the Pharisee as a rather pompous Self-righteous, arrogant fellow, in contrast to the tax collector who is humble and honest, and we may find actually somewhat attractive in his humble demeanor. That would have not at all been the case with those that heard Jesus tell this parable. They would have assumed that the Pharisee was the good guy. The tax collector was the creep who was an IRS crook. So let's look at them. First of all, look at the Pharisee. Notice some things about this fellow Look again at verses 10 to 12. Jesus says, two men went up to the temple to pray. One a Pharisee, the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood up and prayed about himself, God, I thank you that I'm not like other men, robbers, evildoers, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week, and I give a tenth of all that I get. Fellow simply saying, Thank you, God, that I am honest. I don't cheat on my wife. I'm not like this sleazy crook of a tax collector here. The tax collectors, remember, were people who bought their office. They bid on it, the highest bidder. got the office for that district from the Roman government. And the tax collector looked at that as an investment because now he could collect the taxes for Rome and get whatever else he could pull off from the people on top of that for his own pockets, and he was able to steal from the people by the authority of the Roman government. So here was a fellow who had no scruples He sold out to the Roman government and he robbed his own people. So this fella is someone who is seen as despicable. Now you may look at the Pharisee and think that he's obnoxiously arrogant. But before you too quickly conclude that, let me call your attention to David, who we admire, David who wrote the Psalms. And you look at a psalm, for instance, like Psalm 15, where David says, Lord, who may dwell in your sanctuary? Who may live on your holy hill? He whose walk is blameless, and who does what is righteous, who speaks the truth from his heart? Verse 4 Who despises a vile man, but honors those who fear the Lord. Sounds a little bit like the Pharisee, doesn't it? Or you take Psalm 26, where David says, Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have led a blameless life. I've trusted you without wavering, talks about a number of things, and then down verse 5. I abhor the assembly of evildoers and refuse to sit with the wicked. I mean, come on. Who of us here hasn't at some point thanked God that you're not like somebody else that you see and say, Lord. Thank you that I am not in that person's situation. I don't behave like that. I'm not like that person who's homeless 'cause they are dealing drugs or they are using drugs. Their life has fallen apart. Thank you, God, that I am not like that. Right? See, there's there's a there's a razor's edge difference between Thank you, God, that all of your grace I am different from this person. And that subtle little sense of, thank you, God, that I am better than that person. Thank you that there's something in me that has made me able to overcome the temptation so that my life is a little better than the people around me. This fellow is a spiritual guy, you know, he He says he uh fasts twice a week. Bible doesn't command him to fast twice a week. Means he prays a lot It says I tithe everything I get. Does it mean just I tithe my salary? I tithe everything I get. Somebody gives me a gift. I tithe it. God's very God conscious Contrast him with this tax collector. Verse 13. The tax collector, Jesus says, stood at a distance. He wouldn't even look up to heaven. The Pharisees probably taking the typical Jewish posture of praying with his arms outstretched, looking up to heaven, to God. Not the Pharisees, I mean the tax collector. The Pharisee was probably up toward the front of where the people stood for this. I'll tell you about that in a moment. Probably up there in the front row. The tax collector, Jesus says, is at a distance. The Pharisee has to look back at this guy. Way back there in the gallery, you know. He doesn't lift his eyes. Jesus says he just stands there beating his breast and says, God, be merciful to me, the sinner. In fact, in the original, it's God be merciful to me, the sinner. God be merciful to me, the sinner. He's beating himself. The sign, the Jewish sign of grief and brokenheartedness. I mean, I don't know about you, but when's the last time I confessed my sin beating my breast with passion, saying, God be merciful to me, sinner. So these fellows are in utter contrast in all of their behavior, in their words. The prayer that the tax collector prays, but I want to think about this. Why did the tax collector pray that prayer? What prompted that? God, have mercy on me, the sinner. Why that prayer? To understand that, I think you have to understand something of the context of this parable. The parable says, Jesus says, these two men went up to the temple to pray. So that almost certainly means that they went up at the designated time for prayer. There were two times a day that were designated for prayer. They were at the morning and the evening sacrifice. The morning sacrifice was at the crack of dawn. The evening sacrifice was at three o'clock in the afternoon. So let's imagine that these guys are there at say about three o'clock in the afternoon when the evening sacrifice is taking place. They're gathered outside the holy place where the sacrifice actually takes place. Pharisees, I'm saying, is probably right up there at the front tax collector is in the back, but they can see what is going on in the holy place. Now what's going on? They are seeing nine priests come forward and these priests purify themselves to make a sacrifice. They then purify the altar, the altar of of the uh sacrifice of the lamb. Purifying it means they remove the ashes from the morning sacrifice, they remove any remains of the uh charred remains of the victim, get it all cleaned up, uh, and then they bring in this lamb. It's a one-year-old lamb It's been inspected, but now they do an official final inspection to make sure that it's perfect, no blemishes. It's given its last drink of water out of a golden bowl, it's brought forward, and one priest then takes a knife and slits its throat. Cuts the jugular veins so the blood gushes out, takes a golden bowl, gathers that blood in the bowl, then takes the bowl, takes his fingers, and sprinkles the blood on the sides of the altar. takes the rest of the blood and pours it around the base of the altar. Then another one of the priests, that's the six priests are involved doing that, of the three priests, one of them then comes forward. and takes a lighted, ignited fig piece of uh fig wood, takes that out of the uh fire that is now roasting the lamb on the altar of sacrifice takes that piece of wood, carries it over to the other altar, which is the altar of incense. He lights with that wood the incense. That incense, when it is ignited, produces a fragrant aroma, which is a symbol of prayers of God's people arising to him. As a pleasing, fragrant, acceptable aroma. Now, while all of this is going on, the Pharisee is going on about himself And what he has done and how he thanks God for how he's better than these other people. The tax collector makes the connection. Why do I say he makes the connection? Because the word he uses here for mercy is an unusual word. In fact, it's only used one other time in the New Testament, Hebrews 2. 17. It's a word which means to make atonement. It means to make a sacrifice that appeases the wrath of someone. So the tax collector makes the connection. The reason that those prayers can ascend to God and he be pleased with them is because it was lit from the fire from the blood of the Lamb. The only reason is because of God's mercy. I should be on that altar For what I have done to my people, for what I have done in my despicable behavior, this guy is like a Wall Street financier who has done everything simply for his own benefit, not thinking anything about the consequences or the repercussions on the people who he's leading down the path of financial destruction. He doesn't care about that. He looks at his life and he says, I should be on that altar. I should be that sacrifice. God, have mercy. That is, accept that sacrifice to appease your wrath. Which is what my life deserves. Take that in place of me. Have mercy on me. That's pretty insightful But you see, it distinguishes the real heart of what Jesus is saying about these two men The heart of the matter is that the Pharisee looked in at himself to what God had done in him as that which made him acceptable. The tax collector looks totally outside of himself to what God has done for him, not in him, for him in the sacrifice of the blood of the Lamb as the only basis for him to approach God. So, the word mercy, that's the blank under C, is a critical word to understand what Jesus is trying to say in this parable. Notice therefore, third point, who the parable is addressed to. Verse 9. To some who were confident of their own righteousness and looked down on everybody else, Jesus told this parable. To religious people who are confident of their own righteousness and therefore look down on, the word is a strong word, which means to despise, who despise other people. Jesus told this parable. These people were characterized by two things. Number one, their confidence was in their own goodness. What God had done in me. And B, they were therefore felt superior to and despised other people. They were always needing to compare themselves with other people and come out looking better. The Pharisee looks in himself to see whether God accepts him. He's better than the tax collector. Therefore, he's okay. He established his own record to put God in his debt God, you need to hear me because I've kept the rules. I've done what is necessary. The tax collector, on the other hand, has absolutely no record to claim. The only thing he has any hope in is the mercy of what he has seen occur on that altar. The blood of the Lamb for him. Therefore, there is a lesson in this for you and for me, one that I have been pondering for the years since I have heard this. On perhaps a little deeper level than I had before, namely, never, never, never look in yourself. For anything, it is a reason for God to accept you. Only look out of yourself To the finished work of the Lamb, Jesus Christ, for your acceptability. That is so obvious, but it becomes so very subtle. There is a gravitational pull for us to look at what God does in us rather than what God has done for us in order to feel peace and acceptance with Him. So what is the principle? Jesus starts in verse 9, who it's addressed to. He ends in verse 14 by giving you the conclusion and making the principle very clear. In verse 14, Jesus says, I tell you that this man, that is the tax collector, rather than the other, went home justified. before God. That is, he went home declared innocent, righteous, before God. For every one who exalts himself will be humbled, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. To get something of the of the thrust of that, the shock that that was to Jesus' hearers, think that he is saying that this self-righteous evangelical Goes to church and serves on five committees and is involved in all kinds of activities. This man did not go down justified. But the Wall Street financier, the Bernie Madoff, who repented and beat himself, saying, God be merciful to me of this in, that's the guy that went down justified. And you say, no, no, no, it don't work that way. That doesn't make sense. That's offensive. And that's what we said two weeks ago. The cross is offensive. It's not the way the world works. It's the way the gospel works. But our minds are always being pulled with a gravitational pull back toward the way the world works. What is there in me that makes me deserving? Rather than God be merciful, because the only reason, grounds of my coming before you, for my prayers to be a fragrant. Offering to you rather than an offense is the blood of the Lamb, what you have done for me. Everyone who exalts himself, why do we so need to exalt ourselves? Why do we do that? Why are we so anxious? Always exalt ourselves. Because we believe inside that we need to convince ourselves and to convince other people that we are worthy people, don't we? If I can get you to admire me, if I can get you to be impressed with me, then I can believe I'm a worthy person. That maybe God can accept me because I can impress Him too The problem with these things is as I say them, you say, well, of course I don't say that. You don't. But inside, do you think that? Do you function that way? Just kind of like a knee-jerk reaction I need to impress you so that I can believe that I am worthy. I've met the standard. I'm okay with you, therefore maybe I'm okay with God. The gospel says, stop deluding yourself. You will never measure up. And the gospel says that the thing that you and I, particularly as religious people, need to be most aware of. Is that it will not be our evil deeds that keep us from Christ. It's your good deeds that make him unnecessary to you. Until you see the heart of the Pharisee for what it is, a person who on the outside looks acceptable, spiritual, religious, fasting, tithing. Serving on the committees, doing all the right things, but with a heart that depends on that to be acceptable to God. You will not see the heart of what Jesus is saying here and the heart of true gospel peace. Brothers and sisters, I know my heart has a gravitational pull to needing to impress And to needing to bring my record of what God has done in me to make me acceptable before Him. And I'm ashamed of it. So how does it speak to you and to me? Let me ask the question you see in the outline. How do I seek to justify and exalt myself? That's the question I have thought about for this last year. I've made this verse, Luke 18, verse 14, my verse for 2010. And think about it. Ask yourself that question. How do you seek to justify and exalt yourself? Some thoughts for my own life that perhaps you can identify with. I justify my actions and I blame shift my faults. It is so hard for me to simply admit that I'm wrong. So hard for me to simply say that what I did was my fault. No excuses, no minimizing of the sin, but to simply see it for what it is In the middle hour, some of us are studying Paul Miller's book of Praying Life. In that book he says that his wife wanted to buy him a t-shirt that said, often wrong, but never uncertain. And I thought of a t-shirt that perhaps my wife should get for me. Often wrong, but goes down fighting. That's the way I am. That's the way my heart is. So hard to simply admit I'm wrong. Or secondly, to notice how I focus on the sins of other people rather than on my own. So I find Christ's sacrifice only vaguely interesting and pertinent. Because it's so easy for me to describe in detail the weaknesses of other people. It's so easy. And you ask me, well, what are your weaknesses? Well, I'm not perfect, but I'm trying. And I somehow get uncomfortably vague. And I miss the fact that while I am impatient with the faults of others, My God is so patient with my faults. Somebody asked me after the first service, they said I was really convicted by my criticalness to other people. But what do I do? What do I think when that happens? I said it's the gospel. You simply think at that point, I know your problems, I know your faults, but you know what? God knows mine perfectly. I'm only guessing at yours. Because I can see what you do, and I can guess at your heart. But God knows my motives and my thoughts perfectly. And He is so patient with me. How can I depend on his patience so much and be so impatient with you? I read just this week somewhere and I don't even remember where it was, this statement. His patience with us is one of his least recognized attributes. How often do you thank God for his patience with you? If I start thinking about that, it's hard to be so impatient and critical with other people, isn't it? I am, until God gets a hold of my heart, to look outside of myself to the blood of the Lamb, to see that as the basis of his patience. So I'm critical of others so that I will feel better about myself. That's what he says in verse 9. Told this to those who are confident in their own righteousness and look down on other people. Despising others. Let me tell you, you want to know if you have the heart of a Pharisee? I'll give you one infallible test. Are you critical of other people? If you are critical of other people, that infallibly reflects the heart of a Pharisee. That's what Jesus says. To those who were confident in their own righteousness and therefore were critical, looked down on, despised, felt superior to other people. That doesn't mean that we're not discerning, that we say, well, I just don't ever look at any problems, and anybody does anything no matter how bad I just Just block it out of my mind. No, it doesn't say that at all. It says when I see that in that person, my heart is to help them. How can I cooperate with the Holy Spirit? To be able to help you in this area is totally different from simply criticizing. So I feel superior to people. And the worst one is to feel superior to people who are not reformed. I find one of the most ironic and ugly pictures to be that of a proud and critical reformed Christian. who is proud of the fact that he understands the doctrines of grace that says, I have nothing to offer. It is all mercy. And I'm proud that I understand that and you don't. Brothers, we can laugh at ourselves, but that that is a travesty. It's it's you know what it says is that it's not a matter of understanding. We think, oh, it's a matter of getting a grasp on the doctrines of grace. No. No, you can understand the doctrines of grace. It's a matter of the doctrines of grace moving from my mind to my heart. Because when they get in my heart, then I don't feel superior. In fact, feeling superior would look ugly. It would just, it's repulsive. Grace humbles. The way you know God's grace is at work in you is that you are a humble person. And when I see pride and self-centeredness and needing to impress and make a point, it's saying, I've got the heart of the Pharisee. So finally, the question I've been asking myself is as I look at conversations that I'm involved in What's the focus of those conversations? Do I focus on myself, looking for my turn? You tell me a story. It's either a story that made you happy or it was a trial, it was something. And while you're doing that, I hit the search button on my Google in my brain that goes through the files of all my stories All the ones that are similar, to see if I can outdo your story. Oh yeah, that's nothing, but you know, one time I See, just needing to impress you, to call attention to myself. It's pathetic. It reveals a heart that's spiritually bankrupt. It's saying that if I can somehow impress you rather than loving you. Then I can walk away feeling better about myself. I mean how pathetic is that? I'm not walking away thinking, did I show Christ? Did I give you a larger view of Him? Did I encourage your faith? Did I encourage your heart? No. Did I impress you? Ah, that's what's important. Lord, I thank you that I'm not like other people. So what do you do? What do you do? If God's convicting your heart, if he's saying, yeah, that's what you're like, yeah You're as bad as that guy. And he's pretty pathetic. What do you do? You look at your heart honestly. So I pray to do in my heart And as you look at your heart, you then realize why it is always bondage. To be trying to establish superiority by the way you think or feel toward other people compared to other people And rather you look away, away, outside of yourself, outside of your heart, to the blood of the Lamb. And you see the connection between the sacrifice of the blood of the Lamb and the igniting of the incense that makes the prayers acceptable to God. Say, God, keep my gaze upon Jesus. Can you imagine a church of people Who were so aware of the pharisaical tendencies of their heart that we were constantly repenting and looking away to the blood of the Lamb. Finding our freedom and our joy in the finished work of Christ. The climate of grace. That exudes from such community. People would come and they would see and they would say, How do you get to be part of this community? What's what's going on here? I don't understand this. I haven't seen people treat each other in this kind of a grace-filled atmosphere. Can't manufacture it. You just probe more deeply into the gospel. That's what we're going to try and do these three weeks. Probe more deeply into the radical roots of grace. Because grace Is seen in humble people. Let's pray. Lord, how we long for that How we confess before you right now, we want to exalt ourselves. We can't wait for the benediction, so afterwards we can exalt ourselves to other people. Get into conversations to impress people with what we know, what we've done, who we are. Oh Lord, turn, turn our eyes to see the sacrifice that was offered. The sacrifice on the altar, the blood of the Lamb, once slain. So that our lives are a pleasing offering to you because of his sacrifice. It's our only hope, but a sufficient hope. God, be merciful to me, the sinner Lord, keep us from looking into ourselves. In order to see whether we're acceptable to you, but to learn to look out of ourselves To the finished work of Jesus Christ, the one perfect sacrifice, to see what you did for us. As the basis of our peace and our joy with you. Amen.