Good morning. If you have your Bibles, I would encourage you to turn to 1 Peter chapter 3. We're going to look at 1 Peter 3 verses 1 through 7 again and continue our study of this passage. But before we do so, let me open us in prayer. Father, we do come to you absolutely dependent. As we look at our hearts, as we look at your calling, as we look at Failures and successes. Lord Jesus, we depend upon you. And so we ask that you would be with us this morning as you speak to us through your word. That you would open eyes and hearts and minds, and that you would transform us. For with you we have hope. Without you we are hopeless. And so we pray this, Jesus, in your most precious name. Amen. Last week we looked at the hope that we have in Jesus and the hope that 1 Peter talks about multiple times throughout the letter. Today there want to remind us again of the present hope, but I want to I want to take three particular points as we look at this section of Scripture. The first is a quick reminder of the present hope that we have in Christ that he is the source of our well-being. Secondly, I want to look at the calling that we have, in this case, particularly looking at the issue of marriage. There's a much broader sense of calling that we've got, but in this particular passage, Peter links our calling as husbands and wives with our hope. And I think that's a really precious truth. And then lastly to look at what God accomplishes as He causes us to live out our calling. As we begin this morning, I want to recognize that some of you aren't married. And in fact, some of you who aren't married have come out of difficult marriages, marriages that were so painful that they ended. Some of you have lost spouses. Some of you are married, the bulk of the people here that are adults are married, and some of you have troubled marriages. Some of you are singles and wish you could get into a marriage, troubled or not. Some of you are dating and are wondering whether you will be getting into a marriage. Some of you are young enough as boys and girls that the idea of dating is repulsive. And we we come from a variety of places this morning as we look at this passage, but the truths of this passage speak to us all. So let's look at what Peter has to say. Likewise, wise. Be subject to your own husbands, so that, even if some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct. Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of clothing, but let your adornment be the hidden person of the heart. With the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves by submitting to their husbands as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. And you are her children if you do good, and do not fear anything that is frightening. Likewise, husbands Live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. Again, I want to make three points. I want to take us to the present hope that we experience. I want us to look at the calling to live righteously, particularly the calling in this passage for husbands and wives. And also what God accomplishes as He leads us to live righteously. But to begin with, we have to look at the fact that we have a present hope. We looked at this in depth last week. I don't want to try and repeat much of that, but I do want us to look at the source of our hope. We have hope today because God has redeemed us and given us new life. We're more than we were when we came to Christ. For when we came to Christ, we we were fallen creatures who had a sinful nature and no hope. And what we're told by the New Testament is that in Christ I'm a new creature. In Galatians 2, Paul says that that as I have come to Christ, I am a new creature, and that I'm more than I was, and that the life that I live in Christ, I live by faith in Christ. Let me read to you Galatians chapter 2, verse 20. Paul says, For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself up for me. I'm a new creature. Every one of you who are in Christ are new creatures, and you are more than you were. Because you have the Spirit. You have a new life. And as Peter says in chapter 1, you have been born again to a living hope. Your sins are dealt with. Now, clearly, there's a continuing consequence of your sin, but your sins are dealt with. And he has redeemed you and given you a new life. Secondly, we have present hope because, like Christ, we can trust God to judge justly. We we know that in the future God is going to make all things right, that there will be a judgment and a vindication of righteousness and a punishment of sin. He's going to bring about the new heavens and the new earth. But it isn't merely a future judgment that he gives us. Because Christ, who trusted himself in suffering Trusted himself to the Father who judges justly and is our first fruits of God's judgment. Because Jesus didn't simply Die on the cross and wait then for eternity, for for the judgment to come to be vindicated on the third day he rose from the dead. On the third day, God vindicated Christ to the world and demonstrated his righteousness. Today, God convicts the sinner, and he vindicates the righteous. Now, my sinful heart wants to move into those situations that I can clearly articulate where I am the one who has been sinned against And God is going to vindicate me as the righteous one and judge the sinner who's wounded me. But the truth of the matter is, God so loves me that he judges my sin. and vindicates my righteousness because I don't know of a time where I have not sinned and been righteous at the same time. Different ways, different issues. But in any conflict Any any stress, any failure, there's always some right and some wrong. God loves me so much that He will transform me. He will deal with my sin at the same time that He vindicates His righteousness at work in me. We have present hope because we trust ourselves to the one who judges justly and we can trust that he will shape us. I know he will shape me. He's in the process of doing it. When I'm convicted of my sin, God shapes me to have a greater hatred for my sin, to see the consequences of my failures, to see the price other people pay. and to hate it. And it gives me a greater longing and love for righteousness, a greater desire to be like him. And he does that because he is the one who judges justly even in me. One of the things we're going to look at in the passage today is the calling that we have as husbands and wives. But he calls us to be better husbands. He calls us to be better wives. He calls us to be better parents. He calls us to be better children. He calls us to be better Employees He calls us to be better citizens. As a matter of fact, in this section of verses, he talks first about submitting to political authority. He calls us to be good citizens. Then he speaks of submitting to masters, even unrighteous masters. He calls us to be good employees. Then he speaks of the example Christ gives us, where he suffers righteously. In spite of the fact that he should be honored, he's crucified. And he does so because Jesus knows the Father will judge rightly. And then he moves into this passage where he's calling us. And so our hope shapes us. Our hope gives us the opportunity to trust him, not only because he judges justly, but also because God gives us the Holy Spirit. Ezekiel chapter thirty-six God says of his redeeming work in us I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules. The Spirit is there to guide us, but also to shape us, to empower us, to make us more. The Spirit gives me the strength to do what I know to be right, because He has shown me that it's right. Through the Word and through the Spirit indwelling in me. You have the same spirit. You have the same word. But I do want to make a point about where our hope is not. Because while this is true, this is the source of our hope, my heart wants to go when I read 1 Peter 3 to believe that my hope is also in the fact that As a husband, if I love my wife, she will be transformed and submit. Perhaps you might think if you're a wife that if you submit to your husband in the way Peter and God teach that you should Your husband will be transformed and love you, and you're better. Life is good because your husband loves you or because your wife submits. But your hope is not in your circumstances. And you can't change another person You can't change their heart. You can't even change their behavior And so God wants you to recognize today that He does not want you to live in an attitude of codependency that says, I am okay if you will love me. I am okay if you will submit. God does not want you to give your heart to unbelief that says your well-being comes from anything other than Him. Because he's enough. I know that there has been some confusion, and there always will be, about the whole idea of what it means to believe that God is enough. Many of you have heard me quote Isaiah 30, 15 and have heard me talk about that when you see your sin, God calls you to repent and to rest. And we love to think of Rust as passivity But in this particular passage, as Peter is combining the idea of hope and our calling, it's really clear. that our hope frees us to be more. To devote ourselves without reservation To being husbands who love their wives, wives who submit to their husbands, citizens who obey authority, employers who give their their best And people who can suffer even when they've done what's right. Our hope does not give us license to sit back and be passive. And I want to take you to the beginning of 1 Peter to see again what Peter has laid as a groundwork for this, because in chapter 1, he speaks again about hope in verse 13. And I think this sets the tone for the whole idea of how I can give myself as a husband, and how you who are wise can give yourself as wives, and how you, my brothers who are married, can give yourself to your wives. Peter says in chapter 1, verse 13: Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that is brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. There's an active command that says hope. And it says hope in this thing, hope in the grace God gives you, as He has revealed Himself as the Savior who redeems you. But he goes on. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. Let me take you through this briefly because it's necessary to understand this, to understand our calling. It sounds in the English like God is saying to you, you are to become holy. The command is to set your hope on the grace given to you. That's an active command. There's a passive command that says, be holy. In verse 15, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy. That's a passive command. It's really in a sense saying, Let me do the work in you to make you holy. And it's followed up in verse 16 by a future indicative. That means God is describing what we will be. God is saying, you shall be holy. Some of your translations may say you must be holy. In the English, we translate this poorly. But what's being said is, you will become holy. You will be holy because I am now holy. And I will make you holy. It's a promise. It's a promise that we can set our hope in. But it's a promise that says, rest is so much more than sitting on your duff. Rest is trusting yourself To my strength, to my guidance, and being the people I've called you to be. For you see, God calls us to live righteously. To command. It's over and over in the New Testament. It's not something we can escape, but it is not something we do in our strength. You shall be holy, for I am holy. God is at work to change us. God does not love us so little that He will save us for heaven and leave us in sin. Sin is not something attractive, it is deadly. It is destructive, it kills. And so God in His love for you wants you to be more. Today, he's saying, wives, submit to your husbands. You're to follow your husband's leadership. We live in a culture that is focused on independence, focused on self-sufficiency, focused on our autonomy. In other words, I'm my own boss. We want no one to tell us what we are to do. Men, women, children. We want to be our own bosses. That's the desire of our sinful hearts And so for someone to come and say that we are to allow someone else to tell us what to do goes against our culture. It goes against our nature. But sisters, God is telling you to submit to your husbands. That's hard enough. And if you don't have hope in Jesus, you can't do that. But it gets worse. It's more difficult than simply submitting to husbands, because Peter tells us in this passage: so that even if some do not obey the word He tells you to submit to your husband even if they are ungodly. Now I want to straighten some things out here because God is not saying to any wife that she is to follow her husband in sin. God does not call you to obey one command by disobeying another God is not calling you as a wife to follow an ungodly husband into the sin that he commits, but he is calling you to be a mirror He is calling you not for your husband's comfort, but for his good. He's calling you to submit where you can. As long as your husband is leading you within the bounds of Scripture. You may disagree with what he's decided. But if it's biblical, God has called you to follow. I do understand that for some of you sitting in this congregation, that that is an excruciating idea. Because some of you husbands Are wounding your wives. But for you wives who have been wounded, the calling is to trust in Jesus, not your husband, and not yourself. Because you have one who judges justly, and you have one who loves you desperately It even gets harder. Because not only are to you to submit to men who do not in their own right deserve your submission, you're to submit from the heart. Peter says, Let not your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, the wearing of gold, or the putting on of clothing, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart. With the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, God calls you to submit from your heart. And I want you to feel the weight of this. I long for you to feel the weight of this. Because the truth of the matter is, you can't submit to anyone in your own strength. You certainly can't submit to someone who is not righteous. Or submit in times where they are unrighteous, and you certainly can't even do that externally, much less from the heart. Jesus is speaking to you through Peter and saying, Your only hope is to cling to me. He's making it so clear that the calling he's giving you is utterly impossible, that if you don't cling to Jesus, you have no hope. And you won't obey. And so the first message is cling to Jesus. Hold on to him. Because he is the one to whom you can submit. He is the one who will transform you and make your calling. Real. Lastly, for you wives in submitting, you are to do it in ways your husband recognizes without being told. If you set yourself to it, you may find a good man to whom you can submit. You may find good things in your husband to which you will submit when you say no to other things that you believe to be wrong. to be sinful. You may be able to do that with external actions and be distant and cold in your heart And you may be able to do it with enough distance that he doesn't know who you are. But the truth of the matter is, the calling God gives you is to be so deeply connected. That what is real in your heart is known by your husband. What is real in your heart is submission. Godly trust that you are so connected to your husband that he knows your heart. And it is precious and beautiful in the sight of the Lord. I want to reiterate, you can't make this happen. The Spirit must work in your heart and in your spouses. But I want you to see what Well it's clear here, because there is a connection to your heart and your behavior. In Luke 6, Jesus says this for there is no good tree which produces bad fruit. Nor, on the other hand, a bad tree which produces good fruit. For each tree is known by its own fruit, for men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they pick grapes from a briar bush. The good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth what is good. And the evil man out of the evil treasure brings forth what is evil. For his mouth speaks from that which fills his heart. How you submit Will be visible. The heart that you have will be demonstrated in the works that you do. What Jesus is saying is this Your inner identity, your inner person is visible in how you live. In the case that he's speaking of here, it is words that demonstrate. But the fruit of your heart is visible Husbands, love your wives. If you think that it's easier on the husbands in this passage than it is on the wives, I I want to challenge you because There are some truths that are just overwhelming about how Jesus is speaking to you, husbands. You are to love your wives. You are to love them as Christ loves the church. In in in a parallel passage in Ephesians 5, Paul talks about marriage and he talks about the role of the husband and the role of the wife. And Paul says, love your wife as Christ loves the church. Peter, on the other hand, tells us a couple of key points. The number one that he mentions is live with your wives in an understanding way. Brothers who are married, you are to be students of your wife. And that doesn't mean that you study them objectively from the outside at a distance I believe what it means is that you are to know their hearts as much as the Lord will allow you. I believe that it means that you are to know are they growing in grace I'm not asking whether they're reading the word. I'm not asking whether they're spending time in prayer, although those are important things. But for you to understand your wife means that you know whether she's growing in grace, whether she's living in hope. Does your wife experience the present hope that God gives us? Does she delight in the work of Christ in her life? Is she blooming as a beautiful woman of God that He intends for her to be? Are they free to use their gifts in ministry in the home and in the church? What do they think, feel, or believe about your marriage? What do they believe and feel and think about you as a husband? How's their relationship with Jesus? What do they dream about? What longings does God call you to play a role in fulfilling for them? Husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. And if you feel the weight of that one command, you know your absolute, complete, desperate need for Jesus. You are hopeless to do this apart from Christ. God has given you a tremendous gift in your wife. And he calls you to respond to that gift with understanding. Husbands, love your wives and honor them. This translation, the ESV, says, Showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life. I think the Greek is a little bit more effectively understood if you understand that what it's saying is showing honor to your wife because she is a co-heir of grace. I think it focuses us back more on the fact that your wife belongs to Jesus and she is his bride. Brothers, Jesus died because he loves your wife To save her. She is his bride. And he will not treat lightly. Any disrespect to his bride. Do you love your wife understanding and honoring her? Are you loving your wife the way Jesus demands that you love her? Do you feel the weight? Your absolute dependence upon Christ because of his calling You have a choice. You can ignore the calling and have a faulty view of Rust. You can minimize the calling and attempt to fulfill it in your own strength. Or you can recognize the profound depth of calling that Jesus gives you as wives and as husbands And recognize that only in the context of hope, because God has redeemed you and because the Spirit is at work in you, that you can give yourself without fear to the fulfillment of the calling. The third point I want to look at as we see this passage is what God does through our obedience. God uses our obedience to bring about husbands growing in grace. God intends to work in us to make us more. The gospel is at work in us so that we become men who are won by our wives' behavior without a word. God works through our wives. Again, this is not the wives' ultimate goal. But women, as you wives, as you love your husbands and submit to them, God is at work in them to transform them. And God is going to use your wifely obedience. To win your husband. Secondly, husbands growing in grace because the Holy Spirit convicts them directly of their need to love their wife. God gives you his spirit, God gives you his word, God gives you the calling, and in the context of hope you can devote yourself fully to that. God will work and transform you. God loves you so much, He will save you from sin. God also brings about wives growing in grace, because the Holy Spirit will directly convict them of their need to submit from the heart. The Holy Spirit is at work in you. And husbands, if you want to help your wife to grow in grace and grow in being the woman God calls her to be, your calling is not to tell her to submit, your calling is to give her this. freedom to grow in her faith and her love for Jesus. And the Spirit will work in her. Your calling is to give her love that will free her to focus on growing in Christ because you've provided a foundational environment of love that frees her from having to worry about taking care of herself. You draw her to Jesus, and you love him and her together. And the ultimate outcome is God's glory. God brings about his glory because you cling to him and he transforms you. You throw yourself without reservation or without safety net into being the man or the woman he calls you to be. Whether it's as a husband or a wife in this passage, or whether it's as a citizen, whether it's as an employee, whether it's as a parent. Whether it's as a friend, whether it's simply as a man or a woman or a a a a boy or a girl, God calls you throughout Scripture to things you cannot do in your own strength Because he wants you to see that you absolutely desperately depend upon him for your very breast. For the way that you live your life day to day. And the outcome of that is an incredible intimacy with God. That that doesn't have quiet times because you're supposed to, that doesn't have obedience to commands because you're afraid of condemnation, that it doesn't have a life lived out of duty because To see the law by love fulfilled, to hear his pardoning voice, transforms a slave into a child and duty into choice. God frees you and empowers you and moves you. To intimacy with Him and obedience. In the context of our hope, we have callings that God hasn't worked to accomplish in us. And the outcome of that is both my intimacy with him, your intimacy with him, and his glory. The chief end of man is to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. Let's pray. Jesus, we do not want to minimize your commands and attempt them in our own strength. We do not want to ignore them. And pretend that we're okay. Lord Jesus, we long to see you clearly, to hold on to you, to cling to you, and know that at the very instant we cling to you, that you cling to us. And that we're in your hand and we are safe. But to know as well that you call us To serve, to obey, and to please you in ways that are absolutely impossible in our own strength And Lord Jesus, we long to be husbands who love in understanding and honoring our wives. We long, Lord Jesus, to be wives who submit in faith. Because you have done and are doing and will do your work in us. Lord Jesus, we so desperately need you. We don't want to go a moment without you. So show us our need. Show us your presence and your promise that we will be holy because you are holy and you are making us holy. In your precious name we pray. Amen.