Many of you know of Doctor Kook, our Surgeon General for our country, a real advocate for the rights of the unborn and the weak, a pioneer in the area of surgery for children who have uh deformities and other such things. A wonderful man. And yet his son was mountain climbing. He slipped and fell, the Python came out or something, and fell to his death. And the skeptic Christianity says you say you have a great God that is all powerful. Why didn't he stop that from happening? Could he have kept that python in the rock? There's an answer for that. A friend of mine, Mike. bowler, killed in Beirut by a sniper's bullet came through his head a year and a half ago. He had n he had two children, never seen the younger child. He had been out for several months. And the skeptic of Christianity says not only you say your God is great and all powerful, but you say he's good. Why does he allow things like that to happen if he if he is good? Don't give me that stuff about it's a result of sin in the world. Maybe in that case and living on all the fighting and the hate and the sin. But what about the famines and the earthquakes and all the other things we see that aren't directly attributed to sin? You say, We have a great God, you have a great God, and he is good, and they say We don't see it. Well, they're right about one thing, and that's that our world is full of suffering and affliction. It's all around us. The world is not as God intended it to be originally. Each of us has experienced affliction. At different times and every one of us will. There's one preacher that said, if you preach a sermon on suffering and affliction, you will touch every pew. And the only reason that's not right in our church is that we don't have pews. But it's true that every one of us, if we haven't, we will. And we all have to varying degrees. We have work frustrations, boyfriend, girlfriend frustrations. They may seem little to some others who are going through one afflictions that are greater. But those things seem very great when we're going through them. Marriage problems. struggles that bring tears and agony. Raising children is not easy. It's hard. It's tough. One frustrated father said, is there any life after adolescence as you struggle with his teenage son? Sometimes even that. Raising children are affliction. There's loneliness. There's sickness and suffering. Some you read people, some here that may be afflicted for all of life with different kinds of sickness. And we say, and the critic says, Is God good? Is he really powerful? We see death itself. Even amongst us, we see children, parents, grandparents, spouses, and we might even ask ourselves sometimes, is God really great? And is he really good? Well, contrary to those two arguments, the critics, the classic critical arguments, is God powerful? Either he's not powerful or he's not good or both. We say here in Romans 8, to the contrary, the very two things that they criticize. us on are the two things that we can go to and know that we do have certain hope. Because God is powerful, all powerful, and he is good. We're going to read Romans 8, verses 28 to the end of the chapter. I want you kids to listen here now. I I noticed at the Calvert's house when we were there for dinner one Sunday afternoon they asked questions about the sermon. So I'm gonna give your parents a couple of questions to ask you today. You might do those sometimes, parents. First What are the two points of the sermon? Okay? It's real easy. I made it easy for you. God is great and God is good. Okay. But the rest isn't and we thank you for us, that's far as I'm going. God is great, God is good. But the perfect question parents to ask How does that give us hope in affliction? That's a little harder. You have to think about that. If anybody doesn't get the first question of the kids, I don't want their names on my desk, here's the morning. Okay? God is great and God is good. God is sovereign and is in total control. of all things. That should be God is great, not um good is great. There. I think that was a uh you've heard of Freudian slips, that's a I call it a Calvinian slip. But uh it underscores the Point two shows the closeness of God with his goodness. Romans eight verse twenty eight. And we know that in all things God works for the good. Of those who love him, who have been called according to To this purpose. For those God foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the likeness of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those he predestined, he also called. Those he called he also justified. Those he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son. but gave him up for us all, how would he not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Who will bring a charge against those whom God has chosen? It is God who justifies. Who is he that condemns? Christ Jesus who died, more than that, who was raised to life, is at the right hand of God, and is also interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine or nakedness? Or danger or sword. As it is written, For your sake we face death all day night. We are considered as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels, nor demons, neither the present, nor the future, nor any powers, neither height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. We do believe in our church that the Bible is the Word of God, the only infallible rule of faith and practice. My father was He was in the hospital. Looked like he was gonna lose his leg. He was an athlete. He loved sports. He was questioning God and his goodness. He knew the Lord, loved the Lord. It was hard. On top of that, he got word that his his brother, Uncle Dan, was just killed in World War Two. He was a Marine pilot. And on top of it, he sat in the hospital bed and said, Got the word, his leg, his uncle, he was Overwhelmed and he said, This God could. Can I really hope that? And he went to Romans 8:28, which he knew by heart, and he worked through it, and he had to come to say, Yes, I don't understand it, but I know. That God is good, that He does work all things together for good, to those who love Him and to those that are called according to His purpose. This is what the Bible teaches from front to the end. It speaks of God's God's providence, pro-video, to see before. God sees before, and not only does he see before, but he ordains what is to happen. He is controlled in control of all things, and we're going to see how that is great comfort to us as Christians, that we can trust. that our good God is in complete control of all things. Matthew 10, 29, we're told that the sparrows, not one of them can fall apart from his will. Not one of them can fall apart from his will. He ordains it and he is in control of it. Spurgeon, the great Baptist preacher, said, God is so powerful and in control of all things that is the leaf falls that he has ordained the very spot where it lands. That's the kind of God that we have that is in such control of his universe. Nothing that is out of his control. Now this is hard for us. We don't like that in some ways. We fight against it. We might want to take the edge off it, even though it says that he ordains where that that none of that sparrow can't fall apart from his will. say, well God lets it happen. Can I ask you if he lets it happen? Does he know everything that's going to happen? Is he omniscient or not? As Psalm 139 says, does he not know the thoughts on our minds before they even come? Does he not know where that leaves us gonna fall if we say that he doesn't, he is not God. He's not the God of the Bible. He he does know. And if he knows, could he stop it? Could he change it? Could he stop that affliction? Could he change where that leaf of Lamb? Could he have stopped my uncle? and be killed. And we're forced to say, yes, he could have. And either passively or actively, really those are just words to help us, but we have to say that God does ordain it. And he is sovereign. And he is in perfect control. It's hard for us, but we see it all through the Bible. The story of Esther. Love the story. Over here is Haman. And Haman is wicked, evil, and he's plotting the death of Mordecai, one of God's children, one of the Jewish leaders. there in captivity and as Haman over here he builds the gallows to kill Haman or to kill Mordecaion. Is that an accident that he's building those gallows? Over here we have Mordecai we have the king. And that night, while the gallows are being built, the king can't sleep. Is that an accident? And he's reading from the history of their kingdom there. And he reads how a Jew named Mordecai had intervened in a plot to overthrow the kingdom. King. And he says, What have we done for Mordecai? And they say, Nothing. And he says, We need to do something for Mordecai. He calls Haman in, says, Haman, what do you think we should do for somebody that I really want to honor? And Haman. Haman thinks it's him. And Haman says, Well let's put one of your best robes on him and let's uh take one of your leading princes and lead him through the streets on one of your great horses. And the king says, That's a great idea, Haman. He said, you go do that for Mordecai. Give him one of my robes, and you lead him through the streets. So here's Haman, who is going to kill Mordecai on his gallows, and he's leading Mordecai through the streets. in the king's robe. Was that an accident, friends? Or did God ordain every single piece of that of that little puzzle there? And not only that, the very gallows that Haman built, he was later hung on because of his wickedness. Is God sovereign or isn't he? The whole book of Esther, that story, good story for family devotions. He doesn't the the writer doesn't even mention God. And yet God's providence is shouted throughout the book in all of the circumstances and God working in them. What about a story of a group of men, evil men who plotted to kill someone? The greatest evil that has ever been done on the face of this earth. Not just a simple man, but they plotted to kill those. Bury, son of God. Was that an accident? Could it not have happened? Turn with me to Acts twenty two, please. I mean Acts two. Acts two twenty two. I know some I bring this verse up a lot, but this whole thought, really uh this is my third time using it, I think, either in Sunday school or worship, but this is powerful. Acts 22. Now we may not like this, but friends, it's He says it. Acts 2, 22, and 23. Men of Israel, it says Peter's sermon. Listen to these words. Jesus, the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs, which God performed through him in your midst. Just as you yourselves know. Now watch this. This man delivered up how? By the predetermined plan or NIV, the set purpose and full knowledge of God. Who did it? You a cross by the the hands of godless men and put him to death. Was it an accident? Could it not have happened as God purposed from the before the foundation of the world? We see a great mystery here, hard for us to understand. And yet we see the greatness of God's love as he ordains what will happen. This group of men plotted evil, and yet God turns even sin to the greatness of good for his people. There is much mystery here. God is so sovereign, so powerful, that he takes the actions of men and women, even their sin, which they did willfully in a responsible manner. for and he works it all together for his good purposes. Now that is sovereignty. Everything. We say, well I don't like that. Human responsibility, yet God's sovereignty. It's a mystery. It both are there side by side. And we want to back off on it. We say, well maybe semi sovereignty. Yeah it had to happen. Christ had to die. But maybe it could have been other men or maybe it could have been the day before or the day after. It could have been the day before. It couldn't have been the day after. As those Passover lambs were being killed, the lamb slain from the foundation of the world was slain there on the cross. It couldn't have been hours earlier, it couldn't have been hours later. It happened the way God ordained it. And Aren't we Yes, it's hard. There is mystery there, and we'll talk about putting that together in a little bit. But we see God's great sovereignty. He works together for good. To those who love him. and are called according to his purpose. The word there in Romans 8 28, where it says he works together for good. The Greek word is like a cooperating together, and we see it in God's providence. Even that he can take sin and evil and bring it together for good. And for whom does he do it? The verse is clear. For his people, those who love him, and are called according to his purpose. There's a qualification on who things do work together. for good for us. And we'll see that a little bit later. Is this practical Christianity or not? It's kind of hard for us sometimes, isn't it? I've always heard that God's sovereignty And his control of all things should be the greatest of comfort to us. And yet it was really hard for me to buy that for a while and to see how that really has come about. But I think I've discerned this a deep thought. But you know, if everything was an accident, we would go around we could go around paranoid. the root gegan on us. You know, we we have to constantly be worried is this tree in the forest gonna fall on me. But no, it's not like that. Yes, we have to be precautious and the Bible clearly says not to presume upon God. But as we go about life in a responsible way. We can trust that He is in control. It's free for us. It really can let us be free as we live in this life. That's practical. Another application is we really need to remember how God has done that in the past. Some of you right now may be going through things. It's hard to to really reckon with that. Oh, with some of the struggles. It's hard to get them from our head to our heart, some of these truths. And yet we need to look back and remember how God has shown his hand and his Faithfulness in the past where you have seen it, both in the word and in your personal experiences. We need to help others to see his faithfulness and goodness. That's why we're having a time of testimony afterwards, that we can encourage each other. But yes, there was a time when it was hard To get it from my head to my heart, but I've seen God do it, and I've seen his hand in my life, and he is a comfort, and I can say, Yes, God is great, and God is good. Yet there wouldn't be any comfort, wouldn't If only God was great and in perfect control, if He wasn't also good. The greatest of goodness. And we see, yes, that God is good. And we see the certainty of it. This passage shall Of the certainty of God's goodness. Verse 28, it's out of the certainty of his control. We know that God causes all things. Look at verse 38. Paul says, I am convinced. And he gives the laundry list of things that are beyond the thing. Beyond a shadow of a doubt, we know there is certainty there. The biblical teaching of the certainty of God's love and goodness. The whole Bible, the story of redemption, it tells of his great love for us. If it teaches his greatness. The Bible teaches his greatness and sovereignty. It shouts of his goodness and his grace from beginning to end. In the Old Testament course I taught last semester, uh uh last quarter in Sunday school, in a fresh way the goodness of God came through to me. You know, we often think of the Old Testament as the of the uh anger of God and his wrath, the goodness shouted to me louder than his righteous wrath, is we see a sinful people constantly going away from God. And God being patient and merciful in all going further to to yield to their weaknesses and to let them have patience and mercy that he shows to them he is so good. When we ask the question, why does a good God allow anything To go wrong. Like R. C. Spohl said in the video we had Sunday night, he says, we're asking the wrong question. The question is, why does God let any of us live another second in view of our sin? That's the question. of our thoughts. Reflecting on this, thinking of some of the thoughts that I've had in my life. But maybe I shouldn't share some of those things. Yeah, I'm I'm amazed at the things that I think sometimes. And I'm amazed I'm trying to live a better life. trying to follow Christ. But some of the things, not just that I do, my thoughts, they would be enough to condemn me and the that God would be perfectly just and sending me to hell and I ask the question, why? Do I have affliction and suffering? But God allows me to go on. And has shown his goodness in so many ways, speaks of his goodness. It's asking the wrong question when we say why does God allow these things to happen? Why is he so good to us? His goodness is seen in so many ways. In the scripture and also in the present life. We see it now. God does give us glimpses of his goodness even in affliction. I love the story, Genesis uh the of Joseph and his brothers. And you know, the classic line there, his br you know, all this evil, Joseph surely as he's in the pit. Surely he wasn't well maybe he was thinking, Oh God, you're gonna work all things together for good. But Joseph is there in the pit. They take him away, he's done wrong over and over again. Looks like it's good for a while, then it turns bad, and finally God uses it to bring a great deliverance. And Joseph's brothers come before him shaking and they're afraid. And the great line there in Genesis 50, verse 20, and he says to his brothers who are scared, You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. to save many people alive. And that's how God does. He's so great and so good that he even turns the evil of his brothers to be something that delivered them. And he doesn't even do that in our lives. I think of things when I've gotten away from the Lord and sin. God has even taken my Sin. Long as it was, responsible as I was, and his sovereignty is so great that he can weave it in the tapestry of my life to make it good for his glory in the long run and the lives of other people. He is so He works together for his good purposes. I told you of my Uncle Dan, who had been killed, and the agony my father had. Seventeen years later in 1962, a little airplane that had been given in honor of my uncle, who was a pilot, to A missionary, a medical missionary in Africa, that plane for years had flown medicine in and out, had saved people, was used, countless numbers came to Christ, their bodies were healed because the church got together and set that plane. In honor, in remembrance. of my uncle. The second plane was functioning in nineteen sixty two. They bought another one after a while. And all these missionaries were caught in nineteen sixty two. They're in the rebellion in the Congo, the two sides were fighting and there were a bunch of missionaries and others were caught. It looked like they were going to face certain death in the crossfire. And this little plane flew in for two and a half days, carrying three or four out at a time, and all those missionaries were saved. A good number, fifty or a hundred, I forget how many. But God ordained it, my father. thought back to when he was in agony in that bed seventeen years before. Romans eight twenty eight. Sometimes we don't see it, but God is gracious and many times he does. He lets us see his good purposes. Not just in big things, but in little things. You know, when we were on our way here to move, uh, it was kind of hard. We weren't sure where we're gonna live. We were out in California on active duty. Carol's mom was driving up here from Virginia. Looking for a house for us. Thought she had one one night. It was a townhouse that could fit with our big family and uh for a pretty good price. And we've been talking to Al all along about coming here and I really wanted to come and work as an intern under Alan come to this fine church here and spend a year. And yet, you know, finance has been a little hard to work it out and I said, No, I'll come for that. I wanna said, Al I'd pay you to let me come work for you for you. Still like that when he critiques the sermon. But if we wrestled with that and you know, we prayed, Lord, give us this townhouse. We pray so hard and Carol's mom called us back that night and said, Well, we didn't get it. The guy wanted a family that was uh had there were two families looking at it and the other family didn't have any kids so he decided to go down. Well what are you doing? Then the very next day, I think it was, next day of the day after Judy Jurkis found out about the Williams house, they were moving. A hundred dollars less, more room, and not only that he lives twenty feet from me. Of course Al doesn't like us sometimes 'cause we walk out our front doors and have a s we have a forum for a session meeting without a But we see even in good little things How God works together for good and he's so gracious to let us see it. But sometimes he doesn't let us see it, does he? We don't know. Some of y'all may not be able to see it right now. We may have things through our whole life. My friend that was killed in Beirut, his wife is still struggling a year and a half. Yes, she sees some things, how God's word good, but there's agony, there's grief as she raises these two little children. Well, doesn't he also give us the future hope? We see there his goodness, his promise forever. We see that in verse thirty uh How he will glorify us. The last word of verse thirty. Look over at verse eighteen. For I consider that the sufferings of this present I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory. that is to br be revealed to us. You know we pass by that quickly sometimes. And uh Peter Owlowski says we don't talk about the second coming and the hope of heaven seems very much in our Presbyterian circle sometimes. But that is a certain hope that we have the future, the certain of it. Jesus, you read John 14, and he said, if it were not so, I wouldn't have told you. It's true. Think of Carol's sister who was in a semi-coma state for six years. Her mom and dad, every day, twice a day. Go and just visit her as she lay there, couldn't talk, couldn't move. The sufferings of this present world, that would be a glimpse On the horizon of eternity. Do we really believe that? The future who? But as goodness, we really see climax. In Jesus Christ. You can forget all the rest, folks. Here's the main point. If we didn't have anything else, this is enough. Look at verse 31 and 32. Well, let's read 37 through 39. I'd like you to read uh I'll read 35 and If you have an NIV, read thirty thirty-five to thirty-nine with me. Uh you read thirty-seven. I'll read thirty-five. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall trouble or hardship or persecution or famine? or nakedness or danger or sore. Let's read in unison with the NIV thirty seven through thirty nine. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loves us. For I am convinced that neither Death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor death, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the Lord. of God that is in Jesus Christ is our Lord. Do you see the hope that Paul has here and the certainty that Paul has? His argument goes something like this. In verse 31 and 32 we see it again. He says there What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who is against us? See what Paul's arguing. When you think of the love of Christ, if every if the whole bottom fell in, if the world fell in, I have this one thing I know, Jesus loves me. I know. And that's enough to get me through anything. Look at verse 32. He said he argues that he who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How will he not also with him freely give us all things. It's a powerful argument that Paul's using here. The love of Jesus Christ gives us hope. There is no doubt about it. He's almost sarcastic as he uses this argument, this interest in studying it in the Greek I saw verse 30. Three. The word there when it says who will bring a charge against all God's elect is a word from the word call we get. Kaleo. Who will call against God's elect or God's chosen one. And guess what the word is for chosen one? doesn't want. Same root. Called. The called of God. So you get what Paul's argument here, you can't really pick it up in English. He's like using a little say on words. Who will call against the call of the called of God? See that we're called and that God has chosen us and he has worked in our hearts. We didn't come to him on our own. We worked in our hearts and drew us who were dead in sin to himself. And he said, who will call against the call of God? In verse 35, who will separate us from the love of Christ? All of the things we listed before and not marshall. Tribulation, distress, make the list. Nothing can separate us from the love of God. They may come, they may happen, but we know that He loves us because of what He has done for us in Jesus Christ. It's a bedrock that we can hang on to. We know it, there's no doubt. Satan may try to charge against us like he did with Job. He may try behind the scenes to plead with God that he can come and touch us, but he can't touch us like with Job unless God grants him permission. And because Because God is good. If he grants permission and lets it happen, let's not just say let if he ordains it to happen. If he does that, we know that God is good. And we can trust him because we know that he loves us because of Jesus Christ. More than anything. He is God's devil, as Luther said. And we know that our God is good. The little boy Joel, when he was about one and a half, he used to play with the little clubs, you know. He loved to play get his fingers behind those and and pull 'em out. And some of you heard me use this before, but I think it's a good picture, good story of family devotion to ask how it connects to the message today, okay? He used to get his fingers back in there and they were so little that I was afraid he'd shock himself while was still engaged. And uh he loved the playground. I thank him because I love him. Joel at one and a half did not have a clue why I was thanking him. He did not have a clue. Now there's a mystery there. I am finite. My understanding might be here. Maybe here. Job is down here. And Job is something that you and I understand perfectly clear. And Joel didn't have a clue. Now that's a mystery. And there's lots of mysteries. We have to say there are mysteries in life that we can't understand. If we being finite have mysteries between us, how much more us finite with an infinite God? But the greater mystery is this. Why does Joel after spanking his hands, through his tears, crawl back in my lap and hug me. He does it because he has a bedrock conviction. And what is that? That his daddy lustan. And that his daddy is good. And through his tears, through something he doesn't have a clue about, because he knows from the past and from a host of other reasons. He knows it intuitively. As Tom Burger shared with me recently, a friend of his not a Christian who turned and wanted to pray to God in a great grief. It's in it's in us. Just like Joel wants to crawl upon my lap through his tears. And he knows that I am God and I love him. If Joel is standing on that's not a bedrock. My love for him. That's a little stone. We have the rock of Gibraltar. A bedrock to really stand on. Remember Alan's sermon a while back? Easter Sunday? He talked about a bedrock we could really stand on, the resurrection. When the you know we have questions, we have doubts, we have struggles, when the bottom drops out. We have a bedrock we can go back to, the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Here's another bedrock. The love of Christ. It's like the rock of Gibraltar. When things come We can know that his love is great. There is no doubt about it. Jesus loves me, this I know. Not just 'cause the Bible tells us so that He loves us, but it speaks so loudly in the person of Jesus Christ. Have you crawled into the Lord's lap. You notice the qualification of verse twenty eight? It does qualify. He works all things together for good. To those who love who love him and are called according to his purpose. Remember that not that he loved us, or not that we love him, but he's perfect. Loved us. That's in this chapter two. We couldn't cover that today. But uh think about that. Maybe there's someone here that hasn't crawled into his lap for the first time. And maybe you haven't had much affliction in your life. Maybe you have. So really be prepared for is by knowing how sturdy this bedrock is, spend a lot of time in the Lord's lap, reading his word, praying to him, learning with his goodness, that he gets down from your head to your heart. So when you do encounter the sufferings and afflictions of this world, but you will know beyond a shadow of a doubt that your bedrock is like the rock of Gibraltar. It's not gonna move. He is good, and he is great. And teach your children that. We've had a great time going through Job and family devotions and I encourage you to try it. And to talk. Carol's talk about her sister and talk about we're going to face those things too and we can show them. Yes, we have hope. Because God is great and because God is good. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we do thank you and praise you that you are in control of all things and how that does give us hope. That we don't go through life scared and fearful, running about wondering what will happen, but we go with confidence. Who can bring a charge against your life? Because you take care of us and you love us. Lord, draw us close to yourself. Lord, we pray for those who are going through affliction, who are recovering from grief. Oh Lord, may we as a church. Help them and encourage them and love them. May we help each other and remember the good things that you have done. Teach us more of your love, Lord. We thank you for the Song of Songs and how we have learned of your love there. We continue to see it all of your word. We pray this in Jesus' name, the one who loved us. Amen.