So why another message from the same two Psalms? Why indeed? Well, first, uh, as an apologetic Because God's word is more than worthy of two looks. And these psalms before us could have a month of Sundays. The sermons presented this rich truth that God would draw us to Himself through this. Why two Psalms? Why two sermons? Another reason I would suggest respectfully is because I think God is doing something He's doing something among us. I had many conversations, good conversations last week. I have good conversations after worship every week. But last week was notable in that I had no conversations about the lights, the sound, the neighbors, the building, the gym, the chairs, the mess. I had every conversation about the living God who loves us so much that he gave his one and only Son To die in our place. He knows the life of trouble we have. And he's given to us his timeless truth, his precious, preserved word in order to meet us. in the raw and honest emotion that is life. What a great God we serve. And I think God is wanting to uncover that for us as a congregation. Spiritual discouragement and depression hits everyone at some point, at one time or another. Varying intensity and on a timetable that only God commands. But make no mistake, beloved Spiritual discouragement will hit, it does hit, and it hits us I think God wants us as his congregation to reflect the people that we read here in the Psalms. This is a real person with real hurt, real pain, real questions. And a real hope in a living God. That's the kind of congregation that God wants us to be. The Psalms Give a voice to our hearts. It frees us up from managed religion and lets the raw stuff of doubt and confusion have an outlet. That's what the Psalms afford us. The Psalms also point us to that sure and certain hope that's found not within, but outside of ourselves. In a God who loves and gives and has died in our place. Objective truth To one who was truly in the world, but not of the world, to one who knew the trouble of the world and has overcome the world, to one who knows your innermost being a town. With all its ugliness and vile wretched thoughts and deeds, and has demonstrated his love by laying down his life. For you. That's why we take another look at the Psalms. Perhaps God in His providence Wants to prepare us as we look at this psalm, these psalms, prepare us for the persecution. That is to come, that Jesus tells us of in Matthew 10 that we heard about just two weeks ago. To prepare us for the progress of the gospel that is sprinkled with the blood of the martyrs. To prepare us for the imminent presence of God whenever he may return, that parasia that Alan spoke of. I think God wants to do that So we take a look at the Psalms because we need to know where our hope is when life gets interrupted. And life does get interrupted. I have a little note there at the end of the sermon outline. Don't turn the page over, but I'm flipping direction and order and all kinds of things. Life gets interrupted. And if you check a person's phone log, you'll see that usually what's planned in our outlook for the week. rarely comes to be, or at least rarely comes to be the way we have planned for it to be. Man plans and God laughs, right? We just heard that in the middle hour. And in a given week in my phone log over these past several months of dealing with family crises and tragedy You could see return calls and messages left and phone records of conversations with surgeons. And conversations with the ICU attending and conversations with my dad in a panic because I see you attending and called him and conversations with my wife because That noise that I heard in the wall behind my head at seven thirty in the morning, that pop sound, was actually the frozen pipe downstairs in the girls' bathroom that at 3 30 that afternoon saw it out. and flooded the bathroom and the hallway and the laundry room closet because life gets interrupted Man plans his steps, but God has his decree. And in those times of interruption, God wants to draw you and me to see where our hope really lies. Because when what we're hoping in gets all jambled up and ramshackled and thrown out the window We've got to figure out where true hope is. And I think that's what God wants to do with us as his people. We need at least two reminders when life interrupts. We need the reminder that God is sovereign. We looked at that last week. And the Westminster Divines and Chapter 3, and just the first paragraph, just a sentence or two from the first paragraph, God from all eternity did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will freely. And unchangeably ordain whatsoever comes to pass. If it comes your way, beloved, it comes your way because God has sovereignly and lovingly ordained that it be so. Do you believe that? We need good theology to live in this life of trouble. Good theology that reminds us of a sovereign God who is both sovereign and good. Because the Westminster Confession of Faith goes on in chapter 8 of Christ the mediator to speak of these things. It pleased God in his eternal purpose to choose and ordain the Lord Jesus, his only begotten Son. to be the mediator between God and man. And then a little bit further down in the same paragraph, unto whom he did from all eternity Give a people to be his seed and to be by him in time redeemed, called, justified, sanctified, and glorified. And that's what God is working out. He's working out our salvation in Christ, uncovering the things that we hope in. If they're not him, and casting them down from the pedestal of our heart, and placing himself again firmly there, to be worshipped and adored and served. And endured all the days of our life. When life gets interrupted, what gets tested is our source of hope. It's about hope. In that book I mentioned last week that I got from uh Christian Counseling Education Foundation, C C E F, the new Ed Welch book. Depression, a stubborn darkness. Welch uh interviews many people who struggle with discouragement and depression. And um several comment that it is as if hell has visited them. A visitation of hell And it's fitting then as we look at that extended poem from Dante Alegre. Over the gates of hell there was a sign pasted. Abandon All hope, ye who enter here. Because it feels hopeless when we're in those discouraged times. And the psalmist certainly feels that, feels it with raw and honest emotion, and feels it to the extent that As God by his gracious spirit brings him back to truth, his cry to his own soul is to hope in God. To hope in God. There's our confidence. We looked last week at how these uh sons of Korah attributed the authorship of the Psalms here They were uh men responsible for the music and the songwriting and the leading of worship. That's what the psalmist longs for. To be back there in Jerusalem at the temple, to be in the worship, to be with the throng, he says in forty-two and verse uh three and four. To be with that multitude festival keeping those many of God's people to be with them. And he's looking back from this position of distance He's far from the familiar, far from that which was his love. From the mountain range of the Jordan, of the mountain range of the Hermon, he's looking back toward Jerusalem. Far distant, and he longs to be with that. Far from the familiar, the song of lament, honest and raw. And we learned last week that there's nothing wrong with questions. Tough, hard-hitting questions, questions that make your home fellowship group. Drop their jaw in amazement that somebody could be that honest. That's affirmed here in the scripture. There's nothing wrong with hard questions God, have you forgotten me? Where is God? He even joins in with these tormentors, these uh ones who are are haranguing him with the doubt. And now it's playing in his head. Where is God? Those are some raw questions. There's nothing wrong with questions. We talked about that last week, and it got the most reaction from many of you This point, nothing wrong with questions, but where we get into trouble is when we run to other sources for the answers. And boy, is there a lot of tragedy in this family of faith because we run to other sources to get those answers! You felt it, I've experienced it And God wants to bring us to Himself. It's that example of the psalmist And with just a mustard seed of faith, we can join with him. Faith pushing back the fear. Hope. Standing off the horror and a choice to delight in God in order to combat the dread, a dread of the heart. You see dread all throughout this lament. And so I want to focus our attention on these two images, two images of water. I gotta be careful. I grew up in Glen Burney, and every time I say the word water, sometimes it might come out water. So I put in your outline, H2O, so you'd know exactly what we're talking about. God uses the same exact substance, H2O, water. And he has two very different references that he's inspired the psalmist to write about. Two very different references. And you hear this as Alan uh baptizes a little infant into the covenant family, how that water is a sign of cleansing and washing and renewal. And that sign of water can also be a sign of judgment. As the water of Noah's day covered the entire earth. Same thing here in the Psalm. The first image is this Deer panting for water. As the deer pants for water, so my soul longs after you, O God. I have this desperate and deep and abiding thirst. And it was put there by my Creator. It's there because I was built for a relationship with the one who made me. My soul longs for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? Images of water. You ever wonder when you read, I've read this psalm many times now in the last couple of weeks. Why a deer? You know, we see plenty of deer in Howard County, you know, because we can't shoot 'em and stuff, and they're friends, friends to mankind and all that. Not friends to Azalea growers. But why a deer? Why not? My soul pants like the sloth for the living water of God. My soul pants like the tortoise. I thought about that just a little bit and then I found no commentary to support this. But my soul pants for the deer as the psalmist, maybe maybe even seated by a quiet stream, and he sees the deer. Running, darting, back and forth. You know, somebody asked me, could you please try to scamper so I can see it more vividly? A scampering deer, just frantically looking. Where is the deer? I see I hear some bubbling brook over there. I'm going to run to that. That's the the the energy, the excitement, the desire, the panting. Do you get that? You feel it. You feel the source of it. It wouldn't be the same if it was a tortoise. As the deer frantically pants and searches for streams of living water, so my soul. frantically, feverishly, pants for the living God. We see the living water, the living God presenting himself as water throughout Scripture. In Jeremiah 2, there's a great reference. God says, I hold these two things against my people. He calls himself the living water. My people have uh two evils Number one, they have forsaken me, the source of living water. And number two, they've run and dug for themselves Cisterns, wells, broken cisterns that can't even hold water. They long to go drink the stagnant muddy muck. When I am the stream of living, flowing, clear, life-giving H2O Isaiah 55, come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. He who has no money, come, buy, drink. It's freely offered grace. It's freely given. But it cost God so much to provide. In John 4, Jesus makes a very clear point to the woman at the well. Draw the water and have a drink. You know the exchange. Woman, if you knew the kind of water I offer, you would ask of this, because the one who drinks of this water never thirsts again. Never thirst again. Jesus makes a very clear point in John chapter seven as well. At the last day of the feast in the great day, Jesus stood up and he cried out. I believe this is a loud voice referred to by the Gospel writer John and Jesus said, If anyone thirsts, come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow streams of living water. See, the image is very clear. God is that source. He calls you and he calls me to Address this thirst of our soul by seeking him and him alone. You may not know it by looking at me, but when I was younger I had a stomach illness and I Couldn't take in a lot of food and my parents had to get this special medicine and it tasted like death and being good southerners they would uh mix my medicine with Dr. Pepper Good Southerners do that to their kids at 10, 2, and 4, by the way. And I grew to hate the taste of Dr. Pepper, and I grew to be repulsed by even the smell of Dr. Pepper. This story has a point because fast forward in my life and I'm in Georgia and I'm roofing houses in Georgia in the summertime to make ends meet And one house I was working on, I was up north of the city in Tucker, Georgia, and the homeowner came out knowing that we were, you know, just about beyond going up on the roof, and yelled up, Hey, you guys want something to drink up there? And of course we said yes, as we were parched, thirsty, our souls thirst, and he threw up two ice cold cans of Dr. Pepper. We gotta be careful, because when we are thirsty, we will even run to that which initially repulses us to get satisfaction. So what we do, our souls are self-deceived in that way. And what is repulsive to speak of in a fluorescently lit room with men and women mixed in a crowd, we will run to to drink from. Only Christ can satisfy. But there's another water image here that the psalmist is Desperation of his soul laying out before us to identify with. He's got the throes of depression in view. He's got no appetite. Day and night my tears have been my food. I can't even eat. Later on in In chapter 42, he says, as with a deadly wound in my bones, my body is racked with pain. I'm sick over this distance from God. I'm sick in my body. Sick in my soul. And as we're prone to do in the throes of that type of discouragement, the psalmist turns to the judgment and the dread of coming judgment as a focal point. We think to ourselves at the same time, What have I done? What have I done that God won't answer my prayer? What have I done that I'm in this spot? What what have I done that got me here? And that's a good question to ask, by the way. In fact, I would suggest to you, it's probably it needs to be our first question. Lord, try me and know me and see if there be any offensive way within me, is the cry of the psalmist. But we see the The image of judgment, the image of dread. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls. There's noise. All your breakers and all your waves have gone over me. I've been tumbled. I've been tossed. I've got this image of of seas billowing and tumult. We see in Isaiah 51 The trouble of the roaring sea, I the Lord your God, I stir up the sea, that its waves will roar, the Lord of hosts. is his name. Jeremiah 31 references the same kind of thing. The Lord gives the sun for the light by day. He fixed the order of the moon and the stars by night. He stirs up the sea so that the waves roar. The Lord of hosts is his name. And Psalm 107, 28, and 29. If you're taking notes, write that one down, beloved. Psalm 107, 28, and 29 puts an even finer point on it. Then they cried to the Lord in their trouble, from their trouble. He delivered them from their distress. He made the storms be still And the waves of the sea were hushed. See, the psalmist there is using that parallelism. The trouble, the distress, the waves, the storm. And he cries out Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls. All your breakers, all your waves have gone over me. It's a tough little phrase there, deep calls to deep, and the only thing that I could come up with Was those images of, you know, like the Discovery Channel show, the lobster fisherman, uh Deadliest Catch, and when they get thirty foot swells and this movie made a couple of years ago, this um uh perfect storm. that Pat De Vinny has in her social calendar. Perfect storm and these fifty foot swells and the CGI images that you can see of this boat trying to conquer this one wave Being out in the ocean and calling out, please somebody come save me. And as you call out, the waves rise up and your voice hits that wave and comes right back to you. Deep calls to deep. Is God even answering my prayer? Deep calls to deep, the roar of your waterfall, the noise, the breakers, your waves have gone over me. We see another image. In Isaiah 43. But now thus saith the Lord who created you, O Jacob, He who formed you, O Israel, fear not. Fear not, for I have redeemed you. I have called you by name. You are mine. When you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through those deep rivers they shall not overwhelm you. When you walk through fire, you will not be burned, and the flame shall not consume you. Why and how is that possible? It's possible because of what we see of our Lord Jesus Christ in the garden, where the cup of God's wrath is presented to him. to take the wrath for your sin onto himself. And he says, Lord, Father, if this cup could pass by me Let it be so. Nevertheless, not my will, but your will be done, and he drinks every drop of the wrath of God on your behalf and on mine. The promise comes to us. That when the water, the roar of the waterfall is ever before us, the condemnation of the enemy, the doubt that your sins have been forgiven. The sure and certain hope comes because Christ has taken God's wrath upon himself. And the psalmist returns to that. I think verse seven in Psalm 42 is about the most terrific verse in that psalm. And then in verse 8. You get this juxtaposed uh image that is just tender and beautiful and I think causes us and should cause us to reflect even more deeply on the grace of God. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls, your Breakers in your waves, they rush over me, they consume me, I'm just tossed and turned. In verse 8, the psalmist says, but uh Lord. Capital L, Capital O, Capital R, Capital D. Yahweh, the covenant maker, the covenant keeper, the one who makes the promises, the one who keeps the promises, the one who sets the standard, the one who keeps the standard. The Lord commands his steadfast love. It's his objective truth I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have mercy on many. Come to me, ye who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Come, thirsty ones, drink. If anyone is thirsty, come, let him drink of me. The Lord commands his steadfast love, his loving kindness. And at night, his song is with me. He's put a new song in my heart, a song of salvation, a song of rejoicing, a song in the midst of turmoil, a song in the midst of distress. A song of reminder that when this world does not satisfy, C. S. Lewis says, then it comes to strike me again as clear that I was designed for another place. If the psalmist in his literal physical self was longing for the temple worship in Jerusalem, And we can take from that psalm our longing to be with God face to face in heaven, secured by him. Revelation gives us a picture of that in Revelation 7, verse 16 and 17. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd. And he will guide them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. The psalmist encourages us to bring our raw and honest emotion before the Lord. And to seek our hope in the Lord. Because He is the one who will ultimately wipe away every tear from our eyes. Believe that? I just I want to try to conclude with this thought here about emotions. I feel like it's important for me, while I have this forum, to say to us And I don't want to be demeaning and I don't want to be patronizing, but I want to release us to go ahead and have emotions. Not because we're Presbyterian. That's a stupid joke. It's because we're human and we fight against these things that are real and raw and honest because we s we're scared of them. And there's a whole bunch of ways that we stuff our real emotion. We go at doing the stoic thing, or we come up with joviality, or whatever, maybe we're just cantankerous. We're a curmudgeon. We're grumpy. And if you're grumpy, ain't nobody wants to be with you. And so you can be sad and you can be lonely and isolated and you put the grumpy on and nobody's gonna come near you. We got that. I'll stay away. I'm as scared as the next guy. John Calvin, in speaking of the Psalms, says, There is not one emotion of of which anyone can be conscious that is not here represented as a mirror to our soul. Rather, the Holy Spirit has here drawn to the life all the griefs sorrows, fears, doubts, hopes, cares, perplexities, in short, all the distracting emotions with which the minds of men are wont to be agitated We don't really like emotion. It's scary. It scares others. And yet the psalmist is saying we need real people. 'Cause a real emotional person can really find God. Get that? Do I get that A real emotional person can really find God. Because real questions get real answers then That's what God's Word does for us. It frees us up. We can see the effect that a knowledge of God is supposed to have on our souls. If God is perceived as distant, then fear and doubt and discouragement and shame and anger, they're the prevailing emotions. When God is believed to be near and close at hand, there's security, an encouragement, a strong desire to be with others. And to be what God has been to us, to others. That's the streams of living water. It's flowing. Because we've tasted the satisfying, soul-satisfying, sufficient Savior. One more thing to add about the realistic depiction of emotions in the Psalms. I feel it's important because you may leave here more burden than when you came in. You read the Psalm, you say, I'm supposed to be that Look how quickly that guy goes from moment to hope. Lament to hope, lament to hope, lament to hope. And that's not my experience Tim, that's not the way it works. I would offer you this quote from Trimper Longman III from his book on how to read the Psalms. In the Psalms, however, the negative always leads to the positive. Doubt leads to trust. Anger toward God turns to love. Sadness to joy. Oh, okay, I still I I feel more burdened now. He goes on. But we must remember that the Psalms aren't magical incantations. It sometimes appears that the psalmist changed his negative feelings to positive ones in a brief moment. But this isn't how it happened. The Psalms compressed time in such a way that what was a long process appears as a sudden insight. Honest emotional struggle stands behind the Psalms. End quote. Real life in Christ is what happens in the time between the raw, honest questions during trials and the confident assurance that a sovereign and good God is on the throne and personally involved. That's where real life takes place. We're called to one another in the body of Christ where real life takes place. I feel like it's a clarion call to the people of God to be honest. So that the light that we receive, the light and the truth as he sends them forth, like the psalmist cried out, we looked at last week. So that light would shine brilliantly in lives that are being redeemed by a redeemer, not by self-help or you know, a strong hug or whatever. Those are good things, I guess, not self-help, but whatever. By Christ at work and his people. We lose patience with one another The reality of the experience is too much to bear. Your pain, too much for me. My pain, too much for you. So let's just stuff it and have some fellowship afterwards. Let's not do that. Too many people try to do that and they go isolate and then all manner of hell breaks loose. It's not good. We can't do that With the grace given to each of us according to the measure of Christ's gift, to paraphrase Paul to the Ephesians, we are to minister to one another. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. That's difficult. Because maybe the fourth or fifth or seventh time that you share that in the home fellowship group, it sounds like the same thing It sounds like whining. And either you self-edit or the loving crowd in the room with you edits for you. We need long-suffering servants, patience with one another, and that can't happen if we're doing it in our own strength. Because quite frankly, I get too tired too soon to be any help to anybody else We encounter tragedies in this life, to be sure, but it would be a greater tragedy still if in the midst of suffering we miss what God's trying to do. And if we squelch the emotion and if we turn on the plastic and and make everybody be what we want them to be so we can be okay. Something's wrong. I asked my mom and dad if I could use an illustration from the experiences that we're having. They gave full permission. And it's really about us as humans, all of us. But the point is that since I guess for the last six or eight weeks, my mom's source of nutrition complete source of nutrition has been this uh large uh TPN bag that uh feeds through a IV pump into a uh permanently installed catheter or whatever, this pick line in her arm. And my dad, my eighty year old dad, you know, he cleans it out and does all this stuff and they set up the pump every night. And that's her total source of nutrition. That's where she gets her life and her strength and her physical stamina. Why she can go up and down the stairs right now is because of that white bag, because of the vitamins and the nutrients contained in that bag. The point is this. Whenever she puts her arm like this The little alarm in the bag goes and it's most annoying, even worse than that. Like some kind of British police officer running you down. And so she extends her arm and the alarm shuts off. But she wants to bring her arm back up. And all of us have yelled at the alarm. Shut up. We grumble, we complain, we quickly are agitated at the little interruption But what's in that bag is life. That's the total source of nutrition. That's making me strong. And if we're not careful, we'll grumble and complain against these interruptions and we won't We won't we won't get the source. We won't see that God's drawing us close. We won't be the people that He's called us to be. And not only for His glory to show up in us But for us to be what he intends for us to be for one another and to the uttermost parts of the earth. Amen. Let me pray for us. Our Father and our God, how gracious you are. We cannot even plumb the depths of your grace and your mercy. And yet, Lord, we celebrate it. We praise you for the way you know us fully. Give your life as a substitute for us. And are not content to leave us where you found us. So, Lord, please take this word and apply it to us particularly, and apply it to us as your people corporately. And we pray that you would receive all the glory due your name. In the name of Jesus we ask for it. Amen.