Columbia Presbyterian Church. I was here a number of years ago, and some of you may recall, I don't know how many of you have joined the church in in recent years, but it's good to see a growing body here. My brother was ordained in the OP Church, and Len Stewart was down at Knox for a period of time, so it feels real at home to be with you in worship today. I want to just give you a brief thumbnail sketch of uh who I am as before we get into the message. My I'm the son of uh Presbyterian uh medical missionaries to Iran. My mom and dad went to Iran well over fifty years ago. And uh they took me there when I was one year old. They didn't ask my opinion whether I wanted to go there or not. But uh I was raised in that country and learned the languages of that country. I later line uh later when I was called to intermissionary work, I found out that my mother had um prayed that all six of her children would serve the Lord on a different continent And I didn't know why she didn't like us, you know, why uh why she was praying us all over the place. But then I learned to realize that there's nothing sweeter and nothing more precious than to be in in missionary work. And it's a great way to grow up. So if you have any kids in the church that you really would like to get rid of, uh pray them onto the mission field. And God will really uh shape them up I served as the uh pastor of the uh last uh English speaking congregation in Tehran before the revolution and had an amazing ministry, actually I should say the first year after the revolution After 55,000 Americans had left Iran, my wife and I went into Iran and uh pastored a congregation had gone from 600 to 6 uh because of the revolution. We were asked to leave the country and later accused of being spies. Got our pictures in the front page of the paper in Tehran. And my father in law, who's also a a career missionary in Iran and and uh my wife uh uh who I met in Iran, he said I was he was quite jealous. Uh he said they served Iran in Iran for uh nearly twenty years and never got their picture in the paper. But uh we did as being accused of spies. Uh today uh I'm working with Iranian people around the world uh and had the privilege when I came back from Iran to uh begin a Persian congregation in Silver Spring, which goes on today. And during the ministry that we had there over the years, had the joy of baptizing over 60 Muslim converts to the Christian faith. Who are the Iranians? Well, there are 95 million Persian-speaking people in the world. 65 of those million would be Iranians. Persian is spoken in parts of Afghanistan. It is spoken in that new country called Tajikistan, which is north of Afghanistan. And the Persians are descendants, or the Iranians are descendants from the ancient Persians. They're a proud people. And uh since the revolution, about four million of them have been scattered around the earth Um about two million of them live here in North America and over a hundred thousand live in the Washington-Baltimore area. Just for curiosity, how many of you know an Iranian? That's quite a few of you, you see, and they're all around us, and God has brought them to us that we can love them into the gospel. The Iranians that have come to this country are on the average better educated than we are, and on the average earn more money than we earn. And so you'll find them in in many of the professions and uh people that are very educated and very much contributors to our society. Um but we have an opportunity to share the gospel with them. I'd like you to open your Bibles with me as we look at a couple of verses. And uh try to uh get a handle on what God is doing among the Iranians and what he's doing in our lives and among us, that we might be. If you burn to Isaiah the fifty-second chapter, verse ten Isaiah was a prophet who had tremendous revelation about the future, about the coming of Christ, about the spread of the gospel around the world, and and Isaiah 52. 10, if you haven't sort of meditated on this verse yet. I hope that you will, because I love what it says. The Lord will lay bare his holy arm in the sight of all the nations And all the ends of the earth will see the salvation of our God. What a beautiful verse. God Himself declares I will lay bare my holy arm. I will show my power, my might, and my glory to all the nations And they're going to see the salvation of God. I hope you have seen the salvation of God. I hope as you're sitting here in your seat today, you know who Christ is and you know that you belong to Him But what a wonderful promise. All the nations of the earth, God says, will see his salvation. Now flip over with me to the Gospel of Matthew, the twelfth chapter And there we have another quote from Isaiah, but this time Matthew's using this quote to establish the proof for the Jewish people that Jesus is the Messiah. And so in Matthew 12, verse 21, and I'll read a couple verses before that starting in 18, Matthew is bringing this proof from Isaiah that those who behold Jesus are beholding the Messiah. Here is my servant whom I have chosen, the one I love in whom I delight. I will put my spirit on him, and he will proclaim justice to the nations. He will not quarrel nor cry out. No one will hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, and a smouldering wick he will not snuff out, till the till he leads justice to victory. And then this verse, underline it in your Bible, in his name the nations will put their hope. In his name, the nations will put their hope. I trust that you put your hope in Christ, that He is the foundation and the rock of your life. Would you join me in prayer as we ask God to illuminate His Word to our hearts. Heavenly Father, we come before you in the precious name of Jesus and in the power of the Holy Spirit to declare our love and adoration and worship of you. And we come, Lord, asking that you might indeed touch our hearts with the very things that touch your heart. That you might open our eyes to see the world through the lenses of your word and through the anointing and inspiration of your spirit O Lord, we pray that you would open our hearts to where there has been pockets of disbelief and false gods and cleanse us and purify us. That you O Lord might indeed be reflected in our lives and in our community, the church, that the world that longs for hope might have reason to hope. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen. One of the privileges that I've had in ministry is to take teams of Muslim converts Back to the Middle East and have one Moslem convert share to another Muslim who Jesus Christ is in his life We took a team back to Istanbul, Turkey, and we went to the very slums of that city where many refugees from Iran were living, and we checked into a hotel. And we began to rub shoulders with these Iranian people. I'll never forget entering one room and seeing a man hunched in the corner. Sort of you know down in the corner. He looked like he hadn't taken a bath for a long time. He hadn't shaved, his head was down. And I asked who is this man? They said his name is Kamran And I said, what's wrong with him? And they said he's very discouraged. He's very depressed. And he's just withdrawn into himself. Sometimes life's problems become so heavy, don't they? Sometimes the pressures of life become so much upon us that all we feel like we can do is just roll up into a ball in a corner. And that's how Qamran was. The Lord put on my heart just to go and sit next to him. And I slumped down by him and just put my hand on his shoulder. And I said, come run. And I spoke in his own language. I said, I don't know what you're going through. But I know one who does know what you're going through. And I want you to know there is a living God. And he does love you. And I don't care how big or how hard or how impossible your life seems right now, this God can heal you and forgive you and come into your life. Common showed no reaction. And so I got up, a little bit frustrated, wondering if my words had meant anything. A couple of weeks, a couple days later actually, I came back to that same hotel to check in with the people there, and Comran is in a suit and he has showered and he is clean and there's a big smile on his face. And he comes running at me. He said, I've been looking for you. And I said, Come run, what happened? Tell me. And he said, when you came, all I know is I was dead. And now I'm alive. I said, come on, explain this more to me. He said, Well after you left, I got to thinking. Here's this big white guy who comes in and sits next to me in a room in the middle of Istanbul. and in my own language tells me about God. I mean what are the chances of that happening? There must be a God. I can believe in a God if he can do that And we both had a big laugh and we said, Isn't God wonderful who sets up those divine appointments? Who took me to that hotel room and there Qamran heard the gospel and he trusted Christ and we had a chance to disciple him. You see, people of the world are beginning to feel the burden of hopelessness, and we have the keys in the gospel. Even as you sit in this congregation, your life may be feeling hopeless. The pressures and the problems may be overwhelming. But hear this message. We have a God who can turn the impossibles of our lives to new possibilities and new beginnings. And that is what missions is about. Missions is bringing the life-giving hope of Christ to the peoples of the world. Now if you look with me again at this verse, in his name the nations will put their hope. I want you to suggest in this one little verse There's sort of a capsule of the whole message of the Bible, the whole message of missions. Because can you see that this verse, as it is used by Matthew, as he points to the Messiah, to Jesus? And he says, in his name the nations will put his hope. It is the declaration of a fulfillment of the promise that God made to Abraham. that through your seed, Abraham, one will come by which all the nations of the world will be blessed. Here he is, Jesus the Christ And so as the Jews heard this, they were reminded that the coming of Christ and the bringing of hope has been God's eternal plan since the foundations of the earth But just for a minute, think. This verse is not just about the past, but it's also about the future. It's a prophecy. There's a sense of expectancy. All the peoples of the world, all the nations will indeed put their hope in Christ in his name. There will be representation from every tribe and tongue and every peoples of the earth around the throne of God. Flip over to Revelation 5 with the 7 with me. We read 5 in our worship, and I think we're going to conclude the service with Revelation 7. But let me just take you to Revelation 7, 9. And here we see that these little verses about all the peoples of the earth will put their hope in his name is a prophecy about what God says, how it's all going to end. After this I looked, and there before me was a great multitude that no one could count from every nation, tribe, people, and language standing before the throne and in front of the Lamb. What a powerful and wonderful truth. God himself has a plan that he has put all his power and might and sovereignty behind. God is taking human history towards this direction, that there will be representation around the throne of the Lamb of God from every tribe and tongue and every nation. The question isn't what God's doing in the earth. The question is how much you and I are cooperating with him and working with him in what he is doing. And so this little verse reminds us that Jesus is the fulfillment of all the prophetic dreams of the Old Testament. And that Jesus is the culmination, he's the Alpha and the Omega, He's the end of all of human history. But there is another way to look at this verse. A third, so to speak, angle. In his name the nations will put their hope can also be a declaration of how God allows false hopes. to crumble so people can find true hope. It could be also for us a process that God unfolds for us. That God in His loving mercy allows us to pursue idols and wrong things, but He shows us eventually that the weight of all religion and the weight of all ideologies and the weight of all false concepts and beliefs finally crumble in on us And we come to a place of brokenness and we come to a place where we can only cry out to the living God. I became a Christian that way. Even though I was raised in a Christian home, I put my hope and trust in other things. And athletes and athletics and grades and a girlfriend and other things. And God allowed every one of them to crumble till I came to a place Where I could just cry out to him. And how grateful I am at the age of nineteen. God allowed all my false gods to fall at my feet so I could lift my eyes to the Lord Jesus Christ. But he's not only doing that in our personal lives, he's telling us he's doing it with nations. Nations have beliefs. Nations have ideologies. The communists had an ideology. For seventy years they tried to build a society in the Soviet Union upon communism. And what happened? It collapsed as Family life collapsed as alcoholism spread, as the economy fell, because it was a whole system built upon falsehood. Materialism in America For now, maybe the stock market is doing pretty good, although it was sort of wavering a little bit yesterday, is Americans are building their lives upon a system. prosperity, on the materialism, on hedonism. But what do we see? At the very core, there's more depression, there's more suicide, there's more divorce, and American society is unraveling at the very core. Islam is spreading fast across the world. Interestingly enough, it's spreading fastest in the West, not in the East. In the East we go and find Moslems coming to Christ, in the west we find Christians coming to Islam. Strange world we live in. But Islam is growing very fast, fastest growing religion in America. By the year 2020, the majority religion in the nation's capital will be Islam. And so, with that spread though, in the very heart of Moslem people, there is a collapse occurring, a disillusionment occurring, a souring occurring. And that's what we are seeing most dramatized among the Iranians. The Iranian people became swept away by the the the Islamic revolution led by Ayatollah Rahullah Khomeini And some of you are old enough in this room to remember in nineteen seventy-nine how we came to Iran and the Shah left and that country changed governments and an Islamic revolution and Islamic law and Islamic practice. came into being. Now there was a saying in Iran before the Islamic Revolution that if only Iran could be totally Islamic, then Iran would be a paradise. Well, Islam came and Iran did not become a paradise. In fact, there has been a great, great disillusionment with Islam in Iran. I'm convinced that fifty, sixty, seventy percent of Iranians today have a disdain and a hate For the religion of Islam as they see it in Iran. When I meet Iranians, they say, talk to me about anything, but don't talk to me about religion. Don't talk to me about religious leaders. I've had it to hear. With religion. God has been producing an unusual soil in Iran by first In a sense, souring the people on their previous gods, on their previous ideologies He has been unmasking Islam and showing it for what it really is. And so the people of Iran say with a certain mockery in their voice, Our religious leaders have made a store. They've made a business out of religion. They drive around in their Mercedes-Benzes, they open their bank accounts in Sw Switzerland. And their lives are decadent, their lives are immoral, and this is the example that we have of godliness. Islam also has been harsh to people. You talk to the average Iranian and who have a story, a heartbreaking story, of how living in Iran has been difficult, how living in Iran has been unfair. A man may be wore a tie to a wedding, will be arrested and prevented from going to the wedding. A man may his home might be broken into for listening to the wrong kind of music. His children will be enticed to report on the behavior in the home, father against son, brother against cousin. Iran is a place of great suspicion and lack of confidence and trust in one another. I guess this really came home to me a couple years ago when I was in Ankara, Turkey, visiting in the home of some Iranian refugees, and I saw a young woman there who kept her hand over her face And I went and sat next to her to sort of get to know her and I asked her what was the problem and she took her hand away and she showed me a lump on her lip about the size of a walnut And I said, were you born with this? She said, no. With tears in her eyes, she said, when I was 16 years old, I went to high school in Tehran. And I made a very big mistake. I wore lipstick to school. And when I walked into school, the Islamic guard, monitor, looked at me and said, Oh, you're a pretty one. I'm going to teach you a lesson. And they took her into a closet, and they took these huge pliers, and they crushed her lip and deformed her. And they said, That will teach you not to wear lipstick. What they didn't realize is they just didn't crush her lip. They crushed her spirit. They produced a bitterness. And an anger in her very soul towards her own people and towards the religion of Islam. So when I come across her in Turkey and I invite her to go to church, she says, I'll go to church as long as there are no Iranians. in that church. I never want to see another Iranian. Can you imagine can you imagine something happening in your own country to the point where you would say, I never want to meet another American I never want to sit down with another person from my city because I hate them so much. And when you f begin to interview the Iranians who have come out of Iran, four million of them Many of them have such stories. Now our story ends in a positive note because she went to Canada, she met the Lord, she got laser surgery And the Lord not only changed her appearance, but changed her heart. And today she helps produce Christian radio programming that goes back into Iran. So God can take a deformed person physically, a deformed person spiritually, and he can give hope and he can heal. But we see he's doing that. And so what God is doing, he is disillusioning, unmasking the false gods in Islam, the false morality, the false godliness And Iranian people are hungry and thirsty for the word of God. The latest report that I got that you know how when you go to a movie when you can't get in and people are selling scalp tickets Now when you walk down the streets of Tehran, instead of just the guy wanting to sell you drugs, he says, You want a New Testament? You want a New Testament? We got Bibles? We got Bibles You know, and it is black market, but people are hungry for the word of God. I don't know how many Bibles you have in your house, but uh most of these people don't have any and they want one. And that's the climate. If you witness to ten Iranians today outside of Iran, five of them will probably be converted right there on the spot because of the preparation of their hearts. Now in a positive realm God has chosen this hour, this particular window in history to reach the Irani people. I'm convinced that he's Lord of history. I'm convinced that sometimes we're called to sow and we have to wait for the harvest, and sometimes we're called to reap. This is the season of reaping with Iranians. This is the season of watching what God is due. This very week I was witness to six Iranians coming to Christ in various places across this country. And I would have the joy of praying with men and women who were Hajjis who had been to Mecca, men and women who still said their prayers five times a day to Allah, these people coming to know the risen Christ, the Lord of glory. What great joy it is. This is the season of harvest. But why is that so? One is that God in his mercy is pouring out his spirit. No one can say Christ is Lord apart from the Spirit. God saves it is his task, it is work. But in his big heart he's pouring out his spirit in unusual ways upon Iranians. When I say to an Iranian, will you give God a chance? Will you simply say, Lord Jesus, you I don't believe in you, but you if you're real, you show yourself to me. And almost every time Jesus shows himself to that person, if he's an Irani at this time. I was in a home in Denmark And a guy walked in and literally he just was radiating with the glory of God. And I said, tell me. And he g he said, I want he told me his testimony. He said, I did I was so disillusioned with Islam. I didn't even believe in religion. I didn't believe in God. I was just through with it. But he said I had one problem Everywhere I went and everywhere I worked, there were Christians in my life. And they were always talking to me that what I needed was to know Christ. So I said one time, just to get these Christians off my back, I said, I'll pray. I'll pray. Just leave me alone. I'll pray. And he said, Jesus, I really don't know if you're there. I really don't know who you are, but if you are who you say you are, please show yourself to me. Now let me put a parenthesis here Don't pray that prayer unless you're serious. But if you're serious, watch out. Now what happened to this man? The day after he prayed that prayer, he went to bed that night and he had a dream. Now, Iranians are famous for having dreams. It's just a Middle East thing, I guess. Dreams are a big part of it. But they pay a lot of attention to their dreams. In this dream. It brings tears to mind to think about. In this dream, this man is one foot away from the face of Jesus on the cross. He is looking into the face of Jesus. He is seeing the bloodstreams. He is seeing the sweat. He is seeing the thorns. He is seeing the agony. And he sees these piercing eyes With incredible compassion and love. And he hears in this dream, I did this for you. Now he says he wakes up from this dream. His body is in total sweat. He is shaking And he is just totally overwhelmed with this. And if that was not enough, an earthquake occurs at that very moment. His house begins to shake. Pictures fall off the window. And he falls down on his knees and he says, I do believe. Now you might say, why does God have to go to all of that? Well, God will go a long way to save us. He went all the way to the cross to save us. And God will go a long way to people who have no orientation, people who have no belief in the Bible, but people that He has elected from the foundations of the earth that are His. And he convinced this man. I did not convince him. No one convinced him. The Spirit of God convinced him. And that is what's happening, folks. I cannot Tell you the excitement and the joy to see the handiwork of God among the Irani peoples these days. He's pouring out his spirit. He's also using his word powerfully. Thank goodness we've had the Bible in the Persian language from the days of Henry Martin in the early 1800s. Thank God for the missionaries and others who have spread the Bible throughout Iran and throughout the Irani people. We have the Jesus film and we have all kinds of literature. Thank God for this because God is using his word. Faith comes by the hearing of his word. There was a man that came to our church here in Washington, D. C. , and he was a professor of literature in the University of Tehran. He found out that his daughter had become a Christian in Silver Spring in a Christian Alliance church. And he was very upset. And so he came to our Little E Running Church. He sat on the front row with his notebook to listen to me preach to begin to find all the mistakes in Christianity. Now that's not hard to find mistakes in my preaching. But he was there taking notes. He came to our church for six months. In the course of six months, he announced to me he had read the New Testament eighty times, looking for its mistakes. On a particular Sunday, he came to church, never argued with me, just sat there, thought about what was being said, went home. A couple days later, he called me and he said, Pastor Tat, I want to be baptized. And I said, hold it, hold it. Take me where how did this happen? He said, I went home from church. And he said, I fell asleep on the couch. And Jesus appeared to me in a dream and said, Why do you not believe my word? And he said, I believed. And not only did he believe, but because he'd read the New Testament eighty times, he began to preach to me over the phone And tell me about who Jesus was, about the substitution and atonement of Christ and his resurrection. And I said, I know, I know. I'm glad you know too. He really didn't need a whole lot of discipling. He had been in the Word of God so much that he knew the answers. But it was the Spirit of God that quickened his heart. We need to we need to circulate the Word of God among Iranians. Some of you have Iranian friends, I have some tracks I'd like to give to you. We need to get the word out. God is using it. God is preparing the hearts of Iranians in a most incredible way. I guess the question I have for all of us today is: if God is doing this marvelous thing on the face of the earth, where do you and I fit in? Is missions something that a certain unique weird people as one person said to me, missionaries are people that couldn't make it at home, you know. Missionaries are people that couldn't get a regular job Uh, is our missionaries just sort of this unique uh group of people, or do every one of us who are part of the kingdom of God have a responsibility? And I think you know the answer. Every one of us was given the Great Commission. Every one of us has been invited and indeed commanded by our Savior to be involved. And so I ask you this question today Given all the pressures of your life, given all the realities of your life, can you say today that my life is built upon Christ? Can you say that my hope is in him? My sure confidence is in him. I live for him. I live dependent upon him, and I want to be a part of my Savior's business. The next question: Am I available to him? Or have I boxed God in? I can't do this, I can't do that, don't talk to me about this. Or can you say with all your heart, Lord Jesus? I am available to you. That's where mission's the yence. And then is your life an aroma. Is your life a fragrance of the living Christ? Is it a fragrance in your home? Is it a fragrance at work? Is it a fragrance as you interact with foreign people in this city? This is an incredible place to live in the Baltimore-Washington corridor. With all kinds of people from all over the world. I love this city. You can be a missionary on the Metro, you can be a missionary at the 7-Eleven, you can be a missionary anywhere if you just get it in your head that you are to be a fragrance of the Lord wherever you are. My daughter used to work for Lil Caesar's pizza, and I used to go pick her up after school. When she'd get into the car, she'd smell like a pizza. And I'd be so hungry sometimes I'd give a big hug and lick a little bit of that uh sauce that was on her shirt. And it was known at times that I could not go home without going and buying a pizza. She made me so hungry for a pizza. She smelled like a pizza. And I believe, my brothers and sisters in Christ, that God wants you and me to smell like Jesus, to have the aroma, the fragrance of godliness. His mercy and his love written on the tablets of our hearts, acceptance of other people, willingness to serve, willingness to pray, willingness to be used and consumed for the glory of our Savior. That's what missions is all about. Now, this is what God has called, patting me to do, to immerse ourselves in the running community. I haven't preached in English for about two months. So I feel a little rusty. But I preach in Persian in the thirty or so Iranian churches that are now in North America. And I produce a leadership magazine for Iranian pastors that go to a hundred fellowships. From Japan to New Zealand to Australia to Norway to Finland to Denmark to Germany, as I'm in touch with what God is doing as He spread Iranians. around the world. I am looking for men and women who would be willing to pray for me. If you would be willing to receive my monthly prayer letter and learn more and to see the hand of God as He's working among Iranians. I have a little sign-up sheet in the back there, and I'll be happy to send you my prayer letter. And I need men and women who are mission-minded, who have a heart for the things of God. to stand with me in prayer and to be involved in reaching the Moslem people of the world, who are one-fifth of the world's population, but to acknowledge this is harvest time for Iranians. Will you be a part of that harvest? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, and we praise you and we worship you for the joy and privilege you give us to be alive at such a time. To see with our own eyes that you are bringing in the nations, that great harvest, that when Jesus lifted up his eyes unto the fields and he said, The harvest is ripe, but there are so few workers. And Lord Jesus' observation is still true today. So few workers. Only two percent, Lord, of all the Western Church, of all the missionaries that go out. Work with Muslims. Lord, we pray that even as I have been here today and have raised this awareness in this congregation, that you might call out from this congregation Some young people, some retired people, some whose life situations are such that they can invest a chunk of their lives in your holy business. Oh Father, pour out your spirit upon this precious congregation. Oh Father, make yourself more real in their lives. Make them more filled with love and devotion to you, and give them a greater heart and compassion for the lost all around. And we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.