See, turn in your Bibles to First Peter chapter one. And take out your sermon outline as well, because we'll be following that this morning. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we hear the command that you give to be holy. As we reflect upon how separate that holiness has kept you throughout the period of the temple system. As we reflect upon the Holy of Holies, that place where only one man could go, then only once a year and only after sacrificial offerings to make him righteous. And then only with a rope to make sure that should he offend you and die for breaking your holiness, he could be removed or intimidated. We're frightened. We're hopeless. Lord, we pray that you would speak to us this morning through your word in a way that will draw us to yourself. For we long for what we have seen of your gospel. We long for you Satisfy that desire we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we're continuing our study in 1 Peter And we've moved from the passages dealing with the indicatives of the gospel, and we've moved into that dreaded set of imperatives Are you hearing thunder? Is that something a special effect that's just coming because it's sort of adding to the sense that God's speaking, or is that something I'm doing? Hmm. We'll live with it. We're moving from that that set of verses that deal with the grace of the gospel and the wonder of what God has done and is doing in our lives, and into The rubber and the roads. We're moving now into what God calls us to do. For you see our salvation is moving us into action. The hope that we've been given is now something that is the basis and the foundation upon which how we are to live. Refer back for a moment to verses 2 through 5. I want to just remind us briefly that in these passages we've we've learned that God has called us, He's chosen us, He's set us as His own possession. Remember way back in June we talked about that and it was sort of the pick-up football game God chooses us. He doesn't leave us to be the last ones to either walk away or simply Be taken. He doesn't even say that if he can have Jesus, he'll take off. He says, I love you. I want you. I choose you. You're mine. But not only does he do that, he sanctifies us. It says in verse 2, through the sanctifying work of the Spirit. Remember, we talked about the fact that sin is not a treat Sin is not something you sacrifice in order to gain something better, heaven. Sin is a curse from which God frees you by the power of the Spirit. We talked about how we were called to obedience, and that obedience is God's love worked out in practice in our lives, because God has Given us the power and the calling to be the men and women he's meant for us to be from before the foundation of the world. We're given a new life and a new hope in verse 3. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. And into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you who through faith are shielded by God's power. He's given us an inheritance that cannot be diminished. And he himself has shielded us individually for the day we receive that inheritance. He has given us a protected inheritance and he has made us a protected people. But our passage today turns from some of this, and it moves us now into some of the practical therefore. Our passage today, Peter, points out that our obedience, that thing to which we have been called in verse 2, our obedience has particular applications for how we live. He says in our passage today, therefore, prepare your minds for action. Be self-controlled. Set your hope fully on the grace to be given you when Jesus Christ is revealed. As obedient children, do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance. But just as he who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do For it is written, Be holy, because I am holy. Peter tells us that we are to prepare or focus our minds We could be sober. The Greek behind that word simply means you're well balanced. If the idea is that being drunk means you fall down because you have no balance, the idea of being sober is you're well balanced. But I think there's a richness to that word that goes beyond simply not being drunk. It means being centered, holding on to your focus and your balance. It means we are to fix our hope fully on the grace given to us. Now, I want to alert us to a danger this morning as we get into this study that I want us to avoid with all possible strength. That danger is focusing on our actions and neglecting our hope. So hope is the source of our ability to act. W when you read with me that passage just a moment ago, what did you feel? Did you feel like me when I was first studying this passage that Peter gives us half a chapter of indicatives and launches in big time with the imperatives? I like Paul better because Paul gives us at least three chapters of the indicatives and then goes into three chapters of the imperatives. And he sort of goes in a little more slowly If you read this passage and feel that God is calling you in your own strength, in your own power to be holy, you have misread the passage. And I want to explain that to you, but to begin that, I want you to look, I want everybody who has the Bible to look at your translation and look at the Bible, because I'm going to read my translation. And I want you to notice the difference. Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being well balanced Hope fully on the grace given you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not conforming to your former lusts. But in the same way as the one calling you is holy, let yourselves be holy in all your behavior. For it has been written, you will become holy. For I am holy. Do you see what your translation says with about seven or eight imperatives? The Greek has two imperatives. The dominant thought in this passage is to fix our hope uniquely on the grace given us in Jesus' revelation. That is the only active imperative. Alan in sermons recently has made a really clear statement of what the difference between A passive imperative is, and an active imperative. We are told to actively set our hope on the grace given to us in the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's the command. That's the focus for you this morning, and I want you to take that out of this message. When you read this passage, I want you to recognize that the command to you is to hope If you want to succeed with the rest of what Peter's saying here, begin with hope. You can't begin with preparing your minds. You can't begin with being sober. You can't begin with setting aside your former lusts. You can't begin with being holy. You must begin with hope. Griding your lines is a description of what it means to set your hope fully on Jesus. Being sober or well balanced is a description of what it means to set your hope fully on the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. I think this passage makes it very clear that there is no other source of hope. There is no other place you can fix your attention. And have a reasonable hope. In the Greek, he's saying, set your hope completely, fully, perfectly on the grace given to you in the revelation of Jesus Christ. And if you read in the New International, it says, to be given to you. That's a future. And if you read that, if you read like I do, it feels like What you're being told to do is pull yourself up by your bootstraps, focus on holiness, wait for what may come that might empower you, and do it Peter's not saying that. Peter's focus isn't on that at all. He's not telling you to live well. Go be warmed and filled. I'm sorry you don't have a coat. He's telling you everything he's told you thus far. The reality of the gospel, the fullness of God's grace, the love of Jesus, the choosing of the Father and the Son and the Spirit, the sanctifying work of the Spirit, is all given to you that you might be the man or woman of God he wants you to be. And this passage doesn't take that back. This passage builds on all of that. Let's take a moment and think in our own lives and our own hearts, because this could be a really good encouraging motivational message, or it could be something that changes your life. I want you to think for a minute, what do you set your hope on? What do you depend upon? If it's gone, what's going to happen? If they're gone, if your hope is set upon a person, what's going to happen? Is your hope set upon the security of your marriage? Is your hope set upon the security of your job? Your giftedness and ability to carry on regardless? Is it set upon the fact that you know that whether everything falls apart, you can still survive? Is it set upon finances, possessions? Is it set upon your health The way to know where you place your hope is to think about its absence. What if God were to take that away? What if God were to eliminate that? What would life be like? Would you still have hope? If God were to take away absolutely everything from you but Jesus And to take away everything from you but the hope of heaven. What would life be like? You see, Peter's telling us here, fix your hope completely, utterly, totally, and only. On the grace given you in the revelation of Jesus, both when he first came with the gospel and gave you that power, that experience of intimacy with him, that hope of heaven. And on the time when he will again be revealed, when he comes back to take you home. And there is no longer the suffering, there is no longer living in a fallen world, there is no longer battling your old sinful nature. It's both. Is that enough? Will you worship? Will you set your hope fully upon something else? Or will you try and share your hope with Jesus and whatever? Because only if you're well balanced on the gospel of Jesus, that He loves you, that He has redeemed you, that He's in the process of sanctifying you, and that He's going to take you home, are you safe? Only then. Only then can you begin to do some of the things that he commands you to do here No one else and nothing else can be the source of your hope. Nothing else is enough Your husband or wife cannot be. The well-being of your children cannot be. The productive job that you do that allows you a comfortable lifestyle cannot be. Nothing but Jesus can bear the weight and sustain your hope. Nothing So, how do we fix our hope on the grace given us in Jesus' revelation? I think you have to go back to begin and look at verse 2. You have been chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through the sanctifying work of the Spirit. In Galatians, some of us have been studying the book of Galatians, and it makes a very clear point that you have a choice. You can live by the law, or you can live by faith in God. When you choose to live by the law, you've chosen to live in your own power. When you choose to live by faith in God, sometimes it feels like you don't know what you're doing Sometimes God seems very far away and distant. Sometimes you think, what in the world does it mean to do what I'm trying to do? How can I face this crisis in my life claiming faith in God? Am I simply living as if he might be there and hoping maybe that it'll work out and whether he's really there or not? It's better than facing the trial and the trauma now? Or is it really an intimate relationship with God where you say, Lord, I can't do this? I can't face this crisis in my own power. And if you're not there, I'm gonna die. Hezekiah. And Isaiah had a choice. They could live in the power of the law, which for them meant one of two things. It meant sending out an army to face 185,000 Assyrian soldiers who'd surrounded their city and were going to kill them. Or it could mean sitting in a city and waiting until 185,000 Assyrians managed to make their way in. Or they could live by faith in God. And they could take that crisis that was about to just boil over and consume them. And faced the Lord, which is what they did. Hezekiah called for Isaiah and said, What in the world is the Lord doing to us here? Isaiah went to the temple and prayed and came back and said, Uh They won't enter the city. They won't shoot one arrow into the city. And they won't take us. The Lord has said so. And then they went to bed. Now I don't really believe that they went to sleep. I've never managed for two reasons when when the Assyrians surround Jerusalem in my life to fall asleep about that because one I either am terrified and don't believe anything's going to happen except for the victory of the Assyrians, or I'm too excited to watch what God's going to do to take care of these dumb Assyrians But the next morning when they woke up, or when they got out of bed, when they looked at the breaking light of day, they saw 185,000 Assyrians still surrounding Jerusalem, but they were all dead. Now that that may seem so far removed from your own experiences. You may have seen a number of times where at least some of those Assyrians got into the city and wreaked some havoc. We talked A couple of weeks ago about what it means to go through trials, that the proof of your faith may show itself. God has not said to you, you will not suffer. God has said the opposite. He said, because Jesus suffered for righteousness' sake, you have the privilege, the opportunity, the honor of joining him in that. He has said you'll suffer, but he's also said I will bring you through. My commitment to you is unshakable. And so living in the Spirit doesn't mean that you don't go through crisis, but it means you go through it with the Lord. It means He holds you secure. He keeps you safe, and He gives you the power to do the things that you in your own power couldn't do, as well as as well as to do whatever else is necessary. One of the things that I really, really hate in life, I'm getting better at not hating it quite so much, but I really really hate when cars strand me. I had a 1973 Dodge Colt that was excellent at stranding me. They did it multiple times driving about 40 miles distance on the freeway to Southern California, usually about between 10 and midnight And and it was it was horrible because it did it so well that it would just completely soften and not restart And I'd I'd arrange to be picked up and I'd I'd get a tow truck to take the car to a dealership and I'd call in the next morning and I'd say, Well, have you managed to figure out what the problem is on that coal? And I'd hear those most awful words you could possibly hear in life. What problem? We crank it over and start our flying running like a top right now. So you go and you pick up your car and you pay the bill to the man who towed your car and you pay the bill to the dealer who's checked it out and you pick it up and three weeks later it stops you on the freeway again at midnight. That's one place I'll never put my hope is in a car. Another place I'll never put my hope is in my mechanical ability to keep a car running. I'm not sure, but I think I bear some of the guilt for the problems that that cult had. I still struggle when a car acts like it's going to become untrustworthy. But God has been saying to me over the last several years in my life, Steve, is that car more powerful than I am? You notice I take a moment and try and think before I give an answer. No. Then why are you worried? Don't I love you? Well, of course, Lord, you love me Well, what does that love mean? Does it mean I'm going to take care of you? Well, of course it means you're going to take care of me, but maybe not in the way that I want Are you smarter than me, Steve? No. That's a real easy answer. Then trust me. You know, my life isn't dependent upon being able to get from one place to another in a car. And my life isn't dependent upon being able to do that always without some perspiration, even if it may not be hot. And I've seen God take me through some rather strange and precarious times with a car that I think is about to die and gets me home. I still, still would much rather have nice, well-running new cars. But God God is more than enough to take care of that. That is one example in my life where I have to live by faith. I'm sure you have many on your own, but I think the issue is that whatever that that struggle for you is, whatever that that thing you don't want to face is, whatever that thing you try and face in your own power is, you've got to take it to the Lord. You can't do it in your own strength. Another step in focusing our hope upon the grace given to us is to do what Peter says here in the passage. Prepare your mind. Realizing that that's not a command, but that is a description of how you fix your hope on the grace, prepare your minds, focus on him, know Jesus. He's just come from a passage where he's talked about how wondrous the grace is that we have received. How wondrous the knowledge of that grace is that the prophets, even the angels, long to look into the circumstances that God has already affected in order to accomplish for us grace. Look at Jesus. Look at him as he sacrifices heaven to become a man. God and man in one person so he might live to focus, to live live to accomplish the law. And to give it to you. Dying sacrificially in order to make that payment for the sin that you've committed. Rising again and giving you that demonstration of new life. The Spirit working in you to bring you in your own life personally to that faith in Jesus. Prepare your mind. Focus upon the grace given to you. Be well balanced. The term here means sober, but it also means simply being well balanced. It means living according to God's standard and being careful. There's a lot of things you can do to set yourself up, to make mistakes. What Peter's saying here is think through. Use your mind fully Even what we're doing today is an example of that, because you can read this passage and study it in the English and think that it's saying a whole bunch of commands, but then simply turn you away from focusing upon Jesus and His work for you So that you now have to do these things. God's been good to you up to a point, but now it's up to you. What we're doing in this message is turning that around and becoming well balanced upon the the standard that God has given to us and realizing that only in hope. In grace, as God works in your life, can you begin to do what God calls you to do? This very passage is an example of focusing your hope upon the grace given to you. Peter moves on though, and in verse 14 he says, As an obedient child, not conforming to the evil desires you had in your ignorance. There is a turning from and a turning to. We have to fight our sin. If you're not sober and well balanced and focusing upon God, you will focus upon your own desires and delights. You will focus upon your ignorant, evil, former lusts. You'll fall into the habits that you've established. Peter is telling you that in focusing your hope, you must commit to fighting the sin that yet indwells you. He's giving you the negative and he's about to give you the positive. The negative command is don't do what you've done. Don't slip into the patterns that you've had. Change. Fight your sins. It's very easy for us to be Thinking that our sins have to be great big things that are really ugly and nasty, and everybody in the world would know if we did them, and so we'll fight those for multiple reasons, one of which is embarrassment at being caught Another of which is our own self-image and self-esteem. And then the third may be to please Jesus. That's a gross example. That's an extreme example, and that's when we're really far from the Lord. But some of us find ourselves there periodically. The reality of the matter is that your sins are small. Where the scale goes down to small. You may have the whole gamut, you may have large and small sins. But I want you to think for a moment about what some of your sins might be. We've heard messages in Ephesians talking about stealing Well, stealing can be a big sin. It can be a big thing. It can be very small. It can be stealing time from your employer to do something that he's not paying you to do They can be stealing small material possessions from your office. It could be stealing in lots of different ways, big and small. Lying. Well there are big lies. There are really big lies. But they're very small lies too. They're very small shadings of the truth. Pride. That's a really subtle sin. That's a sin that maybe people don't even notice in you It's one with which I fight. And and it it is easy for it to sneak up on you. It is easy for it to be something that that Does one of two things. Your pride can absorb the glory that ought to go to God because He's the one that's given you the gifts. He's the one that's called you to the ministry. He's called you to do the things that you do well. Or, in reverse, pride can keep you from beginning to even try and do those things. Because in battling my pride, I'm not going to put myself at risk I won't do that thing, it may give me a chance to steal the glory from God. And so consequently, you don't use the gifts that God's given you. Anger. We've talked a lot about anger in the last number of sermons. Bitterness, envy, gossip. Gossip can be a very, very subtle sin. Do you see the weight of what Peter is saying to you? He's saying to you, as obedient children, not conforming to your former evil desires, which were yours in ignorance. He's saying to you, you are a sinner. You still are a sinner. You still have to commit yourself to the battle to fight and root out your sins. Even when it's itty bitty. Because it still separates you from the intimacy you can experience more fully with God. Battling your wrong and sinful thoughts, not being conformed to your former evil desires. They can be informal too. Root them out. Devote yourself to fighting your sin. Having finished up his negative command, he tells us now to move into that most awesome and frightening of commands. In verse fifteen. But just as he who called you is holy. Be holy. As you read that I find myself pulling away from God because it says to me something I'm not able to do. I think if you rightly understand what Peter's saying, it's something that pulls you closely into the arms of Jesus. Because he's not giving us a command. The command there, be holy, in verse 15 is a passive imperative. And I think it much better reads, let yourself become holy in all your behavior. There's a tremendous difference because it is a command. We are told we must grow in holiness. But in the very form of the command, Peter speaking for God is telling you that you can't do it in your own power. And he's referring you right back up there to that active imperative: fix your hope fully. On the grace given to you in Jesus Christ. When you hear a command to be holy, is your first thought, Lord, help me? Or is your first thought, oh no? Or is your first thought, like some people I've heard lately, whatever. Not gonna happen. We'll just continue to continue and the Lord will have that day of reckoning. God in his command is telling you I am a part of this sanctification It goes right back to verse two again. By the sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit has not left you to do what you cannot do. He's doing in you, and that's shown by the following verse. It The ground Peter has for telling you to be holy. even with a a passive imperative, is found in three places in the Old Testament. You've got those citations in the outline. It's found in Leviticus 11, 44, in Leviticus 19, 2, and in Leviticus 20, verse 7. I looked at the Greek translation of the Old Testament for each of those passages. And the same thing that is true in 1 Peter is true in every one of those places from which he takes this quote. It is a future indicative I'm not trying to give you lessons in grammar, but I want you to catch the importance and the significance of what he's saying. He's not saying be holy, or you should or you must be holy Because I'm holy. He's not saying that if you hope to have any intimacy with me, you will do this. What he's saying is a promise This is not a command. It is a promise. He's saying, because you belong to me, because I have chosen you, because the Spirit is sanctifying you, and because I am holy. You will become holy. You will become holy because you belong to me. Because I am holy, and because I'm going to make sure you have the best This is not a command that says, if you don't measure up, you cannot be with me. It is a promise that says to you, Because I will hold you to myself. You will be holy. We're called to obedience And empowered to obedience by the Spirit. We're called to holiness because God wants us with Him. This is an example of the hope we can set firmly in the grace given us in the revelation of Jesus. Because this is a greater revelation of Jesus. It is the gospel in practice. It is the gospel in our experience. It is God's promise to his children. Live presently in that hope that God has given you in that new birth that He has given you in Jesus. Live in anticipation, not of the power that you may need now, but will be given to you in the future. Live in the future hope of the work God is going to do when He brings you home. Because the process has only begun here. It's not finished yet. You'll still, like all of us, battle your sin. But God doesn't call you to ignore it. And simply hope for the future. He doesn't call you to holiness and simply tell you that you'll wait and someday he'll make you that. He calls you to a present and a future hope in Jesus. Jesus has come and paid the debt for your sin. He has come and given you the gospel now that can work out itself in your life day by day. And he will yet bring you to complete glory. When he returns to take you home. Live a balanced life as you focus on that tremendous good hope that God has given to you in Jesus. Turn away from the evil desires that you have followed and still battle. And devote yourself to holiness as you grow in Christ's likeness and in intimacy with Jesus. Let's pray. Jesus, the gospel is such good news. It's so easy for us to lose focus. And it's so easy for us to fall into The mindset that we have to measure up. I pray that you would open our eyes and our hearts to recognize how deep the intimacy you have granted to us is How incredible the hope is. Because you love us. You have redeemed us, and you are sanctifying us. You have a dream for us. Of being full and complete men and women of God. Well, we see how far we fall short of that We see how we still battle moment by moment our sins. We still see how we think that this is something we must earn. We must cling to. By the dint of our effort and our labor. That we might be able in some point in our life to gain. But Lord, you've lavished your love upon us already. You've done all that's necessary Open our eyes and our hearts to delight in you, to enjoy your presence, to be safe in your touch And to throw our souls without hesitation into pleasing you. Lord, we have to have you work in our lives, or we're hopeless.