Indeed, as that song said, stayed upon or trusting in Jehovah. Hearts are fully blessed, finding, as he promised, perfect peace and rest. Let's hear from God's inerrant word in Romans chapter 15. I'll be reading verses 7 through 13, but looking this morning particularly at verse 13. Let's hear with expectant hearts then the reading of God's Word. Accept one another then, just as Christ accepted you, in order to bring praise to God. For I tell you that Christ has become a servant of the Jews on behalf of God's truth to confirm the promises he made to the patriarchs so that the Gentiles may glorify God for his mercy. As it is written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles. I will sing hymns to your name. Again, it says, Rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people. And again, praise the Lord, all you Gentiles. Sing praises to him, all you peoples. And again, Isaiah says, The root of Jesse will spring up, one who will arise to rule over the nations. The Gentiles will hope in him. May the God of hope Fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in Him, so that you may overflow with hope. By the power of the Holy Spirit. Amen. We live today in an era that desperately cries out repeatedly, over and over again, to experience one simple four-letter word. Hope. Even in our affluent culture here in the United States, where we have things so much better than most all of the rest of the world. There still remains a desperate need for hope. Recently I came across a commentary in a newspaper that struck me as quite revealing. It was by a woman who makes her living observing trends in popular culture. She lives in New York City and her name is Faith Popcorn. I thought, boy, that's an interesting name in and of itself. Wonder what she means by that. But anyway, Faith Popcorn reports on a hot new trend that is sweeping all of New York City, if not the rest of the East Coast here. And it's called cocooning. Now you say to yourself, cocooning Is that like watching the movie Cocoon over and over again? Well, not quite, but close. Cocooning is an overreaction, you might say, or the opposite of partying all weekend long. You see, to cocoon is to pull into yourself, to draw into yourself So much so that perhaps you spend the whole weekend under the covers in bed, not even venturing out of your house or your apartment. And why has this new trend developed, I asked myself? Why this tremendous introversion is pulling into oneself that's sweeping New York City. Well the world seems out of control, according to Ms. Popcorn. It seems like you can't even find a clear glass of water anymore. The world is threatened with nuclear destruction at any moment. Why go venture forth into such a threatening mess? You see, the world lacks hope. Our culture needs hope desperately, authentic, real hope. Yet hope is a lot like a mirage, because if you pursue it solely as your goal, it eludes you. It evaporates And so there are, in fact, other things that lead up to hope that should be pursued so that hope is sort of like the byproduct. of other important elements. I think Paul reveals this to us here in Romans 15. Paul prays in Romans 15, 13, for Christians to have hope, even a ministry of hope. in other people's lives. And yet he prays first for some other things in their lives. And so we see something of the process of finding hope and the process of giving hope to needy people. I believe Paul tells us here from the way he prays in this verse, That we must grow our trust in Christ, so that we will be filled with joy and peace, and thus overflow with hope. Let's look then at each of those elements. First, trusting in Christ. Paul says here May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in Him. Other translations put that. May God fill you with joy and peace in believing or in faith or perhaps while believing. But I think Paul captures it very well here because I believe the idea is that faith is the foundation and the basis. Of filling with joy and peace. Faith is that foundation. You see, as Paul prays for Christians to be filled with joy and peace, it's on the assumed basis of their trusting Notice, indeed, that it's not some vague faith, but it's specific trust in Christ. Paul interjects the words in him. into this verse. And it's trust specifically in the one who's mentioned there in verse 12, the very verse before verse 13, the root of Jesse, who will spring up to rule over the nations. the one in whom the Gentiles will put their hope. It is specifically Christ, the root of Jesse, that is the object of this trust. It is him and him alone. And this kind of trust in Christ you see contrasts with trust in self It's not a trust in self. If you're filling in your house line, you can write that in. You see, really, there's only two choices in this world. Either we're trusting in ourselves. firmly so that we rely on ourselves to make ourselves acceptable before God, or instead we are relying on Jesus Christ and His perfect and complete work on our behalf. Those are really only the the only two choices. And you see, non Christians in the world all around us have nothing but self reliance to go on. It's virtually an unquestioned assumption that you must rely on yourself to get anywhere in this world. And you know what that ends up in? Well, Jean-Paul Sartre talks about it as nausea. He talks about this feeling of despair that results from having to gut it out on our own. Sartre is one of the fathers of modern existentialism, a philosophy that has pervaded our culture. And it talks about he talks so clearly about this despair. That comes from having to create meaning on your own in a meaningless universe. Nausea. A lack of hope. If indeed you have never trusted in Christ alone and are still trusting in yourself, To please God on your own merits, on your own good works, then God's God's word demands that you come to that point once for all where you make that decision to transfer your trust from yourself to and what you've been trying to do to please God to what Jesus has done already on your behalf. Indeed, Romans makes it abundantly clear that salvation is by grace, not by good works. But only by what Jesus has done. But Paul is praying for and referring to Christians here, isn't he? So what does trust in Christ have to do with the daily Christian life? We must grow our trust in Christ as Christians. That is what Paul is getting at. We must grow our trust. in him. Paul says, as you trust in him, as you continually in an ongoing way trust in Christ. And you see that's an everyday effort that takes a lot of work on our on our part. In fact, in Paul's prayer, this phrase, trusting in Christ, as you trust in him, is the only part that man does. Paul emphasizes that it's really God's work Most of it is God's work, but this is the part that man is responsible for, trusting in Christ. That's it. Now why is that so hard? Why is such a simple thing so hard? Because our inward nature, our sinful nature, wants to drive us back like a gravitational pull to trusting in ourselves. over and over and over again. Like a magnetic pull, we want to go back to trusting ourselves, to trying to please God in our own efforts. Instead of trusting in Christ alone. That's our natural tendency. It's a real spiritual warfare. And so Paul says: as you trust in him, God will do these things. A book that our elders are studying now is called Outgrowing the Ingrown Church, and it's by a fellow named Jack Miller. And I think Dr. Miller is right on target when he talks about lack of faith. and repentance as being the single biggest problem in the church today. He talks about a deeply rooted unbelief in Christians' lives That can poison their ministry, can poison their influence on the world. It can cause stagnation and fruitlessness and frustration and a lack of hope. And I think Miller's right on target. We can never allow the stagnation of trust in our lives. We must continually be growing our trust every day in Jesus. Now, I I ask you, how are you cultivating and growing your trust in Christ these days? How are you allowing yourself to be stretched by Jesus so that you have to trust in him, so that you can't trust in yourself? and must rely on him. I was really humbled last Sunday night when God brought about in one offering, after our week of prayer, over $21,000. Towards our facility fund. And we have been praying and struggling and working so hard as a congregation for that. And he, I think, has been wanting us to grow our trust in him alone. And we saw him do it, didn't we? We saw him answer prayer. That should be a tremendous encouragement to us to trust him more for bigger things, for the rest of that facil of the funds needed for our facility. And even for um our operating expenses, which have fallen a little behind recently, God wants us to be growing in our trust of Christ. He wants us to be stretched by him, and so he causes us. To rely on him in such ways. Are we as a congregation willing to trust the risen Christ to meet all our needs in this facility? in this facility drive. That is really the question. But on a more personal level, are you daily trusting Christ to be your sufficiency? To be your strength day in, day out. A lot of us in this congregation are facing job turmoil right now. A number are facing serious health problems. And so the question comes, no matter what your situation, are you trusting in Christ? Or in yourself? Are you repenting even of your own good works and laying it all at the face at the feet of Christ, saying, Lord, I trust in you alone for this matter Only as you continually repent of yourself and trust in Christ will you see God fill you as He wants to with all joy and peace. And that's the second part of this formula. Paul tells us we must grow our trust in Christ in order to, secondly, be filled with all joy and peace. Now, Paul says, May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace. As you trust in him. The main verb of this prayer is that fill, that filling verb. May God fill you. with all joy and peace. You see, it's God act it's God's action. On the basis of our trust in Christ, He fills us with His joy and his peace. It could also be translated all sorts of joy and all sorts of peace. Much could be said individually of those elements of joy and peace because they're rich and important things to Paul Joy and peace are linked in Paul's mind very closely to each other. In Romans chapter 5, if you'll turn there with me. You'll see that both joy and peace, peace and rejoicing are linked in the first two verses of chapter 5. He says, therefore, since we have been justified through faith, we have peace with God. Through our Lord Jesus, through whom we have gained access by faith into this grace in which we now stand. And we rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. Peace as well as rejoicing come from our justification by faith in Christ Paul also links peace and rejoicing, of course, here in these two verses with hope, but we don't have time to unpack all of that significance. right now. But suffice it to say that both joy and peace come from our justification by faith. Both joy and peace peace come from trusting in Christ. So that we are filled with all joy and all peace as we trust in Him. Indeed, it's interesting, I think, that Paul links joy and peace right beside each other when he talks about the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5. Remember there, Paul recites the fruit of the Spirit that comes forth in the Christian's life. And he says the first three are love, joy, and peace, followed by all the rest of the of the seven of those fruits. Joy and peace. Side by side, along with patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, faithfulness, and self-control. But what sort of joy and what sort of peace is this Well indeed, it's the joy of trusting in Christ. It's the joy of knowing that our sins are forgiven. It's the joy of knowing that God's wrath has been turned away from us because he poured it instead upon his only Son, Jesus Christ. It's the joy of knowing freedom from guilt. It's the joy of having new purpose No meaning in life. It's the joy of having our debts paid on the cross. And it's the peace Of knowing that the war between us and the Holy God is over with, that Jesus is our peace, that He has broken the barrier, the dividing wall of hostility between us rebels and the Holy God. Jesus has made us our peace. It is his peace through faith in him, rest from sin's control, and the domineering power of sin in our lives. That's the peace. That's the kind of peace Paul's talking about here. And you see all this contrast so vividly, I think, with the deep restlessness and the discontent of our culture. The discontent and the restlessness of our culture. I think, uh, in my own opinion, that much of advertising bleeds discontent. in our culture. You know, they say that advertising is just supposed to make consumers aware of the co possible goods that are available to them. But often I think Advertising is pitched to breed discontent in our lives so that it robs us of joy. It robs us of the joy that God wants us to be filled with. And I know that before I became a Christian, I was much victimized by advertising of various sorts Those of you who've been involved in um our evangelism training ministry know that I tell in my testimony sometimes about how I used to be uh consumed with uh running certain things, including uh a certain model of Mercedes-Benz. And as a kid uh I remember having my walls plastered in my room Three or four sides with these school page ads from the Wall Street Journal on Mercedes. And uh, you know Wall Street Journal, that's the Daily Diary of the American Dream, right? Well, that's what I wanted. There it was, all around me. And you see, I really couldn't enjoy the great abundance I had Because I always wanted more. In specific, I wanted that Mercedes in a bad way. I think even now the current avalanche of junk mail can have a similar kind of effect on us. We're bombarding with with advertising till it just overflows our mailboxes some days. And uh I'm distressed at how that robs me of joy sometimes when I go through all that stuff and I let it uh sink into me all the things that I don't have that I could have. I think that points to the discontent that our society wants to foster in us And I'm struck also with the restlessness in our culture, the deep restlessness. I was really um amazed, intrigued a number of months ago, when the Columbia Flyer had on its front page uh an article about the war games phenomenon. And in fact it's a whole industry now. Uh the caption went something like this Gorillas prowl the suburbs. And I was interested as I read that article. It seems such a bizarre twist to me that in the United States, since we haven't had a war for uh some time over a decade, people feel the need to manufacture a fake war. We need a surrogate war, it seems. There's something deeply restless in our in our um in our hearts that makes us want this kind of thing and and cry out for this. It seems almost that man can't stand peacetime Man can't stand that peace. There's a deep and a profound restlessness that makes itself known in these kinds of ways. While Christians aren't immune to this kind of thing, and so Paul prays That the believers here would be filled with all joy and peace instead of that discontent instead of restlessness Are you experiencing the fullness of Christ's joy and his peace in your life right now? Is the joy of the Lord your strength? Is the peace that passes all understanding, guarding your heart and your mind as you trust in Christ. You see, if you lack joy and peace in your life right now as you look at your life, You need to ask yourself the question, is there something somewhere in my life that I need to repent of self-reliance? Is there somewhere in my life where I'm really trusting in myself and I need to repent of that? Ask yourself that question. You know, in uh the process of the birthing of our first daughter, um there were some times and I really lacked joy and peace. There were some days I got up and I just felt like grumbling and uh I didn't have uh a real piece about uh how the day was gonna go. And as I look back on that now, part of that I think was because I was really trying to be super dad before the fact. Super coach to my wife. I was I was uh fostering in my heart these expectations of performance, having to do certain things right, making sure everything got done on time and so on. I was really Trusting in myself to get all this done. And it robbed me of joy and peace. And I needed to come to the point where I repented of that. Ask God to empty you of restlessness and of discontent in your heart So that he might fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in Christ in a deeper way, in a fresh way, even today. Then the third and culminating aspect of Paul's prayer here for these believers, and indeed for us, is that we would overflow with hope. That we would overflow with hope. Look again at verse 13. May the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace as you trust in Him. So that you may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit The end result, the thing that Paul most wants to stress in this prayer, is that overflowing of hope. It can also be translated as abounding in hope. Elsewhere in chapter fifteen, he brings up this subject of hope. He must think it's important Look at verse four, he says, For everything that was written in the past was written to teach us, so that through endurance and the encouragement of the scriptures We might have hope. And indeed, right there in verse 12, as we looked before The root of Jesse, Jesus himself, is the one in whom the Gentiles, all the nations, will put their hope. Hope. The verb in the original points to an ongoing continual type of process of abounding. Abounding in hope. That's what Paul wants for us. And you see, Paul centers this entire process on God Himself because it's the God of hope that does this. He is the God of hope as Paul starts his prayer. And as Christ is the hope of the Gentiles Christ is the object and the author of this hope. As we trust in Christ, we eventually will overflow with hope in our own lives. and on to other people's lives. The big picture is sort of like this. And I say there's three stages to it. The first stage is that we grow and cultivate our trust in Christ, in him alone, and his perfect work for us on the cross. And out of that growing trust, then God fills us in the second stage with all joy and peace as we trust in Jesus. And then out of that joy and peace, the third stage comes and overflows, you might say, as we overflow with hope, out of that joy and peace that is in the fullness of our hearts. You can't short circuit that flow. There's no shortcuts around it. And there needs to be that growing trust in Christ before there will be that filling of all with all joy and peace. And then there will be that overflowing of hope. And so when you want hope, you've got to look back at that joy and peace and ask How the fullness of that is being experienced in your heart. And if that's not the case, look back further to your trust and ask yourself, am I trusting and growing in my trust in Christ? So indeed you might say hope is an essential byproduct of that process. That three-stage process. Now you I guess the best illustration I could come up with this for this was uh was thinking of a glass and uh some warm coke. And picture for yourself pouring room temperature coke classic, or whatever your favorite kind of Coke is, over a glass with ice cubes in it. Okay? Now you know what happens when you do that, don't you? You pour that room temperature coke into that glass and what happens? You just keep pouring it real fast. Well, you're going to have an overflow. As that glass fills up with that coke There's going to be all that sweet foam coming up over the top of that glass. I mean we've all had to, you know, scarf that up real quick so it doesn't drip out all over the place and make a huge mess. But that's kind of the process going on here, you see Even so, as we trust in Christ's completed work for us, we're like that glass with those ice cubes in it. And then God adds to that glass the glass of our lives, filling us with all joy and peace, like that coke. So that eventually coming out over the top and overflowing down the sides of our lives is hope. Now of course the illustration is imperfect, as any analogy is, because unlike the foam, which is kind of frothy and frivolous, and we know we can live without it, hope is something we can't live without Hope is absolutely essential to our lives, but it's that essential kind of byproduct that comes from the first two stages, you see. That's what it's like in our lives. And I think you see the relationship and thinking about it in that way. And of course this isn't a natural process at all, unlike filling a glass of ice cu of ice cubes with warm coke. This whole process is not a natural thing in our lives. It's a supernatural process. And that's why Paul says, by the power of the Holy Spirit, that all this happens. He says that we may overflow with hope by the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not trumped up energy in our lives that produces this. It's the power of the Spirit of God as He works within us. And you see, it's only the Holy Spirit that can bring any of this about The Holy Spirit is the instrument to all this process. And that is why we need to pray. That is why we spend a week in special, extraordinary prayer. A week ago in prayer for this facility payment, and God has answered that prayer abundantly by the power of his spirit so that we can make that June 30th payment. And that is why we need more concerts of prayer. We need to see a movement in our lives and in our body of coming together as his people to pray corporately that God's power, the power of his spirit, might be poured out in our lives, so that these things will happen by his strength. You see, it's not trumped up human energy that really results, that really produces ministry of any fruitfulness that lasts. It's only by God's Spirit that real ministry takes place. It's only by God's Spirit that we can offer hope. to a very troubled world. And so our outreach ministries at CPC here must be this kind of overflowing from full hearts They can't be done on our own strength. They can't be done relying really on ourselves, thinking that we really have all we need to get the job done. That's not going to cut it. And so I challenge you each to pray this week every day. Specifically for the three outreach ministries that are coming up very soon here in our body. Dan told us about One of them this morning, the Columbia City Fair, coming up just this weekend. But along with it on that same Saturday is the Duke's Delhi men's breakfast. Pray for that outreach ministry Pray also for vacation Bible school, as the Azbs will start next week, and next Sunday we'll be having a body life uh specifically on that. But start praying now for that. Pray for those teachers that they would not be trusting in themselves and relying on their own power. But they would be looking to Christ and being filled every day with that joy and peace so that they would overflow onto those kids with real hope, authentic hope. Outreach in our lives and in our body is really just the the overflowing of full hearts. Do you have real hope today? in your heart, in your life. If you lack hope, then I counsel you to examine your joy and peace and ultimately look back that whole process to your Trust in Christ and ask yourself, do I have self reliance to repent of? Do I need to repent of restlessness and beyond that a deeper unbelief that God will do all that he said he will do? Remember, hope is that essential byproduct of those first two phases of trusting in Christ rather than self. And then being filled with joy and peace by God Himself. And how is your hope overflowing under the lives of people around you? Ask yourself that question as well. Make some plans now for how to show the hope that you have this summer, this fall, in the months ahead. Then trust in Christ to fill you with his abundance, to do that for his glory, that you might overflow with hope. Let's pray. Lord, we live in such a needy world, a world thirsty for hope. Lord, for any here today who've never come to the place where they've relinquished it all once and for all to Jesus and trusted in Him alone, and so are without hope. I pray that you would enable them to make that decision and not put it off. That they would trust once for all in Him. And yet, Lord, for the many who are Christians here today, for the many who have made that once-for-all decision to trust in Christ, Lord, there are many who lack hope today. And so, Father, I pray that you would grow their hope. And you would do that first by growing their trust in Jesus daily. That they would repent more and more of themselves and grow a newness of faith in what Christ will do and has done for them. Lord, I pray that you'd work in us all a fresh and deeper trust in Christ's perfect work for us. That we indeed would be filled with all joy and peace as we trust stayed upon Him. So that we would indeed abound in hope and overflow with that hope by the Spirit's power onto the needy world here in Colombia and all around us. Lord, use us to drench this area with hope, the solid hope of Christ crucified and resurrected. For his glory we pray. Amen.