This morning we turn, if you have your Bibles, to the book of 1 Peter, verses 3 through 9. And then you will also see, after we read through that, the companion passage in the book of 1 Peter, chapter 4, verses 12 through 16. But I will only be referring that. to that later on, but our time will be spent with chapter one, verses three through nine This is part four of the series of renewing our purpose as a church. As we moved into this new facility, enjoying a new chapter as a church, we are Seeking to renew the purpose for why we are here. The purpose is drawn from Ephesians chapter 1, verses 17 to 23. That is, to know him, that is Christ, who has made himself personally known to his death and resurrection. That we would also know our hope in Jesus Christ and the hope of his resurrection and, of course, heaven itself. But that we would also know his power in daily living by his Holy Spirit, to know him, to know our hope, and to know his power. This is the second sermon on hope. Last week we were talking about the hope of heaven. And I do believe that there are two broad ways that oftentimes heaven no longer electrifies. One The reasons why we no longer find heaven very electrifying is because we've allowed the treasures of this world to blind us to the promises of heaven. Therefore, we very subtly begin to worship not God and long not for heaven, but to long for that which Jesus says will spoil and fade and rust. But another reason why we are often blinded to heaven is because of the blinding nature of pain and suffering. We turn to the book of 1 Peter because this was important to Peter. Because he was writing to those who were facing suffering and pain. So read along with me as you will see on the screens before you as I read. 1 Peter 1, verses 3 through 9. Praise be to God, to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. In his great mercy, he has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil, or fade, kept in heaven for you, who through faith are shielded by God's power. until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while You may have to, you may have had to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. These have come so that your faith of greater worth than gold which perishes even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. Though you have not seen him, you love him. And even though you do not see him now, you believe in him, and are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy. For you are receiving the goal of your faith, the salvation of your souls. And then I want you to see the companion passage. See if you will The parallels. 1 Peter chapter 4, verses 12 through 16. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you. as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings. That you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the spirit of glory of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer or a thief or an evildoer or as a meddler. Yet, if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in that name. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. May the Lord bless the preaching of his word and by his spirit the teacher. Amen. I want to begin this morning with a rather stark statement. You have been lied to. Somewhere along the way you have been lied to either by Christian books or Christian radio or sermons. And the lie is this: suffering is not part of being a Christian. Said another way. If you are suffering, something is wrong with your faith. Or another way, if you know, if you know and follow Jesus, he will make you happy. That's the lie. But here's the truth God, Jesus, and his Holy Spirit Do not aim at your happiness, but at your holiness. And that will involve suffering. But that holiness, that suffering, is attached inseparably from a living hope. I want you to see that in this text. So we're going to look at what is the living hope, what is grief and trial, how do we respond to grief and trial? And do you have this hope? What is a living hope? You see very early on in verses three through five. What the nature or source rather is of this living hope, and what is its ground. What is the source and what is the ground? And in it you will see then what is the hope. First, the source. Notice verse three. Verse three describes to us in a very quick way. Exactly the source of the hope which we've already heard this morning. Hope, as in Hebrews and as in Romans, is not in what is seen. But is a certainty, is a surety of being assured of what we cannot see, and that is this Jesus Christ and his resurrection. And his return gives us a living, breathing, stable, certain hope in the face of suffering. But before we get there, we have to understand its source. Look at verse 3. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ in his great mercy. Stop there. That is such an amazing in his great mercy, whose God's great mercy, not giving to us what we rightly deserve. But giving us something more. In his great mercy, it says, He has given us, and here's the word, new, and another word, birth. New birth. What does it mean to be a Christian? It means that you have received new life. born again, been begotten anew. In other words, you have received a new status, a new way of thinking, a new framework. And that source is God Himself, in His great mercy, He has given you if you are a Christian and if you are not, He is calling you to it this morning. This morning he is saying to give us a new birth. And then it says this, of course, into that new birth then enters into, it says, a living hope. So the source is by God's gracious act. Through what? Through Christ. Now it's only talks about the resurrection of Christ, right? But when Peter refers to he has given us by his great mercy new birth, that is Peter's way in two words encapsulating all that God has done in Jesus Christ. That Jesus taking on human flesh Walking as we walk, handling food as we handle food, praying as we need to pray. depending on his heavenly father, as we are called to depend on his heavenly our heavenly Father. Yet he was without sin. He then goes on farther to do something which we can escape. He falls under God's wrath even though he was innocent. And if we believe in that, according to John chapter 3, verse 16, if we believe in what Jesus Christ has done by God's great mercy, we then will receive what new life. As Jesus would teach, we can receive new birth. The source is God Himself. New life means a completely new way of looking at who God is, who we are, and the world. And then it says, You're given new life, so then you can just memorize a bunch of verses and get on about your way and invite God in where it fits? No, he talks about that not only is he given us new life, a new status, a new way of looking at the world and looking at him, no, he gives us a new source, if you will. Of reason, of feeling, of seeing, a living hope, a breathing hope. In other words A ground, you see. What is its ground? How then, if it is a living hope, how does it remain living? It tells us the ground of the living hope when it says, you into a living hope, this he says, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. So I put forth to you this morning that even through Asking the question, what is the living hope? He's showing us the pattern. Jesus Christ took on human flesh, took on human sin on the cross to die and then was buried and then to be raised. Our hope, living hope, then, in following Jesus, the ground of it is if God raised Jesus from suffering that was death. If God raised Jesus from the dead, how much more then will He not give me a hope based on that that He will also rescue us? Do you see the linkage? The ground is not your ability to hang on to God. It is God's ability through Christ that has given you a hope by which He hangs on to you. Because the ground is Jesus in his resurrection. It is living not based on how you feel about your hope. It is living not because you say it's living, it's living because something happened at the tomb. And though Peter refers to it, you haven't seen the resurrected Jesus. You do not see him now, yet you believe that is a hope. That is a hope that is a gift of God by His great mercy And when you receive new life in Christ, he gives you a living, breathing certainty, an assurance A ground based on the historical acts of what God has already done in Jesus. So that sounds good. We like the idea of living hope. But what of the grief and trial? He moves, he says, verse four, and into an inheritance, he says, that can never perish, spoiled, or say, kept in heaven for you. Who through faith are shielded by God's power until the coming of the salvation that is ready to be revealed in the last time In this you greatly rejoice, though now for a little while you may have to suffer grief in all kinds of trials. So what is the grief and trial? Well, the nature of the grief and trial that Peter was speaking of, particularly to his audience, was the trial of persecution. They were seeking to stand and to voice their hope in Jesus Christ, and doing so meant sure persecution. So that is what Peter was referring to. But we also know that there are other kinds of suffering and trial Because we know this about this kind of trial. If because of persecution they were tempted to n to leave their hope, to not have hope in God, that tells us something about trials and suffering. They don't just have to be persecution. They can be pain of all kinds of sorts. They can be pain because in relationships, they can be pain because of disease, they can be suffering at the hands and hurts of others. But here's the key. You know it is a trial, you know it is a suffering, if it begins to gnaw at that living hope. Now follow with me. The reason why he wants to establish them in the living hope that is grounded on the resurrected Christ, because what did Jesus have to go through? To get to the resurrection, he had to go through Friday afternoon. He had to go through the suffering that was not rightly his own. He did not deserve it, yet he willingly submitted himself to it. So if Jesus So on his cross, we're told by the Scriptures that if we are to follow Jesus, we also have to follow in that same pattern. That we are going to face trial and difficulty that will begin to tempt us to think: is God really real? Is Jesus and his grace really sufficient? And those can be a whole host of trials and difficulties. But you cannot, let me say, you cannot embrace the Christian faith Without embracing this reality. The work of Jesus on the cross and through the resurrection does not remove the pain and suffering in this life. Because Christianity, hear this, Christianity is first a story of despair before it becomes a story of comfort. Said another way. Christianity first becomes a story of suffering before it becomes victory. I say that because look at the Savior Christ. But what makes it even more difficult is not just the nature of grief and trial, but its purpose. The text tells us what the purpose is. Verse 7: These, that is, trials and difficulties of all kinds and grief. They have come so that your faith, that is, your trust in God, in Christ, which is of greater worth than gold, Which perishes even though refined by fire, may be proved genuine and may result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed. The purpose of grief and trial, this text tells us, is to therefore prove the authenticity of our faith. God allows suffering and trial to come into our lives so that our faith might be strengthened but prove genuine. He argues from the lesser to the greater, right? He says, if a goldsmith refines gold so that that which is impure gold burns up and only is left with pure gold If that's the length to which goldsmiths go to, how much more then are those who are in Christ Jesus who have been given faith, trust in God, a living hope, founded on the resurrection. If Jesus is In innocence, if Jesus' perfection, if his glory was proved genuine through his suffering, why then should we expect any different for us? And I will tell you that is a hard pill to swallow. But let me say, one of the things that has helped me has been my own reading in C. S. Lewis, who discusses in his book The Problem of Pain. Notice this quote. He says this. But pain insists upon being attended to. God whispers to us in our pleasures Speaks in our conscience, but shouts in our pains God allows pain so that we might be rescued from the things we so easily turn to. Let me give a couple of examples. If you're a single person and you are a Christian And loneliness begins to eat its way into your heart. And you long to be married and you meet a gorgeous person of the opposite sex but who is not a Christian, who seems compatible to you in every way, you are being tempted to question, did God really say I need to be married and united to a Christian only? And then in the midst of that decision, the crucible, the faith that is of greater worth than gold is being tested of its authenticity. Am I going to trust God? In the midst, you don't know how worthy a house is until you actually have to go live in it You don't know how good a bridge is until you have to cross it. You don't know how authentic something is until it is tested. The scriptures speak of this as the refiner's fire. It speaks of it as a coach with an athlete. It speaks of it in various ways But the reality is, in the crucible of that moment, we have to ask, is my faith simply a handbag that I like because it goes with me, or is it truly how I live? We won't know that, ladies and gentlemen, until it is tested. But not only the single person. But some, even myself, feel the temptation of when I see there is an open door to share my faith, I know in that moment I have a choice to make. Do I want to be intellectually respected and not share the name of Jesus? Or do I want to put myself out there and say, what do you think about Jesus? And if you think being pastor gives me a free pass to be able to do that, you're kidding yourself. If you want to shut down a conversation in a room, tell somebody you're a pastor. People start putting their hands in their pockets, playing with their change. I've seen you do it. Uh yeah, you know what I'm talking about. But the point is that yes, I too feel that pang. I want to be intellectually respected And I don't want people to roll their eyes. I don't want people to laugh. I don't want people to clam up. But I've got to ask, what do you think of Jesus? And the question is in that moment, is my faith really what I believe? It's being tested. But whether you are a Christian or not The reality is, we all find our security, our identity in something other than God. That's why Jesus came to rescue us. Our trust is not in him. And the reality of trial and difficulty and pain, I want to say, pastorally and with sensitivity. is to rescue us from the toys we so easily return to. God means not to change the presence of suffering. And please hear me say this. particularly to those who are facing very real felt pains this morning. I can't tell you in Jesus' name that your suffering will be removed. I can only say That the living hope which is given here will not change the presence of the suffering, but will change the sufferer. That is a very real, different reality. He promises to change us. And in that place, when suffering enters in, our trust in happy marriages Successful careers begin to show their worth Just as God would say to the people of Israel in the Old Testament, why do you turn to wood and stone? Where are they in the midst of your trials? Where is a happy marriage when that marriage is breaking? Where is that success and trust in success when you're given a layoff slip? It cannot sustain you. But God, by his grace, gives a living hope. Though it has to go through the painful experience of trial to test its authenticity, And its purpose is what it tells us. So that It might result in praise, glory, and honor when Jesus Christ is revealed The purpose is that we will be able to see Christ when He comes again. And that we will receive, as Peter says, the goal of our salvation. The goal of our faith. The salvation of our souls. But how do we respond? Quickly, I will say there are three trust in this text. Trust, rejoice, and obey. Look again at the passage. He says, verses three again. He says, Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, in his great mercy, has given us new birth into a living hope. through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead into an inheritance that can never perish, spoil or fade kept in heaven for you. And then verse five, who through faith are shielded by God's power. Trust. Is the response. But it is it is two things. It's trust in number one that only through Jesus Christ can we have a hope. That will sustain us in the midst of suffering. Because it that trust is placed in Christ who has gone through suffering and entered and exited out the other end through victory over death. So likewise, if we are to be followers of Christ, we trust in God who has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Christ. It's trusting that God will do what He has done in Christ. Do the same in us. But there's another trust here that says as well. It's trust in God's power, shielded by God's power. You see, that trust in the power, by the way, I want to be clear, it's not that God gives you, you have a trust in the power that God gives you. Uh certainly the scriptures speak of that kind of thing, that God gives us his spirit as the presence of his power to sustain us But here what Peter's talking about is is a different kind of power. It's that we trust in the power of God to shield us. But here's the key, not necessarily shield us from the reality of suffering. But that that suffering will not be the end of the story. Victory will. Isn't that what we've already read from this morning in Romans? What shall separate us from the love of Christ? What? Nothing. We read nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. That is our trust. Secondly, it is rejoice. In following the pattern of Jesus and therefore becoming more like Jesus, we ought to rejoice not Here's key. We don't rejoice at walking into suffering like, oh goody, goody, I get to suffer. We ought to grieve at the presence of suffering and we ought to grieve at brokenness in the world. But we rejoice that though suffering is writ large across the narrative of human existence. Let me say again, we rejoice because it is not the end of the story. It's a rejoicing that God is greater. than suffering. It is also a rejoicing that God is in the midst of the suffering. God is using the suffering to make us more like Jesus Christ that we can look at suffering and we can say I rejoice and not at the presence of it, but I rejoice because God is my Savior in the midst of it. I know I'm repeating myself, but I have to it I'm convincing myself. I will tell you, as I was preparing for this sermon, I asked myself the question. Can I get on my knees just as I pray for you to ask God to say, God, by your grace, come and bring what you might, that I might be made more and more into your image. I was challenged with whether or not I can pray that. As I've looked at my own suffering, have I rejoiced at God and His presence? Or have I grown bitter in the midst of suffering? The same question is for you. But the response here, he says, is one of rejoicing. In this you greatly rejoice. How could he say such a thing? He can say such a thing because he is convinced that the rejoicing is not at suffering itself. but in the God who meets us in the midst of it. But he also calls us to obedience When he says, Though you have not seen him, you love him. And even though you do not see him now you believe in him. And are filled with an inexpressible and glorious joy for you receiving you're receiving the goal of your faith, the salvation of your soul. When he says, Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you You, even though you do not see him now, you believe in him. The idea of loving God and believing in him is another way of saying, continue though in the midst and face of suffering and difficulty to walk in obedience. Because it is very easy that when Christians face suffering, it is very easy to stop worshiping. To stop coming to church, to stop fellowshipping with those who you need in the midst of your suffering. It is so easy. But God in Peter says continue to show your love, continue to walk in obedience, in trust, trusting his power to shield you. For when we are obeying him in the midst of this suffering, the world looks at us as though we are crazy. And yet we can say, along with Peter, no, Peter says, if we are obeying, if we are loving, if we are rejoicing in the face of suffering, actually we are in our right minds. Because why? Because living hope produces assurance and suffering can never remove that. Because we know, if you are a Christian, that in the midst of it you will receive the goal of your faith, the salvation of your souls. So do you have this hope? You can have this hope this morning But it must begin, I think, for all of us, and I put myself at the head of the line. It must begin with confession. So I want to share this confession with you, and then I want to read just four brief statements as we close. First, the confession. In preparing this sermon, I found myself praying, and I found myself right behind again C. S. Lewis. As he wrote these words. When he talked about his own suffering, he says, You know, when I face suffering at first, I'm overwhelmed, and all my little happiness. looks like broken toys, then slowly and reluctantly, bit by bit, I try to bring myself into the frame of mind that I should be in at all times I remind myself that all these toys were never intended to possess my heart, that my true good is in another world, and my only real treasure is Christ. And perhaps by God's grace, now hear this, I succeed for a day or two to become a creature consciously dependent on God. And drawing its strength from his sources. But the moment the threat of suffering is withdrawn, my whole nature leaps back to the toys I'm even anxious, God forgive me, to banish from my mind the only thing that supported me under the threat, because it is now associated with the misery of those few days. Thus, the terrible necessity of tribulation is only too clear. God has made me but for forty-eight hours, then and only by a dent of taking anything else, everything else away from me. Let him but sheathe the sword for a moment, and I behave like a puppy. When the hated bath is over, I shake myself dry as I can and race off. to reacquire my comfortable dirtiness, if not in the nearest manure heap, at least in the nearest flower bed. And that is why tribulations cannot cease until God either sees us remade or sees that our remaking is now hopeless. It must begin, I think, with confession. Lord, I don't want to be tested. Lord, I don't trust you though unless you test my faith. Lord, I'm I run away from you at the first moment I can to simply leap back in the toy box of security. Lord, forgive me. But give me a living hope that trust in your shielding power Because it is built on the ground of the resurrected Christ. And nothing can separate us from your love. So I simply read to you these four statements, and then we will close with a hymn And I want that hymn, Tim, to be like a closing prayer. I'm not even going to pray for I want that hymn to be a closing prayer. Here are the four statements. First You know that the grace of a living hope has visited you if you can say in the midst of sorrows, the Lord has taught me to say, it is well. Number two, you know that the grace of a living hope has visited you If you can say in the midst of the attacks of Satan that Christ regards you in your helpless estate. Number three, you know that the grace of a living hope has visited you if you can say that despite earthly suffering Your sin, not in part, but the whole, has been nailed to the cross. And finally You know that the grace of a living hope has visited you. If you can pray with me, Lord, give me strength For living this hard moment to your glory. May I see, both in part and the whole, that Christ died to make it possible To go on after this particular devastation. God invites you into this living hope And now let us sing as our closing prayer. It is well.