Please turn with me this morning in your Bibles to the Gospel of John, the first chapter. If you don't have your Bibles, the passage will be given to you on the screens before you. As we look together on this final sermon in this Advent series, The Light and the Darkness, that Christ has come as light into the world. And he does so to bring the gospel that is the good news And over these last number of weeks we've looked together at the nature of the kind of darkness that Jesus and his incarnation was coming into. We've looked at the darkness of depression and fear, anxiety We've looked at the brokenness in its various forms, unbelief, the rejection of Jesus Himself. All of it, if you will, culminates in this particular passage as we look at this again this morning, John chapter 1, verses 1 through 14. As we look at hope in the light, the light of Christ, John chapter 1, verses 1 to 14, hear now God's matchless and changeless word. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. There came a man who was sent from God. His name was John. He came as a witness to testify concerning the light, so that through him all men might believe. He himself was not the light. He came only as a witness to the light The true light that gives light to every man was coming into the world. He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Children born not of natural descent, nor of human decision, or husband's will, but born of God. The Word became flesh and made his dwelling among us. We have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only, who came from the Father, full of grace and truth. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Please pray with me. Father, your word is great in a year full of Sundays. would not be able to plunge the depths of the truths and the beauty encapsulated in these verses. But on this day, we would ask that by your promise, your Holy Spirit, and His presence working together with your word, that you would open our eyes and our hearts to the hope. That is in the light of Christ, who is the life of men. Help us, Lord, we pray. Open our eyes and our hearts to see. In Jesus' name. Amen. At the time of Jesus' birth, under Caesar Augustus, the Roman Empire had reached at that point its largest And most powerful extent. The borders of the Roman Empire stretched at this point from Britain to the north. to North Africa and the south, from Spain all the way east to the Black Sea. It was an amazing empire. What is interesting, however, is that Augustus, because of his rule, had been able to see the Roman Empire grow in its military power and its significance. He ruled with very clear voice. And what he said, done, it was done. In fact, as one writer said, this king, then, would lift his little finger in Rome and fifteen hundred miles away in an obscure province. A young couple would undertake a journey resulting in the birth of a child in a little town that just happens to be mentioned. In the ancient Hebrew prophecy about the coming of the Messiah. And it is at this birth that the angels would sing, Glory to God in the highest. Peace on earth, goodwill to men What Augustus in all of his power failed to understand because of his own pride and his own delusion Is that there was a much mightier king, a greater Lord, whose will and finger could never be thwarted It was God in his providence who would use the power of Augustus To begin the very immediate events that would bring forth the birth of the true King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. John unpacks for us this word, Jesus Christ, God made flesh, come to earth. Who would be known as the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords, but not here. Remember, John is now post-resurrection writing this gospel. But at the time that he would experience it and witness these very events, people did not see that Jesus was the light. But now he writes it, and he writes it so that we would believe. John the Baptist would preach these things so that men might believe and would be saved through Jesus Christ. And so this morning, what I want to do is have us together then look back at this passage and to consider the hope that is in the light. That is Jesus Christ. And you will see the hope in its various facets here in this text: hope in salvation, hope in the darkness, and hope in glory. Hope in salvation, in darkness, in glory. So let's look together. Hope in salvation. It would be God's design that Jesus would be born and bringing with him wouldn't just be the birth, as we've been looking at over the last number of weeks, that to consider the The incarnation is to do so with the cross in view. Without the cross and the resurrection of Jesus Christ in view, and without those as historical events, This birth is of little value. Jesus was born, as we talked about. He was born and then lived a life, and as we've said, that Jesus we're doesn't tell his disciples nor his followers to remember his birth. Rather, he would say, celebrate my death and resurrection. It's not that we shouldn't celebrate his birth, that's not the point. As I said before, that to celebrate his birth is to do so. With the cross in view. Therefore, that to hope in the light is to first hope in the salvation. But we need to see that what John says here first is to consider that the hope in this salvation is to consider its judgment. Notice what he says He says that through him all things were made, that without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it or overcome it As we've looked at over the last number of weeks, that when John says of Jesus that he was the life of men, he's referring specifically that only Jesus himself is the salvation of men. This hearkens back and corresponds to what we read in Matthew. You shall give him the name Jesus, for he shall save his people from their political oppression. No. From their sin. The point is, this Christmas season, I want us, let's let's celebrate with Let's celebrate with candles, let's celebrate with trees and with gifts. That's all well and good. We can sing of Jesus Christ as peace and Grace and goodwill. Yes, and amen. But to do so first must also recognize that the incarnation is a statement of judgment. So, if you will, let us get real for just a moment and let's consider just how shocking the news that John writes for us here. He writes about the one who would come into the world to bring the pronouncement of judgment. That to suggest that he is a savior, to say that he is salvation, is to say, savior of what? And salvation from what? We must always hold this at the center of our belief as the Church of Jesus Christ, because those from within and those from without, a legion of voices, would lead us to believe that Jesus merely was a teacher of good moral habits. Of how to be a better self, or if you will, a dispenser of good love advice. How to love our neighbors, how to love our friends, even maybe go so radical as to say to love our enemies. In other words, our world and even those from with inside the church want to domesticate Jesus during a season of incarnation where we celebrate it, domesticate him, that it doesn't look like just the shocking news that it was. That when Jesus came into the world, he did so because he was announcing that the world is not okay. Because of this, if Jesus was merely a moral teacher of good habits, a way to Through whom we could learn how to be a better self, a better person, how to be more loving, then why in heaven's name would Herod put a price on his head? It is because Herod feared the worst. What would be the truth That Jesus would not bring political freedom. He would bring that which no politician, which no king, which no lord, which no Caesar could ever do. He would bring a pronouncement on sin and death That Jesus has come to strike at the root of human brokenness. When John says That he is the light and life of men. He sang that we do not have life in us We do not have light in us. Why? Because of sin and its consequence and its result, which is death. And so he would strike at the root of human brokenness, and in doing so he would become the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And so this advent which John writes about, this incarnation, would strike at the heart of human power It was believed that either by human power, either through political, military, or human philosophy, that we could strike at the root of humanity's problem. But not Augustus, not Herod the Great, or Herod Antipas after him had a clue about how to deal with the problem of death and the problem of brokenness and sin. And I want to say this morning as clear as possible that to celebrate the incarnation Is to celebrate God finally saying at just the right time through the birth of his son a clarion word, which is this No. In the birth of Jesus Christ, God is saying no to human sin and to human brokenness. And he sent forth his son to deal with it. And he does it first through coming as the life of men, yes, as a judgment on human brokenness, but you need to understand it is also in mercy. Because we learn something very interesting that we have to hold together. For as the incarnation is the announcement of God's judgment on sin. In saying no to it. It is also the announcement of God's mercy. For when Jesus comes into the world and he is raised and he begins to teach, what do we hear from his lips? We do not hear him saying, I am condemning the world and sin and judgment. No, he says, I did not come into the world. God did not send me into the world to condemn the world, but to save it. How? By putting judgment aside? No, it is that Jesus came To say yes to God's judgment, not on the world, but on himself. He didn't set condemnation aside. No, he took condemnation on himself Because to say that he is the light and the life of men is to say that he came in to say, you and you and the world are not okay. Our problem isn't first and foremost morality. Our problem isn't first and foremost the problem of love. The problem is our very nature is broken. Because of sin and rebellion against a holy God. And yet Jesus comes and he takes it on himself. This is salvation. Yes, it is Christmas trees, and celebrate all of these things, but in it let us see that it is the hope of salvation that we celebrate. Because the light and life of men has come. And he would not use the instruments of kingship. He would not use the instruments of a scepter or a golden crown or a purple yoga. He would use something very different. And Pastor Flora has already referred to it. Jesus would come In judgment and mercy, not to sit on a man-made throne, but to be hung on a man-made cross, to take on man's sin. Yet he was perfect in every way. That we, that we might have life. This is the hope of salvation. And therefore, if he brings this hope in the light of his salvation. Then therefore there is hope in the midst of darkness. The darkness that all of us experience personally, we see it in our world We see it in our families, and when we're honest, we see it in our own hearts and minds. What do I mean by that? There is hope in the darkness. First, you need to see from this passage is the hope in the darkness of understanding. For what does he say? In three different places, verse 5, verse 10, and verse 11, he tells us the scope of the problem. Verse 5, he says, the light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. That is, the world does not understand what Jesus has come to do. It is darkened in its understanding. Part of it is they can't fully appreciate what Jesus has come to do, but there's also a harsh side of a rejection of what Jesus has come to do. But even though this is such a familiar passion passage to so many Christians, and it is to me, I've now been a Christian some 26 years. And I have for me found this passage to be one of my favorite in all of the New Testament. And yet as I prepared for this sermon, I tried to remember what it was like to hear it for the first time. I had no idea what the preacher was talking about. I couldn't put all the puzzle together. Some of you are exactly like that this morning. But here is the interesting news. This passage doesn't take the world and divide it into two, those who understand and those who don't. See with me. Not only does he say that the darkness did not understand it, look at verse 10. Verse 10 says, He was in the world, and though the world was made through him, the world did not recognize him. When he uses the word world, it's all encompassing. And in case we would misunderstand, it isn't just the world, it is also to Jesus' very own people. Verse 11. He came to that which was his own, but his own did not receive him. All of that is saying that humanity was darkened in its understanding. Because of rebellion, rejection, and ignorance. We did not recognize him. But here is the reality this text teaches us that left to ourselves no one understanding. There is not a line that can be traced through these pews this morning that will be able to trace through it those who have the intellectual or religious, spiritual, social, familial background to explain why some believe and some don't It's not based on any of those things. For scripture tells us, for all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. No one has searched after God. No, the story of the incarnation is. That it is God who came down into the darkness of human understanding as the light, as the truth, to do what? To give us understanding. To give us the ability to recognize him, to ability to know him. Isn't that what the passage says? Verse 12 Yet to all who received him, to those who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. This passage tells us then it is possible to not understand, but then to receive. So the invitation is to any and to all. Receive the Lord Jesus Christ. Though you may not be able to wrap your brain around it, though you may not be able to intellectualize it or to be able to fully understand it rationally or philosophically, He's offering you a gift, and when someone offers you a gift of life, or someone offers you a life vest while you are drowning, you don't say, well, let me think about rationally about that life vest. But right here, I guess here's the issue. The issue is, are you willing to hear by God's Spirit and accept that you need this life, that you need this Savior. The invitation from Jesus is know your need. And I guarantee you, he's showing you this morning. And he offers you to your mind and heart as he does mine. I have made myself known to you in grace and truth But he not only comes into the midst and the darkness of misunderstanding and rebellion and rejection, he comes also to brokenness. Again, when it says the word became flesh and made his dwelling among us, we have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only. Who came from the Father full of grace and truth? He means to say, It is come to us all. And this brokenness that Jesus came into. Is varied. It is the brokenness of rejection. Those who outright reject Jesus still comes. And he invites you to himself this morning. We see that Jesus, throughout the Gospel of John, if you were to simply read it this afternoon, we learn that Jesus confronts brokenness and sin directly. He also comforts and heals those who are experiencing the brokenness as a result of broken, sinful nature. He goes to those with leprosy. He goes to those who are caught in the idolatry of relationships and adultery. He goes He goes to the goal. He goes to the blind, he goes to the seeing, he goes to those who are religious and offers them the invitation. In other words, he goes to all forms of brokenness. And he invites, and he welcomes, and he comforts and he confronts, but nonetheless, there is no one in this room. Who is experiencing brokenness and sin, to whom he does not come to you and say, Come unto me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Jesus is seen as a heretic for getting together with sinners And tax collectors. Men and women who would have had no place in society, Jesus goes to them And he says, I've come to save not the righteous, but the unrighteous Here is a beautiful thing. That in Jesus as he comes as this hope in the midst of darkness, he removes the stigma. Of brokenness, and invites all those who are broken and sinners to himself. This is a message which I believe we can never let go of or tire of because this last week is a perfect example. of our culture talking about the problems and the root problems of violence in our country. I'm not going to go into it in depth this morning, but one of the things that I've heard over and over again that we need to increasingly have a culture. That removes the stigma and the shame of mental illness. I say yes and amen. But let me say this to the Church of Jesus Christ. The Church of Jesus Christ who promotes, professes, and proclaims a Savior who came into human brokenness in all of its forms And said, Come unto me all who are weary and heavy laden, gives us the motivation to be on the front lines and to say, and to open wide these doors, and say, in this place there is no stigma. There is no shame in being brokenness, broken in all of its forms. This must be a place Where the gospel of Jesus Christ is proclaimed and lived out to such a degree that we become known as a hospital for sinners and the broken. This is why I believed it was necessary to talk about the darkness of depression and all of its varied forms. There are some of you this morning who know the shame and stigma of which I speak. But let me say this in the name of Jesus Christ. It is Jesus who invites you wherever you are. He does not reject you. He does not turn you away. He pays no attention to the shame and stigma of a culture. And he looks at you in all grace and truth and hope and life and says, Come to me. Come to me, and I will give you rest. Columbia Presbyterian Church. May God in His grace make us increasingly a church where this grace is on display Our lives need it. Our city needs it. Our country needs it But he comes not only as the hope and salvation, the hope in the midst of darkness, but he comes as a hope in glory. Glory. We read of the glory here. He says, we have seen this glory, the glory of the one and only who came from the Father full of grace and truth. Let's put this into historical context. You see, Caesar Augustus, twenty-seven years before the birth of Jesus Christ, chose the name Augustus. His name was Octavian. He had considered a number of different names by which he would be known, but it was this name, Augustus, that he would be known by. In Latin, it means, comes from the word to increase, and can be translated as the illustrious one But this is not a political designation, it was very much a Roman religious designation. In fact, according to Roman religious beliefs, this title symbolized a stamp of authority over humanity. And in fact, all of nature. And what was interesting is he was trying to demarcate who he was before he was Caesar Augustus and who he is now. As Octavian, he was known as a Tyrannical, bloodthirsty warrior. But after he was made Caesar, he was now known as the illustrious one. Now I tell you, a human king wanting to be known as the one who is increasing, the illustrious one. Now consider what John is saying. John is saying, another has come. God himself. And in verse 14 is the first time he mentions again this word that he mentioned in verse 1. This word who was in the beginning, this word who was with God, this word who was God. This one who was with God since the beginning is also this same one who has been made into flesh and blood and made his dwelling. He's taken his place. He's walked on this planet. And in so doing, we have seen true glory. Not of a king who takes on a name puffed up in pride, and not because he's trying to escape some former name. But this one, Jesus, would be known as the one who is full of glory Why? Because in Jesus' life, in his death and resurrection, we see the character of God. And what is the character of God? Faithful loving kindness. Faithful loving kindness Way, way back in Exodus thirty-four, we hear these words said to Moses. The Lord, the Lord, the compassionate and gracious God, slow to anger, abounding in love and faithfulness. Maintaining love to thousands and forgiving wickedness and rebellion and sin. That is the picture of God's loving, faithful kindness. Jesus, whose glory has walked in our midst We have seen the glory, the glory of the one and only, so that in Jesus we see how God would forgive rebellion, wickedness, and sin, because God is compassionate and gracious and Patience. Isn't that a beautiful thing? Amen. That is the good news of Christmas. Not I'm making a list and checking it twice. Gonna find out who's naughty or nice. Sure, Santa may operate on legalism, but thanks be to God, Jesus operates on grace. At just the right time, God sent forth his son. Now I realize as a preacher I didn't tell you my sub point, the already. I just told you the already. That's what I meant there in your outline. That this glory has already been shown, but there is a not yet, because I don't want it to be lost on you. That it is John who would write about this glory that has come from the Father. This same John is also the same John who would write the book of Revelation. who would write about the not yet glory that is yet to come. And so I will argue that if it's the same John That it while we're celebrating the incarnation of the glory that is come, let us also celebrate the glory that is yet to come. The not yet. And let me tell you, there's a radical consistency between this world and the world to come. That Revelation tells us, a new heaven and a new earth, but there's also going to be a radical discontinuity. Do you hear it? New New. Because I suggest to you this that when the word comes again, he will bring a light that will surprise. If God, who brought forth this most dangerous of babies In shocking the world and turning humanity upside down by dying on a cross that we might receive salvation if that's what he did at his first coming. Just imagine. The glory that awaits of his next appearing It is, in fact, for us to see that he who sent his son to overturn the power of sin and death. will also bring this glory. How glorious our Father of light, his Son who is the light, and the life of men His Spirit, who guides us by the word of light, will come again. And let me say, He will come again. And he will take those who are his own to himself. But there will be judgment. But what I want everyone here to know Is that that judgment can be it can be sidetracked. By that I mean not sidetracked. It can be avoided. By receiving his grace today. Because the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords invites you to himself today. For today is a day of grace and mercy. For we have seen his glory, the glory of the one and only, full of grace and truth. Let's pray. Lord, we ask that you would enable us to see the reality of who your son is. That He is the Word made flesh, full of grace and truth, who has come and who will come again. Lord, we thank you for the invitation to know your salvation. We thank you, Lord Jesus, that you have taken on the condemnation and the wrath. of the Father against sin, that we might have life. So today, Lord, help us to rejoice in the incarnation And to look again to the one who will come. Father, we thank you for your goodness to us today. In Jesus' name. Amen.