Good morning. It is always a privilege when I'm uh given the responsibility, certainly an honor. to uh be able to bring the word of God to us today. Not me to you, but God's word to us, for us, because we need it. We have a uh a couple of psalms before us this week and next. Psalm 42, 43. I want to read those in just a moment, but I want to Reflect briefly, and I'll talk a little bit later about the title there in the bulletin. Hope in the Midst of Heartache. Hope when the heart aches. Or where do you find hope when your expectations of life and God's eternal decree don't match up? Because that's the question. Living in a world where sovereign God ordains all that comes to pass, and our expectations of life, what it should be and what it should not contain. And when those two don't match up, oftentimes discouragement, despair, and depression ensue. So hear from God's word again. We know we we've read it, and it is good to hear it again God bless this word to our hearts. As a deer pants for flowing streams, so pants my soul for you, O God. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? My tears have been my food day and night. While they say to me continually, Where is your God? These things I remember. as I pour out my soul, how I would go with the throng and lead them in procession to the house of God with glad shouts and songs of praise, a multitude keeping festival. Why are you cast down, O my soul? Why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God, for I shall again praise Him, my salvation and my God. My soul is cast down within me, and therefore I remember you. From the land of Jordan and of Hermon from Mount Mizar. Deep calls to deep at the roar of your waterfalls. All your breakers and waves have gone over me. By day the Lord commands his steadfast love, and at night his song is with me. A prayer to the God of my life. I say to God, my rock, why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? As with a deadly wound in my bones, my adversaries taunt me. While they say to me continually, Where is your God? Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God. For I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. Vindicate me, O God And defend my cause against an ungodly people from the deceit and the unjust man. Deliver me, for you are the God in whom I take refuge. Why have you rejected me? Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? Send out your light and your truth. Let them lead me. Let them bring me to your holy hill and to your dwelling. Then I will go to the altar of God. To God, my exceeding joy. And I will praise you with the lyre. Oh God, my God. Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Hope in God! For I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. Do you hear the psalmist? This is an honest man before the Lord. Honestly crying out to the God who is his refuge and strength. In a time of deep soul aching sorrow. What do you know of depression? We hear about it a lot. We hear statistics given. Depending on which website you visit for information on depression, you may read something like this. According to the National Institute of Mental Health Depression is the leading cause of disability among Americans between the ages of 15 and 44. Further statistics show that 6. 7% of the U. S. population Fourteen point eight million adults are affected by major depression in any particular calendar year. And at least in the US, more women are diagnosed with depression than men, and the median age of onset being thirty-two for both genders. After the first service, someone came to me who works with uh senior citizens and said the rise of depression in those of retirement age and beyond is even greater than those statistics. How intimate are you with the feelings of hopelessness that many testify to I'm not naive to think that it's not us. I know I've talked with some of you Where is the hope? When our expectations for what this life was supposed to be And what a sovereign, loving, heavenly Father ordains that our life be. Where do we find hope? I could easily take the next 25 minutes and fill it with statistics and all that stuff about depression, but there's no need to do that. I think that we are familiar with these feelings. We know it exists even if we don't know all the causes and as if somehow that would provide us with the one size fit all cure. We know many are affected. I'm fully aware that in a crowd this size, that some of you struggle personally with what's been called the dark night of the soul. Did you know you can Google depression quotes? Yes, you can. I did. Listen to these five individuals. One young lady says this, depression is nourished by a lifetime of ungrieved and unforgiven hurt. Another man says, depression is the inability to construct the future for myself. Another depression is not sobbing and crying and giving vent. It's plain and simple, a reduction of all feeling. One young lady says this, I feel like I can't maintain the facade any longer, that I may just start to show through. I don't know the answer. I know only that I can't. I don't want any more of this. Try, try again stuff. I just want out I've had it. I am so tired. I'm 20 years old and I am already exhausted with life. Another man says this, I feel as though I died a few weeks ago, and my body just hasn't found out yet. I just got a book in the mail this week. Ed Welch, the author, one of the CCEF counselors. It's called Depression, a Stubborn Darkness. And I pulled five quotes from Ed's book as well. Let me read these five to you. My heart is empty. All the fountains that should run with longing are in me dried up. Another says, I could weep by the hour like a child, and yet I knew not what I wept for. Another, I am now a man of despair, rejected, abandoned, shut up in this iron cage from which there is no escape A fourth says, my bones wasted away as through my groaning all day long. And the fifth says, My tears have been my food day and night. What seems to pervade these comments is a striking lack of hope Hopelessness, if you will. Depression has been described as not so much deep sorrow, but abject hopelessness. An absence of feeling almost. I wonder if it would surprise you to learn that the last five quotations We're from dedicated followers of the living God. You probably guessed it already, haven't you? They were in order? C. S. Lewis, 20th century apologist and author. The second one was from Charles Haddon Spurgeon, 18th century, 19th century Prince of Preachers over in London. Wealth of truth. The third was from John Bunyan, author of Pilgrim's Progress. He's the one that talked about the cage from which there is no escape. The fourth one was from David, the king of Israel. And the fifth one is from the psalmist that we have an opportunity to get more knowledge from today. The sons of Korah. The last five quotes, I don't know about the first five quotes, but the last five quotes were from speakers who trusted in the living God. It's as if we get to see glimpses of them in the deepest part of the depression. As they reflect back and forward for us There's an honest hope that came from those five. An honest hope that something other than themselves is the answer. And something other than themselves makes all the difference. The difference between my eyes primarily fixed on myself and my circumstance. And my eyes fixed on Christ and his sacrifice So we see the challenge in this life is not trying to order our lives so that we skip out or avoid depressing things, although there is a tendency for us to do that. And maybe we can talk about that in some detail maybe next week As if it's even possible to avoid the things that distress us. But rather the challenge we have is to immerse ourselves in the life that is truly life. So that when the circumstances of this world and this life threaten to overwhelm us, we can cling With one another to the God, the certain hope found in Christ alone. God knows that this world will be filled with trial and trouble. We've just had two or three messages from Matthew chapter 10 that Alan took us through, where Jesus Himself promises that those of you who claim my name, those of you who follow me, The world hates me, and they're gonna hate you because of your love for me. In this world, you will have trouble. And even if the trouble doesn't arise from persecution, the trouble arises from living in a fallen world where sickness and sin have its sway. God knows this world is filled with trouble. And he doesn't necessarily want our lives to be free from trouble, but to the contrary, when trouble comes our way, he desires for us to wrestle with him. That's the example from the psalmist. To wrestle with God in an honest and open way. Longing. We'll get to this, longing to be with the people of God who also honestly wrestle with the true and living God When this life doesn't go our way. So a brief word about the title of the message: Hope in the midst of heartache. Hope when the heart aches. Or. Where do you find your hope when your expectations of life and God's eternal decree don't match up? Maybe that language is just a little bit foreign to us. I r I borrowed from the Westminster Confession of Faith. Chapter 3 of God's Eternal Decree. Let me read from the first section. God from all eternity did by the most wise and holy counsel of his own will, freely and unchangeably ordain whatever comes to pass. And yet he ordered all things in such a way that he is not the author of sin, nor does he force his creatures to act against their wills. Neither is the liberty or the contingency of second causes taken away, but rather by his sovereignty those things are established. Now that's a mouthful, and that's certainly enough for lesson upon lesson. But the bottom line there is that's the core of our orthodox Christian beliefs. We believe that God is creator, that he made all things, and out of nothing he created. So does Orthodox Judaism. That's the core of their beliefs. Orthodox Islam believes the same thing about a God who is absolutely sovereign. It's where we start to get a little more detailed, where the differences arise. That's who God is. That he sovereignly, lovingly, we believe, ordains all that comes to pass. It's important for us to have good theology. As we go forward, because if we understand that truth, as the psalmist did, it draws us back to Him R. C. Sprohl was famous for saying that if there's that one maverick molecule somewhere out in the universe that operates independent of God's sovereignty Then God's not sovereign, and maybe that molecule is. So we get that. We assent to that. We place our minds in agreement with that. But it's where life hits that all those beliefs get challenged The scriptures are clear that not a single bird falls to the ground except that the Heavenly Father knows it fully. Many a night in these past several months I've stood over my mom's hospital bed and I've prayed that very promise. God, you're not taken by surprise by any of this, because you are the God who intimately cares about the small sparrow. And not one sparrow falls to the ground, except that you know it. It's got the number of hairs numbered on my head. It's easier to count as the years go on. But that's the kind of God we serve. He knows us fully and he ordains all. He ordains all. Are you catching this? Your family of origin, your body type, your income, your high school years, your college years. Your coping mechanisms, your illnesses, your traffic accidents, your conversations after worship today. God is sovereign, and that is a good truth to cling to. It's when our expectations of what this life was supposed to be, and when his sovereign decree doesn't match up that we need the truth of the word. And so thank God for his word. We look at Psalm 42 and 43. This is a particular type of psalm. There are different categories, different genres of psalms. This is from the genre lament. These are the Psalms of Lament. There are many in the Scriptures, in the 150 Psalms. This is an individual lament. There are national laments, like Psalm 44 is a national lament. But this is a lament of an individual who longs For God, his soul and body ache. We're going to take Psalm 42 and 43 together this week and next. Because I believe they're supposed to be together. And other scholars uh support that You'll notice that there is a recurring refrain found in 425, 4211, and 435. There's also no little subscript at the beginning of Psalm 43, indicating a continuation? Quite possibly. There's also a recurring phrase that's found in the end of 42 and the beginning of 43 Why do I go about mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? There's a lot of connection in these two psalms. But most notably is that this is an individual psalm of lament by one of the sons of Korah. As he cries out to God in his distress. The sons of Korah. It's attributed to a son of Korah. Maybe that does that name ring a bell? When you grow up in Sunday school you you know Korra his last name is Rebellion. Korra's Rebellion now is possibly ringing a bell. We we know Korah because of the devastation. of seeing God's holy, righteous judgment brought on the people in rebellion. In Numbers 16 we read of this man Korah, who was descended from the Levites. And who rose up a rebellion against Moses in the uh wilderness when the people of Israel were in the wilderness. And God gave Moses and the in turn the people an opportunity to repent. And some that stood with Korah did repent, and others did not. And they gathered with Korah on the day that God said he would bring forth his answer. And do you remember what his answer was? And those who stood in rebellion against the leadership that God had appointed over Israel, the ground opened up and swallowed all of Korah and his rebellion. That's who Korah is. But in Numbers 26 and verse 11, we read this one little phrase. It's a wonderful phrase. And it gives me great hope. As the Mo as Moses is going through and describing the um the different tribes and the way the people and the clans are being divided and going forth And he comes down to verse ten, and remember when Korah and they contended against the Lord, and the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up together with Korah, and the whole company died, and the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men. because and that became a warning to all. And verse eleven, but the sons of Korah did not die. See, even in the execution of God's judgment, there is mercy. And I wonder if these sons of Korah, as they're listed throughout all the Psalms that are attributed to them, thought often of their forefather, and thought often of a holy God who does not trifle with sin, and thought often of how they were in God's mercy spared. So that's the author of the psalm. We see the setting of the psalm is the author, he was The from the descendant of Levite was given responsibility for worship in the temple, probably a songwriter probably a musician, those who had gone with the sh glad shouts and songs of praise with the multitude, keeping the festivals of God, the temple worship in view And this psalmist is cut off from that. He's far removed from that. He's distant. In fact, from Mount Hermon Heading toward the land of Jordan, there's the setting of the psalm. Heading east toward Babylon. He is far away geographically, maybe in exile, maybe in captivity from the temple from that which is familiar. And this is the the pain of his heart, the anguish of his soul. Is he is far from that which is familiar. And he longs to be that again. Far from the familiar. That's a little phrase I've written a couple of times in my notes to myself. February 6th of this year, um my nephew, struggling with depression, we understand, um, took his own life. February 7th of this year, as we my brother and I shared the news with my parents that later that afternoon my mom fell down a flight of stairs And long story made hopefully short, um, after twelve and a half weeks of hospitalization, she still has one more surgery possibly left to go because of uh trauma that was left un uh undetected for a week or so and and all kinds of stuff. Far from the familiar. When illness suddenly strikes your family And you're far from the familiar of health. When a loved one is suddenly gone, and you're far from the familiar of their presence. When All of a sudden, the income that your family relies on is struck in And you have no source of income. You're far from the familiar of groceries and paying mortgage. What is that which is familiar for you? The psalmist is far from the familiar, and his heart aches because of it. Life disappoints. God never does See the lessons we learn here from this song is that there's nothing wrong with questions. There's nothing wrong with honest, heartfelt questions that are just running rampant with emotion. That's what the psalmist is. I was trying to give some credence to that as I read the scriptures aloud. This is an honest heart crying out to a living God. I've heard these questions in my own head and heart. I've heard these questions from you in my office and in small groups and in Sunday school classes. Where is God? Is God present? Is God loving? Is God faithful? Does God love me? Am I one of his? These questions are honest. There is nothing wrong with questions. Beloved, hear me. This psalm affirms that for us. Nothing wrong with questions. Where we get into trouble And where all manner of disaster ensue is when we go looking for answers outside God's Word and outside of God We go looking for something to satisfy the soul, some substance, some person, some thing And God says there's nothing wrong with questions. The psalmist affirms that. What's wrong is when we seek answers apart from God. I know our time is what it is. The psalmist is an example of that. I don't know where you're at in your struggle in this life. You know, we talked in the middle hour about how life kinda does this. It doesn't really do this This is our emotions. This is our gamut of hope and hopelessness and those types of things The psalmist calls upon the God who saved him What's in a name? Everything, according to the psalmist. In verse 1, he is God, the one in whom I can trust. That's why he's calling out to him in the first place. In verse 2, he's the living God, the source of living water. Next week, Lord willing, we want to take a look at the images of water in these two Psalms. It is incredible to see how God has worked that truth together. the refreshing spring of living water, and the tumult of God's just and righteous wrath as it pours over the soul. He's the living God. Verse 8, he is the Lord, the capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. Covenant making, covenant-keeping God. who is faithful to his promises. In verse 9, he is the God, my rock. See the personal pronoun there. What's in the name? Everything. In verse 1 of 43. He is the defender of my cause. He is the one who vindicates me. This is the verse that John Barnes told those graduates to cling to. That what you labor for in the Lord is not labor in vain. God vindicates his saints In verse 2 of 43, he is my refuge. In verse 3, he is the source of light and truth. And not only that, but he is the giver of light and truth. That's why the request is being made. Lord, lead forth your light and truth That's going to clear my mind. That's going to bring me back. That's going to raise me up. Please, Lord, lead. Your light and truth. And he's the gracious giver of light and truth. He's the one that makes my soul truly joyful with verse 4, exceeding joy. What kind of joy is this that Paul and his fellow apostles could sing hymns of praise while chained in a prison dungeon? It's that kind of joy. Verse 4 and 43, he is the one who is worthy of our praise, worthy of our worship, worthy of our lifelong devotion. And we see this recurring refrain in verse five and verse eleven, and then verse five again. He is the source of hope. He is the source of hope when all seems hopeless. Hopelessness is fostered by that sense of being removed from God. And the psalmist speaks to himself and says, put your hope in God. He is the faithful one. He is the God who knew our condition. We find our hope in Jesus Christ, who hoped also in God. It is hopeless indeed to think that we can stand under a righteous standard of God's holiness. We can't. So Jesus comes knowing our frame and our frailty and he offers to us his righteousness in our place In place of our record of sin, he gives us his righteousness. And by faith we receive that forgiveness, and we are given then a hope. We have peace with God Paul reminded the Romans, therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Through him we have also obtained by faith into this grace by which we stand, and we rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And more than that, We rejoice then in our sufferings because sufferings produce endurance. Endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and that hope Does not put us to shame. That's the mystery of living in the gospel of Jesus Christ. What's in the name? Everything for the psalmist. So the last point is this. Go ahead and talk to yourself. You're not crazy. Talk to yourself. That's what the psalmist did. There's nothing wrong with questions. There's nothing wrong with emotions. Where we get into trouble is where we find our answers. And the psalmist finds his answers in the truth. of who God is and what God does. And so he talks to himself. D. Martin Lloyd Jones and his 1965 work, Spiritual Depression, Its Causes and Cures. Interesting title. Very popular, still in print, I believe, but more Lloyd Jones says this that He stresses that talking to ourselves rather than allowing circumstances to talk to us is the very essence of wisdom. in this matter. James Montgomery Boyce says that it is a case of the mind speaking to the emotions rather than the emotions dictating to the mind. Our minds filled with the truth of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Talk to yourself. Preach to yourself and preach the gospel. Surround yourselves. This is the longing of the psalmist. He longs to be back there with the multitude who also praise God and say, put your hope in God. For I shall yet again praise him, my salvation and my God. The psalmist faith taking on his fears, his hope pushing back the horror of his situation, the psalmist choosing to delight in God. In order to combat the dread. All that that is us That that is me, and that is you, and that is us collectively in this world, we will have trouble. Be of good cheer. Christ has overcome the world. Is your hope? In Christ alone. We pray for us. Father and our God, we do pray that you would help us. Lord, have mercy on our souls. I pray that you would individually, Lord, reach and touch those within the sound of my voice, those struggling. We may not be major depression. We may be down in the dumps. Maybe distressed. Maybe just a feeling of blah. Lord, join your word to our heart, join your spirit to our spirit. Cause us to boldly speak, put our hope in God. I pray, Lord God, as you display your greatness through your grace, that we will be drawn to worship you all the days of our life. Bless us, Lord, we pray in Christ's name. Amen. We can't