By addressing an issue head-on that I think keeps missions conferences from having much effect on many of us. I think the problem that we see with missions conferences is that they are led by people who are fearless in sharing the gospel and who are gluttons for punishment. And frankly, we don't identify with them, do we? We look at them as people who are not like us. They don't like to do the same kinds of things we do. And they're different, and because of that, they they really are able to get into this stuff that we have some trouble. being able to identify with. Well fortunately, a young pastor by the name of Timothy in the first century seemed to have at least some of these problems in common with us. And so Paul addressed him about that. Notice he addressed him from prison where he was sitting. Because of his stand for Jesus Christ, his fearlessness in sharing Christ, and because of his willingness to suffer. In fact, he was awaiting execution at any time. And we know from history that shortly after he wrote these words from 2 Timothy, he indeed did forfeit his life because of his identification with Jesus But let's read those words to Timothy, who may have felt a little bit more like you and me, from 2 Timothy 1. Beginning at the beginning of the letter, and we will be considering particularly verses 8 to 12. Notice what Paul says to Timothy Remember also, this is God speaking to us through his word. Let's hear this with careful and respectful attention. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, by the will of God according to the promise of life that is in Christ Jesus. To Timothy, my dear son. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. I thank God whom I serve As my forefathers did with a clear conscience, as night and day I constantly remember you in my prayers. Recalling your tears, I long to see you so that I may be filled with joy. I have been reminded of your sincere faith, which first lived in your grandmother Lois and in your mother Eunice, and I am persuaded now lives in you also. For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God which is in you through the laying on of my hands. God did not give us a spirit of timidity, but a spirit of power, of love, and of self-discipline. So do not be ashamed to testify about our Lord, or ashamed of me, his prisoner, but join with me in suffering for the gospel by the power of God who has saved us. And called us to a holy life, not because of anything we have done, but because of his own purpose and grace. This grace was given us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time. But now it has been revealed through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who has destroyed death and has put and has brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. And of this gospel, I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher. That is why I am suffering as I am. And yet I am not ashamed. Because I know who I have believed and am convinced that he is able to guard what I have entrusted to him for that day. So far God's word. Now let's consider what the Lord has for us from this. You see that issue of shame and suffering addressed there in verses 8 and 12. See Paul says, do not be ashamed to testify about our Lord. Don't be ashamed of me, his prisoner, but join with me in suffering for the gospel. By the power of God. Then verse 12, that's why I'm suffering as I am, yet I'm not ashamed, because I know whom I've believed and convinced he's able to guard what I've entrusted to him for that day. So there it is, again and again. Shame, suffering. These two issues tend to put us off at missions conferences, don't they? I mean, who wants to hear more about how I need to be ashamed and or not be ashamed of what I may tend to be ashamed of and how I need to suffer uh a little bit more than I am and and even perhaps seek after putting myself in a situation where I'll suffer some more. And you combine that with the Vision 91 Capital Gifts campaign to provide a nearly two million dollar facility that we're going into. And you look at the weeks ahead and they look like a lot of white water. uh sort of uh might be thinking, how am I going to get through this with the maximum damage control? You know, I just sort of try to get through these weeks without God getting a hold of me in some way that's so uncomfortable that I may decide I'll visit some other churches over the next uh few weeks, you know, see how they're doing uh in the uh area. Maybe uh Spread a little fellowship for the coalition or you know, see how Chapelgate's doing or something like that, because we'd like to avoid God speaking to us about shame and suffering and sacrifice and those kinds of things. Well, you know, if you think about it, the fact is that we have to face our attitude about this. I do. Look there at verse 8. Paul says, so don't be ashamed to testify about our Lord. Don't be ashamed to witness, basically he's saying. Yet as I read that I have to admit that I'm very concerned about what people think about me. In fact, you know, the really funny thing is, I'm even aware of what people think about me in waiting rooms. I mean do you ever stop to think about that? You know, I mean just s next time you're sitting in a waiting room and these are people you've never seen before and you'll never see again, just say, hey, go for it. Why not share Christ with them? And you know, what are they doing? They're sitting there just waiting. And if you want some questions to start the conversation, I'll give you a few. Because I've tried it, but every time I do it, I'm still thinking, why am I sitting here so concerned about what these people think about me And it's because I'd like to have a respectable philosophy of life. I don't particularly enjoy people thinking I'm an archaic nut, a rigid absolutist who is judgmental in my view of people. You know, who won who of us likes to have people look at us that way, even if we won't see them again? But isn't it silly? We have this view that what people think of us is so important. And then I read verse uh the second part of that verse. He goes on and he says, Don't be ashamed of me his brother, of me your brother, his prisoner who is your brother. And I look at that and I think, I have to admit, I am very concerned about who I associate with. I'd like to associate with important people because that makes me feel important. And to be associated with people who are considered radical, people that would get thrown into prison for the kinds of things that they do. to think that I associate with people who share convictions with Randall Terry Perry from uh Randall Terry from Operation Rescue. To be uh identified with the Jews for Jesus who are always in controversy because of their presenting Christ on street corners, to Jewish people, to be identified with people from the U. S. Center for World Mission always go around talking about wartime lifestyles and reaching unreached people, that's the most important thing in life. To be identified with radicals. doesn't fit comfortably with the way I'd like to fit into society. I'd like to fit into the faddish thinking that's acceptable in my time. I would like to fit in with people who others look up to and see as the ones who are the leaders of our generation. And to always be critical. of things that are going on around, to be always identified with those who don't fit the pattern of today. It's not something that I enjoy very much. I mean you may think that I do, because I talk about this stuff. He's paid for it. He loves that stuff. You know, he's a masochist. He loves it. It's not true. Fortunately, it probably wasn't true for Timothy either. That's why Paul addresses him. He has to remind him, Timothy, be careful. Don't be ashamed of the gospel. Don't be ashamed to witness for Jesus. Don't be ashamed of me because I'm here in prison to be identified with me. Like these fellows he speaks of. You notice there in verse 15? He says, You know that everyone in the province of Asia has deserted me, including Philus and Hermogenes. May the Lord show mercy to the household of Anephorus, because he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. But he stood out. Because he says everybody else seemed to be ashamed of me and what I stood for. Now, if we could have Paul here, Suppose we can ask him, Paul, now you're flesh and blood like us. You must have been concerned about your image. How did you overcome that so that something that you've believed has so gripped you that it's more important than any shame of the cross, and it's so important to you you're willing to suffer anything for it. What is it, Paul, that you've become convinced of that has overcome that and freed you from that sense of shame or that fear of suffering? Wouldn't it be great? To be free of any of the shame of Jesus? To be free of the fear of suffering? What was it, Paul, that freed you from that And if we had him stand here, I think based on what he has said to Timothy, I have some idea what he would tell us So let's ask him. Paul, what would you say? Now fortunately what he says breaks neatly into three points. Paul always does that. I don't know how he does it But every time he gives me a message, it always comes into three simple points that he wants to make to me. So what's the first thing, Paul, that you'd want to tell us? Well he says the first thing is that I've considered what Jesus has done for me. That's the first thing you see there in the outline. I consider what he has done for me. And what he's done for me breaks into two parts. First of all, I consider his call to me. That you see there in verse 9. Paul says, I've considered the fact that he who has called me to not be ashamed of him and to suffer is the one who has saved me, and he's called me to a holy life. Now that's very important that you settle that in your own mind. Jesus Christ has called you and me, along with Paul, to a holy life. Now what does that mean? The word holy means set apart. And so he has set us apart to not fit in. And you're always going to have a struggle as a Christian until you resolve the fact that you will not fit in. Because Jesus has called you to a separate life, a holy life. I still remember some years ago when I was on Intervarsity staff and working with a number of campuses and one was St. Lawrence University, way up north of the Adirondacks. I think it's cold here. You should have been up there these kind of mornings. One of the students I was working with was a typical college student. You know, he was trying to be a Christian. He's also trying to fit into the campus. One time I visited him and he was radiant This guy was like a new creature. He was just really uh you could see a sparkle in his eye, and he said, you know, he said, a few days ago I came to a turning point in my life. He said, I decided at the beginning of this week That I was no longer going to try to fit in as a non-Christian with non-Christians and then be like a Christian with Christians. I was going to come out of the closet as a Christian, and if my non-Christian friends were going to accept me, it was going to be as a Christian. And I wasn't going to pretend to be something that I wasn't in order to be accepted. And he said, as soon as I decided that, he said, I felt a tremendous burden release Because now I'm myself. And he said, you know, I have found it. It really isn't as hard as I thought it would be. Because now at least I know who I am and I can be honest in my dealing with people. There's a fellow who understood what Paul says there in verse 9. He's called us to a holy life. He's called us to be separate, to not try to fit into something that we never will fit in if we belong to Jesus. But besides that, he says, his grace has motivated me. Not only it's his call to me, but it's his grace to me. That he describes there in verses 9 and 10. He says three things about this favor of God. First of all, he says that it's unmerited You see there in verse 9, he says he saved us and called us to a holy life, not because of anything we've done, but because of his own purpose and grace. Paul says, I deserved his eternal wrath for my arrogant disobedience in ignoring him, not placing him where he belongs as the very center of my life. Determining all my values, priorities, and actions. And because I've set him aside and tried to live on my own, I deserve his holy, righteous wrath forever. And I realize I could never change myself from that. That's my nature. But he saved me. He forgave me. He's given me a new nature. Not because of anything I've done. And if you're trying this morning to think, well, if only I could not be ashamed of Jesus, if only I could, if only I could work up, then you will be headed for more and more frustration. You need to decide right now, it's not because of something that you can do, but it's because of his grace that he changes you and me and motivates us to want to belong to him. He says it's because of what he has done. He has taken away that wrath forever. And he's given me a new nature. That's by his grace. And he says that grace, secondly, was not only unmerited, but it was eternal. You notice he goes on to say there in verse 9, this grace was given us in Christ Jesus before the beginning of time. Before the seas receded from Maryland, before the Appalachian Mountains were thrust up, before time began, Jesus Christ had you in mind. And he set his heart on you to love you. And he determined to call you to himself if you belong to him this morning. That love was an eternal love that predated your receiving of Him by eternity And then he goes on to say that this love which and this grace which was before time and from all eternity was revealed in time in the person of Jesus. Look at verse 10. But now he says, it has been revealed through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who has destroyed death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. And so he speaks of two particular ways that this grace has been revealed in Jesus. First, because he destroyed death. You see that? Through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus who has destroyed death there in verse 10. That Greek word there for destroy means to make something ineffective. To nullify it, to cancel it out, to destroy it, to make it powerless. The greatest enemy that you and I have is death And its leering, fleshless face haunts our life in all our diminishing days. Jesus has destroyed the enemy. He's destroyed death. Not only that, but he has brought life to you and to me. He's brought life through his resurrection. He's brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. Jesus has come and He's revealed immortality in the way that the Old Testament never saw it. He's coming through his resurrection. He has opened the gates to immortality so that if this morning you are united to Jesus Christ by faith and trust in him, then you have the guarantee of immortality. You have life. You have the key. You have the document, the deed. It's sealed in your hand. You have life forever. Amen? Amen. That's a real powerful amen, I must say. Amen? It's a little better. Do you see? If you were to ask Paul this, Paul, why are you excited about this? He'd say, how could I not be excited about a message like that? It's the most wonderful message that man ever heard. That Jesus Christ has come into my existence of death and guilt, and he has given to me life and immortality, and he's destroyed my greatest enemy, death, and I have hope. I have something to look forward to down beyond this life, to be with him forever. And I have that to offer to people, people who I see all around me who are without hope and people who are in bondage. And I can offer that message and he looks and he says, You know, the sign of the warpedness and the twistedness of this world is that they reject that message. That's their problem. It's not my problem If people see the message of Jesus Christ and think that that's a ridiculous, archaic, absolutist message that they want nothing to do with, should I then say the message is any less precious because of that? And so Paul says, When I consider his call to me and his grace to me, how can I be ashamed of this Jesus? He's so wonderful. The message is so great. You see, we get, we buy in to what people think of the message rather than the message itself. And so I'd urge you, if you're ashamed, just simply think about the message. Reflect on verses 9 and 10 until you're able to see how wonderful a message it is, and how very much the people around you need that message. He says, not only do I think of his grace to motivate me, but there's also his call to me. And so the second thing is that he says, I consider also what he has appointed me to be. I consider what he has appointed me personally to be. And you see that in verse 11. Paul says, and of this gospel that I just described to you, this tremendously good news, I was appointed a herald and an apostle and a teacher. Now those three offices that were those that Paul held all relate to you and to me. Paul says, I was appointed as a herald. That's the first one. A herald appointed to declare the good news. You see, a herald is somebody who announces news that people have not yet heard. A herald is like Peter Jennings, you see. He's a herald keeping us up to date on what's going on in the Persian Gulf. A herald declares the news. You know, the more I go on, and the more I try to talk to people about Jesus, the more I'm aware that our generation, to our generation, the gospel really is news Our ministers and training group is listening to a tape this week in which the speaker talks about a jewelry store in Denver, Colorado, where a friend of theirs works. Somebody came into that jewelry store and said, could I have one of those little crosses with a little man on it? She didn't know who was on the cross, you see, and that's in America We're reading just this week about an evangelism team was doing some street evangelism and a a Satanist was mocking them. And they spoke to the Satanists, they overcame their hostility and they spoke to this person about the good news of Jesus Christ and what he'd come to do. And when they finished, the person was visibly shaken and said, I have never heard that message. And they received a Bible to pursue it, to understand it. We're living in a culture in which the gospel is news, in which people don't understand it. And so Paul says, secondly, I was appointed as a teacher. Now if the herald declares the good news, the teacher describes the good news. And so you and I don't just come with symbols of hope to people, but we come to describe the good news, to explain to people who God is and why he has a claim on our lives. And then what the problem of sin is and why it is that we need to fear God. And who Jesus is and what he's come to do for us and why only he was eligible to do that in his death and in his resurrection. And then we need to describe to them how a person responds to Jesus and gives their life to him by faith and repentance in order to come into a personal relationship with that Jesus. We need to teach the good news. Not just announce it, but to teach it. And Paul says, I've been appointed as a herald. You have too. Look at verse 8. He says, don't be ashamed to testify about the gospel. That's heralding it. And then Hebrews talks about that testifying as involving teaching that message. And so you and I are called to teach it also. Say, ah yeah, but you missed me on the third one. He's called to be an apostle. We all know that an apostle was a unique thing. But you see, the basic meaning of an apostle is someone who is directed anywhere with the good news. There's two kinds of meanings of the word apostle. In the New Testament, there is the technical meaning of the word apostle, and that technical meaning is restricted to those who were the witnesses of the resurrection. Now that was a closed group of twelve. And uh Paul, of course, replacing uh Paul who is the thirteenth called out of time. Mattathias replacing Judas. These were the apostles. But the Bible also uses that term apostle. The technical way was close to the first century. No longer are those apostles around. But the office also refers to anyone who is sent with a message. In 2 Corinthians 8. 23, for instance, there are representatives who are sent from uh the churches, certain churches to the church of Corinth. And uh those representatives of those churches are called apostles in 2 Corinthians 8. 23. It's uh uh translated in your NIV representatives, but the word is apostle, because the word apostle means one sent as a representative of another In Philippians chapter 2 and verse 25, Epaphroditus is called a messenger who was sent from the Philippians to Paul. And that word messenger is the word apostle in the Greek. He's someone who was sent from the Philippians to Paul. And so an apostle, in the broad sense of that term in the New Testament, is anyone who's directed someplace as a representative. And in that sense, you and I are called as apostles Because if you were to ask Paul about this, he'd say, well, of course, if Jesus is the risen Lord and the head of his church, it's his right to direct me anywhere he wants for me to be the herald and the teacher with this good news. It's up to him. He's the one who's in charge. I'm simply his servant. He sends me where he wants. Do you have that attitude too? You see, I would encourage you as we look at this month of missions coming up to not ask yourself, well, but this is nice, it's interesting, but it doesn't relate to me because I'm not called to be a missionary. I think we've got to get out of that kind of thinking. Not only is that kind of thinking too compartmentalized, but it's not even contemporary. Most people who go on the mission field today don't go on in lifetime capacities. Now they may go on for five years, ten years, twenty years. Those who go on for a career, praise God for that. But we need to be much more flexible in thinking about where and how in what capacity will serve the Lord Jesus anywhere in the world. The point to ask yourself, the question to ask yourself as you come into this month of missions is, am I willing to do anything that the Lord Jesus asks me to do? Am I willing to be directed anywhere he wants me to be directed? Because I'm not ashamed of him. And I'm willing to do whatever he wants me to do, even if that does involve some suffering, because the time is short and the message is great. So you see the question you and I need to ask is simply the basic question of our commitment to Jesus. And Paul says, once I settled that, then it was a rather secondary or tertiary matter where I was directed and how I was directed to do this. You need to simply say ask yourself, were you open to having your horizons expanded about the gospel this next month and God's global purposes? And when we are, then it's exciting what God can begin to do. And so he'd say that to ask Paul that, and he would say, What I consider What his call to me was and his grace to me and how who he has appointed me personally to be. Therefore, point three, I am not ashamed of him I'm not ashamed of his gospel to witness for him and any opportunity that he gives to me, to seek and find those opportunities as I simply pray for people. And ask God to make me open and not try to hide the fact that I'm a Christian. If I've once settled that matter that I'm not ashamed to be identified with Jesus, I will get opportunities. I would say four times out of five that I miss an opportunity to share Jesus Christ is because I have tried to somehow not be as open about my identification with Jesus as I needed to be. He says, therefore, I'm not ashamed of his gospel and I'm not ashamed of his people. I'm not ashamed to associate even with those who are radicals I'm not concerned about my reputation, that I look good, that I associate with the right people, but I'll associate with people who are called fundamentalists. I'll associate with evangelicals. I'll associate with people who, as the person wrote in the flyer this week, impose religious dogma. That is, I shared the truth. And I'm not ashamed of that. I'm not ashamed to be identified with people who do that. Not hostily, not arrogantly But humbly. And Paul says, and I'm willing to suffer for him. That's on the back side. I'm willing to suffer for him. But I realize that I can only do that by his power. That's a tremendous encouragement. Look there at verse 8. Don't miss that. Paul says there, don't be ashamed of me, but join with me in suffering for the gospel. How? Look at there at verse 8. How? By the power of God. And that's where I think so many of us fall down. We say, well, you know, if I'm gonna suffer, I just gotta sort of be prepared and get this work up this mental attitude of, you know, a little bit of healthy masochism or something. But you and I need to face the fact that we don't like to suffer. I don't like to suffer. None of us do. By definition. If you liked it, it wouldn't be suffering. The only way you can do it, therefore, is by the power of God. But you see, he can give us that If you simply determine not to be ashamed of him, there will be times when it will be put to you. It'll be hard. You'll be hard-pressed. But Paul says, hey, but by the power of God, I can endure for a brief time anything that He gives me that honors him. Why shouldn't I? I'm called to a holy life. I'm called to be separate. This world isn't my home. That's okay. And so by his power, he can enable me to do that, not in my own strength. That I'm willing, secondly, he says there, because his grace is so overwhelming to me. I don't do it just because of the suffering. I do it simply because his grace is so overwhelming to me that I'm willing to follow him wherever he leads. Thirdly, he says, I do it because his appointment is personal to me. I can't say that I'm not called to be identified with Jesus and to be a herald and a teacher and directed anywhere. I can't say it. He's appointed me personally. He's appointed you personally as a herald, a teacher, and an apostle in that broad sense to represent Jesus Christ. You can't escape that personal appointment, but that personal appointment should be a great encouragement to you. Because if Jesus has appointed you personally for that, he'll go with you, as he says in Matthew 28, anywhere. And he'll give you the resources to do what he's called you to do. Fourthly, he says, I'm willing because his promise is sure. And I've got my eye fixed on that promise. Look at it again there in verse 12. That, he says, is why I am suffering as I am. And yet I'm not ashamed, because I know whom I have believed, and I'm convinced that he's able to guard what I have entrusted to him for that day. Paul says that I'm not having my heart fixed on this world. When I look at what Jesus has done, he's opened, he's defeated death, he's destroyed death, he's nullified its power. He's brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. He's given me the keys to the kingdom of eternal life. And I know that what I've committed to him, my heart and my life, That he's able to keep that, and he will in fact come and receive me, and that day will open up paradise to him forever. And with that in mind, I'm really not that concerned about what people think about me here, or exactly the degree of the Felicity and enjoyment of all the things that I would like to have and enjoy here in this life. Just recently, Kathy and I were talking and She said something that I thought was very insightful. She said, I thought, you know, if you were the children were to die, how much bolder that would make me in sharing Christ. She said, simply because I wouldn't care what people thought about me at that point. The pain would be so great that I would think, hey, I'm just waiting for the Lord to come and take me. My li my heart's already been broken here. What holds me in this life? And she said, you know, it's really sad that I thought that would give me more freedom to share Christ, because I really wouldn't be that concerned about what people would think. Who cares what they think? Think. It doesn't matter anymore. If you and I could only, in that positive sense, realize you and I have died with Jesus and we've been risen with a new life And that life is the life of a pilgrim here. So that we can say, Lord, it really doesn't matter a whole lot what these people think of me. They're like people in a waiting room. But if I can share Jesus with them. That may make an eternity of difference to one of them. And if you direct me someplace else to do that, that's okay with me. I'm open to my horizons being expanded about what you're doing in these last days. And to see how you might be able to use me in that. And so as we come into this conference, I want you to look at those four lines and I want you to do some honest self-examination today. I want you to look at that line of shame. Where would you place yourself? Ashamed of Jesus? Are you always ashamed of Jesus whenever it comes up? Or would you say, I'm never ashamed of Jesus Where would you place yourself on that line? You know, make a little dot that nobody else could even see. You know, it sort of looks like it's a blemish on the page. But think about where you would put that And then be honest with the Lord about that. Look down at the second one. Willingness to suffer for Jesus. Now For some reason, these got typed wrong. These were different words. You're going to have to cross out the next always's and nevers. Only the first one was always and never. The second one is nothing on the left side, willing to suffer for Jesus, never, excuse me, nothing on the left side, and anything on the right side Are you willing to suffer nothing for him? Or on the right side, are you willing to suffer anything for him? Where would you place yourself, honestly? In your own growth and grace in Jesus this morning. Bring that to him. Lord, here's where I am. Fill me with the gospel. Go back and read those verses and meditate on them. Thirdly, how much are you aware of his grace? On the left, the word should be unmoved. You're unmoved by his grace to the right side overwhelmed. The right side should say overwhelmed. Are you unmoved? Are you overwhelmed? Somewhere in between, for all of us, probably. Where would you place yourself on that? Where would you like to be? And then finally, are you obedient to his appointment as a herald, a teacher, and apostle? The left side should say you refuse. You refuse to be obedient, got your heels dug in to the right side, you're eager in your response to be a herald, teacher, or apostle. Where do you place yourself on that? The only thing that's going to move you from the left to the right, to the joy and the freedom that there is in being able to not be ashamed of him, to be willing to suffer. To be overwhelmed by his grace and therefore eager to be obedient is to think about the gospel and to meet Jesus in his word until he overwhelms you with Let's pause for a moment now to come before him. Lord, we come now to ask that you would overwhelm us with the gospel, that we would not be ashamed of Jesus. We'd be willing for you to use us in any capacity. Because you are so wonderful. Your message. Is so wonderful, so overwhelming what you have done for lost sinners like us and the people that we know rub shoulders with every day. Oh Lord, deliver us from that foolish shame, that embarrassment. And we would be glad to be identified with the King, the risen King, and to share his good news. Lord, work in our hearts, we pray. To that end this week, in Jesus' name. Amen