In this matter of forgiving one another, over these last weeks and months, we've been dealing at great lengths with the need to forgive with how to forgive and with the proper motives for forgiveness. Now this morning we come to the question What if you're the person who's in the wrong? That is, what if you are the person who needs to seek forgiveness of the person that she's wrong? Now that may seem like in fact it's a very simple question, and something that hardly warrants a whole message to talk about how to ask somebody to forgive you. But in fact, though it may seem simple My experience is that it's usually done wrong. And because it's usually done in a wrong way, often it will worsen the relationship And at least two people who are involved in this will be more alienated after one person has tried to seek forgiveness than they were before. And then the person who tried goes away and they say, See, I've tried everything I can, that person is just impossible. And so they think that it really doesn't work. What I want to deal with this morning, there are four two common errors for forgiveness. The first one Is that too little importance is generally placed upon the need to seek forgiveness of a person that we've wronged? And the second error is that we often do it in the wrong way once we determine that we will do it. And therefore, as I say, often further alienate the person that we wronged in the first place. So I'm going to deal with three points that you see on the bulletin this morning. Number one, the importance of speaking forgiveness Number two, wrong ways of seeking forgiveness. And number three, right ways to seek forgiveness I think it's my text for this this morning, Matthew chapter five, verse twenty-three and twenty-four. The bulletin says Matthew six. It should be Matthew five Verses 23 and 24. The entire paragraph runs from verse 21 to 26, and since that thought hangs together, I want to read. Verses twenty-one to twenty-six in the scriptures. Matthew five, twenty-one to twenty-six You have heard that it was said to the people long ago, do not murder. And anyone who murders will be subject to judgment. But I tell you that anyone who is angry with his brother will be subject to judgment Again, anyone who says to his brother Rakha is answerable to the Sanhedrin, but anyone who says these fools Will be in danger of the fire of hell. Therefore, if you are offering your gifts at the altar, and dare remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gifts there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Settle matters quickly with your adversary who's sticking to the court Is that while you're still in the still with him on the way, or he may hand you over to the judge, and the judge may hand you over to the officer, and you may be thrown into prison. I told the truth, you'll not get out until you've paid the last penny. Thus far as God's words, I'll focus on verses 23 and 24. Therefore, you drill offering your gifts at the altar, and bear remember that your brother has something against you Leave your gift there in front of the altar. First go and be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Say notice This statement is in the context of Jesus teaching on the true meaning of the sixth commandment, thou shalt not murder. The Jews, of course, had tried to reduce this to an external compliance. You typically do not take another person's life, but this did not speak to a matter of hatred in the heart. And Jesus is trying to show here the distinction between the spiritual intent of the law and the way it had been abused and misused by the Pharisees. You notice in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus never uh puts himself in contrast to the Old Testament. It's always in contrast to either the traditions of the Pharisees or the misunderstanding of the Old Testament. But he always sees himself as being in perfect harmony with the Old Testament. But look what he says. In verse 22, he talks about this matter of hatred in the heart. There's probably no real distinction intended here in this matter of the person who's angry, who says racca, and who says you fool. Uh uh that word raca is a rather interesting word. Uherson translates it to blockhead. Uh it really is a word that just describes consent, you know, and it's the kind of word that was so colloquial that you would sort of have to fill in whatever contemporary cutdown was popular at the time. Now you still could probably do a lot better job selling as much popular in school now as the uh as the terms of the ultimate contempt. What is it that you can say to a guy if you really want to put him down? F You see, that's what this word is. It's whatever term was in vogue at that time, but really was the ultimate cutdown of the day Well, we have to examine ourselves in that. Uh Jesus takes our word seriously. And he says we don't go around calling people blockhead or whatever else was uh contemporary now. I doubt that that one's much in vogue today. It's uh more like uh creep state or something like this If you think it's whatever is described a cutting down a a disrespect, a contempt for the person. You take that very seriously because that's a damnable practice But then it goes even further in verse 23. He says there, now, let's even take this matter one step further, and let's suppose you are offering your gift at the altar And then you notice you uh you come to your thing, hey if your brother has something against you, then lose your gift, you'll be reconciled with your brother, then come offer your gifts You see what he's saying here is what if you easily remember that somebody has something against you. Somebody wants to call you a crispate or a blockhead or something else Somebody holds you in contempt. Somebody is alienated from you. And then he says, you, it is your responsibility to still the go to that person. You can see with your special relationships. We saw before. But if you're bitter toward another person and you're alienated from them because they've done something wrong to you, it is your responsibility to go to them to make it right If on the other hand they have done something uh if on the other hand you've done something wrong to them and you've wronged them and alienated them, it is your responsibility to go Well you see, in either case, it's your responsibility. There's never a time when there can be an alienation between two Christians and you say, well, it's the other guy's responsibility to come to me Ideally, the two of you will meet on the way because it is both of your responsibility to go. And Jesus has designed that so that alienation cannot be tolerated in the community of believers. But notice now how urgent Jesus places this matter. Notice the importance of it. Not only important, but urgent. Pick the picture. Put yourself into the screen for me. Here's a fellow who's coming with his gift before the altar in the tabernacle of the temple. The word here that's used for gifts is a word that's a general word that refers to any kind of offering or sacrifice that is made in the temple. So here's a fellow and he dreamed his cow. Uh could be an offering, a sin offering, a burnt offering, could be a fellowship or peace offering. But he's doing this how he has to do it so and he comes up to the temple gate and goes into the priest, he comes at uh stands there before the temple door And what does he do? Leviticus tells us that at that point he takes his hands and he places them on the head of that cow. And that act, you see, that cow is then taking upon itself the sin. Being transferred by his identification with that cow. That cow is becoming a substitute for him. Put his hands upon the head of that cow, what's he to do? See if Jesus is telling us here that that was not to be some empty ritual. The fat point is to examine yourself. At that point, the Jew that was really doing this with his heart toward God, as he had his hands on that calf, was to confess his sin, and he was to look into his heart To see if he had a clear conscience toward God and toward his brother. And all of a sudden he's got his hands there on that cow and he says, uh oh Uh-oh. As Stan and my undershepherds is. Don't have been speaking to me these last couple weeks. Uh I'm not. totally sure why that is. It may have something to do with the fact that three weeks ago I tromped on his toes and muttered something about I'm sorry and just went on my way And uh since that time he hasn't been speaking to me. I wonder if um he's yelled at me maybe. Maybe I need to go to him Now notice what Jesus says you to do. And you say, well, I I better make a note of that in my little seven star diary and I gotta go look up Sam and make this thing right. Now for most of us that would be quite an act of piety. The priest says, oh no. He says, uh you take your hands off that cow and you say to the priest, hey, excuse me a minute, I just remembered something I need to do. Would you hang on to this cow for a little while I gotta just leave them right here at the temple. Now don't let him go. Nikal's gonna move. They say I just wanna I'll be back as soon as I can. And the cow don't know what's going on. He's starting to wander around, like to nibble on something, and he says, but I'll be back as soon as I can. And he tears out of the temple. And you tell Sam, Sam, look, I I really been God's been convicting me of something. I went right front on your turn three weeks ago and and Sam I God's family did this as well. It was thoughtless on my part I've come to ask you will you forgive me? And Fran says, uh, you know, I've been waiting for you to come to me about that. Yes, I I I've been rather upset about that matter And uh so uh he says, Yes, I will forgive you. And the two of them embrace and they have a word of prayer together and there they are to reconcile them. He says, Where do you come back and you say, Okay, now give me that cow again Then you lay your hands on that cow again and you confess and your conscience is clear and he says then she takes the cow and you can slaughter it and sprinkle its blood on the altar Now get the drama of that. You know, that that really is rather ludicrous. It is like you sitting right here and I'm telling you this now and all of a sudden it occurs to you that somebody is mad at you And you're not speaking to them and you think there's something that you've done. And all of a sudden because you realize that you can't continue with the rest of this worship service until you leap out of your seat and you run to the back. Now anybody that gets out of their seat and leaves during this service, everybody else is going to know exactly what's on their mind, right? So everybody's going to make sure they don't do it, not even go to the bathroom or anything during this series, because you know that that means you're under conviction You see that's what Jesus is saying. He's saying, disregard the propriety of it. What is absolutely urgent and crucial is a clear conscience in worshiping God And so that's so important if you even leave that seat there with a cow while you go and make it right before you come back and face that act of worship That's how dramatic this statement is. He's often reduced it and taken all of its elements out of him. You can imagine what a dude would have thought if he's painting this kind of picture. You gotta be kidding That's exactly what Jesus is saying. They notice that this offering that was given is a picture of service to God. It's a picture of the Jews serving God and laying his service before the Lord. And what's he saying to us about that? How many times have you and I said, Lord I'm just so busy serving you. I've got so many things to do and my priorities and trying to serve Jesus Christ. Oh Lord, there are people that I probably uh have rubbed the wrong way. Yeah, there's people that, you know, you win some, you lose some, can't have friends out of everybody. But Lord, surely you don't expect me to go back and make those things all straight. I'm serving you. I don't have time to do that kind of thing. And Jesus says, your service for God. If we validated if you're running over people and doing it. If you're not sensitive to the relationships and how you treat people Do your character toward them, your sensitivity toward them, do treatment of them as people who belong to God. Belong to them by creation, even if they're not Christians That the brothers and sisters in Christ, if you join to them in one body. Jesus said if you don't treat them with a spoon, there's people which is wrong. Don't talk about your service to me. Quit the service. Get that straight. Go with that. Notice also that that offering was a picture of worship. This sacrifice is the act of worship of the Jew in the Old Testament. Jesus is saying that reconciliation is so important But it even precedes grace. You see, even though we may think that that's silly, that Jesus is drawing an extreme here. He's saying, literally, it would be better if you got up out of your seat right now. And what made that phone call, what and contacted that person, probably if the person may be in this room seat, that tap them on the shoulder and give them voice out in the lobby and start talking. So it would be better to stop And for you to seem to the one insensitive to the way you're treating people and the things that they have against you, saying that you're worshiping God, you're serving God And using that as an excuse. God says that our reconciliation with our brother and sister is a top priority matter to him. He stressed the importance of it too great. He even draws an extreme picture like this. First distribute how important it is in present priorities. And now what about these people? Are there people in your past? You go right now. If you say things that God's speaking to you about, if you need to go and you need to ask for forgiveness. Being suspicious about things that you've done wrong. You say to yourself, well, I think it's uh mainly something partly is my fault in this matter. even though I think it's probably mostly their fault, and I'm not even altogether sure what is my fault, but nevertheless that's no excuse Get down before the Lord. Begin to write down what is it that you see is his fault. Don't worry about what is their fault for right now and deal with them about what is your fault. But it's at his very point. But once we've determined that we need to go, many of us go in the wrong way. So I don't want to deal with parts two and three are the wrong and the right ways to go and seek forgiveness First of all, let's consider some wrong ways that we often seek forgiveness that we need to avoid. First of all, the first wrong way to seek forgiveness is to seek it accusingly This is basically saying uh yes I was wrong, but you are too. You see, uh it's basically saying something like Would you please forgive me for my reaction to your rotten attitude? How many times have we either said or implied that kind of thing to our husband or to our wife? Yes I really have had a bad attitude, a real rotten attitude. And so we sort of cast off, you see. We're saying that what we're really guilty of is responding to their sins And God says, no, that's not really CP forgiveness. Because this confession focuses only on my sins No, I may need to deal with their sins at some other point. But if we confuse these two things, we haven't really repented. We believe in every such case, the quick things is true I find in families and in marriage, to separate my sin from your sins. And if I'm going to seek forgiveness, I can't get rid of your sin, is this quick Jesus spoke very clearly to this, you see, in the same message that he gave. No chapter seven. He says during Matthew seven, verse three Why do you look at the speck of sawdust in your brother's eyes and pay no attention to the plank in your own eyes? How can you say to your brother, now let me take that speck out of your eye, while all the time there's a plank or a board in your own eye? You hypocrites, first take the plank out of your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye. Notice that word in verse 5. First Take the plank out of your own eyes. You and I feel that we're in a relationship where there's mixture of skill on both parts The Lord here says, don't seek forgiveness by bringing up their sins. Go implying. Focus only on your sin first. Take the plant out of your own eyes. Then you'll see you'll be in an attitude much more usable by the Lord later on to begin to help them in the same secret. But if we mix these two things up, we're headed simply toward further alienation. The second way, wrongly to seek forgiveness is to do it with excuses. How many times we do this kind of thing. We basically we're saying, well, maybe I was wrong, but I had reasons And we begin to lift all the extenuating circumstances to our sins. We don't really accept the responsibility, you see, for our wrongs. You simply look at it as more or less the unfortunate effects of certain things that I do. I remember in our General Assembly this last day. Then there's a debate going on at great length. And uh I rose up and I made a motion concerning that debate. Did we cut it off? And uh that motion was in order, but it seemed to be rather unpopular with a number of men at that time. In fact, uh shortly after that another man stood up and he censored me right on the floor of Presbyter right on the floor of the General Assembly in front of the men for making such a motion. So he cooled down a little bit overnight and he thought about that. I went to him and told him he had misunderstood what I was trying to do in that uh in that particular incident, he said that he understood it, he could appreciate it. Because the next day he came to the General Assembly and he said he wanted to apologize for what he had done And his apology simply said, I want to apologize for the effects of embarrassment that uh what I said yesterday might have had with Mr. Harris Uh but he said that even though I believe that what I did was right. The somebody turned to me and they said, How do you apologize for the effect of something if what you did wasn't right, wasn't wrong You see, very often what you are in a position of trying to do is to say, well, yes, it may seem that I was wrong in this case, and maybe I did have some wrong attached to it. But I really had a lot of reasons for that, and I'm sorry for the effects that it had on me. That's not confession. That's not repentance. When he confessed that he repent before the Lord We lay it down without excuse. That's the way it needs to be toward one another. Remember in Genesis 3, the very first thing of the human race Very confronted with it. What did Adam say? Well yeah, Lord, I was wrong. But you know, it was that woman that you gave me because of the internet, you see He can forgive me with excuses. Translate with a woman of what she said. Well, yeah, Lord, you know, I I blew it, but Lord, it was that serpent that you created. He's the one that beguiled me, you know Making excuses for our sins. In contrast to that, what do we read in Psalm 32? We read it responsively just a little while ago Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven and whose sins is covered. You remember the study we did on this in the screen. Blessed is the man whose sin the Lord does not count against him. And in spirit there is no deceit. When I kept silence, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me. My strength was sapped within the heat of summer Then what did he do? Then I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover up my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and then he forgave the guilt of my sins. It's a true confession. It seeks forgiveness. It's a confession without excuse. It's a confession that says, this is what I have done wrong. I don't excuse it. I acknowledge it. Maked, bare, and sin. John tells us in 1 John 1. Concerning truth repentance. Because if we claim to be without sin, then we're deceiving ourselves and the truth isn't in us. But if we confess our sins, With no rationalization, confessing our sins, then he's faithful and just, and will forgive us our sins and purify us from all unrighteousness. If we claim we have not seen, he makes him out to be a liar And his word has no place in our lives. Confession before God is of this character, confession before one another is of the same character. Certainly, third wrong way we seek forgiveness, I suggest. is to do it conditionally. Now seeking forgiveness conditionally is basically saying, well if I've wronged you I'm sorry. So I like the way Bill Gossard paraphrases this sort of approach to confession and seeking forgiveness. He puts it this way. So if the person is saying If my personality, which I'm not responsible for, has offended you, then there's probably something wrong with your ability to get along with others. But I'll be big-hearted about this and assume that maybe it's my fault, which I'm really not fully convinced that it is, and I you to forgive me if you still think I'm wrong that is. Because basically what it's saying is, well if you got a hang up about that then uh I'll be big enough to say that I'm sorry because I want things to be right. But that's not confession. That's not seeking forgiveness Because I'm not convinced I'm wrong. There's no repentance to that. And yet how many times do we imply that? Well, if I hurt you, I'm sorry. If I've done something wrong in that, I want to apologize. A confession that's really seeking forgiveness has no end. It clearly recognizes its sin and brings it before you as I do before the Lord and I say, I was wrong I see where I was wrong. I'm conscious of where I was wrong. I'm seriously conscious of it. And I bring it before you and I ask your forgiveness. The end of the study we did some weeks ago of David Nasinghit Fashiva studying the consequences of sin that is forgiven. Do you remember where Nathan came to David and he said to David by speaking up on him with a story showing David what his sin was really like And David, who had excused that sin, had rationalized it throughout the preceding months. At that point, when David sees what his sin is, do you remember what he says in 2 Samuel 12, 13? He says, I have sinned. Before the Lord. Simple straightforward statements. No excuses of a candidation. But maybe you don't understand. You don't know what it's like to come home from a battle and being up there and looking at this woman taking a bath and they say, Oh, you don't understand the half what I was saying and what would happen to my Kingdom of that had been exposed. I had to get rid of your lion. David, making you understand the temptation I was under. They're saying that. Don't excuse me. True seeking of forgiveness simply lays bare the sins by sin. Number four The fourth way to wrongly seek for forgiveness is to do it superficially. By superficially, I mean confessing an action rather than the root attitude which was faithful. We saw this again in uh Psalm 32. 5. David said there, I acknowledged my sin before you. I didn't hide my iniquity. He doesn't just talk about a few acts that he saw that he had slipped up on. In Daniel chapter nine, where Daniel confesses the sin of himself and his people, he starts that off, you see, not by talking about those a number of things that they've blown in Babylon, but rather he starts off in Daniel 9 verse 5 by saying Nor have ye sinned and done wrong. We've been wicked and we've rebelled. We've turned away from your commands and your laws. And in particular, Lord, ye have not listened to your servants the prophets. who spoke in your name to our kings, our Christmas and our fathers, and all the people of the land of whom I'm one. See Daniel at that point lived with a rude attitude. Because Lord, we're rebellious. We've had your word, we've heard it, and we ignored it. You even sent people to tell us about this as prophets, and our attitude was sinful pride and rebellion. He gets down to the rude attitude, you see. He deals with the basic issues. Now, let's suppose your parents have told you that it's time to clean your room. They'd like to be able to find a path from the door to the window. Until they tell you that it's time to clean the room. And you respond by saying, Why should I clean my room? Why should I bother doing that? Look at my brother. He's a slob and you never get on him. Well then the Lord convicts you a little bit later about that and you decide you better go and you better seek the forgiveness of your parents. Uh your bottom might be spinning a little as a reminder about the fact that there's something wrong in the relationship. But you decide that you're gonna go confess that. I suggest that a wrong way, a superficial way of doing that, would be to go and say, well, I'm sorry I didn't clean my room and that I yelled at you. Let's deal with a couple particulars Uh what real confession and repentance would do would be to say, I'm wrong, I was wrong, I'm sorry, in my disrespect for you I'm sorry, I was wrong in my laziness, just wanting to get out of cleaning my rooms. And I've been wrong in my resenting my brother. and judging how you treat him. Would you forgive me of these things? That's dealing with the rude attitudes. Or give another example. You've been complaining about your wife's cooking lately. Uh things haven't been quite up to par to what you think uh should be the standard in your home. And so you've let out a few uh salvos about the meals that you really didn't think were really too bad, but uh You didn't really calculate the effect that they would have had upon us. And you realize that they had a lot stronger effect than you sort of intended. And so things are a bit strange around the house lately, and uh you find that the food isn't getting any better either. Now one way of dealing with this would be to confess and say to her, well I'm sorry, dear, I was wrong to complain about your cooking. I'll try to do better. Could you please forgive me? Well that's good. You've dealt with the fact that you were wrong in that. You haven't made any excuses But I would suggest that to get to the rude attitude you need to do something like saying, I I see that I've wronged you in an ungrateful attitude for the things that you do for me. The cooking, the other things perhaps that you've been laying into also. But I've been ungrateful for these things. Did you forgive me of my ingratitude and of my sharp tongue? That you see is dealing with the root issue. And that's what seeking forgiveness does. Only the fifth thing is to seek forgiveness, ignoring needed restitution. So this is a whole topic in itself. Leviticus 6, 1 to 7, and a number of other passages deal with this. And I think it's a topic that really warrants more serious study. We're not going to deal with that in the message next week. Next week we're going to simply take up this whole matter of restitution, individually and in our society And then uh the topic after that, that really leads to another one that I haven't been able to resist. And so uh two weeks from now will be a covenant, and then when we come back, I want to deal with this matter of capital punishment What about that in the light of the biblical teaching on forgiveness and restitution? So you can see what the way things are going. But at least for right now, let me say that to seek for forgiveness without making needed restitution is a contradiction. You can't really seek a person's forgiveness if you haven't restored what you've taken. And we'll deal with that as I say more next week Let's pass on rather now to the right ways to seek forgiveness. The right ways to seek the person's forgiveness. Obviously it's a negation of these other ways, but I want to say some other things about that. First of all When we seek forgiveness, we need to do it face to face. Let's try, if at all possible, not to do it By letter or by phone. Why is that? Well, because you see, where there is forgiveness, there is a deep change in the relationship. Reconciliation is something very significant in the scripture And where that occurs, where the person tells you that you're forgiven, that needs to be done both in terms of your confession and their forgiveness In a face-to-face encounter, we communicate much more than simply by our words, the attitudes with which you do it, your tone of voice, your facial expression And that's particularly where forgiveness is offered, the opportunity to embrace, to touch, to be able to communicate, that the two of you have really come together You're more than simply saying you're forgiven. You're something that's very important to the process. And so if it's all possible, this kind of thing really needs to be done in a face-to-face encounter Sometimes that's not possible. If at all possible, let's do it in each other's presence. Secondly, I would say that uh in forgiving and asking for forgiveness We need to identify the basic offense and the faithful attitude. We need to identify That basic offense to the stateful attitude is that we have um just been along against that other person. You see the examples that I given from part uh T D thereabof where we do it superficially. I talked about Identifying some of the root attitudes of uh laziness, resentment, uh lack of respect, or ingratitude, these kinds of things. Wrong attitudes. To do that, sometimes it's helpful. To live that faith through the eyes of the other person. Bill Gotham talks about this. I think that's a helpful point. To live it through the eyes of the other person, to see how they uh interpreted what you were doing. And then you can get down to what really was the the basic simple attitude that was wrong. Example if you're a wife and your husband uh has you've been giving him a hard time lately on some things, you might Once you confess before him that you've been wrong in an attitude of simple pride, resisting his authority uh such as uh tearing him down. I've been tearing you down lately or I criticized you in public last night, uh I reacted to your decisions, things like this. You gray the evidence, but then you you summarize it in what the wrong attitude was. with the attitude of staple pride, resisting your authority, or whatever else it is in the relationship that's involved. You see, by identifying the root attitude, we communicate repentance That's what the other person needs to hear. They need to hear that we're coming before them broken and humble and saying, I was wrong. And here's how I was wrong. God has shown it to me, and I I feel very sorry for it. I've made it right with the Lord. I want to make it right with you. No excuses, no blame. Later on, you may get to deal with this problem Then the third thing we say in in uh a right way to seek forgiveness is to make sure that you're brief and to the point. I see so many people who seek one another's forgiveness. And they beat all around the bush trying to get to what the point is. And people that do this with me, I've noticed I do it with others when I uh am trying to get their forgiveness and I notice it's for a number of reasons. First of all, it may be because of crime. Uh I I um have come to a point of saying that there are certain things that I've done wrong, but I'm not willing to say that it was really all my fault, and I'm afraid that if I simply uh state that I was wrong in this area and seek forgiveness without sort of letting myself partly off the hook, I'm going to imply that it was all my fault. And I certainly wouldn't wouldn't want to give that impression It's all because of my pride in in trying to back off and say I was wrong that you were too, playing that game, but I really don't get to the point And I'm just sort of beating all around it, trying to sort of get it a little bit what I am and then balancing it. It sounded like I was a little too guilty. Let me sh throw a little your guilt in there And it the whole thing really comes out very garbled, the person's not really sure what I'm doing. But if I'm clear on what was my guilt, I can get right to the point and state that I may uh not to do it because I'm embarrassed. I've seen this oftentimes. It's not simply a matter of pride, it's just it's very difficult to get it out And and so I just sort of uh move around and I didn't really come thinking about exactly what I wanted to say and that didn't seem right anyway. And so the whole thing gets very muddy And maybe I'm just not clear what the offense was. I haven't thought it through clearly. I'm sort of vague. I was wrong, and I'm not quite sure I was wrong, but I know I was wrong, and so would you please forgive me about what I did And the person's sort of wondering, well, what is it that you did that you're really feeling uh that you need forgiveness for? Well, I'm not really sure, but it sure didn't have a good effect and I really am sorry about that. When you see if a person's coming to us, we need to help them to define what they did wrong. And if we go to another person seeking forgiveness, we need to be clear on it. Clear enough that we can use the statement there. It's a statement that Bill Gothard gives in his uh institution. I think it's a very helpful kind of state. Jay Adams is the same kind of statement um so it's not copyrighted. But it's the statement that I think helps you to at least see a pattern. phrased a number of different ways. I've written it uh in this particular way. Or you can simply come and say, I've come to realize how deeply I've wronged you in whatever particular sinful attitude that I've had. I'm very sorry for that. We need forgiveness. And that's all really that needs to be said. If that stands out in the conversation crystal clear It states that you were wrong, you express concrete repentance, there's no excuse, there's no blame, and you've gotten to the root issue. Now the ball's in their court, and that brings us to the fourth matter. And that is that you need to obtain a yes or no response. Here again, so many times forgiveness, the process of reconciliation is proceeded well and it breaks down at this point. Because now you've gotten to this place but the other person isn't prepared. And so you may come to this and you say, I uh I w I have come to realize how deeply I have wronged you in my critical and ungrateful attitude. How I have belittled you and I'm very sorry for that. Do you forgive me? The other person says, Oh, that's all right. I've done the same thing myself, I know. Well, you see, that's not really forgiveness. We talked about the fact in the past that forgiveness is a promise. Forgiveness, according to the scripture, is a promise that is saying, I will never bring this up again to you. To others or to myself. And you need to obtain that promise if there's going to be real reconciliation. There needs to be a movement in the relationship If you simply say that you're sorry about something or that you apologize for it, but don't require a response from the other person, the other person may say, well that's interesting, it's nice to know that you're sorry about that Now what am I supposed to do about it? So you need to ask them, will you forgive me? And don't let them back off or cop out by Their embarrassment and being able to say, Well, yeah, you know it's okay, or something else like this. They need to say to you, yes I forgive you. So many times we're, as we talked about uh some weeks ago, we're embarrassed to do this because then it puts us in a position of seeming to be self-righteous. I'm right and you're wrong. But the scripture says that that's absolutely biblical. If I've been wrong, I need to get your forgiveness. If you need to give that forgiveness, you give it without embarrassment. Yes, I do forgive you. And then if you want to ask forgiveness for them of something, fine. But forgiveness needs to be given. It needs to be, there needs to be a movement, a reconciliation and relationship. So that promise has been made. I will never again bring this up. The record is clean. It has been erased. It's eradicated. I will remember it again to you no more. Never brought up to you, to others, or to myself to dwell on it. And finally, fifthly, we need to be careful that when we seek forgiveness D don't expect immediate forgiveness. I said indeed there that you obtain a yes or no response But you need to give that person the freedom to realize, well I'm I'm not pressuring you to say, Oh yes, I forgive you, you know, and if you don't then you're really a nasty character. I mean people feel real pressure when you come to them and you confess before them and say, Will you forgive me? And the person may be in great turmoil. They're feeling like, well, I don't know. I've really been bitter against you and I've really had a lot of hard feelings about this. Now all of a sudden I'm supposed to just say yes and and uh that's it But they may say, I need to think about this. I need to be honest about that, so I can really speak. Yes, I will. Now as we've looked at before, they're under the command of Christ to do that But you you can't expect an immediate forgiveness because you see, if you do, what you're really saying is, I deserve it. And you may need to make restitution. The person may be waiting for that. But if in any case you give the impression that I deserve and expect now immediate forgiveness, you really haven't confessed and repented. Because confession and repentance realizes that forgiveness is always a matter of grace. Forgiveness, you see, can never be earned. As long as that person, there are no excuses for it. And forgiveness must be given by grace. Remember the New Testament word, one of the words that means to forgive, means to deal graciously. And that's what we realize forgiveness is. Because we realized that when we came before God, that we had wronged him Now that you and I have come before God, and we have to acknowledge our sin and our wrongs against him again and again and again. But when we came to Jesus Christ, we came with no excuses or conditions. We came to Jesus Christ and we said, I have been wrong to the very root of my being. We realized that forgiveness to us could only ever be a matter of grace We come and we say, I deserve hell. That's what I deserve for what I've done wrong against you, God. But even if I see that that's what I deserve, I see a man on a cross. The only stated in the words of the hymn by Johan Herman, Ah holy Jesus. How hast thou offended, that man could judge thee hath in hate pretended, by foes divided, by thine own rejected all most afflicted. Who was the guilty? Who brought this upon thee? Alas, my treason Jesus hath undone thee. Twas I, Lord Jesus. I it was denied thee. I crucified thee. Lo, the good shepherd for the sheep is offered. The slave has sinned, and the son has suffered. The man's atonement, while nothing heedeth, he heedeth, God intercedeth. For me, kind Jesus, was thine incarnation, thy mortal sorrow and thy life's ablation, thy death of anguish and thy bitter passion For my salvation. Therefore, kind Jesus, since I cannot pay thee, I be able thee And will ever praise thee, think on thy pity and thy love unswerving, not my deserving. Forgiveness is always a matter of grace. Whether it's in the salvation we receive through the purchase of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ, or whether it's we go to another person to seek their forgiveness, we go without excuses. And we go, casting ourselves only on mercy and grace. In application, take a look at these things. Apply them to any alienated relationships that the Lord brings to your mind. And in applying verses 23 and 24, do it before tonight. Do it before you next bring that cow to the altar, before you next worship with the people of God. Get it right. Make it right. It's an urgent matter. Jesus Christ used the strongest language possible. To show us the urgency of such reconciliations. So on the back you may want to list any person of you daily name. Put it down before you leave here today And then what is it that was your root offense? What is it that your attitude and actions that was wrong? And when you're going to see them and how you're going to make it right Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we come before you this morning realizing once again How very seriously, how greatly we have wronged you And Lord we we realize again what great rationalizers we are. Lord, we so want to excuse our sin, and we're so used to excusing it to ourselves and before you. That when we come before one another, it's very hard for us to ever say that we've been wrong, to face up To the responsibility of that, and to simply cast ourselves on the one wronged in their mercy. Lord our God, how we thank you and told you this morning that your mercy is rich, the riches of your grace Are unsearchable. And so, Father, as we come before you, we realize that the mercy is there offered Father, we pray for any person here today with us who has never received the riches of your grace, the riches of your forgiveness, because they have never cast themselves upon you without excuse. Now they've never brought themselves low before you, and they have never stripped away all those rationalizations Uh they've dealt with it superficially. Father, we pray that you would help that person to deal with it to the very root of their beings, to deny the excuses And to come before you, casting themselves as that public and simply come low before you saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And this person was forgiven. Father, we pray that you would do that so that all of us here might be those who have tasted of your grace Therefore, Father, aware and are free, not threatens when we realize that we do wrong others To be able to cast ourselves low before one another, humbly, and to confess that, to seek forgiveness. Deliver us, Father, from that pride that alienates us. That pride that once we have wronged one another keeps us from going back and admitting that we were wrong. Help us, Father, to realize that Uh that that which maybe seemed like a a small thing to us. It may be something that has deeply hurt that other person And if we're aware of it, they're probably ten times more aware of it. Help us, Father, to see our offenses from your perspective. It was it being a people in Colombia who walked with consciences clear before you. People who are reconciled to one another, people who are open with one another. Father, we pray you'd have your way in our lives as we make whatever list needs to be made, whether it's one or ten. Father, that we might lay these before you and clear this matter up, even before we next come to worship you with your people. We seek that from you in the name of Jesus.