That's their cunning. Uh this week, with all that was going on, I didn't get to even begin to write the message until yesterday afternoon. Then I come back in, I start writing again, my wife comes in, she says, The vacuum cleaner's broken, you know. But at that point, I lost it. We as a church, I believe, will be involved more and more in the years ahead in directly opposing demonic activity. And the people were falling right back into the same sins. In fact, one of the great Christian classics of all time is a book which, if I were to give you the title of it, I'd probably run out of breath before I got to the end of the title. And then in verse 14 begins to enumerate it. Yeah, you didn't want to fight with all these robes hanging around you. It's saying focus not on the demon, but on Jesus. I'm not sure if it's true, but I'm going to act as if it's true. When the church celebrates the coming of the Holy Spirit. You know, you dare become an elder at Columbia Presbyterian because of what it means to engage in spiritual conflict. and of prayer all we have. Our coalition steering committee watched a video a couple weeks ago of a pastor from Argentina in touch with churches of 100,000,000 people And he said that as they preach the gospel to people who are in the bondage, they also preach to the spirits. One of the big topics today is this whole matter of deliverance ministry. And demons who are seeking to oppose our work and in the lives of people that we're ministering to, especially as we seek to minister to the young church. That you take that, which of course is very essential to protecting your head, you take that, which is a vital piece of defense, and you make yourself aware of your salvation. uh a shortfall of some of the funds that we need in that. that you hold me up in prayer. That the very gates of hell can't stand against the onslaught of your church. And at one point, as he looked off to his left in order to see what blow would be coming from there, the swordsman on the right took the opportunity and knocked the sword out of his hand. The last week or two, perhaps uh feeling inexplicably distracted as you tried to pray The person that you try to share Christ with, every time you begin to get into the conversation, there's some distraction or some interruption, and you just don't seem to be able to get to do it uh not only the fact of the spiritual beings, but we looked at something of their character and we saw three things about them. Remember we saw in verse 12 the Bible calls them world rulers. that they need to more explicitly come against the spirits who hold Japan in their grip. uh seeing vast numbers of people being turned from homosexuality and drugs and alcoholism to come to Jesus Christ for deliverance from bondage over ground that he wrongfully holds. of demonic and spiritual activity now in my life and in our church than I was say five years ago. Uh we've talked about that. And I believe, as I gave examples last week, that uh there is demonic activity today. In general, it's been kind of popularly shortened is William Grinnell's The Christian in Complete Armor. 262 chapters, 1,472 pages to exposite these 11 verses from Ephesians 6. And the weapons are about. The Greek there is talking about a fully equipped soldier with heavy armor. The reason I think that is because if you stop to think about it, isn't one of Satan's chief strategies in your life to attack your conscience Through his death on the cross. And it's that stand that comes from your awareness of his peace that he has accomplished for you. Because as I look at the flaming arrows that come, the flaming arrows of doubt, of a guilty conscience, of lust, malicious thoughts, all the rest of this, the way they get through is that I don't really believe That Jesus will do what he has said he can do. You have been made a son of God. And he said, there are some guys from Washington who are telling you that the way to win this war is to be willing to die for your country. He said, the way to win the war is not for you to die for your country, it's to make the other poor blankety blank die for his country But we need to learn how to use the scripture, learning how to study it inductively, memorizing it, applying it to every square inch of our existence. So that we as Christians can wield the sword of the Spirit, not just defensively, but offensively. It's a beautiful picture, but it's a horrible picture, of Christian on his way to the celestial city in which he encounters Apollyon, the evil one. They're not all delivered and immune from trouble. With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for all the saints. Praying with your family, praying with your small group, coming to the concerts of prayer, learning how to pray, praying in every possible occasion, in every situation So that when you are discouraged and attacked, you pray simply from habit. You pray because you're so used to praying. to him so that there's an intimate relationship being built between you and Jesus that stands you instead at that time when you're distracted and you're being beset by the enemy. To pray for all the elders of this congregation, to pray for Steve as he's out at General Assembly and as he comes back to minister here. We prayed for more years for God to give us the means to be able to erect the facility on it. To pray for our deacons, small group leaders, for our missionaries, to have a group of people that systematically you pray for so that your praying is kingdom-oriented and not just self-oriented. to learn how to use the scriptures or prayer more aggressively against the kingdom of Satan. And at one point he saw an opportunity and he was able to get a thrust in and one of the swordsmen dropped to the ground. Now his two swords against a dagger and a candlestick. And another was out of the fight. Drew blood, but didn't kill him. to the spiritual activity that is constantly going on around us, but that without the correct receiver to be aware of it, we can be very oblivious to it. What was the first characteristic we said concerning the spiritual beings that we're opposed to? You hear in the first service thing? The third characteristic of them is they're what? And I finally thought I had cleared everything away and I sat down. And as we see that we need to understand that as we are more serious for the things of Christ in Howard County, we're going to get more serious opposition. But if that fails, to get us to be obsessed with his existence. They were getting obsessed and distracted by the demons. To get us to be obsessed with demonic activity and to shift us from Christ even in the awareness of the spiritual warfare. What's the passage focus on? He does it by a half-truth, by a distortion, or by an outright lie. Immediately in mind that you can quote to him, quote it out loud, recite it, state it, not just the general thoughts, give him scripture And as you answer with truth, the deception has far less power over your life. Around your waist. Satan, I could just begin to go on a list that will wear you out. Now, as I looked at this this week, it seemed to me that this is the piece of armor that I find I most need. I don't think he means by take the helmet of salvation that you need to either be saved again or get saved or any of that. You remind yourself that you no longer are in bondage to sin. So the first of our weapons is the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. General George Patton, a general in the Second World War, was a fellow who said a lot of interesting things, most of which can't be quoted by Christians. Now, some of the things you can get the essence of it. And you know, as Christians, we need to be aware that we are aggressively seeking to destroy Satan's kingdom. We need to be aggressive so that what we're trying to do is to wield the sword of the Spirit, using Scripture, not having Bibles all over our shelves in every possible translation to make us feel like we got a holy house. So that as we seek to do that, we are driving Satan and his kingdom back as a church and as a culture. You gotta train in the use of that. It talks about Satan's strategy as he comes against Christian. And so Apollyon comes and he basically says, well now, you know, you're following this other master, but um that's okay, I forgive you. The Christian resists that and he says, no, I've given my life to my other master, and he's a better master. And he begins to talk to him about what's going to happen to him if he follows this new master. And at that point, Apollyon loses his cool and he opens opened terror, threatening to destroy Christian. And then Bunyan describes how Apollyon flees on his dragon wings and Christian is left alone. What yelling and hideous roaring Apollyon made all the time of the fight. But you and I know that as we seek to stand for Jesus, it's a battleground. You notice he is given this weapon of prayer in verse 18. First of all, you pray on all occasions, not just when you're in trouble, not just when you are face to face with the enemy. an effective warrior life of prayer. but to pray with adoration, confession, thanksgiving, as well as supplication, interacting with God in all kinds of ways that we speak Third thing is he says there needs to be all persistence in your praying. We need to continue and to persist. I found that our concerts of prayer, there's been a steady increase over the last year and the people have been coming. We need to be careful, brothers and sisters, to come that we might persist and not give up. With the spiritual armor and the spiritual weapons, we show that the Lord is mighty. It's Jesus who wins it. That you find in your life you most need. What's the weapon that you most need to learn how to use more skillfully? It was centuries ago in Fairbairn Castle that Prince Eric, the good prince, was besieged by rebels who had openly defied his authority. But the amazing thing, Lord Jesus, is that you show your strength through us. But the prince had in his hand a pearl inlaid sword, the finest sword in all the land, given to him by his father the king. And all the people gathered to see this fight to the death combat. Now two against one, and no sword. Then he Prince Erik was getting worn out, and he would took the opportunity to press him back and back with such inferior weapons until he had him pinned to the wall. And at that point he put up his other arm, saying, No more, and conceded the victory. of spiritual and demonic activity going on about them. Uh I have talked this week to more angry, discouraged Christians who have just been worn down by the battle and it's wor worn me down. Devil made me do it, cast out the demon, demon of lust, demon of maliciousness, demon of gossip, all this kind of thing. The reason for that was so they could take a firm stand and not be moved in the battle. And so in the in the right place that we give to deliverance ministries and direct opposition and binding of Satan, let's remember that the main strategy that the Bible gives to us here is rooting ourselves in the gospel. Or perhaps in the place that you work, you have tried again and again to take a stand for the Lord Jesus, and you have felt opposed. If you identify with any of these things, my guess is that you've been fighting with demons sometime in the last week or two, and maybe or maybe not, even know it. once in any way possible to get us to be distracted from following Jesus Christ. And we feel that, don't we? That um you try to see what's disturbing a person and many times it may be more than something simply psychological or something that's sin in their lives or maybe something demonic going on And if when Satan begins to come and attack your conscience, you're able to say, Satan, hey, start the list. refers to the heart of the truth of the gospel, which is the righteousness of Jesus Christ, primarily. And I believe that when you and I focus on the gospel, you see again it's not talking about deliverance ministry, it's not talking about necessarily casting out some demon, it's not talking about what you do in some direct interaction with a demon. Pieces of armor is the shield of faith, verse 16. There are two weapons that were given, only two. suffering that Satan will use to drag us down, and he plays on that. But 'twas the dreadfulest sight that ever I saw. And when you're in that, remind yourself, that's not unexpected, but Jesus is with you. And he's given you not only the sword of his spirit, his word to comfort you, but he has given you the weapon of prayer, intercession. Keep on praying after days and weeks and months. Not only for ourselves and our families, but also for our small group and our small group leaders, for our elders, for me, and I must say that I know that there's some of you who have particularly said that you pray for me. That weapon that we have not skillfully used, that we might use it for you and learn this summer. And he has shown himself mighty above all rule and authority and power and dominion. The passage that John's read to you this morning from Ephesians chapter 6, we likened last week to God's receiver, to tune us in. Did eight-volume commentary on the book of Ephesians based on sermons he preached. Over 700 pages. But at least let's just take the very briefest kind of overview to understand kind of the drift of what this armor Reminds me that every one of Satan's strategies against you involves deception, doesn't it? That you've got to fend for yourself because God's not going to take care of you. To attack the sense of guilt, the sense that God hasn't forgiven you, the sense that you really are alienated from God in order to sever the relationship and to get you where he wants you. The NIV says, having your feet fitted with readiness that comes from the gospel of peace. And John Bunyan describing that says that he came against him. And he quoted Scripture, When I fall, I shall rise, O my enemy, from the Psalms. I never saw him all the whole while give so much as one pleasant look, until he perceived that he had wounded Apollyon with his two edged sword, and then indeed did he smile and look upward. Your preparation is to build a life of prayer daily, time alone, praying. We're tempted by the evil one to not follow you faithfully. We want to commit ourselves to you for that purpose. Was with the sword of the king, Prince Eric is strong. Why? Or perhaps that you found yourself discouraged and doubting God's faithfulness, his promises to you? But we need to understand that as Christians, in fact, we are constantly being surrounded with demonic activity and are in demonic struggles. The first thing is that, as C. Because people rather than realizing that it's sin in my life and things I need to repent of and change, everything is blamed on the devil. Because isn't it interesting that in the classic passage that God has given to us on how to fight with demons, there is nothing about deliverance ministry. The second thing has to do with the offensive combat, the offensive equipment, which has to do with the weapons of Golf. Five pieces of armor, two weapons. Paul says, verse 10, be strong in the Lord, and in his mighty power, verse 11, put on the full armor of God. He's not going to be faithful to you. is to gird around yourself the belt of truth, to answer deception with truth. God has given to me his record because of his perfect life and his death on the cross where we transferred accounts. This is talking about uh the Roman boots that were open-toed, but the distinctive thing about them was that they had very heavy soles that were studded But that the Spirit of God is able to deliver you and to protect you today? Then Paul says that deflects the flaming arrows that seek to penetrate and produce the doubt and the disobedience. Our praying is so weak, isn't it? Three of the henchmen hired by Duke Einar, the rebel opposition, came on a great feast day and surrounded the prince. In your defense and in your weapons, that we are able to drive back the evil one. How we might use that armor and that weapon in a way that will show your might and your power even in our lives. Or perhaps found that as you tried to read some scripture, that your thoughts kept wandering from the passage We got the whole thing, we got the abridgments around. And I believe that that belt of truth says to you and to me that we need to memorize Scripture. And the sense of that breastplate of his righteousness so draws you to Jesus that it defends you from those attacks and those temptations. And finally he says the last thing, the last piece of armor, is the helmet of salvation. Drives out the thoughts, the evil thoughts, malicious thoughts, doubting thoughts, whatever it is by which Satan would seek to draw you down. It gives to us two kinds of equipment. Third piece of armor that he talks about here is the one in verse 15, your feet fitted with the gospel of peace. Jesus has for time unknown come against the authorities and the powers who are in rebellion against him. And so having said that, we need to look now at what the Bible says about how to fight against the demons. There's been a lot that's been written on this. Take the helmet of salvation. Now do you see in every case what it's saying is be strong in the Lord and in his mighty power. Now, we saw last week it's a two-part series, today's Pentecost Verse 11 talks about being warned against the devil's schemes. And he says, and with the blastplate of righteousness in place. looking to Jesus for our defense. In Jesus' name. We've prayed about that. Lord our God, we realize that we are very puny, weak soldiers To show that he is mightier still, than through the weapons of his word And that meant an awful lot to me in these last couple weeks when I felt I was losing it. Five pieces of armor. Sometimes people came out of the first service and were telling me I sense in my own life the kind of struggle you're talking about. And all of the focus of this passage is on being strong in the Lord. That this sin is really going to be more fun than if you were to resist it. And as you begin to meditate on that peace that you have with him, you take a firm stand against Satan's attacks. And in that one moment he took his candlestick and again slapped down the sword, threw the dagger into the shoulder of the swordsman, rendering his arm helpless. We're not against a physical foe. You look forward with hope to that time when you no longer will be even tempted with sin. It's bound us together, I think, as a church, praying for our elders. He says, stand firm then with the belt of truth buckled around your waist. So you have gathered everything up, put it in, and that meant that you were ready to fight. Wide-eyed fear was the expression of the last swordsman as he faced Prince Eric, but he kept on. I knew that. And that awareness is we're seeing more and more, and we're seeing it in our church, aren't we? And in our praying we feel such weakness. From somewhere else other than this corner. It's such a way of life that nothing can keep you from praying. And so we've taken last week and this week in order to try to be aware of the spiritual warfare that we're in. Okay, that's right. Because there was the sense of just being worn down. That's why we have our middle hour, and we're coming to the end of that this summer. He says, pray for all kinds of praying. And isn't it interesting that just at the time when the church seems to be becoming more aware of spiritual and demonic activity, Satan, I could see in the years ahead, shifting his strategy. So I can't quote him on this, but I'll give you the essence of what he said. We need to pray, not badgering one another for funds. S. First of all, notice the first piece of armor has to do with the belt of truth. The first thing that he has Apollyon do is a dreadful to look at, fierce. And he said, I realized all of a sudden it was because they weren't being discipled. It focuses on the basics and the foundations of the gospel. The first is the sword of the spirit. And everyone thought it was over. Lewis once said, that Satan's strategy is twofold. And it's still in print. So there's a lot we could say about this, and obviously I can't get into any of that kind of depth this morning. And how can you experience that in a more effective way this summer? Back and back they pressed him until he saw an opportunity and was able to slap down a sword and thrust a dagger into one of the swordsmen. Focus on the fact that you were alienated from God by your sin and that Jesus came and that he established peace with God. Believe that Satan knows that we're poised at a point in our congregation where we can make a significant impact on this county. A lot of us have gone through real suffering. I was at home to try and do this. I've been reading about the missionaries in Japan that have realized In addition to all this, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming arrows of the evil one. And we do so now. Oh, come on. They're evil. I'm going to take my stand, I'm going to hold up that shield of faith, and I'm going to act as if the gospel is reliable and that the Spirit of God is in me. Whatever it is, He does it by Allah. And as Christian seemed to be destroyed and down and and Apollyon was just about to give him the last blow, Christian reached for his sword. Do you really believe that Jesus is true to his word? We prayed for years for God to provide for us a property on which we could build a facility. Physical strategies and weapons won't do it. And once again, you see, all gospel foundations. A lot's been spoken about it recently. Not only is there a defensive combat, there's also offensive. Amen. Keep on praying. Okay. We need to not just theoretically believe that. Pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. It's a word that talks about full heavy armor. Somebody else decides Mary Lou. At that time I lost it. And when we do that, we produce irresponsible Christians. It's such a classic. First of all, there is the defensive equipment for defensive combat, and that is the armor of God. He spake like a dragon, and on the other side what sighs and Chris groans burst from Christian's heart But quick as a deer before they could strike, Prince Eric jumped up onto the table, pulled his dagger from his belt, and the brass candlestick from off the table. We don't have to guess what that means. That's the brief title. But Jesus is my righteousness. Cunning. Deliverance ministry is the realization that people may be oppressed or possessed by demonic spirits. Now, a lot has been written on this. It's not all smiles. But the knife and the lamp prove him mightier still. Have you seen the martyrs? The amazing thing is that God uses even people like us to show his strength. Alright, what's the second thing? I believe that blastplate of righteousness Now the image here is of the belt by which you gathered up your tunic and tucked it into the belt so you were ready for action. They are aware of coming directly against the spirits who are holding these people in bondage, delivering an addiction notice to Satan. We're coming to the point of that now, and Satan again I think is seeking to discourage us by Prince Eric dealt blow with blow They are malicious, bent on destroying you, your family, the church of the Lord Jesus. And I was reading just this week of a pastor who has been involved in deliverance ministry, and he says, I began to realize over the years I was casting out all these demons. In fact, we got to the point where people said The New English Bible has captured that idea in its translation of this verse. Some Christian leaders today are telling us that Christian life is more like a playground than a battlefield. Lord, build our faith. And we need to be aggressive with it. In our day, Martin Lloyd Jones, one of the great preachers of the 20th century You have been acquitted of the wrath of God. And Christian doesn't give way there either. And then he gives him a thrust, and with that thrust he's encouraged, and he says, For we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. And felt this is the discouragement closing in Hey, yeah, you guys are right. Learning not simply to give God a grocery list of needs. Their what? Wants to deflect us from following Jesus. And all of a sudden I hear from Dean that the lawn door is broken. I could go on three times as long. New English Bible says, let the shoes of your feet be the gospel of peace to give you a firm footing. Pilgrim's Progress. Do you notice there are four universals there? There's an opposition. One time he was visiting a group of soldiers. Amen? Don't give up praying. We need to pray as a congregation. And then he said something which is a dynamical equivalence of nonsense. We're told, verse 17, pick the helmet of salvation and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. What's a goal or two that you could set for this summer? Now, quick review. Now, you know, I'm not the kind of guy that sees a demon on every shoulder, and I realize there's enough wickedness in my heart that Satan doesn't need to work too hard to pull some of that out. That you have scripture We got some new ideas for next year. They're powerful. And if any of you know me, then I don't like to start writing a message on Saturday afternoon They weren't centering their lives on Jesus Christ. And then he says this In this combat no man can imagine unless he had been and had seen and heard as I did. At that time when the last thing you feel like doing is praying Last month, for the first time, there was a drop And he was out of the fight. That sin is really more fun than righteousness We need to believe that demonic activity is real and that You know, you really will find that following me will gain you far more. And then Satan becomes more sinister. It's smiling and it's singing and it's joy. And for generations afterwards, the song that was sung But the amazing thing is that he takes weak vessels and instruments like you and me. We saw over the past years a numbers of attacks on our elders, their families, emotionally, physically. I've seen just in my own life, just the last couple of weeks. Two of those eight volumes, one quarter of the entire work he devotes to these 11 verses in Ephesians chapter 6. Not talking about so much our active righteousness, but it's talking about the passive righteousness that we have in Christ. Some of it related to our stand for Jesus Christ, others simply part of this life, but Praying with your spouse, your best friend. Lord, help us right now as we see that that armor that we need. If you believe Him, if you exercise faith, even if you back up and say, He's talking here to believers. It's a big topic in churches today. There's also some protection Verse 17 Grinnell takes He says the first thing he does, he's very pleasant. Verse 13, therefore put on the full armor of God. Do you really believe that not only is the gospel true, You got it. I've been reading more and more recently about Christians aware Your body will not even be capable of sin. I don't know about you, but I am more aware But there's a couple things that concern me about all this emphasis on deliverance ministry today. It's a classic. And Paul says your first piece of armor It becomes your defense against Satan. That as we are strong in you That's the second point. And the power of his might. You just need a little encursion We need to be using Scripture to the extent that when Satan comes and he says God isn't doesn't care for Do you notice what happens to his people? Every time Satan seeks to get you to sin or to to deflect from following Jesus, And because of that, I have a clear conscience before God. That's the way that we build But now it was still two against one, one on either side of him. Now that idea of the belt of truth The last thing that he says is we pray for all the saints. Powerful. Isn't that interesting? For we know that we can't win the battle with such weapons. May we be a people who are not intimidated or distracted. To get us to doubt his existence And then with a final thrust he let with a sword, and Prince Erik moved just in time, so that the sword grazed him. But as you and I come against him See how well you listened, or whether you filed away your bulletin outline in the back of your Bible here or something. This could be explored in great depth The second piece of armor is the breastplate of righteousness. I think what he's saying is John Bunyan gives a beautiful picture. I've seen that. The offensive equipment Maybe someday I'll do a series on if I do look out for how long it might be. But it was three against one, three swords against one. It's been abridged and abridged and abridged. God will raise it up that He will cause us people to be faithful. We are protected. I don't know how much you're in touch with that. And Christian says, I still find him a better master than ever you were. Let's pray. We're not just defending ourselves to hold on to our faith. Amen, but man, you know, that's work. We need to be applying every opportunity of training for the use of the word. Thank you. Wants us to believe that he doesn't exist. Apollyon then switches his tactic. You look at Columbia Presbyterian, you see what happens to those people, you know Not your power, Jesus' power. What's the weapon? How do we fight against these spiritual adversaries? Probably too late at that point to do any very powerful pointed praying. In fact, uh frankly, I I feel worn out from the struggle. But there's also the warfare that's a dreadful thing to see. That's the last thing. After five years God finally saw fit to answer that. So I gotta stop and gotta go deal with the lawnmower, you know It helps me to identify it In fact We are safe. And the awareness of your salvation. What's the piece of armor? It's a good allegory of Ephesians 6. Fourth of these And he entices him. And he wants to discourage us. If you remember last week we looked at the And that brings us to Ephesians 6. There's nothing in this passage about casting out demons. An awareness of your salvation. You see that? That's point one. It's now that we need to persist.