Second Corinthians chapter five will read verses eleven to fifteen. Since then we know what it is to fear the Lord, we try to persuade them. What we are is plain to God, and I hope it's also plain to your conscience. We're not trying to commend ourselves to you again. But are giving you an opportunity to take pride in us, so that you can answer those who take pride in what is seen rather than what is in the heart. If we're out of our mind, it's for the sake of God. If we're in our right mind, it's for you. But Christ's love compels us. Because we're convinced that one died for all, and therefore all died. And he died for all, that those who lived should no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them. And was raised again. Let's pause a moment of prayer as we ask God to teach us of this portion of his word. Let's pray. Lord here, speak here of the love of Christ compelling us And Lord, we want those words to come from the pages of our Bibles into our hearts. We want to know what that means. So, Holy Spirit, we ask for you to do your work in us now. For it is no avail for you to place these words on these pages and for them to remain there. And for our lives to not be touched by them. And so we ask for you to minister to us, to give us open and teachable hearts. And for us to see something of the love of Christ and the way that it should compel us in our minds. In our motions, in our hearts, as whole people, through Jesus Christ. Why is it that you set aside thirty minutes to an hour, say, a day? Maybe it's some sacrifice in the morning for many of you to look into God's Word, to be taught by it, study it. Why is it that you memorize Scripture? Why is it that you give of your first fruits of the hard-earned money that you've made when we take up an offering? Why is it that you're in a fellowship group? Why is it that you want to invite your neighbor to some social that we would have as a congregation? Is it because the elders lay it on you? Is it because you say, well, Harris preached my admin told us to do it, and so uh, you know, I'll do it because I don't want to feel guilty. Ultimately, no. Those are no reasons. The reason why you and I, as followers of Jesus Christ, do something is because the love of Christ compels us. The difference of the Old Testament and the New Testament, of those of us who are not under the law, is that we have changed from those who do things by the fear of the law to doing them because of the love of Christ. With people who now no longer obey because of our fear of the law, but because of our love of Jesus Christ. Now we looked at that last week. And so this morning in the second of five messages on 2 Corinthians 5, 14 and 15, I want to deal with this question: how does the love of Christ compel us? How is it that that works in us? How does it motivate you? Some Christians say by my feelings They say, oh, I just want to sit and I want to think of the love of Christ, and when I think of the love of Christ, he gives me shivers, makes me high. And as I think of love of Christ, it's like looking at roses and smelling them, and I think of what that means, and it just makes me want to serve the Lord. But Paul doesn't say that. You notice what he says in verse 14 here. He says, Christ's love compels us because we're convinced of something. Paul says it's because I think about something. The love of Christ compels me because I conclude something. I reason something with my mind. The Greek word there can base. is a word which means to conclude or to consider, to decide something, to reason something. In Acts 26, 8, Paul uses this word And a message that he gives to the Jews when he says, why is it that you consider it an incredible thing that God would raise from the dead? Why do you consider it to be impossible? Why with your minds have you concluded that? In Acts 27. 1, Luke uses that word to describe the Romans deciding to sail to Italy. In Acts 21, 25, we read of the Gentiles who decided that they should abstain from meat. A reasoning process, the same word that's used here in 2 Corinthians 5. 14. Paul used this word in his first letter to the Corinthians, in 1 Corinthians 2. 1, where he said, I decided or I determined I wasn't going to come to you again in sorrow. Paul said, I thought about it and I came to a decision with my mind. And so he says here in verse 14, Christ blood compels me because I've decided something. I've been convinced of something. I've concluded something. I've reasoned with my mind. And what did I do? I said to myself, if one by draw, that I was in. That's what he says. What do you mean? He's saying that if one died for all, if Jesus died for all, then I was dead, and he died for me. You look at Jesus Christ dead, and what do you see Paul says the first thing that motivates me is what went with my mind, I think, about the fact of Christ's death. And here's Jerusalem at the Passover time. And there's two men who have been sentenced to death for their crimes. And the next day they're to be crucified. Then the next morning there's a surprise trial. And they bring this Nazarene carpenter. And he's brought before Palah. And he's added to the other two. And so out on Bagatha that day, there are three men on a cross. But as those three men hang there, you look at the one in the middle. But he was charged with blasphemy and making himself a king, and so to lead the people away from the proper Roman authorities. And the Jews have robbed him, accusing him of his grand delusions and blasphemy. And when you look at that man on a cross, what do you see? Do you see simply a guilty carpenter? A misled carpenter? Or do you see a sacrifice there of one in the place of all? Paul says that's what motivates me. He said, when I looked at Jesus there on the cross, I didn't simply see the symbol of love. I didn't simply see one man dying for his illusions that never came into fruition. He says, I didn't simply see a man there dying because of his principles, dying as a martyr. Paul said, when I look at that, I'm convinced that one there on the cross died for all. He was a sacrifice. He was the Messiah who came and bore God's guilt, bore the guilt before God, and his punishment, because I was dead. Because I should have been on that fence. If one died for all, That means all died with him. Those who are born with him. They were dead. If he died for you and he died for me, then you and I were dead. Jesus Christ's death was for us. What do you see when you look on the cross? Do you see something simply removed from you? Do you see a religious symbol? A symbol of love? Or do you see on that cross your Savior? Do you see the one who has died for your sin? Do you see someone taking the wrath that you deserve from God so that you could have life? Paul says, the love of Christ compels me because I'm convinced that his death was not simply the death of a Nazarene carpenter, but it was a sacrificial death of one for all. He died for me. I look at his love for me. He gave his life for me He died in my place. But not only did he die in my place, the fact of his death. But Paul says, I consider with my mind the purpose of that death. Notice what he goes on to say. I'm convinced, he says, I've reasoned and I've come to the conclusion that that one died for all when he died. Therefore all, including me, died with him. And his purpose was that he died for all, but those who lived no longer live for themselves, but for him who died for them and was raised again. Paul says, I think now that if I'm alive, I'm alive because of Jesus Christ. I'm a person who's dead alive. I died with him, and I've been raised up with him. I have a new life, and that life is his. My life now belongs to Jesus Christ, because he died, but those who live no longer live for themselves. I don't have a life to myself. My life died. When Jesus died on the cross, I was crucified, with him in the sight of God. My sins were there, nailed to that tree. And I was punished. And so the life now is no longer my life. I've died to my rights. All of those privileges that are mine. I died. But the life I now live is his life. When he rose up, he rose up and took me with him. And he gave me a new life. And therefore, the purpose of my life is to live for him. So Paul says, I'm convinced not only of his love for me, but the purpose of his death, which demonstrates his love for me, is that he would transform me to have a life of love for him. My life is now Christ's sake. The point is, how does the love of Christ compel or motivate you indeed in our lives? It's not by some mystical generation of feeling. About the love of Christ that you can put on a plaque in gold and hang it on your walls. Look at it. Get goosebumps when you think about it. But it's when you think about how he demonstrated that love in his death for you on the cross, when he was risen from the dead. You and I. We're saved by someone who laid down his life for us by thinking about the love of Christ demonstrated through his death and his resurrection in our place. So you and I are compelled by thinking about the love of Christ. That's what he says there. The love of Christ compels me because I think about how that love was demonstrated. But, while that's the first point, there's a second point. And the second point is that the love of Christ also motivates us by feeling. It motivates us by feeling. Paul does not mean to imply by verses 14 and 15 when he says the love of Christ compels me because I am convinced with my mind, I think about what he did for me. is not for me the purpose of that, that that is therefore to imply that Christianity is simply an intellectual exercise The classic view of Circle Presbyterianism, you know. We sit around and we contemplate the love of Christ. Then we all sort of murmur to ourselves that that was nice, and then we go off. And there's no sense that we have been moved by the love of Christ and what he's done for us. That is not biblical Christianity. It's clear if you follow what Paul says here. Paul is telling us, if you look at his experiencing here, follow carefully, that biblical Christianity is not a matter of our emotions without reasoning. But it is also a matter of not simply reasoning without emotions. It is reasoning which affects my emotions. Notice the context of what he says here. Remember, last week we looked briefly at verse 12 and 13. Notice what he was saying here. Paul says that there are certain people, super spiritual people, Who say that because I don't show my emotions sufficiently in a public meeting, whether it's in speaking in tongues or some other emotional exercise, Paul says that these people are saying, I'm not spiritual. I must not have a very close relationship with the Lord. That's what some people in Corinth were charging him with. Notice in verse 12, he says, We're not trying to commend by Saul, I'm not being defensive to you again, but I'm giving you an opportunity. I want you to see, Paul says, that you don't have to be ashamed of me. When these people accuse you of that, and you say that I follow what Paul says, and they say, well, Paul's not very spiritual, because he does not indulge in ecstasy in our public meetings. Paul says, well, hey, wait a minute. I want you to not be ashamed of me on that account, so that you can answer those who take pride, not take pride in what is seen. All they're concerned about is what looks spiritual Rather than what's in the heart. Now notice verse 13. If we are out of our mind, it is for the sake of God. And if we are in our right mind, Is for you. Emotion without reasoning is mysticism, not Christianity Mysticism is a spiritual experience without logical reasoning. It's trying to have some direct contact with God in some mindless way so that my feelings are are moved by that and I have some sense of his love apart from thinking about it. Christianity's not that, because we see the love of Christ compels Paul through his thinking about what he did. On the other hand, Reasoning without emotions is Stoicism, not Christianity. Stoicism is popularly understood, now we're talking about the dictionary definition. The dictionary definition of Selicism is to be free from passion, unhindered by joy or grief, not affected by feeling impassive. Some people would say that's a classic picture of an Orthodox Presbyterian worship service. Reasoning without my emotions being affected by that reason. And perhaps that's more of the problem of what we have here. But it was not Paul's problem. Look again at verse 13. Paul says: if I'm out of my mind, it's for the sake of God. Also, there are times when I am out of my mind about Jesus Christ. But perhaps when you looked at the title of the message, it says out of my mind about Christ, you say, Well that's Clearly, what he's going to talk against. That's what we should not do, is out of our mind about Christ. But look again, that's a quote from Scripture. That's Paul's experience. He doesn't say that's a bad experience. He said that is my experience, and I want to show you, but that's something you don't have to be ashamed of me about. Paul says, in my private experience with God, in those times of my private devotion and adoration with Him, he said, there are times when I'm out of my mind. Literally out of my mind. About Jesus Christ. The word that's used there is a word which means in the Greek insanity, madness, undue excitement or exuberance out of all bounds It's the kind of word that was used of a person when they locked them up. It's the word that was used of Jesus by his family when in Mark 3. 21 they found that he was getting so wrapped up in his ministry and ministering to people's needs he couldn't even sit down to eat without being disturbed. Mark tells us his family came to him and they said, You're out of your mind. Same word, it's used here. Paul says, There are times when I'm out of my mind, when I think about the love of Christ. I think of the situation of David. 2 Samuel chapter 6. Delivering that they were bringing up the ark to Jerusalem. They brought the ark that had been held in captivity and had been down in this area far from Jerusalem for Perhaps 70 years at that point. David, as he's a recently ascended king, decides he's going to bring the ark of God's presence to be with it. And he's so full of joy, he's so full of his exuberance and delight in the love of Christ, demonstrated in the old covenant as God had worked in him. So full of joy and exuberance, we read that the people were dancing and singing and shouting, and David the King was dancing with all his might. In fact, David was dancing with such exuberance and such joy, such uncontained joy before the Lord, that when his wife Micah Who had a sense of decorum having been raised in Saul's court, saw how shamelessly David was acting in the expression of his emotions in worship of God, that she despised him in her heart. Now think of that for a minute. Think of David, the king, the king of all Israel, the powerful nation that had shown itself down in the battles. And here's Wriggle David. He's dancing around out there looking like another fool, just singing like a little boy with glee facing God and just jumping up and down and leaping. That's the picture that's given. What would the response to David? How would you have thought about his behavior? They just said, hey, uh, looks like we better hold another election for the king. This one's gone off the deep end. I mean it's nice to praise the Lord, but you know This guy's going too far. This guy's become a charismatia. This fellow is just going beyond all battles. It's beyond reason. Well, I want to tell you something. That kind of experience is going beyond bounds, beyond reason. And I want more of that kind of experience in my life. Because Paul said, there are times when I think of the love of Christ, and I'm out of my mind for Christ. Now if I seek the experience of that, I will be sadly disillusioned. If I simply say it's hard for me to feel and to express my emotions, and so I will cultivate that in some way. Then I will simply seek the experience, and in the pursuit of that experience, I will find an empty and hollow shelf of religious superficiality. Paul says, if you think on the love of Christ, if you meditate on the fact that one died for all. And that therefore you were dead. And that you are people who are dead, who were dead, and have been made alive by the sacrifice of Jesus Christ for you. Paul says there's going to be times in your private experience when you may feel like you're out of your mind in love for Jesus Christ. But his love will so overwhelm you that you won't be able to continue. I admit I'm from a reserved kind of background. I've told you before, it's difficult for me. To preach in such a way that I feel like I'm expressing my emotions to you in a way that's genuine that you can respond to. If I can begin to respond and people begin to really get choked up if I start preaching and I'll get all choked choked up and I I really avoid that. I I get away from that and I I shouldn't But in doing that, sometimes I am also shutting off the ministry of the Spirit to where God wants to just compel me and consume me and control me as I respond openly to the love of Jesus Christ for me. Don't try to escape, there are what I think is some sort of a balance. Balancing what God is trying to say to us in this Balanced Christianity, I would suggest, is a joyful heart, capable of ecstasy in private. Notice what Paul said He said in verse 13, if we're out of our mind, it's for the sake of God. But, he said, when I'm ministering to you, I'm in my right mind for your sake. I don't go into ecstasy and out of all bounds and get all carried away when I'm with the body of believers. Because that's not going to be helpful to you. But you know, that doesn't mean that I can't express joy. That doesn't mean that we can't express together the shout of victory that comes in a people who are dead and have been made alive in Jesus Christ. So it's a heart, a joyful heart, capable of ecstasy and private, which is warmed by a rational mind which considers the love of Christ. Through meditation on scripture. Now finally what does this mean for you and for me? Backside has the application. I think first of all we need to recognize two things. We need to recognize that we're all naturally imbalanced. We're all naturally imbalanced. Some of us tend toward the emotional, others of us tend toward the intellectual or the rational. By intellectual, I don't mean smarter, I just mean more mind-oriented. And we're all imbalanced in that. None of us naturally have a perfect balance. But the second thing is that we all tend to seek fellowships bit of imbalance like us. We look at the church as a kind of a consumer marketplace, you know. Well you've got a scale out there. Well you look at that scale and you say well here's where I fit, you know. These people obviously are the more balanced in their worship. What we're really saying very often is they're simply imbalanced like I am. And that justifies the normativeness of my imbalance. And so if I'm mind-oriented and I find the people worship and are very mind-oriented and the emotions have very little place in worship, then I say that's balance because see all these people uh are are justifying the fact that uh they're all pretty normal, you know, and I'm sitting right in there with them. All the others that are not like that are abnormal So we tend to seek fellowships that are like ourselves in this way. I believe that one of the greatest travesties of denominationalism. Is the imbalance that it produces in worship and priorities and obedience. Because we tend to congregate not for those who stretch us by being unlike us To become more balanced as the body of Christ. But rather we precipitate to those who are like us and therefore become more imbalanced. How the love of Christ compels you and me to something that we need others imbalanced, that is, others unlike us in their imbalances, to bring us more into a kind of a balance. of that joyful heart that's moved by a mind that thinks on the love of Christ. Now the second thing then finally is what's your imbalance? What's my imbalance? Look at ourselves. Look into your heart. And I look at my heart this morning. Are you a person who seek tends to seek eyes through experience? rather than meditation on the love of Christ? A person who wants to shortcut meditation, get bored with meditation You like Christian pep rallies? You sort of like to uh read the Christian biography that'll really stimulate you, you know, and live what I call the vicarious Christian life. You know, the victory through somebody else and all their faith that they accomplished, and you sort of look at that and you say, Man, that really makes me feel great. Because I see all that God did, look at those prayers and rams, boy, that's terrific stuff. And you look at experiences, whether it's a music or testimonies or whatever it is. To give you a thrill so that you can be pumped up to live for Jesus. When I say well, the Bible says We become compelled and consumed by thinking, by meditating on the love of Christ, demonstrated through the doctrine of what he did for us. He said, doctrine. Doctrine will never compel me to do anything. And you're afraid to study doctrine because it's a dirty word. And I would suggest to you that you're imbalanced. What God has for you is to understand that the love of Christ will compel you as you study the doctrine of what He has done in His death and resurrection for you. And that in doing that, your emotions will be controlled by the love of Jesus Christ and brought into balance. And your praise will not be cliches without content, but they will become full and deep and rich, as you think, of the love of Christ. But perhaps the problem for more of us here is the second one. The problem of seeking discipleship without being moved by the love of Christ. To seek discipleship without being moved. By the love of Christ. To look at the Bible as a kind of a manual for Christian line. And you master the manual, the doctrine and the skills. And you don't go out and live it. But somehow you've lost that heart, that first moment of what Jesus did for you. Those early days when you were so thrilled to think about it and so amazed to think that if one died for all, you were dead. But for no reason other than his love for you, he made you alive. And he gave you life as a free gift. And somehow that's receded into the background of your experience, and you're saying, yeah, but I remember that, but I'm going on to better things now. I'm mastering higher skills, and I've got the manual under my belt in a more refined way. And so when you see people who are very emotional about the Lord, you say, that's excess. That's just emotionalism. Get me a good Bible study until I can get some more of the skills into me until I can serve the Lord. or the heart dedicated to him, somehow it's become a little dry. Somehow you've found that the experience has become more empty. I remember in my own life, back in 1969, I was in Bolton, Massachusetts, walking down a country road. There was nobody on this room, absolutely vacant. In fact, it was a dirt room. I was walking down there and I was reading Psalm 98 As I was reading Psalm 98, trying to enter into the experience of that Psalm, I came across these words in verse 4: Chapter Joy To the Lord, all the earth. Burst into jubilant song with music. Shout for joy to the Lord, all the earth. Burst into jubilant song with music. That's interesting. What about kind of music they have? Began to think about that, and all of a sudden, the Lord seemed to say to me, do you know that, wait a minute. That's what I'm telling you to do. Are you willing, in response to what I've done in your life, Alan, to shop with a jubilant Sultan? To shout your praise to me. Oh, come on. Kind of show, you know. And so I said, Well, why not? You know? So I said Please gone. I was sort of embarrassed when there's a bird looking at me. Yeah, um That's a woman all embarrassed about him for, you know? Nobody he gonna tell that I know. So I try to rule around it. Praise God. And I thought, that really feels strange. Why does that feel so strange? You know what at least 13 Psalms God tells us to shout joyfully to him? At least 13 Psalms say that our phrase is not to be simply a quiet meditation, but a joyful shout. I tried it again. Praise God! And you know, as I tried that three or four times, I began to feel a certain release. And I began to find that the rest of that psalm took on a little deeper meaning because I was responding and resonating to the fact that God really was a king. He really had ascended on high. He really hadn't accomplished the victory. I was then. He had made their lies. As it began to resonate with that, my spirit began to be lifted up. Burroughs suggest you that's not a gimmick. Because God tells us to do it. I wonder about us. Are we afraid to shout joyfully to the Lord? But we're afraid to let the love of Christ control us and compel us because once we've thought about what he's done, we're not afraid to let him grip us. We're not afraid to express that and to respond in a way that we may then find ourselves in some private experience. out of our minds in our love for Jesus Christ. What about shouting joyfully to the Lord? Can we shout joyfully to the Lord as his people? Can we shout in a way that will enter in to the victory that Jesus Christ is accomplished, that he's stated there in Psalm 98, the victory that he's accomplished Because he, the whole sea resounds, and the Lord has made his salvation known to the ends of the earth How about it? Why don't we simply express to God our joy for the salvation that He's given to us? Let's say it again. The Lord, Lord, you are King. Let's say it together to him. Joyfully. Together. Lord, you are King. Right. Let's say it again. Lord. You are King. Let's say it again. Lord, you are killing. You are killed after all. You are killing over all. Again, you are killing over all. Your love controls us. Your love controls us again You love the closest. Then finally, we love you. We love you. Again, quietly, reflectively too. We love you. We love you. Let's pray. Let's speak to God each in our own hearts now of the love of Christ that compels us and controls us and moves us in our adoration and Love to have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Oh Lord, we do love you. We love you because we think of a lot of Christ for us And were convinced of this fact that the one who died there on that cross 2,000 years ago was not a misled Galilean carpenter. But he was the Messiah, one dying for all. And it isn't that all that he died for, for those of us who are dead. We had no hope of coming to see you face to face and standing before you in judgment and surviving that judgment because of our sin. But he who died for all died for us. And therefore we died. And he died for us so that our sin would be judged. And that we would be raised up with him, with the purpose of living for him. Oh Lord Jesus, how we thank you for that love. God thank you and praise you for the great love that you've had for us. Oh Lord. Lord help us could feel that love. Help us not to quench and to find that we are so uneasy if we begin to feel in an overwhelming powerful sense. What the love of Christ means for me. Lord, how easy it is for us to shout our lungs out and a sports event. Lord, some of us find that we can get more excited about a hot French Sunday than we can about the death and the resurrection of Jesus Christ for us. We can express ourselves so easily, but we're so embarrassed to tell you that we love you, to tell one another about our love for you. Control us, Lord. Consume us and compel us with the precious love of Jesus Christ for us. Oh Lord, what wondrous love is this for us? How we pray for that love for us. Free uses your people to respond totally by the power of the Spirit in us through Jesus Christ. Amen.