Well, as we think about being in the holiday season, uh, for you kids it's probably all just positive and anticipation and Wow, let's go and only twenty-three days, twenty-two days now left till Christmas, you know, and uh for some of you adults, so maybe some ambivalence when you think of the holiday season, you know, on the one hand, there's all the joys And there's the stress. There's the delights, the sounds, the smells, the tastes all the things that we enjoy. And then there's also the pressures to be the thoughtful, loving person who gets just the right gifts makes all the people in your world feel loved and is able to pull it all off while remaining relatively calm. And uh you kinda think January looks pretty good. So, you know, there's some ambivalence, right? But I hope the one thing that as we go through this season is totally positive to you is the tradition that we have uh at CPC every year, whatever series we're in, that we just set those things aside and we take these weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas. To look at Jesus. And we do that in two ways. To build our faith and to refresh our joy. First of all, we look at the Old Testament We look at a messianic prophecy. That is a prophecy that for God's people in the Old Testament depicted the hope of the Messiah they were waiting for. We've started at Genesis 3 and we've gone through now, we've uh on our 21st messianic prophecy in Isaiah chapter 53, 21 prophecies, more than 21 messages. always has to be more messages, right? Somebody told me today I'll I'll leave this person unnamed who had figured out that uh if they took Vernon McG J. Vernon McGee's uh through the Bible and took that that I did that at the rate that I did the book of Ephesians, you would take me 230 and a half years to get through the Bible And I don't know if I'll last that long. So this this series actually may be uh in the end, if I were to finish the whole thing, I don't know if it would be longer. There's fifty prophecies altogether. We're on twenty-one. We'll see how far we get. But um we began Isaiah fifty-three last week, last year, and continuing it this year. Now the second way that we look at Jesus during the holidays is then to go to the New Testament for a week or two to see what uh the gospels or other parts of the New Testament say about his coming and the significance of that. And I always just delight, I think it's it's one of the you know, nicest parts of my job that I get to look through these things and just to enjoy this time of the year, to spend time meditating on this and then to try and present to you guys some of the fruits of it to encourage your faith and to help you to see and to love Jesus even more as we go through this time. You remember that last year when we began Isaiah 53, we looked, we saw that um It's the fourth of Isaiah's Songs of the Servant, those songs of the servant of the Lord, very popular, often quoted in the New Testament. Isaiah 53 is actually the most quoted passage in all of the Old Testament by New Testament writers. And we saw that it has five stanzas, each of them three verses apiece. And um we saw that uh last year we looked at the first one to see that Jesus is unique. And then This year, we're going to start looking at verses 1 to 3. He's despised. And We'll spend two weeks on that. Then we're going to take another week to look at verses four to six that he was punished. And then next year we'll be looking at the rest of it, that he was punished even though he was innocent. and that even though he was punished, he was ultimately eminently fully successful in all that he had accomplished because it was in fact God's purpose to crush him. Because he caused him to be a guilt offering for your sin For my sin, for everyone who realizes that they need a substitute before God in order to be accepted by Him. Those are the five stanzas, and last year you remember, as I said, we looked at the first one, which is kind of a prologue to show how unique Jesus is. And you saw that there's three things, three words I have there. There was the extreme exaltation that Jesus is exalted to the highest place above all else. Then verse 14 and 15, he was the other extreme, he was abased to the lowest possible place uh disfigured in the torment that was inflicted on him, and yet he was eminently successful. His accomplishment was perfect and full You remember that I said that verses 14 and 15 were very difficult verses to translate. And So I offered a different translation from what you normally have in your Bible, which I you know I didn't make it up just because it sounded nicer. I think it's actually the accurate. way to interpret to translate it, which goes something like this, verse fourteen, just as many were astonished at him for two reasons. One, because of his disfigurement, that made him appear inhuman, secondly, because by this he will sprinkle or purify many nations So, just as people were astonished, so kings shall shut their mouths at him, or because of him. When they see and they understand what they have never heard or anticipated, the good news of the new thing that God has done for sinners. That's what I think that that pronoun saying. Then you see what happens is the rest of the stanzas unfold that. That's kind of the theme statement. There it is. Chapter fifty-three takes it bit by bit. He was despised, he was punished, he was innocent, he was successful. Now another reason why I view myself as very privileged and blessed to have this job here at Columbia Presbyterian is because I don't know how many preachers can design a series and then have the worship leader write a song for it. But that's what John's done. So we're going to sing this carol, we sing Noel, through this series, uh through this time, because it really ties together the thoughts, not only in the Old Testament, but even in the New Testament. And then you notice it's called we sing Noel, and you have to wait till Christmas Eve to find out what Noel means. Now let me just ask, how many people know what Noel means? That's what I thought. See? I didn't know what it meant until I came across this dusty ancient parchment last year that talked about Noel. And uh so you gotta wait till Christmas Eve to find out what Noel means Don't hold your breath. It's probably, you know, not like the biggest thing you're looking for under the tree, but it really helped me to understand what we're singing when we sing that, because it is precious So that's where we're led that's where we're ahead. We're going to spend two weeks, as I said, on verses one to three, one week on verses four, five, and six. And I think in this one verse, I'm only covering one verse this morning Who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? There it is. I believe that you could go on and on with that because there are There is a number of amazing things in that, but there's just two things I want to point out to you this morning from that one verse. Two amazing things. The first is that it is amazing that few Jews will believe in their Messiah. That's what Isaiah is saying. Who has believed our message? He seems to imply by that question not many. Uh it's literally the thing heard or We John has it in the Carol reported, what we reported. That's the idea. And when you see it in the context of um the previous verse, remember there's no chapter divisions. You look at verse 15, it's saying that the kings uh are going to shut their mouths, he sprinkles the nations, uh he's going to be exalted to the highest place. So the idea is that uh around the world people are going to believe in him. But The Jews, by and large, it seems, are going to be the exception. They will not be as responsive to the gospel. Now, you remember back in chapter six when Isaiah saw the vision of the Lord in the temple, you remember he saw his sin and God cleansed his sin, and Isaiah and that gratitude that uh most of us feel when we realize that God has taken away our filth and pollution. You know, Lord what can I do for you? And the Lord says, well who shall I send to go as my messenger? Isaiah is here, here I am, Lord, send me. I'll go. And then remember the Lord warned him, Okay, go. But when you go, realize that these people will be ever hearing but never understanding They'll be ever seeing but never perceiving. Make the heart of these people callous, make their ears dull, and close their eyes by your preaching, you see. Is that what I do? Make your ears dull, close your eyes. I see some of you. Well, you know, I got good company. There was Isaiah there, you know. Otherwise they might see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn and be healed. Now I believe that that's directly related to what he says in chapter 53, verse 1. Who has believed our report? You know why I believe that? Because the Apostle John, the disciple, connects those two passages explicitly and says they were fulfilled in Jesus' day. If you look at John chapter 12 Verse 37, John's talking about Jesus' ministry, and he says, even after Jesus had done all these miraculous signs in their presence, they still would not believe in him. These people have heard all the prophecies about Messiah, they've looked forward to Messiah coming. Jesus comes, he preaches, he does miracles, and they say, nah, I don't think that's him. John says that was to fulfill the word of Isaiah the prophet. Lord, who has believed our message and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Sound familiar? 53-1. For this reason they could not believe, because as Isaiah says elsewhere, chapter 6, verse 8 to 10, he's blinded their eyes, deadened their hearts, so they can neither see with their eyes, nor understand with their hearts, nor turn, and I would heal them. And you say, well, that's Isaiah talking about his time. No. Look at John 12, 41. Isaiah said this because he saw Jesus' glory and spoke. About him. So Isaiah is prophesying here the reaction to Messiah. His own people will be resistant. Paul picks up on that same idea in Romans chapter 10, verse 16, where he talks about the gospel and he says not all the Jews believe. That's an understatement, of course. And he says, for, as Isaiah says, who has believed our report? Same thing, quotes from Isaiah 53, 1 Remember in chapter 6 of Ephesians, where Paul prays for boldness in his evangelism? He says, pray for me when I speak. Here is an ambassador in chains that I will be bold. And we said that was fulfilled in Acts 28. You remember where he was taken to Rome in chains, and he preached the gospel to those that were there And uh Isaiah, uh Acts 28 talks about how he spoke to the Jews, and some believed, but many of the others said, no, I'm not so sure, and they back and forth. And Paul seeing their resistance Acts 28, verse uh what is that verse 26 and 27? Paul quotes again from Isaiah chapter 6 It says, of you the Holy Spirit spoke, that your hearts will be hardened, you will hear and never really hear, and you will see, but never really perceive, lest your hearts would be softened. Yeah, one of the most terrible things to imagine is people like you who come to church week after week, some of you, or some of you kids who have grown up in the church. Year after year, how many messages have you heard? By the time you're 15, you know, you've heard nearly 50 a year. You know, give you a couple weeks for sick, okay? Heard nearly a fifty a year, you know, you you times that you know seven hundred and some messages, you know, and you you think, I've heard it all And whereas first time it really dawned on you that God says that because of your sin you need a Savior, Jesus And you wonder, do I know him? Am I going to heaven? Maybe that bothered you. And then after a while, if you don't respond to that, what happens is your heart becomes hard. It becomes callous. That's what Isaiah says. It becomes callous, like there's You know, thick skin like your feet when you walk barefoot in the summer. And now you can hear me talk about your need for Jesus It doesn't even indent you. You sit there and you can keep daydreaming about this next week. And you're not bothered. That's a terrible thing. If that's true of any of you kids, you teenagers, any of you who have heard the gospel for years, and you have found that somehow It no longer has the same effect on you. No longer are you concerned about where you are with Jesus Christ and whether you're following in him or whether God is really your heavenly Father and whether you belong to Him. Then I appeal to you to wake up to see what God's saying through Isaiah here. Who's believed or reported? These people have heard it and they've heard it and they've tuned out to it. But there's something else I want you to see here. I want you to see what an amazing prophecy this is. Lest you are tempted to dismiss this Jesus and you don't need him. Look what Isaiah is saying. He has presented for all of this book, you know, most of the chapters Some places so clearly about the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. To us a child is born, a son is given. He's presented this hope of Messiah. The Jews have looked for this Messiah. Isaiah is saying you're going to be carried into exile. That happens, just as he said. The prophecies are clear. Jesus comes. And what happens? By and large, the Jews do not accept him. That's against all expectation, isn't it? Wouldn't you expect that Isaiah would say, now the nations, the Gentiles, of course, they're going to see you carried into captivity. They're going to think, well, this God, what does he care? Well how powerful is he? He lets his own people become slaves. We're not interested in him. Any hope they have of a Messiah is irrelevant to us. It's ridiculous And so the nations will reject him. But his people, of course, they will see that he is the hope. It's obvious when Jesus does the miracles, they'll see he's the one. But Isaiah predicts exactly the opposite of what you would expect. He says the nations will respond and his people will by and large reject him. Lord, who has believed our report? Few Now, every one of you are going through some trial of your faith. Every one. In some cases it may be subtle, in other cases, painfully obvious. Every one of us. The issue is in your life and whatever you're going through. Are you going to hold on to this book? Are you going to believe? I can build my life on this book. I can trust God in what He says No matter what the circumstances seem to be saying, and my feelings in my life, I can trust him. I can hold up that shield of faith against the fiery darts of the enemy. Now, when you look at a case like this where you see how unlikely was the prophecy that Isaiah made, can you really believe that was a lucky guess? That the nations would receive him, that the gospel would go to the corners of the earth two thousand years later, from every tribe and tongue and nation, there's people that are Coming to Jesus Christ, the church is growing at an unprecedented rate. And yet Jewish people still, by and large, with some blessed notable exceptions, are heartened to this. Christian, hold up that shield and say, I can trust this word. This word, no matter how unlikely or its prophecies, they all come true. But then I want you to see the other amazing thing that's presented here. To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed Now I believe that's referring to a fascinating little image that's easily missed in Scripture. And that image is best seen when you contrast two things that are presented in Scripture. First of all, that creation is spoken generally of spoken as being the handiwork of God, the work of his hands. In Isaiah chapter 19, I mean excuse me, Psalm 19, in verse 1, the heavens declare the glory of God, the skies or the expanse declare the work of his what? his hands. That's what the heavens are. They're his handiwork. You know, a few billion galaxies. It's something he speaks and carries off with the work of his hands. Where you have uh Psalm 8 verse 6, man is the ruler over the work of his hands In Psalm 138, the psalmist prays, Lord, do not abandon the work of your hands. That's me. So, we who are made in God's image, by creation, we're the work of his hands. Job, a number of times, refers to himself as the work of God's hands. Isaiah 64 and verse 8, you are the potter, we're the clay, the work of your hands. But then when he speaks of the work of redemption, God says, it's as if now I have created all the things you see by the work of my hands. But when it comes to saving sinners, when it comes to providing an innocent substitute For your sin, my sin, rather than to simply destroy us and create another race. And say, well, just start over. Destroy them all. Create a new human race. Create another race like the unfallen angels who will worship me and obey me and love me. When it comes to God saying, I will not only redeem a people out of this dead, rebellious generation But I will change their dead hearts and make them alive to my gospel. Who's believed our report? Not people who simply hear it There needs to be the transforming work of the power of God to do that. God says, in that case, I gotta roll up my sleeves, and I've got to show you my arm, and I gotta do to the very ultimate of my strength to demonstrate the power that it takes to establish the church. You look at this through Isaiah, a number of cases. For instance, in Isaiah chapter 59, in verse 16. Isaiah says, he saw that there was no one. He was appalled that there was none to intervene. So his own arm worked salvation for him. Or in Isaiah chapter sixty three, in verse uh five He says, I looked, but there was none to help. I was appalled that no one gave support, so my own arm worked salvation for me. And of course the Old Testament picture of that salvation was bringing Israel out of Egypt, redeeming them, as he said, with an outstretched hand arm, Isaiah 63 verse 12. Who sent his glorious arm of power to be at Moses' right hand, who divided the waters before them, to gain for himself everlasting renown. Is this really what Isaiah 53, 1 is talking about? To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? Well, you look at the context of it, and I think it becomes clear. For instance, just a couple of chapters before in Isaiah 51 In verse 9 and 10, Isaiah said, Awake, awake, clothe yourself with strength, O arm of the Lord. Awake as in days gone by, as in generations of old. Was it not you who cut Rahab to pieces? And what's that referring to? Who pierced that monster through? Well Rahab, according to Isaiah thirty, verse seven. is simply another name for Egypt. Rahab was a mythical sea monster. The word Rahab means storm or arrogance. big bluster. In fact he calls uh Egypt uh in that same context the do-nothing, you know, just a lot of noise, a lot of terror and fear. But God says when I bring my arm against Egypt, it trembles. And so who cut Rahab, that monster, Egypt? Was it not you who dried up the sea, the waters of the great deep, who made the road in the depths of the sea, so that it So that the redeemed might cross over. A sea in the way, hey, no problem for God. He stretches forth his arm and he says, Here's a path, walk through it But now you see, he's expanding this. He says it's not just for Israel. We look back in verse 5 of chapter 51. My righteousness draws near speedily, my salvation is on the way, and my arm will bring justice. To the nations, the islands, that is, the most distant parts of the earth, will look to me and wait in hope for my arm. Then you come to chapter 52. You see where he's coming leading up to this, chapter 52, verse 10. The Lord will lay bare his holy arm In the sight of all the nations, and all the ends of the earth will see the salvation of our God. You see, it's not just Israel. We're talking about the ends of the earth. All the nations. That's why in verse 15, when he then says all the kings will bow down, he's going to sprinkle the nations. You see this contrast What he is saying is that the gospel is not something you can persuade people to believe. You take the people that you'd most expect to see the obvious truth of Jesus as the Messiah, fulfilling the prophecies, and they turn their back. And they say we don't want anything to do with it. But then God says, I took, I looked at that And in order to glorify myself, I buried my holy arm among the nations. I took a people who were dead in sin. I took a people who looked at the Jews and they despised them. I took a people who would be the most unlikely people on earth. And throughout all the nations I have called to myself people from this tribe and this tongue and this language and this people group. And what do you see that Paul says in Acts 28? In Acts 28, when Paul comes and he says Some of them believed, others didn't, and Paul says, now, this is to fulfill what Isaiah said. Your hearts are callous. You are blind. You are deaf. You've refused to hear this. Then he says, uh Acts 28 In verse 28, almost the very end of it, therefore I want you to know that God's salvation has been sent to the nations and they will listen. You see, that that's not Paul saying, you guys, you don't want anything to do with this You heard it, you think you know it all, and so you'll just write it off, and you're just gonna live the way you want to live. You don't need Jesus. But you know, I'll bet you that the nations, I bet you they'll be more interested That's not what he's saying. You see, that's a sovereign declaration. They will listen. And so you read through Acts and you find it in chapter 2. When the gospel comes, you read in the verse, the last verse of chapter 2, that the Lord added to their number daily those who were being saved. The Lord adds to the number. He determines sovereignly. That there's going to be some who will listen. Chapter 13, in verse 48. When the nations, the Gentiles, heard this, they were glad and they honored the word of the Lord. And all who were appointed for eternal life, sovereignly appointed by the arm of the Lord to convert their dead hearts, hearts like yours and mine. He appointed them for eternal life. All who were appointed believed. And the word of the Lord spread through the whole region. The arm of the Lord has been revealed among the nations. Nothing can stop, nothing can prevent the gospel from going forth with power. That's what Isaiah is saying here. To whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed? It's been revealed to those that the Lord is calling from out of all the four corners of the earth. And so in Ephesians chapter 3, what John read to you just before I preached, you see that beautiful passage where Paul says, I became a servant of this gospel. By the gift of God's grace given me through the working of his power, his arm. Although I'm less than the least of all of God's people. None of you here is less than that, right? If you're one of God's people, you're not less than the least of them. He can't be. You might be the least, but you're not less than the least. If that's you, what's he saying? This grace was given to me, to you, to preach, to announce to the nations the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to make plain to everyone that God puts into your path the administration of this mystery, which for ages past was kept hidden in God who created all things, and his intent was that now through the church, the manifold wisdom of God should be made known to the rulers and the authorities, even in the heavenly realms. Kings shall shut their mouths. They'll stoop down and they'll say, we never imagined this, that in our misery and our lostness There's nothing like seeing a pagan tribe that has been given over to idolatry and witch doctors and all of the vile and evil practices of such a culture. When the gospel comes to say, we never heard or imagined there was such a God. The art of the Lord has been revealed Now, what does this mean for you and me? Couple last thoughts of application as we go into the Christmas season. First of all, How can you doubt this book as being an inspired word of God that prophesied 750 years in advance the very unlikely result that Messiah would be rejected by his own people looking for him? While being accepted by those who had no idea who he was and could care less throughout all the nations of the earth. What an amazing lucky guess Isaiah made on that. And even now, you see, that same thing being fulfilled, and now Romans 9 comes and it says Romans 9, 10 and then 11. says there will come a day when the Jews will believe. And you look around now and you say, nah, that's not very likely. Maybe it's just another lucky guess if we see that happen. But scriptures prophesied it, and so it will happen. But have you believed on him for your own salvation? For who has believed our report? Everyone here? Not everyone in this room. There are some of you who have become immune to this gospel. You hear it? You hear of your need to have Jesus come into your life, to forgive you, to teach you how to live, rather than just walking your own way. Screwing up the way you're used to screwing up and then just saying, but at least it's the way I want to live, and to not know what Jesus can do. Oh, I plead with you, don't let those calluses grow harder. Don't continue to resist them until you find, as I remember one kid I prayed with many years ago Banging on the ground and saying, I can't believe, I can't believe, I fooled around with this so long, I can't believe. And he was one miserable guy Come while there's still some sense of response to the Lord, some realization of your need for Jesus Christ, who has believed our report? May it be that there would be none here that would be lost without Christ. If you have an interest in talking about that, put it on your grace lip. I want to make sure that I know Jesus. Put it down. We'll get together and talk about that. Make sure that you are not one of those that Isaiah has in mind when he says they've heard it and they have become calloused against it. Thirdly, what are you doing? To be on board with this mighty thing that God is doing in displaying the arm of his power among the nations Are you praying for specific missionaries? Just praying for what God is doing. You know, it was 15 years ago that we sent out one missionary family A lowly intern from Columbia Presbyterian, into a nation in an area where there was no gospel witness, there was no worship, Fifteen years later, there are three churches, a Presbytery that's been planted there, two preaching points for the gospel, over 40 full-time workers, Japanese, Australians, Americans, and others. Just this last month, had a church planning institute in Japan, east of Tokyo. A church planning institute. was the largest gathering of church planners ever in the history of Japan. Started with one intern From Columbia Presbyterian Church and a group of people praying that God would honor Himself and show His power, the arm of His power, to the Japanese. And now a number of people from our congregation have gone either career short term. Come on Thursday mornings, pray with us. See what God does in answer to our feeble, half-hearted prayers. We pray and we doubt and we wonder and we Lord, can you really do this? And you and we watch him display the arm of his thing. You know, you look at this arm, you don't think of that. Think of our arm, you know. I mean, you know, the borax man or something, you know, Mr. Clean, you know. Think of something in a God's power that's displayed. In our weak faith, we lay hold of that power to see him honor himself. Coming up in February, we're going to have a month of missions. Look with expectation, anticipation. What are we going to see? Do you ever read about missions? Do you find out what God's doing today? To see how He's displaying the arm of His power? I mean, you realize, for instance, in nineteen seventy-nine, a group of people put together a film, Jesus, based on the Gospel of Luke. And they said, we want this thing to go through. I I remember being at the preview of that film. It had not been shown to anybody in public. They just invited a group of pastors in. And he said, We're going to show this thing all over the world. And good luck. And you know, since 1979 and 1997, that film has been shown to one billion people. They recorded 56 million decisions for Christ, whatever that means in true conversions. But then they said, now we're just getting started. Now we want to show this film in the next three years from 1997 to 2000. We want to show it to 1 billion people per year. The records of what they have done show that they have almost made that goal. Nearly four billion people Have seen the Jesus, but one billion a year. Do you know that the Jesus film has been shown a number of times on national television in the nation of Iraq? Where else can you bring the gospel on national television? There are 3,000 teams of missionaries going around with Jesus films throughout all kinds of nations, been translated in over 600 languages. Are you aware of these kinds of things that God is doing to display the mighty arm of his power in bringing the nations to Christ? Are you willing to give yourself, to lay all that you are and all that you have at his disposal? God is raising up among the younger generation, those of you who are in high school and college, I believe, a whole new understanding of missions because of your sensitivity to racial reconciliation, to diversity of relationships. to produce a church which is the reflection of more what the church ought to be, an Acts 13 kind of church that is diverse and is open to missions. We are believing on the threshold of new ventures in the final thrust of fulfilling the Great Commission because God is in our day demonstrating the arm of his power among the nations. And do you believe that in these next couple of weeks, yeah I believe that, but do you believe in the next couple of weeks that God could use you during the Christmas season When people talk about what it is and you say, you know, why don't we come on over at our house? We'll get a gathering, we'll share Christmas memories. You know, what did Christmas mean to you? What's your best Christmas memory? What does Christmas mean to you now? And then just share. Here's what Christmas means to me. It used to mean this, and here's what it means now. Take the opportunities. Do you believe? Or do you say, ah, who's believed our report? You know who's believed our report? Paul says the gospel is going to go to the nations, and they will listen. All who God has appointed to eternal life will hear, even through you and me, even here in Colombia. Amen? Let's pray. Lord, we say that, but give us faith to believe this gospel is powerful. Not intrinsically. The message itself is true and so it's powerful, but it does not have the power to convert. Only your spirit can cause even our hearts to see that Jesus is the Messiah, all that has been promised and hoped for. To bring an end to all evil and to bring about heaven and the first fruits of it in our hearts as we believe in Him. Lord, help us to believe, to believe this word, and to make ourselves available to you not only for the ends of the earth, but even in the little conversations we have in these next few weeks. To talk about what Jesus and Christmas mean to us and to speak of your power. Oh Lord, we love you. We love you and we trust you and we want to trust you and grow in our faith Help us now in these days, in our own hearts right now, everyone in Jesus' name. Amen.