Picture this. You're chatting with a friend of yours about how the summer's going. You know, you're discussing the reruns on TV and soccer matches and various things that are happening, how the O's are doing. And as you're talking about this and you talk about how your life's going, all of a sudden your friend asks you, Well, let me ask you, how are your quiet times going these days? Are you getting anything out of the Word? And all of a sudden, all the casualness has gone out of the conversation, right? You know, y immediately you find that your blood pressure rises a little bit. You're feeling a little defensive you would like to say back to them, not going very well and it's none of your business. But you don't say that. You smile and say something about how, you know, it could be better, but you know, it's going okay. And why is it that as soon as somebody would ask you or me, how's your time in the Word? How's it going between you and the Lord in your devotional life? Are you profiting from the word these days that immediately you begin to feel guilty? Well, I think it's because it's one of those areas that we always know that we should be doing more than we're doing. You know that in order to grow as a Christian, in order to know the Lord, you've got to spend time in the Bible. And yet, there's always that sense of what does God expect from me? I can't get up any earlier, and I don't have any time at lunchtime, and after I come home, I'm tired, and then by the time we get what needs to be done at dinner, whether it's the kids or what other things that you're doing in your life, you say, by that time I I'm just ready to slop into bed and I've tried and so theoretically I'm always living with I ought to do this, but I can't. And so talking about being in Scripture produces in most Christians more of a sense of guilt than delight. And that's the first line that you see there. The problem is a problem, I believe, of motivation. We see it as a matter of ought versus desire. It's something that we feel like we ought to do to be in God's Word, but we really don't desire it. That is to say, we really are thinking in our hearts that this is more of a burden that I should do than that it's something that I really want to do, that I know I will benefit if I do it. Because when we say we can't get to it, remember that's just simply reflecting our priorities. A number of you have heard me give this illustration that I noticed that every one of us here is dressed this morning. There is nobody who came here this morning, I will bet, in what you wore to bed last night. Now, I don't know what you wear to bed last night when it's hot and humid like this, but I'll bet you it is not what you're sitting in right now I can tell you that when it's not too hot and humid, I wear a little t shirt that Mary well, it's actually a very big t shirt that Mary Lou Gratisat gave me. It's got the names of God all over it, you know. So My wife kind of if she missed her devotions that day, you know, when we go to bed, she can always have a quick devotional just by reading my t-shirt from Mary Lou. But that's not what I wear when I come here Sunday morning. You know, why is that? Well, it's because whatever you were doing this morning, you didn't say, I just don't have time to get dressed. And if I'm gonna be there on time, it's gonna be the way I am. They're just gonna have to accept that. I don't have time to do it So when we say I don't have time, what we're really saying is that's lower on my priorities than the things that I make sure I get to. Now why is it that we don't get into God's Word on a regular basis? It's not simply because we can't, it's because it's lower on the priorities than the things we get to. And I would posit to you that the reason that that's the case Is because we labor under the sense of ought rather than desire. And that's why I want to bring this right into this series on delighting in God. In order that we might see that when we talk that key verse we've been looking at since last March, Psalm 37, verse 4, delight yourself in the Lord and He will give to you the desires of your heart. You know, I think we know that well enough we ought to say it together, just so we fix it in our minds. See after all these months, you should. Let's do it together. Uh I'll say it one more time and then all together. Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give to you the desires of your heart. Together? Delight yourself in the Lord and He will give to you the desires of your heart. Good. That's not too bad. But now, how do you delight more in the Lord? The scripture is very clear that it's his word that is to you that delight and that brings to you the Lord as your delight. And so you see there under in your bulletin outline, the Bible is given for your delight, not your duty. The Bible was always intended to be for you a delight, not something that you sort of say, you know, I need to eat my broccoli and I need to read scripture. It's good for me. Don't particularly enjoy it. For many of us, I think when we look at scripture we say, I don't understand it. It's it's so much more work than just flipping on the TV or reading a newspaper. I have to think about it. Sometimes I get something out of it. Sometimes it's not always a delight. And yet, when you look at the psalmist, the things that we've been just expressing in our worship this morning, you see again and again how much of a delight God's word is to those who are writing it. Again and again in Psalm 119, I rejoice in your word. It's the delight of my heart. I love your word, and on and on and on. Psalm 19 that we just sang, it's better than gold, it's better than honey, it rejoices my heart. I really believe that this is a very crucial area for every one of us as Christians. I believe that our congregation would begin to experience a new sense of joy, delight, and renewal. If we were convinced that God's word was a delight and not a burden. That idea of God's word being a delight and not a burden is not something that just comes out of this series, some new idea. John Calvin wrote back centuries ago in the Reformation. He said, from the psalmist characterizing the godly as delighting in the law of the Lord. We learn that forced obedience is not at all acceptable to God. Those only are worthy students of the law who come to it with a cheerful mind and are so delighted with its instruction. as to account nothing more desirable or delicious than to make progress therein. Is that your view of Scripture? All too often it's not, is it? It's that burden. And yet God gives us in His Word, Psalm 1, as an example of an incentive for us. To be in the Word. So if you haven't turned to it already, turn to Psalm 1. Because in Psalm 1, you have a promise. It's kind of a description, which is an implicit promise to us. Blessed, happy is the man, the person, who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, or stand in the way of sinners, or sit in the seat of mockers, but his delight. is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season, and whose leaf does not wither. Whatever he does prospers. Not so the wicked. They are like chaff that the wind blows away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. For the Lord watches over the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. You notice that first word there, blessed. The word means happy. It's a word that again and again is used in scripture about happiness in Psalm 32, verse 1. Blessed, happy, the same word, is the person to whom the Lord does not impute or count his sins against him. In Psalm 34, the Lord is good. Happy is the person who finds refuge in him. And so it's that word that's used again and again of happiness. The Queen of Sheba used that word when she visited Solomon and all his wealth and his glory. And we weigh gold in ounces. Solomon weighed his gold in tons. Can you imagine how many tons of gold we have in the storehouse there this month, you know? And when the Queen of Sheba saw this She looked at all his wealth, the peace of the land, that justice was being administrated, and she said, Happy are those who stand in your courts continually and hear the wisdom from your mouth. And that's the same word as Psalm 1, verse 1. Happy. You ever stop to think about that? What is it that drives you nuts at work or in the neighborhood or people that you interact with that you don't like to be with? It's their talk, isn't it? And what is it about their talk? It's irritating because it is nonsense, or it is gossip, or it is it is foolishness But to hear talk that you can depend on. You can count on this person's word. You know that when you hear this person speak, they will give you good guidance, they will be trustworthy. It will help you to have joy and peace when you're struggling with a problem and you hear this person speak about how to get along with this impossible person. or how to handle a difficult situation, you know that that wisdom is trustworthy. It You can follow it and it'll work. And Psalm 1 is saying that you and I have the opportunity every morning to hear God speak to us and be happy. Now the Psalm, interesting, tells us two things about our happiness. First of all, it tells us what to do, and then secondly, it tells us why this will bring us delight. I want for us to notice that. First of all, notice what it is that we should do to be happy, according to Psalm 1. First of all, there's something not to do, a negative, and then there's something to do, a positive. Psalm 1 says, happy is the person who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners or sit in the seat of mockers. This is what not to do. Summed up, renounce the council of unbelief. The first thing to do then is to renounce the council of unbelief. Notice the progression in verse 1. Happy is the person, the man who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, kind of associating by walking. Then there's the standing in the way of sinners. And then finally there's the sitting down in the seat of the mockers. First there's this the going along with, and then you stop and you you mill around and And you're listening to them, and then pretty soon you're joining with them, not simply in the wickedness and the sin, but notice the progression of the evil from those that are simply talking unrighteously about. their own wisdom, things that are not biblical, to those who are ultimately mocking righteousness, making fun of Christians And so if you are involved with those that are doing this, you will find a progression in your life. And that progression will be to follow the way against Scripture more and more to be finding that. Christianity is something that doesn't make sense. You'll have more and more questions and problems and doubts as you associate with a council of unbelief. Notice secondly the connection. There's a connection between verses 1 and 2. In order to delight in the word, there has to be the refusal of the counsel of unbelief. Now notice Blessed, happy is the person who does not walk in the counsel of the wicked, stand in the way of sinners, sit in the seat of mockers, but contrast, his delight is in the law of the Lord, in Scripture, God's word. And on this law he meditates day and night. Let me tell you something. If you do not decide to renounce the counsel of current media If you find that you watch TV and you're listening to the talk shows and you watch Oprah or the soaps or the sitcoms or that trash like entertainment tonight, that's that showing that that is one But you know, if you watch this stuff and you begin to imbibe the values of it, you know, okay, get all the people that think entertainment tonight's a great show, listen, I'll take you on afterwards, all right? That show is just replete with anti-biblical values of this world. Now the problem is I'm probably telling you this and you're thinking, gee, I haven't I haven't never watched that show. Then I gotta watch it. It's bad But when you and I begin to to watch that stuff, two things happen. First of all, just watching TV makes you not want to read because you're so passive that it's just so much easier to flip on the TV and just to imbibe those values as they come at you. Uncritically. You don't you don't think about TV so much as you simply feel it. You experience it. And it's designed to do that. to just carry you along so that you can relax and you don't have to think. And the effect of that is that there will be less and less delight in opening up your Bible to read it. Or even if you are reading some of the women's magazines, it's just there's all this self-help counsel in it. Uh, you know, or you read uh a lot of the books today. You even pick up the Columbia Flyer just this week. There's this article. Tonight, there's this fellow speaking over at Oakland Mills And he's going to speak on meditation. The article is entitled, Meditation is When You Listen to God. And then you read through this and you find that all this peace that you can have through meditation, and then you find that he believes that harmony and spirituality are more important than any prescribed religious doctrines You know, it's just the experience of meditating and then he begins to say, you know, we really need to live in harmony and get uh get back off of the all the hang-ups about is Jesus the only way or is Buddha or this or that. Just Just practice visualized imagery. Well, you know, you read these things and you keep going through this, and after a while you begin to lose the sense of what's right, what's wrong, is this good, is this bad. You see, as you and I uncritically expose ourselves to all the things that the media offers to us today, and it starts early, we're talking about comic books listening to rock music, all the things that we expose our minds to that reflect the counsel of the wicked, the way of sinners, the mocking of the scorners. then we will find that we will not have a delight in the Bible. You just won't want to read it. You won't, you'll you'll read this and you'll say, well, you know, somehow I never get to it. And what what's really happening is not that your time schedules change, you know, somebody shortened your day. But what happened is that there's no more or any desire to be in Scripture. So in order, if you're saying I as a Christian want to grow, and I realize that I need to be in Scripture to do that. Maybe the first thing that you need to do, and I'm not saying that we can't read unbelievers. We have to know what unbelievers are saying and thinking in order to engage with them But if you are finding that you have lost your delight in Scripture, it's just not a living book to you, maybe the thing that you need to do. is to think about how much you're exposing yourself to the counsel of the wicked. And maybe you need to change the priorities of that that when you're tempted to say, I'm you know, I'm tired, it's just easier to turn on the tube or to pick up this magazine and read this thing. that addresses some of this felt need that I have to understand that God says that I am happy if I do not do that, but that I pick up my Bible and I have some sort of a plan to be able to read that and find delight in it. The delight that he describes here is a delight that is the same word as Psalm 115, verse 3. Do you remember? The Lord our God is in heaven. He does whatever pleases him. It's that same word for delight. It's the same word that's used in Esther 214. Or we talked about how the king of Persia, when he brought somebody from the harem, if that woman delighted him, then he would call her back. Had her for one night and she brought delight. You know the kind of delight that's spoken of there. That's not an intellectual delight. That's a tremendously sensual delight. And so God's saying that his word is a delight that you feel. His delight is in the law of the Lord. Uh it's that same word that's uh used in Psalm nineteen. Uh in Psalm nineteen where we read about um Psalm 119. It's used four times there to speak of the delight that we have in God's Word. For instance, in Psalm 119, in verse 16, I delight in your decrees. I will not neglect your word. Why don't I neglect it? Not because somebody is saying you ought to do this. You know, you've got to read the Bible if you're a Christian and ought to It's because I find that when I read it, I delight in it because it brings to me what I need in my heart. Now, what is it that it brings? Why why uh well first of all before I talk about what, I mean excuse me, the why, let me say the positive side of it, what it is that Psalm 1 instructs us to do. Two things It says that we are to do. Number one, so this is the positive side. Now follow the counsel of Scripture. In case you missed that, sorry. Follow the counsel of Scripture. First of all, You need to meditate on it constantly. Notice verse 2: His delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. Not to say, oh hey, I'm supposed to quit my job, go into a monastery, and read the Bible day and night. No. There are two parts to this. First is the idea of devotional study, where you do set aside some time. To say I'm going to shut everything out, I'm going to take twenty minutes, thirty minutes, forty-five minutes, whatever the time that I see as a priority in my life to fit in here Whatever it is, I'm going to take this time and I'm going to read it and I'm going to write down because that's when you see the word there, meditate, on his law, he meditates. That means in the Hebrew that he muttered to himself. He read it and he talked to himself. He you know well why did he go around talking to himself and mumbling about what he was reading? Well, because they didn't have paper, that's why And so the way to keep your mind engaged back in that time was to actively speak to yourself about what it was saying. So you see a guy walking down the road, you know, wow This uh word is like a tree, I'm like a tree, and I'll be planted by streams of water. And you see, Well, you know, he's not out of his mind. This is just somebody having his quiet time, you know. They just did it out loud back then Now we have paper, and so we can engage our mind by reflecting on paper the thoughts that we read. So let me tell you, if you're not getting anything out of your Bible study, let me make one simple suggestion this morning, and that is that you start writing things down. I have found that makes more of a difference to people than anything else, other than just having it. Uh and I'm not suggesting, by the way, in this whole thing, that we only have it when we feel like it If we say, I want to delight in it, it's not to be a burden, therefore if I don't feel like doing it, I'm not going to do it. No, that's not the implication. You refuse the counsel of the wicked in order to delight. But you set that time aside. Read it, write something down, and reflect on that. And as you do that, it will help you. to get your mind engaged. Now, I have um the training that I do with with kids and with adults uh called the Simple Inductive Approach has sem seven simple steps for things to write down as you're studying God's Word. And if anybody's saying, I'd like to do that, uh, how do I do it? Then I brought a stack of them. They're right there in the back See me at the end and say, hey, you got one of those sheets? I will give you that sheet and I can give you a couple brief suggestions on how to use that thing. It's just take a minute and you're on your way. No excuse. See? There it is How to begin even here in July. When you're looking at this schedule, the summer schedule may be a little different from the rest of the year. To begin to say, I'm going to set aside a time each day, devotionally, to spend time meditating on the word. But you notice because he says day and night, that means that it must not simply be something that is done. Aside from work. It's got to be something you've got to be able to do while you're working. And I believe the implication of that is the memorization of Scripture. That as you memorize a verse, something that's meaningful to you, take that with you through the day. And you're able then while you're driving, while you're working, while you're answering the phone, while you're on hold, waiting for somebody to come on, You know, there you are. You have that scripture and it's right there. You don't need to turn to it. It's in your mind. I've been meditating on Psalm 46 in my own quiet times just recently. And just to take those verses, you know, God is our strength. uh and our God is our refuge and our strength and ever present help in time of trouble. And therefore, though the earth be removed and the mountains be cast into the heart of sea, we will not fear. He goes on to speak about how God is a river of delights. that comes into the city of God. And when you come back and you have those thoughts in your mind, what a difference it makes in today. You're able to meditate on it day and night, and it becomes part of you. You realize that God is your help and your strength. Memorizing a verse of scripture makes it more yours than reading it on the page and even writing it out. Because in order to memorize it, you've got to own it. You need to think about it. You need to meditate on it. I believe that if you and I were to meditate on and memorize one verse of Scripture a week, it'd make a difference in our congregation. It'd make a difference in your life. One verse a week that you would commit yourself to memorize and meditate on day by day. But not only do you need to study it, secondly, you need to obey it. Not only to study it, meditate on it constantly, but to obey it consistently. That's the second thing you need to do. His delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. Notice that's in contrast. To verse 1, he does not walk in the counsel of the wicked. It's not just talking about what he's thinking about, just not meditating. This is what he's doing. So he is not walking in the way of the wicked, but he is walking in the way of what he's meditating on. That's the implication. And so when you do this, on that simple inductive approach, the little sheet, it says to ask yourself, is there in what I'm reading here an example that I should follow? Is there a command to obey? Is there a promise for me to claim? What's the promise? What are the conditions for getting that promise? Is there a teaching about God and what implications that has on my understanding Him and how to live? And so ask yourself as you read scripture each day, so what? What difference does this make to my life today? Write that down. Ask God for His Spirit to work in you, that you'll be able to believe it and to obey it so that it will make a difference to you. Because the delight comes in seeing God change you through his word, to give you the peace, the joy, the satisfaction that comes from obedience and seeing him answer prayers. And do the things that He's promised to do in that word. That's the delight. That's the happiness that you get. Well, now, why is it a delight to you? Why is it that George Mueller, who was a man who who ran an orphanage of several thousand kids had the pressures of seeing those kids fed and the administration of all that tremendous pressure on him for over 40 years engaged in this work simply by faith, never appealed for any funds, but watched God provide, said that the very first great business of each day is to make my soul happy in the Lord by spending time in his word. Now Mueller said that was my first job every day. The very first responsibility I have before I do anything else, meet with people, make decisions. Get into the commute. Anything else he said, the very first thing is to become happy before the Lord by spending time in his word. Why does it have that effect? Three things. Three reasons it'll be a delight to you. Number one, because you will prosper in this life. It promises you you will prosper in this life. Again, look what he says. His delight is in the law of the Lord. On this law, he meditates day and night. He's like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in season. and whose leaf does not wither, whatever he does, he prospers. Then in contrast to that, not so the wicked They're like chaff that the wind blows away. You see the contrast? A tree with roots deep by the streams of water can't be moved. Even in drought, it's still green because its roots are planted deep in the streams of water. Versus chaff, which you can just pfft blow it away. No root. Nothing stable about it. Do you remember Jesus' example of the person that built their house upon the sand and the wind and the rain came and blew it away and it was destroyed when there was a crisis versus the person that built their life upon the rock. And the difference was whether they heard his words and did them. That's the difference between sand and rock. Psalm 1. The difference between the person who lets himself passively be carried along by the counsel of the wicked. in popular media versus determining to delight in the law of the Lord. In finding in that The principles for living successfully. How do I deal with that person that it's impossible to relate to? I don't go to Some self-help book to find out how I can assert myself and how I can defend my rights and all the rest of that. I go to scripture to find out how to love boldly And how I can love aggressively, how I can forgive, and how I can treat that person in a way that God is going to use, whether or not the relationship changes to find peace in my own heart. And so you go to Scripture to find the principles for living. Let me ask you, where are consciously the principles that you live by found? Are the principles that you're living by consciously rooted in Scripture? Where you have to be honest and say it's kind of an eclectic blend of what my mother taught me. Some stuff that my father said, things I've gotten from my brothers and sisters, few books I've read, things here and there, and a little bit of scripture too. I think some of it reflected scripture, and some of it I'm not real sure See, until you and I determine that we're going to root those principles by which we live in Scripture We're never going to know that we can be happy. You'll never know that you can live to old age without regrets. Because God says that as the person who meditates day and night Who memorizes, who studies, who applies, is like a tree planted, and whatever he does, he prospers. Doesn't mean he's going to get rich. It means that you are going to be able to live to old age without any significant regrets because you've lived life the way God intended it to be lived, and you found satisfaction in that. You can't do that without spending time in Scripture and determining that you're going to live by that. Secondly, notice that you will stand in the next life. You'll not only prosper in this life, but you will stand in the next life. Verse 5. Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the assembly of the righteous. The only ones who will are those who in fact refuse the counsel of the wicked and find delight in God's Word. Why? Because it's through that word that you and I find that we cannot live successfully. You come to those principles and you say, I can't do them. And you realize your own bankruptcy and your helplessness, and that's where you see what Jesus Christ has done. That Jesus has taken that sin. That Jesus suffered as a substitute in your behalf to take that sin upon himself. That He would die for your sin to make full payment. And so that His Spirit would come and be available to you so that when you come to those principles that you can't live. You're able to say, Lord Jesus, I can't love this person. I don't know how to make this decision. I'm not able to give up this right that I'm clinging to that's bringing me so much misery Lord, you come and take my life now. And do you find in Scripture the ways to find that yielded peace of the Spirit coming into your life? And when you do that, you find also that Jesus is your hope for eternity. That he is the one who's taken your sin. And because of that, in Scripture, Jesus is revealed to you as your salvation. I remember reading a story that John Piper tells in speaking of the effects of God's word in people's lives. He told the story of a fellow by the name of Yokichi Ichi. who back in uh 1918 was hanged for murder in Tokyo. Tokiki Ichi was a fellow who was uh known to be as cruel as a tiger He was arrested and put into prison more than twenty times. One time he attacked the prison guard so fiercely that they bound him and gagged him and tortured him, and he still wouldn't say he was sorry. Finally, he was condemned to be hanged. Two missionaries brought a New Testament. And that's all he had. Here was this Japanese condemned prisoner, vicious With simply nothing but a New Testament to read. He said he began to read that, and as he read the trial and the death of Jesus, he came to the words, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And Tokichi says that when he read that, in his words, let me quote him, he says, I stopped, I was stabbed to the heart as if by a five-inch nail. What did the verse reveal to me? Shall I call it the love of the heart of Christ? Shall I call it his compassion? I do not know what to call it. I only know that with an unspeakably grateful heart I believed. And there in prison his life was radically changed. He read 2 Corinthians chapter 6, verses 8 to 10, speaking about sorrowing, yet always rejoicing, and poor and always making rich. And he wrote this at the end of his stay, just before his execution, as sorrowing yet always rejoicing. People will say that I must have a very sorrowful heart because I am daily awaiting the execution of a death sentence. This is not the case. I feel neither sorrow nor distress nor any pain. Locked up in a prison cell six feet by nine in size, I am infinitely happier than I was in the days of my sinning when I did not know God. Day and night I am talking with Jesus Christ. As poor yet making many rich This certainly does not apply to the evil life I led before I repented. But perhaps in the future someone in the world may hear that the most desperate villain that ever lived repented of his sins and was saved by the power of Christ. And so may come to repent also. And then it may be that though I am poor myself, I am able to make many rich. God's word sustained him to the end, and on the scaffold before he was hanged, with great humility and earnestness, he uttered his last words: My soul purified, today returns. To the city of God. Scripture alone can give that kind of delight through the power of the Spirit, the person of Jesus Christ. Is your hope of eternity rooted in Scripture? And then finally, there is The love of God that is revealed. You will know God's love for you always. Verse 6 Why is it that we stand in the judgment? Verse 6, because the Lord watches over the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. The word watches over is the Hebrew word which means to know someone intimately. It's used of sexual intercourse. So it means to love someone deeply. It's not simply to watch over, to look at someone It means to love and know someone intimately. And that's what it says that the Lord does toward you. He knows you. His son has given his life for you. And it's only through Scripture that you come to know that love that Jesus has for you. Do you know his love for you? The length and the breadth, the depth and the height of it? You'll never know it by reading about somebody else's account of it Getting secondhand experiences through other Christians, the only way, is through Scripture. And the only way you're going to do that is to decide now about your schedule. You got a limited number of options. Either you get up earlier, make some time in the middle of the day, or sometime at the end of the day You gotta decide. Where's it going to be? What's going to be your plan? Let me suggest if you don't have a plan, you start this week. There's six verses in Psalm 1. Take one verse each day And simply write down all the contrasts, all the cause and effects, everything that you see in the connections of those verses, and meditate on that one psalm, and then see what God begins to do in your heart. Let's pray. Lord, for many of us we may be thinking, yes, I really do want to be in your word. I want to know that delight. We still don't know how. We pray, Lord. Give them faith to believe that if they change their schedules, for each one of us, Lord, you know how I struggle with my schedule. That it will be worth it when we spend time in your word. Lord, I know how your word has changed my life. We want to come to believe the delight that you have for us. Lord, work in each of us for this week to meet with us through your word and encourage our hearts to continue to do it in Jesus' name