Dear God, our Father in Heaven, we again call upon your name. We praise you and thank you for your goodness to us. We pray that you would be pleased now to give us ears to hear. Bless the mouth of your servant. that it might indeed flow forth with your truth. How we pray you for your word, we pray that you would continue to reveal to us wondrous things from it. We ask this through our reigning Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. So let's look at three ways that God deals with his enemies. We're not doing this so that we can glory in the fact that God's enemies will be wiped out. But we want to be encouraged that we are on the winning side. Also, as you study the book of Judges, it gets very discouraging to see over and over and over again The disobedience of the people of God, the disobedience of those who call themselves God's people, God's servants, is somewhat like us today. Thus, it's good to keep in mind that God had not forsaken his people. It wasn't God who turned his back on them. It wasn't God who had given up on them. And we see that very clearly as we begin the book of the. judges here in the opening chapter. God was always willing, he was always ready to keep his promises. In fact he always is. He displayed his strength and aid powerfully here in this passage that we read, just after Joshua died. He did this to encourage his people. They had looked to Moses for many years, and the diaries of Joshua, behind Moses. So they had very powerful leaders. And now right after the death of Joshua, God continues to show that his strength and aid is very powerful, very mighty. He encourages people again and again. us of his power, of his might, that he is our strength. And we ought to be encouraged today to live blameless lives above reproach as we live in the midst of a crooked And perverse generation. The failure of God's people here to drive out the enemies in accordance to God's commandment was not due to the strain of the Canaanites' walled cities. Nor was it due to the Canaanites' superiority in the art of war. Nor, as the Israelites themselves claimed, was it due to their iron chariots. In that very verse where it mentions that they had iron chariots. Chariots, it says the Lord was with Judah. Can you imagine the Lord being confounded by iron chariots? When God's people are weak and unsuccessful in their ventures, it's due to two things is due to a lack of faith andor disobedience. The same is true for us today. God's command is to subdue the earth. This is very clear in Psalm 2. God will stop at nothing less than the whole earth. Ask of me, and I will surely give the nations as your inheritance, and the very ends of the earth. As your possession. It was God's will then, it's God's will today, and it will always be his will until the meat indeed are the inheritors of the earth. Until then, you must be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able be unceasing in prayer and in work. Don't we pray, Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven? Sometimes we're kind of slow in getting the point. So good thing then that our father is very patient, though not as some account slowness, because it's his will that none perish, but that all come to repentance. Don't we work day and night Knowing that our labor in the Lord is not in vain. Let's look specifically at God's command, as the people at the time of the judges understood it. Let's found in Deuteronomy chapter seven. Verses one through eleven. Deuteronomy seven, the first eleven verses of that chapter. And the Lord Your God brings you into the land you are entering to possess, and drives out before you many nations: the Hittite, the Pergashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, seven nations love And stronger than you. And when the Lord your God has delivered them over to you, and you have defeated them, then you must destroy them totally. Make no treaty with them and show them no treatment. No mercy. Do not intermarry with them. Let me just say here, since so many people have a problem with this, that um this is no different than when God destroyed the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah for their wickedness. The difference then was that he did it directly. He did not use his people as instruments. Here he has been pleased to use his people as the instruments of his wrath against their wickedness. In fact, God has even used godless nations as instruments against his own people to teach them, to show them their own wickedness. So we should not at all be amazed by this. Or surprise. We are simply creatures. Our so-called wisdom is very imperfect, it's full of flaws, whereas God's mind is perfect. God's wisdom is flawless. We always do well to submit ourselves to his revealed will than to try to judge God and tell him that he doesn't know what he's doing. Picking up at verse 3. Do not intermittent. Marry with them. Do not give your daughters to the sons, to their sons, or take their daughters for your sons. For they will turn your sons away from following me to serve other gods. For the Lord's anger will burn against you and will put you. destroy you. This is what you are to do to them. Break down their altars, smash their pillars and sacred stones, cut down their ashere poles, and burn their idols in the fire. For you are a people holy. to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you out of all the peoples on the face of the earth to be his people, his treasured possession. The Lord did not set his affection on you and choose you because you were more numerous than other peoples. For you were the fewest of all peoples. But it was because the Lord loved you and kept the oath. He swore to your forefathers that he brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the land of slavery. From the power of Pharaoh, King of Egypt. Know therefore that the Lord your God is God. He is the faithful God, keeping his covenant of love to a thousand generations of those who love him and keep the Lord. His commandments. But those who hate him, he will repay to their face by destruction. He will not be slow to repay to their face those who hate him. Therefore take care. To follow the commands, decrees, and laws I give you today. That's the background of God's people here as they are continuing to go forward in the promised land. Following Example of Joshua. Today this has been reiterated for us by Jesus in Matthew 28, verse 19. Go therefore and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. But what happened in the book of Jesus? Look at the first three verses of the second chapter. This is the second chapter of the Book of Judges, the first three verses. The angel of the Lord went up from Gilgal to Bochim and said, I brought you up out of Egypt and led you into the land that I swore to give your forefathers. I said, I will never break my custom. Covenant with you, and you shall not make a covenant with the people of this land, but you shall break down their altars. Yet you have disobeyed me. Why have you done this? Now therefore I tell you that I will not drive Them out before you. There will be thorns in your sides, and their gods will be a snare to you. You see why we're still here? It's 1984. Do you see why the earth is not yet subdued? Because of lack of faith and because of disobedience. What caused sin to enter into the world? Lack of faith and disobedience on the part of our first parents, Adam and Eve. Sad though it is. The statement that best describes the spirit of the age during this period in history is recorded for us at the very end of the book of Judges. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes. Don't you think this is just as true today when we see pornography rampant, when we see adultery and divorce flourishing even among Christians? Are we servants Brothers and sisters of God Almighty, or are we servants of ourselves? Is our God the reigning king of the universe? Or are we the leading alive? I'm ashamed to say that in my ten years as a Christian in America, that the lack of light in the so-called people of God would indicate to our unbelieving friends that we are indeed believing a lie. But praise God, we know that's not true. Praise God Almighty, that we are not believing any lie. Our God is truth itself, and we should live like it. The root problem in every unbeliever's heart is setting himself up as the final authority, doing what is right in your own eyes, and putting your word above God's word. So from Judges chapter one, let's see God's people living as they ought to be living. Let's see the end result of what happens to the one who does not fear God, the one who does what is right in his own eyes. The one who does not repent. Let's see how God deals with his enemies through his people. Specifically, three ways that God deals with his enemies. He dispossesses the enemies of the land, he displays the tribute. Justice to his enemies, and he destroys his enemies as a sacrifice, as a whole burnt offer offering. He dispossesses his enemies of the land. That is, he takes from his enemies. enemies that which he gave them in the first place. And he gives it to his people. He dispossesses them of what they thought was theirs, and he gives it to his own. He displays retributive justice to his enemies. That is, he punishes his enemies by retribution. His punishment always fits the crime. And thirdly, he destroys his enemies as a sacrifice, as a whole burnt offering. They refuse to trust in the substitute, thus they must bear the penalty for their own sins, which is death. Since they refuse to accept from the loving creator of the universe his substitute, which is his own. own son. So first then God dispossesses the enemies from the land. We find this in verses 1 and 2. After the death of Joshua, the Israelites asked the Lord, Who will be the first to go up and fight for us against the Canaanites? Well answered, Judah is to go. I have given the land into their hands. Why does God give the land into Judah's hand? Why does he take The reason is because Judah is the royal tribe. Remember in Genesis 49, 10, we read, The scepter shall not depart from Judah until Shiloh comes. comes. Judah is the first to go, and then the rest follow. Judah is the forerunner, you might say. He is the one who is like Christ, the royal tribe. He is in fact the tribe from which Christ comes. Jacob had prophesied, Judah's hand will be on the neck of his enemies, and your brothers will bow down to you. So that's why Judah is the one that's named there. He is the royal tribe. Secondly, why does God give the land into Judah's hands? Why is it the land that God gives? The reason that God gives the land to his people is because dominion is tied to the land. God said to Adam and Eve, Fill the earth, exercise dominion over it. He placed them in the Garden of Eden to keep it and to guard it. That is, to protect it from sin. Satan's wilds. God's curse on Cain for sacrificing his brother was his being driven from what? From the land. Cain is dispossessed of the land for his. Sin against God. Later, Cain builds a city which he named after his son, Enoch. And he is dispossessed of this civilization. He becomes a wanderer. He complains that everywhere he goes, people will hate him. And even though he had committed God is still merciful to him and places a mark on him so that he will not be killed. All the earth is dispossessed of their so-called land at the time of Noah. And God gives it to a covenant keeping family, Noah. At the Exodus, the Egyptians are dispossessed of many goods, of livestock, slaves, and much gold and silver. It's all given to God's people. They take it with them when they go. Now in the book of Judges, the Canaanites are dispossessed of the land and it is given to God's people. Do we have a similar command today? Sure we do. God tells us in Judges, in Deuteronomy, in several places in the world. In Exodus, you are to exercise dominion and drive out the nations. Are we to dispossess our enemies today? Yes, we are. How do we do it? Today we dispossess our enemies. enemies by converting them. I've already alluded to this a couple of times. Jesus said, Go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son, and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to obey everything I have commanded. We dispossess our enemies by converting them. So the principle here is that God removes land and capital from his enemies and he gives it to his own. And You know, I guess to continue with the analogy, the land that belongs to the so-called enemies is given back to them when they become Christians and they are converted. God removes land and capital from his enemies and give it to his own. Blessed are the meek, for they will inherit the earth. Secondly, God punishes his enemies by retribution. This is found in the next five verses, verses three through seven. Verses three through seven of Judges chapter one. Then the men of Judah said to the Simeonites, their brothers, Come up with us into the territory allotted to us, and fight against the Canaanites. In turn will go with you into yours. So the Simeonites went with them. When Judah attacked, the Lord gave the Canaanites and Perizzites into their hands, and they struck down ten thousand men at Bizak. It was there that they found Adonai Bizakh and fought against him. And they defeated the Canaanites and the Perizzites. And Adonai Bizak fled, but they chased him and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and big toes. Then Adonai Bizak said, Here is the testimony of the unbelieving pagan king. Seventy k kings with their thumbs and toes with their thumbs and big toes cut off have picked up scraps under my table. What's his confession? Now God has repaid me for what I did to them. And then they brought him to Jerusalem and he died there. So the punishment that God deals out to his enemies fits the crime. This is the principle of justice. If someone commits a crime in the amount of five, then the punishment will be in the amount of five. If the crime is in the amount of ten, the punishment will be in the amount of ten. The law that regulates this is found in Leviticus. Chapter 24. Let's turn there for me. Leviticus chapter 24, verses 17 through 22. Leviticus 24 verses. Verses 17 through 22. If anyone takes the life of a human being, he must be put to death. Anyone who takes the life of someone's animal must make restitution, life for life. If anyone injures his neighbor, whatever he has to Done must be done to him, fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. As he has injured the other, so he is to be injured. Whoever kills an animal must make restitution. Kills a man must be put to death. You are to have the same law for the alien and the native born. I am the Lord your God. In Exodus chapter 21, we read: You are to take life for life, eye for eye. Tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise. Have you gotten the point? The Holy Spirit doesn't waste words. He doesn't repeat it. over and over and over again until we missed the point. So Adon RB's Act is being paid back justly. Today this is probably one of the most neglected principles of justice in America. The overflowing prisons, the skyrocketing crime rate Can be traced directly to the neglect of this principle. How likely would you be, boys, to go along with the guys and smash out some windows if you knew that the same number of windows would be smashed out in your home or in your parents' house. How likely would you be to steal if you knew the same amount of goods would be stolen from you? How likely would you be to murder if you knew that you would have to give your life? Now don't jump to conclusions because Jesus has instructed us that we are to turn the other cheek. Today we pray for those who persecute us. We do good. good to those who do bad to us, who do evil to us. But in public civil justice it's to be conducted according to the law. This principle of retributive justice applies in civil ethics. And the way that we know this is from Romans chapter 12 and 13. Just remember Romans 12 and 13. In Romans 12, God says, Don't take vengeance. Vengeance is mine. Leave room. For the wrath of God. That's what we read in Romans twelve. But then the very next chapter, Romans thirteen, says, as an agent of God's wrath, the state is supposed to punish the wrongdoer. If you do wrong, be afraid. God says there in Romans 13. So this is the difference between personal ethics and civil ethics. Back to Judges 1, 3 through 7. Verse 7. Then Adam Abizac said, seventy kings with their thumbs and big toes cut off have picked up scraps under my table. Now God has paid me back for what I did to them. Why did Adam not be that cut off the thumbs and big toes of those kings that he captured? Try picking up your Bible right now without using your thumb. When you get home, try eating a hot dog or try eating your meal with Without the use of your thumb. You'll find that your dominion is considerably restricted. The same is true with your big toes. Your foot is like a tripod. You have your four smaller toes, your big toe, and your heel. Without your big toe, it's very hard. To walk. Without your big toe, your foot doesn't work properly. Your dominion is incredibly restricted. And so these kings without their thumbs and big toes would not be able to exercise dominion. They would not be able to rise up against Adonai Bizak again. They would not be able to work with their hands. They would not be able to shoot a bow. They would not be able to walk around. Their power was broken. Adonai Bizak would not have to worry about them. Turning against him, rising up against him at some later point. But he was wrong, wasn't he? Because he was not relying on the power of God for his successes, for his work, for his victories. The Lord rose up against him and he gives this testimony with his own lips. He doesn't have to be educated the way some Christians do. He himself, a pagan unbeliever, knows what has happened to him and why. When Aaron was consecrated to the Lord, blood was put on his thumbs and big toes to symbolize that everything he did and everywhere he went was to be consecrated to God. Why, secondly, does it say seventy kings? Again, the Holy Spirit does not waste words. Everything in the Bible is there for a reason. You've probably heard that. It's a good question to always ask yourself when you're studying the Bible. Why is it written this way? Why is this here? Why is there why does it not say 69 kings or 60 kings or 50 kings or a hundred kings? In Genesis chapter 10, there are 70 nations. Of the world. The number 70 symbolizes all the nations of the world. At the Feast of Tabernacles, which celebrated the ingathering of the Gentiles, there are seventy bulls sacrificed. Israel had seventy elders. when it was set up as the new nation. Christ sent out seventy preachers with the good news of the kingdom. So here in Judges, in a picture, in a microcosm, we see that Adonai Bizad had defeated the whole earth. He is the perfect type of Satan. That is, apart from God's reigning power. He ruled the entire earth. But now he's defeated by who? By God's people. Judah, the Messian. The Satanic royal tribe defeats the satanic prince of the whole world. The Lion of the tribe of Judah reigns. Christ conquers Satan and destroys his dominion. Now, lastly. We see here that God destroys his enemies as a whole burnt offering. He brings them up on the altar and he sacrifices them. We see this in verse 17. Then the men of Judah went with the Simeonites their brothers and they attacked the Canaanites living in Zephat, and they totally destroyed the city. Therefore it was called Formah. Formah means whole burnt sacrifice. Utter destruction, placed under the van. This is the definition of the word formal, which they changed the name of the city to. This is what happened to Jericho when Joshua and the people of God Came in to take possession of the land. They destroyed the city as an offering to God. So God's people completely destroyed the city of Zipath here in the book of Judges. And they changed its name to a Furma, signifying that it had been a whole Offering to God. This is finally what would happen to all of God's enemies. There would be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And this is why Christ said, unless you repent. Repent, you will surely perish. There's only two ways to be a friend of God, that is to not be his enemy. One is to be perfect, which we all believe, and the second one is to become a Christian. That is why I Christ said, unless you repent, you will surely perish. The amazing thing is that if you do repent, you will find forgiveness. If you obey God's command to repent, your sins will be washed away. This is Because the lion of the tribe of Judah became a lamb sacrificed on the altar. Jesus Christ was treated as one of God's enemies, and he was offered up as a full burnt offering. He was treated as the city of Zipath was here in Judges. He was totally destroyed and cast into hell for the sake of those who believe in him. But because He is God. He was raised and now He reigns as the King of the universe. Through him we reign and exercise dominion and obedience to Jesus Christ. Our victorious and reigning Lord, let us go and make disciples of every nation. Let's stand and sing in response. Hymn number 179.