Jesus and the disciples walking along a city road Average ordinary day. As they passed by they saw a man sitting in the road. He was dirty, scraggly, looked hungry, and from the way he was acting they could tell he was blind. The disciples saw an opportunity to increase their knowledge. I can just see Peter standing up and saying, Jesus Who sent? His? His parents? Why is he blind? Jesus had more compassion than the disciples did. And he also had more understanding. And he shared some of that with them. He said, it's not his or his parents' sin. That's not the case at all. This man is blind that the power of God might be displayed in his life Saying so, he reached over and grabbed some dirt and made some mud, put it on the man's eyes. He said, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam. You see, Jesus healed this man and in so doing revealed himself and displayed the power of God. But to understand exactly what's taking place in this, we have to understand why John includes miracles in his gospel. If you'd like to turn to chapter 20 and look at verse 31, I think that explains exactly why the miracles are incorporated into the Gospel of John. Because you see, this is not just an act of kindness. This is not just a demonstration of God's power for the sense of displaying his compassion. In chapter 20 and in verse 31, John himself tells us why he incorporates the miracles into his gospel. He says, These, the miracles, are written. That you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God. And that believing you may have life in his name. As you read the Gospel of John, you need to understand that every time there is a miracle recorded, every time John has selected that miracle in order to stimulate faith and to reveal Jesus So as we begin with looking at this miracle in that light, then we need to look back and see what prophecies took place for the Messiah, to understand what it is Jesus is doing. In Isaiah thirty five, there are pro there's a prophecy that foretells two things. One that the Messianic age Is a time in which the blind will be healed and also that the deaf will be healed. You see, there are specific prophecies that the Messiah will restore sight. Now for the sake of this morning, I don't want to get into the issue of spiritual blindness versus physical blindness. We'll get into that in a little bit. But Jesus, as the Messiah, as a man revealing the power of God through healing blindness, is claiming. to be the Messiah. And when we look at Isaiah forty-two, verse six, this is even further stated. In Isaiah 42, we see that the Messiah is himself called the light, to lighten the Gentiles. And in Luke 2, we see Simeon, who had been promised that he would see the Messiah in the temple of God. Claiming that this infant Jesus, who's being presented in the temple according to Jewish law, is the light to lighten the Gentiles. But the next part of the verse goes on to say, and open eyes that are blind. The Messiah is to restore sight. Jesus, in performing this miracle of healing a man born blind, is doing more than simply a miracle which really wows his audience. He is proclaiming that he is the Messiah. He is revealing himself by the display of God's power. And he's making a claim that cannot be ignored. You can't ignore him. The Pharisees couldn't. The parents of the man born blind tried. The man born blind refused to ignore him. But how is Jesus revealed to us today? If I were to ask for a show of hands of those who've seen Jesus walking down a street restoring sight to the blind, I imagine nobody'd raise their hand. He's not here today doing that, is he? He's not revealing himself in the same way he did when he was on earth. Does that mean he's not revealing himself? How is he revealed to us? How are we confronted with the Messiah today? Well, firstly, we're confronted with him through his word. For you see, that's why John wrote chapter 20 and verse 31, that we, his readers, might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that believing we may have life in his name. He is revealed. He's revealed to us today. He's revealed to us not only in the Word, but in the lives of His people. I'm sure every one of you here knows somebody whose life has been dramatically changed by coming to know their Lord Jesus. But you can even look back into history. A case that I really enjoy reflecting on is that of John Newton. When he was young, his father owned ships. He was in in England. He lived in the eighteenth cent no nineteenth eighteenth century. Late 18th, early 19th. And as he grew up, he served on his father's sailing boats And he rose to the rank of captain. He captained a sailing boat for his father. But the boats had a specific function. They were slave ships. He went down to Africa and he captured slaves, loaded them one on top of another inside his ships and brought them to places where he could sell them. He stole people's freedom. For economic purposes, he let them die instead of feeding them very well. The more slaves you got over, the better made in terms of profit. He was a wretched creature, and you probably wouldn't want to get to know him very well But his mother was a Christian. And he had a gospel witness. And Christ grabbed him And he went from being a slave ship captain to being a pastor. And not only a pastor, but he wrote one of the best hymns One of the most popular hymns today, Amazing Grace. And in the first verse, you see that. You see that Jesus became his light. Amazing Grace, how sweet the sound. It saved a wretch like me I once was lost, but now I'm found, was blind, but now I see. Jesus continues to open eyes today. More more recent, somebody who's not quite as famous in some ways as John Newton is Charles Colson. About twenty years ago, he was involved in a little escapade called the Watergate crisis. He was enraptured with power. And he sought power. Didn't matter whether it was legally gained or not. But in prison, Christ captured Charles Colson. And he is now leading a ministry not with powerful people, but with prisoners. See, Christ speaks not only through his word, not only through the miracles that are still recorded, but he also speaks through the lives of people. And perhaps in an even more clear way he speaks through his spirit. In John fifteen, verse twenty-six. Jesus is talking to his disciples, and he's promising that in spite of the fact that he has to leave, in spite of the fact that he's not going to remain here forever on a throne to be worshipped and adored and reveal himself to each new generation. His Spirit will come. He says in verse 26, when the counselor comes, whom I will send to you from the Father, the Spirit of truth who goes out from the Father, he will testify. about me. We spent five weeks studying the Spirit. And in in Romans eight sixteen we're we're told, and I hope we remember and have been been challenged by the fact that the Spirit testifies with our spirit. And the Spirit testifies to our Spirit about God. We are not free of the responsibility of dealing with the revelation of the Messiah. There is no one in this room today who can claim that Jesus is an unknown quantity. He is revealed. We can want more. We could love to have Isaiah's vision where he was taken to the throne room of God and he saw God in his visible presence. But we don't need that. It's not necessary. And acknowledging that Jesus was revealed, let's move on and see how people responded to him. Because there are some very interesting lessons. Some things which are difficult for us, but some things which are delightful for us. In looking at this chapter this morning, there are really three groups of people that we need to look at. Um three groups of people who respond in different ways. There are the Pharisees, there are the parents of the man born blind, and there's the man himself. Now the first group we're going to look at is the Pharisees. I love kicking on the Pharisees. I'm so much like one They have a problem. They acknowledge their problem. They've got a serious problem. They've got a worldview problem. You see, they have a law that they worship and adore, and that law tells them that anybody who commits work on the Sabbath is not only an enemy of God, but is worthy of death. And you see it was on the Sabbath that Jesus made the mud and healed the man And unfortunately, one of the various things which are prohibited specifically as work is making of mud. You can't make mud to make bricks. And so they say, to protect you, you can't make mud. Now I don't think Jesus forgot that. I don't think Jesus neglected to realize what he was doing as he made the money. You see, Jesus was pointing out something In a way that was painful for the Pharisees. He was pointing out that he is transcendent above the law. He is beyond the law. Because the law wasn't given to them. God never spoke on Sinai, you can't make mud on the Sabbath But the Pharisees had elevated this law to the point that it was it was sacrosanct. It was one of the keys to their religion. They had guarded themselves so thoroughly that if there was a chance of doing something being an infringement upon the law of God, they surrounded it with other laws so that you couldn't do it. And pretty soon those surrounding laws became as important as the original law. And that became their entire worldview and their system. That was their religion. That was how they approached God. Jesus had to break them to that. He had to show them that he was the Messiah. And that he was more important than the law. And so what happened that morning? Was that Jesus said, You have a choice. Because what happened is the Pharisees themselves say, This man is a sinner. And another group in the Pharisees says, but how can he do this? We can't do this. He healed a man born blind. He gave back sight. And they said, either he is the Messiah, as he claims, and our law is wrong, or he's a sinner. But if he's a sinner, how could he have done this? Well the Pharisees are are clever people. So they decided that it was a fraud. In in verse eighteen, we read, The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and that he'd revealed sight, received sight. They had one escape, and that was to prove that what Jesus had done wasn't what it appeared to be. They called the parents of the man born blind. They brought him in. And they said, Is this your son? And they said, Yeah, this is our son. Was he born blind? And they really hoped at this point that they said no. And they said, yes. He was born blind. And they said, well, does he see now? He said, yeah, obviously he's looking at you. He sees. A miracle has taken place. And the Pharisees can't escape it. They were left with the frustration of trying to uphold a system which could not be upheld. You see, they have the problem that we oftentimes have as we look at things today. For example, science. Science says that religion is is bogus. In various and sundry ways. It's very difficult for scientists these days to accept Christ because the general run of science is that it's false. In the same way the Pharisees had a law which said this man is not the Messiah. And they had a choice to make. Today, in another way, we're often like the Pharisees. You see, we're taught that our senses are are not to be trusted We see people like David Copperfield allegedly making the Statue of Liberty disappear. And we're thrilled and we're awed. He makes a uh Boeing 747 disappear on the runway, and we're awed. But see, we know the whole time that he's not really doing it. He's just fooling us. We watch movies like Star Wars and Star Trek. We see spaceships flying. to the outer limits, to galaxies hitherto unknown, dealing with creatures who don't exist, and who we know don't exist, and we enjoy it, we love it. We're enraptured with the the technical marvel. They can fool our eyes. But we know the whole time that it's not really true. You see, that's the Pharisees' mindset. They were awed. They thought this guy was great, but they didn't believe it was true. We, like the Pharisees, are conditioned. We're conditioned by the miracles we see to know that miracles can't take place. We're conditioned as we watch things which we know don't exist. I watched the bar scene in Star Wars. I saw these creatures. They were standing, talking, yelling at each other, killing each other, having a great time. They weren't real. Everybody that watched the movie laughed and enjoyed it, but they knew they weren't real. Jesus is real. Jesus has revealed himself, and the Pharisees could not escape it. Try as they would. The parents of the man born blind are another example of how to respond to the to the revelation of Jesus. And I think a lot of us can identify with the parents of the man born blind. They were between a rock and a hard place. Not only were they Jews, as were the Pharisees. They weren't quite as concerned about keeping the law as the Pharisees were because nobody was quite as concerned about keeping the law as the Pharisees were. But they had to acknowledge that their their religious system was falling apart. But even more so, they were between the miracle and the Pharisees. You see, as I was reflecting on this this week, I realized something. It it didn't strike me at first. But I began to think. I so I so automatically assume that the the parents of the man born blind are going to act the way they do because that's the way I've always read it Sort of like in the outer limits when you see there's this one episode that I saw where this guy was stuck in a time loop. He knew that he was going around and he was going out to some diner and he'd drive along the road and pretty soon he'd find himself back at the diner again And he'd know that he was going out on the road again, and he'd know that he was coming back to the diner again. He simply couldn't escape. Well the f the parents couldn't escape. They were caught between the Pharisees and the miracle. They should have responded differently. As I thought about it, I realized. If my child, Katie, or Jonathan or David, had been blind or had a disability and had been healed I'd dance. I'd sing. I'd I I'd be ex I'd be ecstatic. I'd go find the one who had healed them The parents didn't do that. The parents were called by the Pharisees in order to investigate this crisis. And the Pharisees said, Hey, you know, he's not your son, is he? Yeah, he's our son. He wasn't blind, was he? Yeah, he was blind. He doesn't see now, does he? Yeah, unfortunately he sees. I wish I wasn't here. The parents Dan made a really incredible statement. In verse 21, we see the parent saying, How he can see now. Who opened his eyes? We do not know. Ask him. He's of age. He'll speak for himself. They wanted to escape. They had hardened their hearts. It's more than escaping a problem with the Pharisees. It's escaping the revelation of the Messiah. It was more than fear for immediate repercussions, it was fear of submitting to the Messiah. Think about that. You parents, think about your children. How would you respond if you were the parents of the man born blind and your child had been healed? But see, like there are those here today who fit the Pharisees, and a lot of us can identify with that easily, there are those here today who fit with the parents. You know certain parts of the truth about Jesus. You know things in the Bible that are true. You have not committed yourself to them. It's tough to admit that you are not in charge of your own life. That was a crisis the Pharisees and the parents both faced. They were not responsible for themselves. They were not able to choose their destiny. Somebody else is their boss. Some cases there may be family pressure which states this is a no-no. Uh-uh Some cases you may want more proof before you commit. You know a lot of things and you're and you're not comfortable with avoiding them, but you're not ready to commit. You want Jesus to come down and heal that man in your sight. Or you want Jesus to say in the Bible, I am God. Or you want something more. You may be like the rich man in the parable of rich man and Lazarus. Who basically said that if somebody had come to him from the dead, he would have believed. So he asked that that Lazarus would be sent back from death to his brothers so that they would believe. The response was, if you don't believe the prophets and the witness you've got, there is nothing that will convince you. Those of you who have not come to grips with your faith or your lack of faith have plenty of witness. It's not a matter of having more. You've got enough. In fact, in Psalm 95, we're told, today if you hear his word, do not harden your heart. And we're told that the consequences of not identifying with Jesus are to be separate from him. The Pharisees and the parents were alienated, cut off, distanced from Christ. And the consequences of that are an eternal separation from God. You see, we're told in Romans 10, 9, and 10, a couple of very important statements, that if you confess with your mouth Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you shall be saved. For with the heart man believes, resulting in righteousness. And with the mouth he confesses, resulting, and listen to this, in salvation. Jesus himself in Matthew 10, verses 32 and 33 says the same thing. Whoever acknowledges me before men, I will acknowledge before my Father in heaven. But whoever disowns me before men, I will disown before my Father in heaven. Confession of Jesus is not a work which saves But identification with Jesus is essential to salvation. Please don't be disowned. And don't disown. As you have those opportunities, take them. Share with people what Jesus has meant to you. If you've never done it yet, it's important. Now I'm not saying here, I don't want to be misunderstood, I'm not saying that you have to go out daily and do this in order to maintain salvation. What I am saying is you need to identify with Jesus. in order to be identified with him by God. But let's look at the more joyful side, because there is a happy side to this story. And that's the man himself who was healed. Now he faced the same dilemma as did his parents and as did the Pharisees. He was a Jew and his religious system had been overturned. Like his parents, he was facing intense persecution from the Pharisees. As a matter of fact, they insulted him, they they they screamed at him, I'm sure they hit him, they physically threw him out of their assembly. His name was Bert. But he identified with Jesus. He submitted to the authority of someone beyond himself. And I think that's our dilemma in a lot of ways. We don't want to submit. But he did. And he responded in faith. Is is is the story is revealed. Let's just look at the various things he says about Jesus. The conclusions that he drew and was willing to express. In verse 17, he tells the Pharisees that Jesus is a prophet. They're asking him, who in the world is this man that healed you? He's a prophet. Now the Pharisees didn't want to hear that. That was the last thing they wanted to hear. They wanted to hear he was a sinner Later on, they're asking him again, giving him another chance to give them the right answer. And in verse 27, he says, Do you really want to be his disciples too? That was the wrong thing to say. And they screamed at him again. But in verse 38, and this is the highlight of the entire chapter. Jesus seeks this man out after the Pharisees have thrown him out of their assembly, and he says, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He says in verse 30 he says in verse 36, or no, 35, he says, Do you believe in the Son of Man? And in verse 38, the man says, Lord, I believe. And he falls at Jesus' feet and worships him. And see, that's what we're trying to do today. We want to fall on Jesus' feet and worship him. We want a delight in his presence and we want to honor him with our praises. We want to identify with him, and we've done that by coming. But we need to identify particularly and personally with Jesus as the revealed Messiah. How will we respond? How will you respond to the revelation of Jesus as Messiah? We know that he has been revealed. Not just to those when he lived and walked on the earth. He is revealed to every generation that has lived since that time. He is revealed to us, particularly today. Again, today, if you hear his voice. Do not harden your hearts. Will you respond like the Pharisees and escape? Denying the facts? Will you respond like the parents and escape? Ignoring the facts. Or will you respond like the man and fall at Jesus' feet and worship him In the nineteenth century there was a Hungarian doctor. His name was Dr. Semelvice. And he had a cause. His cause was the issue called puperal fever. This is a fever that afflicted women who'd given birth And in the best hospitals of his time, one out of six women died after they'd given birth of curial fever. Now Dr. Sellweis wanted to find out what was causing this so he could eradicate it. And he looked and he studied and he discovered something. He discovered that every morning when the doctors came to the hospital, they had one thing they did first. They would go to the morgue and they would perform autopsies. And they merrily lock along their way and make their rounds. And and the next thing they'd come to was the women who had either given birth or were in the process of giving birth. And they would examine these women. without washing their hands. And so infect the women, leading to the death in the best case of one of six Now, Dr. Samelovit discovered this, identified the cause, and pleaded with the other doctors. Wash your hands! For God's sake, wash your hands. You're killing women. The doctors refused. No Hungarian doctor was going to tell them what to do. They'd been doing this for generations. Women had babies and lived. They weren't going to change. Wash me was the plea of King David After Bathsheba. Psalm 51. Created me a clean heart. Wash me. Wash was the command of John the Baptist. Jesus himself said to his disciples, Unless I wash you, you have no part of me. If we're not washed from the contamination of our sin and respond in faith to Jesus, We'll die. Just as clearly as the women did. Just as clearly as the Pharisees did. And unfortunately just the same way that the parents did. How will you respond? Let's pray. Father, we do ask that you would open our eyes. Restore to us spiritual sight. Cause us to recognize the revelation of Jesus as the Messiah, who has died and risen again for our sake. Bring us humbly to his feet that we might worship him, that we might delight in his presence That we might be like the man and confess, Lord, I believe. We pray this in Jesus' name and for your glory. Amen.