Let us again hear God's word from Proverbs chapter three, verses five to ten. This is our seventh meditation on this, his infallible guide to knowing his will, contentment, good health, and great prosperity, things which we all crave. Let's hear again then from Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 to 7. Let's hear God's holy word addressing us. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. Do not be wise in your own eyes Fear the Lord and shunny evil. Do you notice the progression of the verbs in those first three verses? Of the whole selection we're considering. It begins: trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean on your own understanding. And then, secondly, it then says, acknowledge the Lord. As Lord in every area of your life, in all your ways, acknowledge Him, and He will make straight your paths. He will direct you into smooth and pleasant paths. All your heart, all your ways. And then he moves on to the third verb, fear the Lord. Fear the Lord Now when you hear me say that, you possibly think you've been sort of prepared as so far into worship, he's going to talk about the fear of the Lord. And you might be thinking one of two things. You might be thinking, either, I hope that he is not going to be so archaic now as to talk about the literal fear of God. That kind of stuff went out with the Puritans, you know, sinners in the hands of an angry God and all that stuff. We're far more sophisticated and upbeat for that kind of thing. Please don't embarrass us by trying to scare us. We're beyond all that. Or perhaps you're thinking, he's going to talk about the fear of the Lord. Well, I know better than that. He isn't really going to talk about the fear of the Lord. The word, as we all know, means something like reverential trust or awesome respect. He's going to tell us how it doesn't really mean fear in the sense of terror or some neurotic, scary kind of thing. Well, unfortunately, it's no to both counts. If God's word teaches us to fear him, as it does in so many places, Who am I to bow to cultural taste in order to market the gospel in a way more acceptable? We are so marketing conscious, aren't we? And when it comes to the church, we want our church to grow. Now, it looks kinda half empty this morning because everybody's sick, I think. You know, everybody's home coughing and clutching their bellies and you know, s staying in bed and all that. But we're concerned that we see our seats full. We want the church to grow. And we know that talking about the fear of God is not a very good marketing technique. But my job is not to make the church grow. I long for our church to grow, to make an impact on Howard County for Jesus Christ. But my job, what I have been called to do, is to faithfully declare to you what God's word says. And I dare not bow to cultural taste in doing that It would not be faithful to you, let alone to my God. And secondly, I'm afraid that whatever you have read The word, in fact, doesn't basically mean reverential trust or respectful awe or anything like that. The word simply plainly means fear It says fear the Lord and that's what it means. Fear the Lord. The word refers to terror. It refers to the kind of fear that you and I have as a gut reaction to something that terrifies us. That's what the word's talking about. And what's more, this is not a minor issue. This word, fear of the Lord, is presented by The book of Proverbs as you see there, first of all, foundational to wisdom. It's foundational to wisdom. Chapter 1, the very introduction of the book in verse 7 says, The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. In chapter 9 and verse 10 uses the same language, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It's foundational to it. Over sixteen times The book of Proverbs talks about the fear of the Lord, and in every case, it's basic to the message. It's basic to wisdom. As Bruce Walkie has said, the fear of the Lord is so basic that you can no more understand wisdom without the fear of the Lord. Then you can understand literature without knowing the alphabet. It's simply basic. Secondly, the fear of the Lord expresses itself in obedience. The fear of the Lord expresses itself in obedience. You see that right here in verse 7. Fear the Lord and shun evil. Or as the next chap a couple chapters later, chapter 8 verse 13 says, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil. You cannot separate the fear from the Lord from obedience to the Lord. And that's because, number three, it is humble and teachable. The very nature of the fear of the Lord is that it is humble and it is teachable. The beginning of that verse, do not be wise in your own eyes. Do not be arrogant, unteachable, but rather fear the Lord and shun evil Chapter 15, verse 33, uses the phrase the fear of the Lord in parallel with the word humble or humility to mean the same kind of thing. Because you see, the fear of the Lord is the appreciation of the greatness of God. And Sandy's been trying to lead us into a sense of that in our worship up to this point in this service. It's that appreciation of the greatness of God to such an extent that there is no arrogance or rebellion left before us. It's like the boy Samuel who said, Speak, Lord, for your servant hears. Yet we've lost so much of the sense of that today, haven't we? We've lost the sense of the fear of God. Everything in our culture says fear was here. Don't worry about fearing a God who made you. And we become an arrogant people. We even hear people who say, I believe the Bible and trust Jesus as Savior and Lord, saying, I don't care what the Bible says, I am not going to do that. I don't care what God says. This is what I must do. I have my needs too, you know. I don't care what God says. And such an attitude is an utter denial of the fear of God. When's the last time you heard a sermon? on the fear of God, which is rather remarkable when you consider how many times the Bible speaks about the fear of God What I want to do this morning is to help you, as I've been trying to help myself, to feel the fear of God. You can't lecture on the fear of God. You and I need to understand that this is an emotion that has got to grippus in order to appreciate what it's all about. I'd like for us to pause for just a few seconds right now and ask God to give us in a new way a sense of the fear of God this morning. Let's pause. Lord our God, we realize even in just what we've thought about so far. How glib and arrogant our culture is, and how very much a part of our culture we are. Lord, teach us this morning the fear of the Lord, for without that we will never grow wise Make us teachable. Make us open to you right now. In Jesus' name Well now then, what does the fear of the Lord refer to? Well, I think the best way for us to understand what Proverbs is getting at when it says, do not be wise in your own eyes, but fear the Lord and shun evil. Is not to somehow analyze that verse, but rather for me to take you to three scenes in Scripture. Three scenes that give us the picture of the fear of God. So come with me in your imagination to these three scenes and see what the Spirit will teach us. First of all, let me take you to Eden To the Garden of Eden, where you see the fear of God in contrast to autonomy and arrogance. The beginning of verse 7, there in Proverbs 3 says, Do not be wise in your own eyes. But fear the Lord. Do you remember that Adam and Eve were determined to be wise in their own eyes? And after they sinned, Genesis 3 Verse 8 tells us that for the first time in their lives they experienced the fear of God. And so when they heard God coming, rather than welcoming him, they hid themselves from him. Can you imagine what it was like for Adam to think at that time, or for Eve to realize, I have rebelled against the one who made me? The one who's created all the things that I enjoy, I have just rebelled against him and disobeyed him. And that fear caused them to want to hide from him. The Bible tells us at the very end of history, the kings of the earth, the mighty ones, are going to say to the mountains, Oh mountains, fall on us! Hide us from the wrath of God. At the beginning of history and at the end of history, the Bible speaks of people hiding from God out of fear. For fear causes us to want to hide, doesn't it? It makes us want to run away from the one who makes us afraid. When Adam first realized, when you and I realize that the one who holds our life in his hands Is an angry God because of our disobedience against him. What else can we feel but fear And when you understand that, you realize that Adam and Eve, and anyone who understands the fear of God, are not neurotically superstitious in some religious way. But rather their response is an utterly appropriate response to understand that this God who holds my rebellious heart in his hands is a God whom I have deeply offended. is to make me feel a right and appropriate fear. The problem today, however, between the hiding at the beginning and the hiding at the end is exactly what Romans 3. 18 tells us. It says, the problem now is that there is no fear of God before their eyes. The problem Romans says with man today is that he does not fear God. In fact, the problem is, as Jesus put it, that we fear man rather than God. It's always either or, you know. People who don't fear God fear people or fear circumstances in this life. The one who fears God is freed from the fear of people You remember Jesus on that occasion in Matthew 10, verse 28, said, Do not be afraid of those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Rather, you should be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. This is Jesus who preached love, kindness, and goodness. He said, You ought not to be fearing the people. Who are able to take your life? What's the worst that somebody can do to you this next week? Fire you? Reject you? Insult you? What's the worst that anyone can do to you? Jesus says that's nothing in comparison to the one who holds your life and eternal destiny in his very hands. Isaiah puts it like this, as Sandy read, do not call conspiracy everything that these people call conspiracy. Do not fear what they fear, and do not dread it. The Lord Almighty is the one you are to regard as holy. He is the one that you are to fear. He is the one that you are to dread. I want to tell you, if you can get a hold of the fear of God this morning, it will set you free from the fear of men and women this week. The fear of God puts things in perspective. The only way that we can understand that is for us to do as Proverbs 3, verse 7 tells us: do not be wise in your own eyes. Humble yourself before the exalted person of Jesus. See yourself before Him. See His majesty and His purity And see yourself in your own uncleanness and your unworthiness before him. See that he holds your excuse-making rebellious heart in his hands. And ask God to open your blinders. That he might surprise you by showing you what he's really like. To better do that, come with me to the next scene. The next scene is Mount Sinai. We see there the fear of God in contrast to disloyalty and disobedience. This is why Proverbs 3:7 says. Fear the Lord and shun evil. They go together, you see. To fear the Lord is to shun evil. Why is that? We understand that if you go back to the scene in Exodus chapter 19 and 20. So turn with me to that for a minute. The fear of the Lord is foundational to our obedience to Jesus. And that's clear because of what happened at Mount Sinai. Sinai in the wilderness is where God constituted a horde of a couple of million Hebrews refugees out of Egypt to be his covenant people. It was there that God declared his covenant law as that which constituted them to be his covenant people. And that was summed up in the very familiar Ten Commandments that we have in Exodus 20. Now you and I are probably familiar with those commandments, but how familiar are you with the scene in which those commandments were spoken? How familiar are you with the scene, and how much have you thought about what happened on that occasion when God spoke these words? The Bible tells us that when God came to meet with his people on that occasion, it took them three days to get clean enough for the meeting. Three days of bathing, washing their clothes, and getting themselves ready to meet with the living God. And then the Bible tells us that they had to draw limits around the mountain. They had to put you know a police barricade, you know, all the red tape that said the caution, do not cross this line. It was set all around Mount Sinai. The Bible tells us that anyone who would cross that barrier would be killed instantly. And then the Bible tells us God came to meet with them. And we read beginning in Exodus chapter 19, beginning with verse 16, that on the morning of the third day there was thunder and lightning with a thick cloud over the mountain. And there was a very loud trumpet blast. Everyone in the camp trembled. And no wonder, you know, can you imagine standing before a mountain in the wilderness? And you see this thunder breaking out. You hear the thunder and you see the lightning flashes. There's a thick cloud over the mountain, and your ears are being pierced by this loud Trumpet blast. It's a glorious trumpet blast. It's pure, but it's ear splitting. And you tremble that the very earth begins to shake. Moses led the people out of the camp to meet with God, and they stood at the foot of the mountain, and Mount Sinai was covered with smoke, because the Lord descended on it in fire. And so the whole mountain seems to be ablaze. And there's smoke billowing up out of it. The smoke billowed from it like the smoke from a furnace. And the whole mountain trembled violently. Now the whole mountain shakes. And it's not just trembling as a tremor. It seems like the whole mountain is going to split. It seems like one vast earthquake is going to destroy all the land about you. The earth that you're standing on begins to tremble and you can't even hold your feet and you drop to your knees and you're scared to death. Because God is before you. And then it says that the sound of the trep the sound of the trumpet then, which was ear-splitting before, grows louder and louder. And then Moses spoke, and the voice of God answered him. Now it's in that context, you see, that God spoke the Ten Commandments. Could anyone hearing those words of God saying, This is what you are to be like, what you are to do, and what you are to be, and what you are to not do, ever say those are the ten suggestions? Ever to think that this is the word spoken by some ineffectual father who never enforces what he says? You can take it or you can leave it, you know? It's good advice, pious advice if you want to follow that sort of thing, but if you don't, that's okay. He's sort of like Eli, remember, who indulged his sons and gave them guidance, but never put any limits to what they did. The Bible tells us that's how God spoke his word. And you know, after those ten commandments were given, you turn over to the next page to the chapter 20. And right after the tenth commandment, the very next word, Exodus 20, verse 18, when the people saw the thunder And the lightning. It's continuing, you see, as they hear these words being spoken by God Himself. God Himself is addressing His people. This is an absolutely unique occasion in the history of Israel. Not through a prophet, not through any intermediary. God himself has met with his people and spoken to them in the thunder and the lightning and the earthquake. And the people's response, when they saw the mountain in smoke, they trembled with fear. They stayed at a distance. Nobody crossing that line, I'll tell you. And they said to Moses, Moses, you speak to us yourself, and we'll listen. But do not have God speak to us, or we will die. How many of us have that kind of a view of God today? If God were to speak to us himself, we'd be in danger of being consumed. With such power and radiance and holiness and majesty. The people please, oh, please, Moses, you represent God to us. We cannot stand his presence directly before us. And then Moses says to the people something that's very, very important in understanding the fear of the Lord. One of the most key verses in understanding this whole matter. Because it states to you the purpose of the fear of the Lord. Exodus 20:20, Moses says to the people, Do not be afraid. God has come to test you, so that the fear of the Lord will be with you. For what purpose? To keep you from sinning. That's the purpose, Moses has. The fear of the Lord, the purpose of it, is to keep you from sinning. It's so that you are not arrogant in your own eyes, but you fear the Lord and shun evil. And the reason that we have such rampant immorality, such relativistic ethics today, is because there is no fear of the Lord. People don't have any sense that they're accountable to a God who has spoken his law. And therefore that we as a society or as business people, as parents, as individual citizens, as as any person In any relationship with any other person on this earth is somehow accountable more than to ourselves, but to a God who will judge us at the end. So we see that he is the same God today. See, Sinai actually happened. This scene is not something just to, you know, a story to scare us. It's history. That actually happened down there on the Sinai Peninsula a couple thousand years ago. That God, the Bible tells us, is the same God today. And when you see that, it puts a new light, doesn't it, on the casual attitude that you and I have toward the Bible's commands. We so tend to excuse our sins as no big deal, don't we? Until we see the God whom we have sinned against That he is the God of trembling mountains, the God of earthquakes, that he is the God of storms at sea, of towering waves The God of hurricanes, that he's the God of earthquakes, of Niagara Falls and colliding planets, that he is the God before whom we are as a speck in the balance. And when you consider that and imagine yourself then standing before the burning radiance of his majesty and the majestic purity of his presence. And saying to him, Lord, it was only a little sin, you know. It wasn't a big deal. Surely you're not going to lay a guilt trip on me about this, are you? Who would dare to say such a thing to the god of smoking Sinai? You and I need a new understanding of the nature of the God of whom we have to do. This isn't the worst scene. But the worst scene you and I need to come and travel in our minds to Calvary. And that's the last scene. For it's only at the cross of Calvary that you can see what your sin really deserves. Only there can you understand the fear of the Lord as the Bible intends. For there you see the righteous, perfect son bearing the wrath of his father. There you see him, humiliated, deserted by all his friends, beaten, spit upon. Scourged. You see him now hanging on a cross. His face is distorted by the pain. You see the crown of thorns jammed down on his scalp. You see him there hanging naked to his shame before all eyes. Do you see that one on the cross, his bones jolted out of joint? His hands and his feet pierced by spikes, so that his very body hangs suspended by the flesh. On those spikes. The iron tears through them. In order to get a breath, he has to lift himself up on his own flesh. In order to lift from his diaphragm and expel the air from his lungs that he may get another breath. For the wrath of God is upon him, and there is none to intervene. Next to him, there's a thief. And the thief adds to his torment by insulting him Do you remember he says to him, you over there, if you're the Messiah, why don't you save us and save yourself too? Do you remember the thief on the other side responded? And he said, Man, what did he say? Remember, he said, Don't you fear God? In a situation like this. For he said, you and I are receiving the just reward of what we have done. But this one has done nothing wrong. And he's receiving far worse than us, you see. Don't you fear God seeing the situation that you're in? Seeing that this one has received the wrath of the Father poured out upon him. And so he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Was there ever a shriek like that? As God turns his face from the agony of the Son. Why? Because of you and because of me, God became man and died Do you remember that him stricken, smitten, and afflicted, see him dying on the tree? 'Tis the Christ, my man rejected. Yes, my soul, 'tis he, tis he. You who think of sin but lightly. Nor suppose the evil great. Here may view its nature rightly. Here its guilt may estimate. Mark the sacrifice appointed. See who bears the awful load. 'Tis the word, the Lord's anointed, Son of Man, and Son of God. Why? Because as John tells us in his letter in 1 John chapter 4, this is how God showed his love among us. He sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. This is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice. That's a sacrifice to bear the wrath of God for our sins. And so John goes on to say in verse 16. So we know and rely then on the love that God has for us. God is love. And whoever lives in love lives in God and God in him. In this way, love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence on the day of judgment, because in this world we are just like Him. You see, John says in verse 18, there is no fear in love. But perfect love drives out fear, because fear has to do with punishment. The one who fears has not been made perfect in love. People say, how do you reconcile the fear of God with the love of God? I'd say it's simple. The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom, the Bible says. Love is its completion. And you see, without the fear of God, you will never understand the cross. Without understanding the cross, you will never know the delight of obedience. For when you know the fear of the God of smoking Sinai, and have humbled yourself before that one who holds your excuse-making rebellious heart in his hands. And then look to Calvary and see the wrath of that God expended on his own Son, so that you and I would have his righteousness That would remove all cause for fear, then at such moments Temptation to evil, temptation to do that which would displease and grieve your Savior holds no power over you, does it? To come at that moment and say, the God whom I fear has removed that fear. He has removed the basis of it. I am forgiven. I am washed clean in Jesus Christ. And now because I have been set free, the temptation that was so burning before has no power. But unless you understand the fear of God, you will never know the love of God. For one is the basis, and the other is the completion. If you come to Calvary, temptation will lose its power. If you have never been there, I invite you this morning, come to Eden. Come to Sinai, and then come to the cross that you might know the fear of God And the springtime delight of that fear removed. For when that fear is removed in your life, Nothing in this life, nothing in this world, can hold terror for you, for you stand in the security of Jesus Be not wise in your own eyes, but fear the Lord and shun evil. Let's pray. Need to consider now our minds are still a whirl. So many things make us anxious So many things tell us that we really don't have a God like this before whom we should fear. And so many of us have never known the power of the cross. The release of bondage removed. Because we've never really understood how amazing is grace. Teach our hearts, Lord, the fear of God, that we might know the delight of the cross. Speak to us right now, Lord. Free us, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.