Well, how many of you were here that first Sunday, July the 4th, when we considered Psalm 63 and I challenged you to take some prolonged period of time this summer, two hours or so, to go out and pray. How many of you were here that Sunday? Yeah, let's see. Oh it looks like most of you weren't here. We got a whole new crowd today. Alright, somebody Now listen, you know you're you're probably not putting your hands up because you're afraid of the next question. No hands this time. How many of you have done it? See, just no hands, no hands, just a thing. How many of you intended to do it? Well the good news is there's still some summer left. And uh let me encourage you to do that and um to do it not out of obligation, but to pursue your joy And I believe you'll be glad that you did. What I want to do this morning is take the challenge and I want to move it a little further Because when you and I think about going out for a prolonged time of prayer, you might be thinking, as I would be thinking, yeah, man, I really need that. Um my life's been kind of stressed Got a lot of troubles, a lot of things that have been weighing on me. Um I I lack peace. I I really need to meet with the Lord, and I need to bring my troubles in my life and my family And the things that are making me anxious to him. And that's valid and that's good because Peter tells us, casting all your care upon him, because it matters to him concerning you. Paul tells us, do not be anxious in anything, but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving, let your request be known to God and the peace of God. That passes all understanding will guard your heart and your mind But what I want to do this morning is to challenge us to enlarge our circle of joy from simply what is affecting me and my life and my family and my health and my relationships. To consider his people, the church, Columbia Presbyterian, the church, more broadly, of Howard County Or dare I even say to consider the Church of Christ in America? What is the health of the Church of Christ in America? Is the Church of Christ in America attractive? Is it Christ-centered with a clear gospel message of a Savior who's died for sinners? Or is it too often an embarrassment, a watered-down, man-centered gospel? That is not making a difference in our culture So do we concern ourselves not simply with my circle of joy around me? But a patent what is on God's heart and what is either honoring or dishonoring him more broadly So this morning I would like to look briefly at a hero of the scripture that you have already heard, Nehemiah. Because Nehemiah was a government worker. Nehemiah had a pretty cushy job. He was a fellow who was a personal attendant to the king of the Persian Empire at its zenith And that king, Artaxerxes, had a couple of palaces. He had a summer place. It was in Ectabana. He also had a winter palace that was in Susa, about 250 miles east of Babylon. Which makes it a long way from Jerusalem and Judea, perhaps 10, 12 days at least of travel. He was a secular worker, but he loved Jesus Christ. He was one, he loved God, who was going to send his Messiah. And he was a fellow who cared about God's people. He was in late November or early December of 445 BC When a group of men came back from Jerusalem who had visited there, among those was one of Nehemiah's brothers. And Nehemiah went to see them and find out. He was anxious to know how are things going among God's people in Jerusalem? Because Jerusalem is where in all the earth God is most honored or dishonored. That's where He's displayed His name. So the people of God in Jerusalem, particularly, are those who bring honor or dishonor to him. You read that in chapter 1, the first three verses. The month of Nehemiah, son of Hakaliah, in the month of Kisleph, that's late November, early December. In the 20th year, 445 BC, while I was in the citadel of Susa, the winter palace, Hanani, one of my brothers, Came from Judah with some other men, and I questioned them about the Jewish remnant that survived the exile, and also about Jerusalem. They said to me, those who survived the exile have no, I don't see here. Okay, it's still there. All right. Those who survived the exile Are back in the province and are in back in the province, are in great trouble and disgrace. The wall of Jerusalem is broken down, and its gates have been burned with fire. Now, it was about 142 years before this that Nebuchadnezzar had attacked Jerusalem, burned it to the ground, and the exile began. It was about 92 years before this that Cyrus had come as Persia, king of Persia, and he had released the Jews and said they could go home. About fifty thousand of them did, and they built a much smaller version of the temple, and then they tried about thirteen years before to rebuild the walls. And uh it was a feeble attempt, a valiant attempt, but uh they were mocked, they were ridiculed, they were attacked And the enemies of God's people came in, destroyed the walls, just huff and puff and take these paltry walls down, burned the gates with fire, and now the church is disgraced and it's in rubble. Now when Nehemiah heard that, here is, you know Jerusalem is a way, way it's a whole different world. And I could very much imagine Nehemiah saying, I I'm really sorry to hear that guys. I I I uh I hope those guys are able to rebuild and Bring some honor to God there, because that's somebody ought to do something about that. But that's not what we read. Verse 4 is the key to the book of Nehemiah. And you see what it says, when I heard these things, I sat down and I wept. For some days I mourned and I fasted and I prayed before the God of heaven. Th this news robs Nehemiah of joy. He he's affluent, he's got a good job, secure job with the government, and um you know he's not a preacher. Church work isn't his full time thing. It's he But God's people are dear on his heart. And so, you know, one of the things that's interesting is he's cupbearer to the king, which means that he sits at all the feasts and he tastes of sure, not poison. And he says, I fasted. So I'd go to these banquets, and I couldn't eat. My heart was heavy. Because of the state of God's people, because they were in disgrace. The church was rubble. And I couldn't enjoy food. I wept, I mourned, I fasted, and I prayed. Do we concern ourselves with what's going on in the Church of Jesus Christ in America? Do we know? Do we read The surveys and the reports, the overviews that give us a larger picture than just our own congregation and our own denomination. A number of the surveys that have come out recently continue to sound more and more the alarm, which basically is summed up by saying the Church of Jesus Christ is looking less and less distinctive. From the world. The church's values, whether it's marriage, sexual habits, spending habits, lifestyle. is becoming almost indistinguishable from the world about it. The term evangelical has become almost a meaningless term. It used to be that You said you were an evangelical, it it meant something. It meant this is what I believe. I believe that the Bible is an inerrant word of God. I believe that there's only one way to God through the death of Jesus Christ on the cross. I believe that he is the only way to get to heaven. Many other things. Now many people who call themselves evangelicals renounce Substitutionary atonement is cosmic child abuse or something which is from a bygone era, an offense? A number of people who call themselves evangelicals deny eternal punishment, say there is no literal hell. Some friends and I were talking to somebody who is dear to us and was struggling with this whole idea of hell recently Said, I I really struggle with the idea that God would punish people eternally because they have not come to Jesus Christ and because of the way their life is That was hard enough, but the thing that broke my heart was when she said, I used to think that I was alone. But now I've been reading a number of evangelical writers who are esteemed, and they agree with me And then you have the prosperity gospel. It says that basically God is here for us to make our lives pleasant, prosperous, health, and wealth. Many ways, with lots of notable exceptions, but in many ways the church in America is in rubble Nehemiah says I I I mourned and I wept and I I I couldn't ignore that. I I just couldn't let it go. And so it Nehemiah prays And his prayer is a prayer that's so significant that it takes up the rest of Nehemiah I And it is the clue to understanding what happens in the rest of that book. His heart is moved. And now look what characterizes this prayer. If you and I were to be moved by God, and it would take a movement of God, it would take His Holy Spirit. To say, besides the things that you lay before him in some prolonged period of time, besides your own concerns, the concerns of your family, your immediate relationships. That you and I would be moved to pray for God to do a work in the church in America to bring about revival and a new God-centeredness, a new awareness of Him. And of the fact that the only hope for America, whether it is financially, whether it is in terms of security Whether it is in terms of simple stability and endurance, is in Jesus Christ. Do you believe that? Or do we say, mmm, no, it'd be nice, but I think we can muddle along without that. What do we really believe? That only if Jesus Christ comes once again to reign and to rule, acknowledged by the leaders. And by and large, by the values and the lifestyle of our country, will there be any security? And the only hope for that is God's people praying. So let's look very briefly at Nehemiah's prayer to see seven things that characterize this prayer as a pattern to help you and me to know how to pray. First thing you notice, excuse me about it, is that he begins and he ends with praise. Begins and ends with praise. Verse 5, the beginning of the prayer. Then I said, O Lord, God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant of love with those who love him and obey his commands. Then he ends the prayer. O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of this your servant and to the prayer of your servants who delight in revering your name. Give your servant success today by granting him favor in the presence of this man. You see, he doesn't start by thinking that God is wringing his hands in the situation. You know, it's tempting for us to think that as the church seems like its back is to the wall in many ways in terms of being marginalized in the culture, that that God Is somehow impotent in that. So Nehemiah needs to build his own faith and he needs to acknowledge, you are the God of heaven. You're not wringing your hands. You're in control. You can do whatever you want to do about this. We come to you. I come to you, the great and the awesome God. I come with your people who delight to revere your name. You're in control. And so he needs to get that perspective. He needs to build his faith. And you and I. Whenever we pray for revival, whenever we come and pour before God the reality of the way things are, we'll need to remind ourselves of who it is we come to. Secondly, notice that he comes as a servant. He comes as a servant, sees himself as a servant, not a critic. In fact, it's rather remarkable, this prayer is only seven verses long, and eight times you have the word servant in the prayer. Refers to himself as God's servant. Verse 6, let your ear be attentive, and your eyes open to the hear the prayer your servant is praying before you day and night For your servants, people of Israel. Verse 11, O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of this, your servant, and to the prayer of your servants who delight in revering your name. He refers to Moses as a servant, God's people as his servants. Look how many times. Let your ear, verse 6 again, let your ear be attendant. Tentative and your eyes open to hear the prayer, your servant is praying before you day and night, and for your servants, for your servants, the people of Israel. Then verse 7, we have acted very wickedly toward you. We've not obeyed the commands, decrees, and laws you gave your servant Moses. Remember the instruction you gave your servant Moses, saying, if you're unfaithful. I will scatter you among the nations. Verse 10. They are your servants and your people, whom you redeem by your great strength and your mighty hand. O Lord, let your ear be attentive to the prayer of this, your servant, and to the prayer of your servants. Who delight in revering your name. Give your servant success by granting him favor in the presence of this man. Yeah, I was a leader. But you know it's very interesting. I'll be going in a week to teach at Westminster on leadership. And the Bible very rarely ever uses the word leader. There's two words that the Bible uses to refer to leaders, by and large: servant and shepherd. They're both servants. So when the Bible refers to leadership It refers to servants, your servant Moses, your servant Nehemiah, your servants who delight to revere your name. So easy to be critics and forget that we're called to be servants in our prayer. Very easy for us, isn't it, to Pray for the church in America and feel superior to it. But you know, Nehemiah not only did not come to be a critic Nehemiah came to bear before God the sins of the people. I wonder sometimes if you and I made a rule that every time I complain about the church, whether it's our own local church or the church in Howard County or the Church in America, every time I complain about the church or the culture, that I would commit myself to say, I gotta stop and for one minute pray for it. Probably wouldn't complain so much. Nehemiah does not criticize the church in Jerusalem. He says, I come as your servant to pray. And it gets worse. Because the third thing you notice is he accepts responsibility for the problem. He repents. He sees himself as responsible for the sad state of affairs. Look what he says in verses 6 and 7. Let your ear be attentive, and your eyes open to hear the prayer your servant is praying before you day and night for your servants, the people of Israel. I confess the sins, we Israelites, including myself. And my father's house. He doesn't just say we. He makes sure you know this is not perfunctory. Including myself and my father's house have committed against you. We have acted very wickedly toward you. We have not obeyed the commands, decrees, and the laws you gave to your servant Moses. It says very easy, isn't it, to think about man-centered prosperity, watered down gospel churches, and feel superior. How is it that Nehemiah could possibly include himself in the disobedience that was causing the church to be in rubble? I'm tempted, you're probably tempted to think that this was a kind of a polite humility, but not altogether sincere. But I believe it's absolutely sincere because I believe that the leader who sees himself as a servant, as Nehemiah did, understands: my heart is just like the heart of the people in Jerusalem. I am inclined to the same kind of greed and self-centeredness and self-protectedness and lustfulness And the materialism that they are. I know my heart too well to feel superior And so Nehemiah is able to honestly confess, Lord, we, we here in America We who are part of this church that finds it so easy to be swept along with the current and the lifestyle of everything we see around us. We we've acted wickedly, disobediently. We've been lazy and Let our values be shaped, not transformed by the renewing of our minds. So easy. I acknowledge that. I see that in myself. I hate it, but I see it. But you notice it doesn't stop there. This message is not just to make you feel bad, keep guilt on you. It's the gospel. And so the fourth characteristic of his prayer is that it is the gospel of grace, not guilt, that is his hope and his motivation. Look again at verse 5. Then I said, Oh Lord God of heaven, the great and awesome God, who keeps his covenant of love with those who love him and obey his commands. He keeps his covenant of love. You are the one that called Israel into existence. You made a covenant, and that covenant was a sovereign covenant of love that transcended their disobedience. And so even though you took them away in discipline in the exile, you have brought them back. And not only have you brought them back, but you have a design and purpose that they be once again glorious. And that's what he begins to plead. But what he does is he sees this bigger picture. You still are committed to your covenant of love. And so God, out of his sovereign covenant of love, raises up Nehemiah to pray. Is God raising up Nehemiah today, perhaps in this very room, people who have a comfortable job, but you say, My heart can't rest as I see the state of the Church of Jesus Christ in America? And I plead his covenant of love to once again be merciful to us beyond anything that we deserve. And so God raised up Nehemiah and God raised up the walls. But all of that was just a partial renewal and revival. Because the fulfillment of his covenant of love was when he sent his son, Jesus. And Jesus, through his sacrifice Of his own death on the cross came to accomplish not simply a temporary renewal and revival, but Jesus comes to purchase and acquire for himself a new Jerusalem. A Jerusalem of God's people who will be with him forever and ever, where there is no more sin or darkness, and there is no need even for the sun for light. He will bring about the permanent, absolute renewal in which you and I glory in his presence forever. But right now we are still in that period when by the Holy Spirit we can glimpse something of what he's doing and what his purpose is. Paul describes it as the manifold Multifaceted wisdom of God displayed in the church. And you and I are part of that, but there's still the warfare, there's still the longing. Lord We're being dragged down to be like the world. Lord, we pray, do something new, revive our hearts, give us a bigger picture. Help us to see that we want to come and we want to pray and we want to commit ourselves. As those who are part of the Church of Howard County, part of the Church of Maryland, part of the Church of the United States, part of the worldwide church of Jesus Christ, To see him reign in glory. And so what Nehemiah does is that he pleads God's promises. The promises that are given by grace. And he pleads those promises and turns them into petitions. And this is such an insight on how to pray. Verse 8, remember the instruction you gave your servant Moses, saying, if you are unfaithful, I will scatter you among the nations, but if you return to me And obey my commands, then even if your exile people are at the farthest horizon, I will gather them from there, and I will bring them to the place that I have chosen as a dwelling for my name. So Nehemiah takes from Deuteronomy chapter 30 the first five verses and he he claims that promise And he says, God, here it is, I'm laying it before you. You now have given this promise. If we turn to you, you back You will gather us. And the church will not be rubble. The church will reflect something of your glory. And so you and I, in this New Testament time, continue to have those promises. We have the promises of Isaiah that Jerusalem Isaiah 62. Take a look at that. Claim Isaiah 62, verses 1 to 3. It talks about Jerusalem and its rubble being turned to that which is glorious. Look at Daniel 9, where Jesus is displayed as the Son of Man who will rule over the nations. Look at Paul's statements in Ephesians 1, verse 10, where he talks about the hidden mystery of God, that Jesus Christ will rule. Or chapter 3, where he talks about the display of his glory. And that you and I will claim these promises. Lord, do these things for us now. We gather because you are our only hope. And Nehemiah doesn't just do this and say, and Lord, raise up somebody to get going on this. But he makes himself available. Look at the the uh sixth uh can uh characteristic of this is that he's willing to be used. He says in verse 11, Lord, let your ear be attentive to the this prayer. Of this your servant to the prayer of your servants who delight in revering your name, give your servant success today by granting him favor in the presence of this man. D during this time, something's been happening. Nehemiah's been thinking about a plan. He's not being dragged, kicking and screaming, I'm having a nice life here, but oh boy, you know, I guess I gotta do something, you know, probably God's gonna use me some You know, that's the way we think. Well, how what am I gonna have to give up if I'm gonna be used? But Nehemiah is beginning to think of something. He's getting excited. He's thinking, I got a plan And boy, this plan is a risky plan. I don't know how God's going to pull it off, but I got this plan. And so he comes and he he simply lays out, Lord, give your servant success. I'm going to take the step of faith to do this. Now notice he's been praying for a period of time. This is not just one or two days. Kislav is November-December. Then he talks about moving on, you see in chapter two, the month of Nisan, that's March, April. So it's about four months that Nehemiah is praying, and that's the fifth the seventh uh characteristic, is that he perseveres in prayer. You and I pray for something three, four times, and we think I haven't seen anything. Well, that's it, move on to something else. Nehemiah's mourning and fasting and praying November, December, January, February, March, April. And things begin to shape in his mind, and he's being transformed by this prayer. He says, now, now God, here it is. I'm asking you to do this. You know, I've been praying for something. Kathy and I have been praying for something about somebody we deeply care about and been praying for about three months. And thinks, wow, three miles, a long time every day to be praying for something. How many things do we give ourselves to pray? Because I can't go on without it. Someone has once said, we do not have revival because we can live without it. What if we can't live without it? We say our future, the future of our children and our country, depends on what God does through the Church of Jesus Christ. He perseveres in this. And then you see that God brings about the answer. Nehemiah from this prayer comes to the king. Of course, you know, it was the rule back then you could not be sad in the face of the king because, first of all, whatever was heavy on your heart, if you were in the presence of Arta Xerxes, just being in his presence ought to outweigh all that and bring a smile to your face. It also helped the king's digestion to have people smiling around him. So it was a rule that you couldn't frown or be sad. And Nehemiah lets his heart be known, and he's sad, and the king says, What's the matter? And God answers the prayer, Artisurks, he sends him back to Jerusalem to help out. He goes back, he mobilizes God's people. They begin to rebuild the walls. And all the people get involved. Everybody, well, almost everybody. There's the nobles of Tokoa. They're not gonna do anything. They just stand there and criticize. Every church has to have its nobles of Tokoa, you know, it just keeps the rest of 'em humble So the rest of them they all gather in and then the people begin to oppose them and there's opposition and there's persecution and they begin to see their sin and they repent And they begin to work harder on the walls. And in fifty-two days the walls are raised, and there's much rejoicing and confession, and the joy of the Lord is their strength. That's where that that verse comes from from Nehemiah 8. And they rejoice more fully and they repent more deeply, and God transforms the whole city of Jerusalem. And He's honored The rest is history as it moves toward the coming of Messiah. So, what does that mean for you and for me? I believe it means that you and I need to get honest about what the church in America looks like. We need to see that there are many, many good things that God is doing through some very good churches. Churches that might put us to shame in terms of their commitment and their Christ focus. But there is so much that is dishonoring to Jesus. The church is seen when it proclaims something as a laughing stock in the Culture. We're marginalized, we're not taken seriously, and only God can change that. Not programs, but prayer. So I'm going to ask, as you see here, that we consider coming together. Not going to do it today. Don't have any notice. We're going to call a prayer meeting next Sunday, 5 o'clock, just one hour, just one measly little hour, to pray for the Church of Jesus Christ. Columbia Presbyterian, Howard County, the Church in America. To pray and begin to see what God might do to stir within us a longing, a longing like Nehemiah had, to see God transform rubble to glory. And change the course of history. Doesn't that seem so presumptuous? And yet, what else is our hope? We are building walls over on our home campus. And those walls are being built to lay a foundation for a base of operation in ministry that is a step of faith to go beyond anything we've done before. Because we believe God is at work in our midst. But there will be opposition. There will be difficulty. There was with Nehemiah. Don't think it's going to be just smooth and easy because God's in it. But what would it mean if God would begin to bring about a network of congregations of people who said, I can't just be satisfied with my own peace, prosperity, and security? While our nation crumbles about us, we need to pray. Let's pray Lord, we confess to you, it is so easy for us to simply be absorbed with all the things we we there is so much stress living in this culture. We ask you, Lord, to give us something of the heart of a Nehemiah who took the trouble to find out what was happening. And Ded found his heart burdened and disturbed and set himself aside to pray and mourn and fast. And you answered in such a powerful way. If he had not prayed that, Nehemiah would have been totally unknown to us. He would have been a footnote in history. Who would have known the cupbearer of King Artaxerxes? And yet every Bible that is printed has a book with his name on it, because his heart was moved to pray. Who knows what might come if you were to raise up Nehemiah in the midst of those who are here in this room, in the sound of my voice. To cry unto you, Lord God, God of the covenant of love, who has made the promise that your Son would reign and make the church glorious. Rise up. And do that work in our day. Hear us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.