Well, now in our series of Advent Old Testament prophecies of the coming of Messiah, we come to the last stanza. of this uh grim and glorious, mysterious and majestic Isaiah fifty-three, the fourth of the songs of the suffering servant. Four such songs in Isaiah, this is the last one. Five stanzas in this song, this is the last one, so we're at the climax of the climax. Um this uh song has introduced uh many mysteries and This last stanza has such intense mysteries that I can only really cover one verse today, verse 10. I'll cover the other two next week Uh but here we see one of the most profound mysteries in the entire Bible, I believe. Um we had a uh a neighborhood dinner party on Friday night And uh after dinner we were talking about God and Christmas and uh uh one dear lady there said, uh I know I shouldn't I know I don't have faith like I should Uh but I'll tell you there's a lot of things that don't make sense to me. When I see God, I'm gonna put some questions to him. And you know, we could kind of uh sympathize with that, right? Some things we don't understand that we would like to ask the Lord about. Here is something God raises in this verse which is such a mystery. And yet this mystery is not simply a um A mystery for the mind. It has very practical implications for you and for me and our faith and how we live. Remember we saw last week at verse 9 that the Messiah went to the cross to bear your sin in mind willingly and without protest even though he had done no wrong. The end of verse nine. Though he had done no violence, nor was there any deceit in his mouth. Verse ten picks up on that idea immediately. It says, yet It was the Lord's will to crush him and to cause him to suffer. Though the Lord makes his life a guilt offering, That's a an offering for sin. He will see his offspring and prolong his days, and the will of the Lord will prosper in his hand. Now actually uh you see the word will there twice. It was the Lord's will to crush him. Uh it was um The will of the Lord will prosper in his hand. And the Hebrew for that word will is actually stronger than what is implied there. There was simply the Lord's will to do it. There's no emotion commanded in that. But in that word, um, as John Piper points out in his book The Pleasures of God, Isaiah uses that same word other in other times, other places in his book. For instance in Isaiah chapter one in verse eleven Uh God says to Israel, who are offering their sacrifices in a routine, perfunctory way, without their hearts involved, God says, I have no pleasure In the blood of bulls and lambs and goats, Isaiah one hundred eleven. The word pleasure is the same word there as you have in Isaiah fifty three, verse ten In Isaiah chapter 62, in verse 4, you have a word that we looked at in the Song of Songs series where God is speaking of Israel as a woman. And you remember he said there that uh no longer will they call you deserted or name your land desolate, but you will be called Hepzebah, that is, my delight is in her, and your land Beulah, for the Lord will take delight And the word there, take delight, is that same word. Now, in the beginning, you see, uh pleased That's the verb form, and that's what's used in Isaiah 1. In the second part, the pleasure of the Lord, that's the noun form, that's what's used in Isaiah 62 So you have this both as a verb and a noun, the same two ideas, the same two words that you have in other places. So really it should be translated, uh not that it was simply his will, but yet the Lord was pleased. To crush him, to cause him to suffer. And though he makes his, that is, Messiah's life to be a guilt offering, that is, he put him to death as a sacrifice He shall see that his Messiah shall see his offspring and prolong his days and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper, that is, be fully accomplished in his, that is, Messiah's hand. So that's my translation. I helped to kind of bring some things to the fore, but you know, in putting it that way, it also raises a number of questions and difficulties, doesn't it? I mean, look at this. It says that God was pleased to crush his son. First question I want to raise from this is who is it that killed Jesus Now, uh, you know, you could answer that question in a number of ways. Um one hand, it's pretty evident the soldiers that killed Jesus, Matthew 27 Verse uh thirty-five says, When they had crucified him, they divided up his garments and cast lots for them. Talk about the soldiers. The soldiers crucified him But you could say, well, uh they were just acting under orders, they were compelled. So it was really pilot, that's the second blank. It was really pilot that killed Jesus because um Pilate gave the order. In Matthew 27, verse 26, it says that Pilate decided to have him scourged and then handed him over to be crucified. But of course, then you remember that Pilate had in just a couple verses before that said, I don't find anything in this man worthy of death. I would release him But you are making an issue of this. So Pilate, remember, washes his hands ceremonially of it. And he says, This is your responsibility. So the third answer would be it was really the Jews that are responsible for Jesus' death. That's a pretty hot topic even today, isn't it? 2,000 years later. Uh, you know, I mean uh Mel Gibson's forthcoming movie, uh, The Passion, uh is probably the most talked about movie before its release that I've ever known. I mean I I don't know of any movie a year before it was to come out, it's supposed to come out this uh Easter time, I believe, uh that for all these months this hue and cry about this movie, and of course uh a lot of what has given it publicity are a number of Jewish leaders who have said that if you release this movie it's going to it's going to incite uh Persecution of Jewish people who will say that they are Christ killers, and we're we're familiar with that history, and so uh we're very afraid of what will happen Now uh I don't know how many of you received this, but I got a letter from Denee Dobson, James Dobson's daughter. Any of you guys get that letter this week? She and her family all got to see the passion got us private well you know small group showing from Mel Gibson uh because he was pleading with some Christian leaders helped support me in this thing and um she said I I must go on record saying it's not going to incite any kind of persecution of Jews any more than just reading the Bible would. It's faithful to the text. It shows what the real issues were. And so, you know, the the idea of just simply saying the Jews killed Christ, uh, even though they say, Let his blood be upon us and upon our children They accept that responsibility. Acts chapter 2 goes on to say, where Peter is preaching the gospel there, he says, you with the help of wicked men put him to death by nailing him to the cross. And the wicked men are the Jewish leaders, you see. It's those who particularly sought Christ's death. So we could say, well it wasn't one of the Jews, it was the Jewish leaders in particular, but Of course, the Bible really looks at this whole thing and says it it really ultimately wasn't men, that is the next blank there, it wasn't ultimately men, but it was his father. That is responsible for the death of the Son. For that whole verse in Acts 2, verse 23 says, This man was handed over to you by God set purpose And foreknowledge, and you with the help of wicked men. Put him to death by nailing him to the cross. Even more explicit in Acts chapter four, in verse twenty eight, when the disciples are praying, do you remember that they prayed Concerning Herod and Pontius Pilate, who met and conspired against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed. They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen. So, Father, it is you who decided and brought this to pass. And so when you read in Isaiah chapter fifty three in verse ten Yet the Lord was pleased to crush him, then it's quite clear. The Father is the one who killed the Son. God is the one who engineered, who is the one who set forth the Son to die. It is the Father who in fact crushed the Son. Now that raises a number of questions, but one of them to me is the second point there is what does this say about how the father felt about slaying his own son? Um does this the Lord was pleased to crush him mean that God enjoyed that? I mean, that sounds sadistic So what does it mean? Clearly, it wasn't something God enjoyed doing. Think of Abraham and his son Isaac a thousand years before this. Do you remember after God had given the promise for Abraham to have a son, and finally Isaac came along after many years and Abram's heart is just set on this young fella, all of God's promises, here is his inheritance and Here is the son whom he grows to know and love and raise and wanders the hills with him and plays with him and enjoys him. And as the fellow grows up, maybe eleven, twelve years old, God says Take that son, your only son, whom you love, and take him and sacrifice him to me. And Abraham knows what a sacrifice is. It's you take a lamb and you lay it on the altar and then you cut its throat. Let its blood drain out, and then you burn the body on the altar. This is what I'm to do to my son. You know, uh any of you with children understand the bond that there is there. Imagine taking your child. And in obedience to God, feeling like I have to go and to sacrifice this this child who I would willingly die for. What what emotions must have gone? through Abraham's heart on that trip up to Mount Moriah. But the Bible tells us that when they got to the mountain Abraham drew the knife and was in willingness, believing that even God would raise him from the dead if necessary, God stayed his hand and showed that there was a substitute ram that could be laid on the altar instead of his son Isaac. Now, would anyone think for a moment that God loved his own son less than Abraham loved Isaac? And yet, there's two distinct differences in the father crushing the son. Abram did it in obedience to a sovereign command. There was no one commanding God to do this. So God does it the next blank is freely, freely. He does it from his own desire. Not simply out of obedience. And secondly, there is no one that stays the Father's hand There is no one beyond who can interpose and say, let me substitute something for your son. The father was pleased to crush him, and he went through with it. Now, why was that? Did you ever think about that moment When the Father and the Son came to parting, as it were, at the point where the Son, the second person of the Trinity Entered as an embryo into the womb of Mary. God we say is perfect. Therefore, God can't change. You see, perfection, if God were to change, being perfect, then in his changing he either becomes better or he becomes worse. If he becomes better, then he wasn't perfect. Now he's perfect. No, he can't change that way. If he changes in another way, becomes worse, that means he's no longer perfect. So perfection is by its very nature static Because it can only become worse, and God can't, so so God can't change. But now God, who was from all time and eternity, one and perfect, complete. He's going to change. But the nature of that change will not make him either better or worse, but nevertheless radically different Now, uh, you know, I've kind of got this reputation for my interest in astronomical things, and so last week Scott Sheldon gave me an article uh which I think bears on a point I want you to feel at this moment. Imagining that point of separation in which God becomes something he never was. In which God, who is not subject to change, comes to a point of radical change In which God becomes a person who can age and change and die, that the Father and the Son, who inhabited all eternity and all space. And here's where it comes in. You think June two thousand one we set up a space probe And that space probe is now about a million miles from the Earth and it's sending back data. And the data is, according to this article, changing our whole cosmology. The way we think not only about earth and space, but reality and everything. For instance, it says that all that we know, all matter and energy, everything that we are aware of, not only in our solar system, in our galaxy, but all galaxies of everything. Now, according to this information, all of that is only 4% of reality Another twenty-three percent is stuff called dark matter, whatever that is And another 73%, 18 times all of the matter and energy that we're aware of in our universe, is something called dark energy. And they're trying to figure out what this is. But it's a reality. Now here's the Father and the Son, and they have inhabited all of this reality that we see, that we know, and all the reality beyond what we see and what we know, and beyond that all that is Uncreated. So that as Luther once said, all of reality to God is like a nut in his hand. These two beings and the spirit with them come to a point. Where there is a separation. And God Himself now enters into a place where He looks back at pre-incarnation and post-incarnation as a dividing line of his being. God who is imagine God who is beyond time Now looks and he says, There was a time before I took on a body, and there was a time since I took on a body, and that time when the second person of the Trinity took on a body never ends He never relinquishes that body to go back into his spirit state without a body. That is mind-boggling. Imagine the emotion. Of the three persons of the Trinity, as the Son prepares to step off the threshold of heaven and enter into the womb of a Jewish peasant. We talk about saying goodbye to our kids, going off to college, you know, big wrenching time, taking off and it's not going to be the same again. Leaving home. You're not going to live here anymore. You're going to come back. It's just going to be for visits. Never going to be the same. Getting married. You know, the thumb's married off two daughters this year, one just a week ago. You know, yeah, you're still my daughter, you're still my son, but it's never going to be the same What was it like? What did the father and the son say to each other at the moment when they each realized As they realized from all eternity, but at that moment, a moment in time, when they knew it would never be the same The Lord was pleased to crush him, not only to send him in a body But to crush him. And why was that? I think the simple answer to that is because it was better Than any other alternative. You see, the only alternative to God crushing the Son and wanting sinners. Like you and like me, to be in his presence, would be either for God to, in some sentimental moment of transport, say, that's okay, I'll just forgive you. And to lose his integrity. He's no longer just. Or for him to determine to maintain his glory and his integrity, And to damn you and me to hell forever. And so the Bible says he was pleased In order to maintain both his integrity and to have you and me With him, justified, declared innocent, to crush the Son. In Romans chapter 3, verse 23, we read that all of sin and come short of the glory of God But that God has provided a way of redemption through the Son. So that he goes on to say in verse 25, God who had in former times passed over sins, that is, he had He had not punished Abraham and David and the rest for their sins, even though there was no sacrifice at that point. It was sufficient to take that sin away. He He says in verse twenty-six, now we are in a time when God demonstrates That he is both just and the justifier of the one who believes in Jesus. In order that God can maintain both his justice, and God can also be the justifier, he must crush the Son. Now, John Piper in his book Pleasures of God makes an additional observation that I think is valid. And that is part of the pleasure that God received in crushing his own son was to realize the love of the Son for the Father was so intense. That the Son was willing to bear that sin in order that the Father would be glorified and receive the purchase of his people. So that you have Jesus on the cross after he says, Father, which excuse me, after he says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? A short time later, his final words are Father, into your hand I commit my spirit. The realization that even in the curse The Father still loved him in the sacrifice he was making. You know, Jesus says that. John chapter 10, verse 17, he says, The Father loves me because I lay down my life for my sheep. And so the Father is willing even more The Father is pleased to crush the Son, and what does he get from it? First, A, next blank, he gained us. See, verse 10 goes on. It was the Lord's will. It pleased him to crush him, to cause him to suffer And he, uh and though he makes Messiah's life to be a guilt offering, a an offering to death for sin, he shall see his offspring. That's you and me. He saw us and he knew this is what he would get. He got you and he got me. What a bargain. I mean, you know, you think about that and you think, I understand, Lord, why it pleased you to to crush the sun because you got me out of that You see, does the incongruity of that grab you? You know, like we talked about last week, it just kind of it it just seems wrong for him to do it. Lord, how could you be pleased? To crush your son in order to get me as a result But it says he he he feeds his offspring and the pleasure of the Lord fully accomplished, you see. This is what he gains me, because he not only gains you and me But he's done it in a way that maintains his integrity. So the last thing, the second thing from that is that he glorified himself He glorified himself. You see, it says he prolongs his days. He now comes vindicated And through Jesus' death, God's glory is lifted up to heights that the angels have not known. You know who could who could think up the plan of salvation that the Bible presents? Here you have you have one creature in God's image, and that creature despises the authority of God over him. So he sins and all who are in him are in the bondage, in the captivity of that sin. So there's no escape. No one can get out of being under Adam in order to rescue anybody else. We're all caught in that same trap. So where can there be any release? Who can think of a plan of escape? You know, even Hollywood can't think of a plan of escape of that kind of a trap And who of the angels would have dared suggest, but uh God, if you became one of them, you'd be eligible to take that. Who would dare utter such words? But God designed the plan whereby He would at a moment of time become what He had never been before: a human being in a body. And that the Father would crush the Son to accomplish the salvation you and I so desperately needed. And who of you would sit here this morning and hear such a plan and such an execution and say, yeah, maybe someday It would hold at arm's length that kind of love. How foolish. How arrogant. I plead with you. Come, admit your need of that sacrifice. John Piper says in his book one one thing I just want to quote When Jesus died, he glorified the Father's name and saved his Father's people. And since the Father has overflowing pleasure in the honor of his name, and since he delights with unbounded joy in the election of a sinful people for himself, How then shall he not delight in the bruising of his son, by which these two magnificent divine joys are reconciled and made one? Is that glorious? Or is that glorious? Amen. You see? That's the kind of God we serve. Now, what does that mean for you? Let me just bring this to a point of personal intense application. What this is saying, as you see in your outline there, is that God's glory is inseparable from your good. God has the capacity demonstrated in the crushing of his Son To show his commitment to his glory is not in contradiction To the good that he designs for his people. Sinners, and the essence of sin is to belittle God's glory. But he has brought you and me as children. into the scope of his family, so that now his good, his glory, and your good are inseparable. That is profoundly practical when you are going through a trial, when you are going through some circumstance of your life where nothing seems to make sense and the goodness and the purpose of God seems to utterly contradict it and you say, how can you say that God's purpose is for good to those that love him? And are the called according to his purpose. Remember this last week I had a couple of conversations with Lisa House. And Lisa has gone through terrible suffering in the last year and almost year and a half now. Increased spinal fluid that produces the threat of blindness, excruciating headaches. She's had gallstones, gallbladder surgery in the last week or two. I mean, as soon as they try to repair something, something else falls apart and There's other threats and other pains and other complications and on and on and on it goes and she says the whole last year has done nothing but pre-op surgery and then recovery for the next surgery What's God doing in that? And yet as I talk to her, I see in a woman And it's hard to communicate this, but I see in her a love and a peace for Jesus Christ. It simply wasn't there a year and a half ago. Would she choose to have this? No way. But can she see the confluence of God's glory Meshed with pain and suffering in something good that is being accomplished? Tentatively, humbly, she says, yes. That's true in you. That's true in me. God was pleased to crush the Son. But in what seemed to be the most heinous thing imaginable for God to crush a perfectly innocent man who was himself the Lord of glory, God has accomplished something. That was the best act of all human history. And when you feel God's crushing of your spirit Remember, his glory is inseparably bound with your good. And in some way that you and I can't fully understand, he blends those two things: his glory, your good. Lord our God, what mysteries our our our minds and our hearts can begin to wrap around these to understand. What Isaiah must have thought or felt when he wrote these words. The Lord was pleased to crush. Messiah his son. Make him a guild offering And Lord, when we realized that was for me, so that you would gain me, so that you would not compromise your integrity, but you would gain me, that you would gain sinners. Who every day think of new ways to belittle your glory, to marginalize you in our lives rather than to centralize you We are overwhelmed that we could matter that much to you. Lord, we pray Which would cause us to pause now and to look at those things in our life that don't make sense to lay them before you, knowing that your glory is inseparably bound with our good by the covenant that you have made. To know that we can trust you To know that we are safe with you. Lord, we pause to reflect on that. To bring Our thoughts and our feelings to you. Lord, give us hearts and minds Behold your glory and desire your glory. And desire to abandon ourselves to you, to whatever you want to do in our lives and our hearts, because we know your love. Your love is never to be second guessed. And we rest in it. We pray that nobody here would scorn it, spurn it But we would cleave to you, we would run to you and find refuge in you. In Jesus' name. Amen.