Let's hear God's word. Ephesians chapter 1. After Paul has greeted the saints at Ephesus, he goes on to say, verse 3, Please speak to the God and Father. Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in the heavenly realms with every spiritual blessing in Christ. But he chose us in him before the creation of the world, be holy, blameless in his sight. The love he predestined us to be adopted as his sons through Jesus Christ, in accordance with his pleasure and will For the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us in the one he loves. In him we have redemption, through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, and according to the riches of God's grace that he lavish. on us with all wisdom and understanding. And he made known to us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in Christ, to be put into effect when the times will have reached their fulfillment, to build all things in heaven and on earth. Together under one head, even Christ. In him we were also chosen, having been predestined according to the plan of him who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will, in order that we who are the first to hope in Christ Might be for the praise of his glory. You also were included in Christ when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. Having believed, you were marked in him with a seal, the promised holy. Spirit, who is a deposit guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption of those who are God's possession to the praise of his glory. For this reason, ever since I heard about your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, I have Stop giving thanks to you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the glorious Father, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. I pray also that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened, in order that you may know the hope to which He has called you, the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints, of this incomparably great power for the world. us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength, which he exerted in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule of bard power. power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. And God placed all things under his feet and appointed him to be the head over everything for the church. Which is his body, the fullness of him who fills everything in every way. This is God's word to us. Let's give it our full attention now. First. Whatever God leads me, and however long I live, I will never be able to read Ephesians chapter 1, verses 15 to 23, without thinking of Columbia Presbyterian Church. So 1978, when we began this church together, It was these verses that I believe that God gave to me and gave to us as a church together, as his purpose for us as a church. And you remember how time to time we have looked at these verses and we've been reminded that God has given to us here three purposes. You see those purposes in verses fifteen, particularly in verses seventeen to twenty-three. You see the first purpose there in verse seventeen. God's first purpose as a church is that we would know Him. Better. We would know the Lord Jesus Christ better. We would know God the Father, the glorious Father, better. And we would know the Spirit better. That's the very starting point of anything that we do as a good thing. church. And thus our first purpose is to know Jesus better. Then everything else will become out of focus. The second purpose that he gives us here in verse 18 is that then we will go on to know his calling. And his inheritance, the riches of his inheritance, the inheritance that we have in Jesus Christ, that we will come to know that inheritance and treasure that inheritance and see ourselves as a new people with a new identity, because of an infinitely rich inheritance that we have in Jesus Christ. We'll come to treasure that inheritance. And as a church, we'll understand our identity and how it distinguishes us from all other people. Do not belong to Jesus Christ. And what we have it. The third purpose that God has given to us as a church, you see there in verse 19, on to the end of the chapter, Paul says that we would also know his incomparably great. power for us who believe. That we would know the power of Jesus Christ. We would know that power, the power that God demonstrated when he raised Jesus Christ from the dead and when he seated him in the heavens far above all rule of authority. And I believe it's especially timely for us as a church as we're about to enter into a new door in our own spiritual pilgrimage as God's people here. And in our own step of faith, as we enter into a new ministry. As you probably know, the session, at least, has decided that we should leave the meeting house. And we bring down recommendations. To you as a congregation. And we'll be acting on that and on the particular proposals that will issue from that when we meet together in July 10th as a congregation. But it's particularly important. I believe for us now as a church to remind ourselves that God's purpose for us is to know His power. To know the power that the Lord has accomplished in the light of Jesus Christ when He And how he applies that to us today in the life of our congregation. Three days after we presented this decision to the trustees, he was made known to us through Randy Reese discovered it that there was a little bit of land available to uh anybody who'd like to purchase it up off of one hundred eight on Centennial Lane. One hundred and twenty three acres of land. A little bit more than we were looking for. But it was made available at least for simply $7,000 an acre, an unheard of price in this area, for somebody that the owner would be willing to sell it to. In our first negotiations with him, he's indicated were the first people that he would be willing to sell that land to. That he'd not only be willing to sell it, he'd also be willing to finance it. And as we've begun to think about that, we've realized that God has shown in this at least whatever we do with that land. And we don't know yet whether the Lord wants us to have that land. But what it at least has shown us is that God's power is still at work today, and He can provide for us things that we could not guess at. God is able to do far above what we could ask or even think, according to His power and prayer. And we need to focus on that. But a particular phrase that has stood out to me as I thought about this in recent weeks, about this power that's available to us, is a phrase that you see there in verse 21. And I'd like to focus on that phrase this morning. It's where we see that Jesus Christ has been seated far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, not only in the present age, but also in the age to come. Not only in the present age, but also in the one to come. The Bible speaks of two ages. It speaks of this age, this world, Jesus Christ spoke in Luke twenty verse thirty four about those who are children of this age. And their concern is simply to marry and be given in marriage and to make business deals and to enjoy this life. And they're contrasted with those who are the children of the next age, whose values are not placed simply in this world. Matthew 13, Jesus in the parable of the source, speaks about those who are have the words snatched away because of the worries of this age. The concerns and the cares of this age. But the Bible speaks of another age, the age to come, the age of the kingdom of God, the age of Israel, an age that we don't see now. Age we see, see it about us all the time. But the one to come is an age that we see by faith. It's an age by which we that we know simply by the evidence of the Holy Spirit that is given to us now. And I want to remind us of this, the simple truth, because we're a people who become so infected with secularist thinking, don't we? We're so surrounded by the message that is clear to us day after day that this This age is the only age there is. But unless we come to God's word and remind ourselves again and again, Jesus is coming. Maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe evening, and maybe. Very soon. He's coming again. And when he comes again, he will be in that age to come in its fullness and completeness. How much we live, we're attempted to as if this age is all there is, isn't it? We see that by the way that we invest our time. We invest our time in things at this age. And how much do we invest our time in the age to come? Someone has said that there's only two things that will outlive this age that we have, the word of God and people. Therefore, if you want to invest in the age to come, invest the word of God into the lives of people. But how much do we invest in the age to come? How much do we invest our time in this age? How much do we invest our money in this age? How much is our money, the way we spend it and invest it, an indication of how much we believe that there's an age to come? Or whether we believe that primarily it's this age that counts, it's this age that matters, if there really even is an age to come. How much do we daydream? about this age, or how much do we daydream about the age to come? A professor I once had said that our daydreams reflect where our hearts are. What do you daydream about? Do you daydream about success and enjoyments in this age only? Or how much time do we spend daydreaming about what will happen in the age to come? All of the things about us, the press, Television, the movies, everything screams at us the one message. This age is the only age there is. There is no age to come. And that screened to us in different tones. There's the insistent seductive tone that I would call of evolutionary optimism that says that this age is the only age. You read the works of people like Lauren Isley and others that talk about man as a creature, a miraculous, marvelous creature that somehow is a slime that has uh emerged from the smudge of the primordial world. And somehow we have uh evolved into something that is so complex and can even reflect on ourselves. But basically that's all there is. There is no age to come. There is no kingdom of God that is ready to show itself in its fullness to us. There is no kingdom of God that's beyond what we can see. There's only this age. This kind of philosophy is basic to Marxism, which captures the minds of a great number of the people in this planet. And is very vigorous in in its attempt to show us that uh that really all of history is simply one uh series of conflicts which marks systems. Again it's called dialectic materialism, just kind of a fancy term to tell us that economic systems are always in tension, and they'll continue in tension until finally there will come one final, inevitable overthrow of all the vast extremes of wealth and poverty. And there will be no more exploitation. And utopia will have arrived in this age, for this age is our only hope. And all we can do is to try to make the best of what we have in the material world that's about us. And that kind of a dream has captured the minds and the hearts of vast numbers of people in countries around this world. In spite of the fact that George Orwell decades ago in the middle forties wrote the book Animal Farm, in which he So clearly demonstrated that Marxism is simply the replacement of one kind of exploitation for another. Animal Farming remembers the story of a bunch of animals who uh get tired of the uh being used by their farmer uh overseer. And so they rebel and they kick the farmer out and they run the farm on their own. And it's a tracing of the history of that farm, as everything seems so bright and hopeful at the beginning, until finally after a period of time, what actually happens is of course the pigs. have now become monastics. And the pigs have simply replaced the former. And it's the same system under a different name, because nothing's changed in the nature of the beasts. And nothing has changed the nature of the beast of man, the problems in his heart. And if the hope is only at this age, as Souls and Eastkin has so well pointed out, they are absolutely hopeless. For we can unmass the monster. of the kind of Marxist hope, the evolutionary optimism that says that this age will attain to something that will overcome evil. Many people are writing today that Marxism is losing its grip because it simply doesn't fade reality. Unless there's a hope beyond the system in which we live. Then there really is no hope. Francis Schaefer has pointed this out. John Whitehead pointed out, John Wright had particularly in his latest book and film, The Second American Revolution. Has pointed out that what most of us as Americans don't see, however, is that our system and values are based on precisely the same philosophy as the Marxist. Namely, that this age is all there is. And but because this age is all there is, man is the measure of all things, man must determine his values, and man must produce a philosophy under which he's going to live. There's only this age. And so we have the statement of the human. humanist, a statement that was uh formed in nineteen thirty-three by those who specifically and self-consciously reject Christianity and have established an alternative religion in our culture. And what is the first thesis of the religion Of humanism. It is humanists regard the universe as self-existent and not created. Second, humanism believes that man is a part of nature, and that he has emerged as a result of a continuous process. They go on then to say that the hope of man is for us to have a quest for the good life that is our central task of mankind. The realization of this world, of our dreams, for we have the power within ourselves for its achievement. Forty years later, he did But this statement was entirely too optimistic. They said we need another manifesto. A manifesto for our day. So in 1973, Humanist Manifesto II was written. Humanist Manifesto II two makes a very interesting statement about the hope of mankind. It says as we approach the twenty first century, however, an affirmative and hopeful vision is needed. Faith commencement with advancing knowledge is also necessary. Despair and hope, humanists respond to this manifesto with a positive declaration for times of uncertainty. They affirm that salvationism based on mere affirmation still appears as harmful, diverting people with False hopes of heaven hereafter. There is no age to come. And so what is this grand hope that's offered to us by humanism? Well when they can when they talk about evil in society, they simply say that we decry evil. The will is obsolete. The world community must renounce resort to violence and force. Well, that's the only hope I have. And if I as a parent had that hope as my only hope to try and establish peace in my family, I would be totally without any hope. Simply to say that uh I don't believe we should be evil. I don't think we ought to beat on each other anymore. And that's my hope, is to offer no hope whatsoever. Humanism comes and it says that there is no age to come. And all we can do is to make the best of the world. of this age. Malcolm Motheridge was a humanist, a brilliant humanist in England. And he came to know Jesus Christ and he wrote an article called The Liberal Death Rish, in which he said, It's absolutely amazing to me how I look back on my own experience and those of my colleagues And how we can absolutely ignore all the evidence of life that went against this vain, optimistic hope. And how we, in a very self destructive way, simply ruled out the facts of reality and pursued what was our ideology that we had committed ourselves to. People say today, there is only this age, the present age. There is no age to come. The Bible says that Jesus Christ is Lord not only of the present age, but he's coming back to be Lord of the age to come. And there are cracks in this optimism. One crack appeared just this month in the latest issue of Psychology Today. Very interesting article in this magazine. It's an article called A Revolution's Broken Promises. An article about the sexual revolution of the past. 20 years. In this article, Psychology Today, if you've known anything about psychology today, it's an advocate of absolutely no norms or absolutes in any way in human relationships, advocates lesbianism, homosexuality, all the This is things that cannot be judged in any way as right or wrong. But in this article, of amazing penetration and insight and honesty, the author says that the commercialization of sex now destroys true feelings as badly as traditional taboos did. The rootful question of the sexual revolution now is that sexual freedom established during the last couple of decades has not been accompanied by the increase in happiness that many people assumed would follow from a fleeing of sexual boring. They talk about the hero today of J. R. from Dallas, a man who uses sex like business to simply satisfy his own pleasures and get back and uh get um uh the better of uh people that he is exploiting. Well they talk about how sexual freedom has simply made more choices available to us, but it in fact has guaranteed nothing and it has delivered nothing. So you see the people about us that say You Christians have a vain hope in our age to come. In a Jesus who you say is Lord over it all. But we see the optimism of the evolutionists cracking. And some of them aren't even swinging with The insistent seduction if there's only this age. Others of them are screaming with desperation that there's only this age. As Peggy Lee did in a song of some years back, is that all there is? Do you remember that song talks about her death? disillusionment, progressive disillusionment in life as she grew up as a little girl, became a woman, and found out that all the values and the hopes and the pleasures, if that's all there was was what there was to hope for in this life, it was all dashed and hopeless and meaningful, meaningless. And she said, Is that all there is? If that's all there is, my friend, let's break out the boobs and have a ball. If that's all there is, it's a life. Samuel Beckett, some years ago, wrote a play, a very brief play, called Breath. It's his statement. on the meaning of life. The play only lasts a little over thirty seconds if the play if the curtain goes up and you see the stage, there's nobody on the stage. There's simply some scattered junk. The entire play consists of the beginning of a baby's cry. As the baby cries, the cry turns into an adult cry, and the cry eventually fades into a death rattle. And then the curtain goes down. That's all there is, this age. And there is no age to come. We're absolutely hopeless. And we live in despair. But Jesus walked the earth 2,000 years ago, and he said again and again, there is an age to come. Jesus said to us, when he talked about the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit, he said, Such a person will not be forgiven either in this age or in the age to come. It told you about Luke chapter 20, where he can trust. Those who are the children of this age who have all their hope and their flight is in this age, we're those who are the children of the age to come. Mark 10, 30 talks about those who have left homes and family for Jesus, and it says, Those who have left all these things will receive a hundredfold reward, both in this age and in the age to come. Paul talks about those in Titus chapter 2 who lived in this age, present age, The blessed hope of the return of Jesus for the age to come. But the amazing message of the New Testament is that this coming age has already broken in upon us today. The message is that the age in which we have lived as people on the earth was an age of simply hope. It was an age in which the kingdom of God was something in the future. The Old Testament prophets talked about the kingdom. Of God is something brought in by the messianic king. And that king was going to come and rule. And he was going to defeat the serpent, the Satan, the enemy of all humanity. And that one was going to set up his kingdom. And he was going to rule and to reign in the Coming age. Then comes Jesus. Jesus doesn't come with a winnering fork in his hand, and he doesn't destroy his enemies. In fact, he comes meek and mild and healing. The Bible tells us that he doesn't quench. A smoking flax, and he doesn't break a bruise feed. He's very tender. John the Baptist, the Old Testament fiery prophet, says, Are you sure that you're the Messiah? You're not acting like one who's bringing me to this coming age. And it is coming. Age is supposed to destroy all evil. It's supposed to set up a kingdom of absolute righteousness, where the king of the Jews is to rule in all ways. Jesus says, Look what I'm doing. Jesus talks about the signs of the kingdom. Jesus talks about his healing, his preaching of the good word. It's like Luke chapter 4, you remember, where he stood up in the temple. temple in the tabernacle. And he talked about what he had come to do, to proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord. And then in this quote of Isaiah sixty one he stopped. Neededly finished the verse, which goes on to say, and to proclaim the day of vengeance of our God. Jesus has said, I brought in this age. I'm the king, and I've come to rule far above all rule and authority and power and dominion in this age. Then one day I'm coming back. And when I come Come back, I'm going to declare the vengeance of the Lord. And then in that age to come, there will be no more sin. There will only be the kingdom of God and its righteousness. But in that first coming, Jesus had Jesus himself took the vengeance of our God. Jesus Himself took his wrath for sin, for sinners like you, like me. We've gone our own way and lived as if this age was the only age that mattered. Jesus took that punishment that we so deserved. Jesus, in taking that, took the vengeance of God upon himself. And in doing that, God raised him from the dead. And when he raised him from the dead, God said, because of That Jesus has fulfilled all the conditions now to usher in the new age. And so I give to you, my people, the down payment of the Holy Spirit. Look at what he says in verse 13. Having believed you were marked in him with a seal. The promised Holy Spirit, who is a deposit, that is a down payment, guaranteeing our inheritance until the redemption Those were God's possession. When's that redemption going to take place? When Jesus comes again. And when he comes again, he's going to come and fulfill all of that which he has begun in us. In this new age, for Jesus is the Lord. And He's the Lord above all. Beginning of verse 21. Above all and authority, power and dominion in every title that can be given, not only in this present age, but also in the age to come. Above every title that can be given. Literally in the Greek that means above every name that is named. You think of the names that are named today in our world. The big names. You know, I I keep up on watching the big names for the checkout counters. You know, if you ever go through a checkout counter in a grocery store There's always a series of the bit names, you know, and they sort of come and go like pictunes. And you see those names and if you see them on one magazine, they're usually on three or four magazines, same names. And um some of the names uh of this week that are so big to us. You know, you look and you see Kenny Rogers. How many houses has he bought or sold in the last month? You know? The guy plays with real houses, like I played with Monopoly. And here's a fellow with a big name for the day. And everybody looks at Kenny Rogers and all his homes and all that he has. And they say, there's a man with power and influence. Mr. Cheese, Ryan O'Neill. Dara Fawcett still hangs around on a number of these. She's had a little more endurance than most. A big name of the day. Aminda Evans, Joan Collins, and we recognize these names most of us as we hear them. Even Elvis is back. Uh he was such a big name and and now just because of his name being so recognized, uh people are trying to sell his corpse. And so his name's back on the uh magazines again Anything to keep the names of our age alive. And of course there's Princess Guy. Time magazine has said that she's the number one celebrity in the world. The recent Reader's Digest issue published republished that. Everybody wants to photograph and see Princess Die. And Princess Die is the big game of our age, for now. Twenty years ago it was the Beatles. In 1965, the Beatles said, we're more popular than Jesus Christ. Christ. And who follows the Beatles now? Where are the beetles? Jesus Christ is still above every name that is named. And he's still worshiped by millions, and we gather in his people. this morning to worship Jesus. And the Beatles are gone. And Princess Vine will be gone when her heyday has come and gone. But Jesus is the King above all kings, not only in this brief age, this good in the passing of eternity, also in all the ages to come. He's not only above every name, he's above every authority When we think of the great powers and the authority of our day, we think of Ronald Reagan, our President, of Margaret Basher, of Machim Begin, of Yasser Arafat, and of Saddam Hussein. We think of the powers and authorities that we might have feared in the past of Joseph Stalin, of Christian, of Bresman. Of Andrapath now. The Bible here tells us that these are not divine authorities. Jesus is far above all rule and authority, power and dominion. And we have to fear human authorities and it's like lights in the darkness. And a flashlight plays his beam and he says, I'm pretty bright, aren't I? And then a lamp turns on its beam and it dims the flashlight and the flashlight quitted the shadow. And a car turns on its headlights. And a lamp is put into the shadow. And And then somebody puts on a spotlight and shows up those lights. And then a searchlight is turned on, outshine them all. And then the sun comes up. And the discussion's over. Jesus is the Son of righteousness, who's above every power and authority. And in his life there will be no more discussion of power and authority in human terms, both in this age. And when we see Him coming. again to know that the discussion is over. He's above not only every name and authority, but he's above every power. For the words that Paul uses there are above all rule and authority, power Dominion is a word which has primary reference to angelic powers. You see that if we look at chapter 3 and verse 10 in the book of Colossians, that Paul is talking there about heavenly powers. And he's saying That Jesus is above the heavenly powers. Now that may not impress you or me so much, until you begin to hear of some certain occultic experiences, until you begin to realize that there is a whole world of powers, far beyond what Moses. Of us ever imagined. A world that is unseen for us at present, but will one day become thoroughly visible. And the powers of that world are far above any human powers that we know. For the human powers are moral. But these powers can Continue to live from age to age to age. The Bible teaches that a vast host of these powers are in rebellion against the authority of Jesus, but they are headed up by one called Satan. And Satan is the prince of this world, but the Bible tells us in verse 21 that Jesus is far above all of Satan's rule and authority. And every heavenly power that can be arrayed with him, power and dominion, both in this age and in the age to come. And as I can state to you now in the name of Jesus Christ with Satan, you are defeated We get power has been overflowed. Satan gnashes his teeth, but he can't do anything. He can't do anything as we insult him and as we calm him down and we tell him that he is under the feet of King Jesus because Jesus is above his authority. And Jesus will never let him do anything to you or to me. Anything. But that Jesus doesn't consider for our good. Never fear Satan. As if in some way Satan could do something to you to hurt. Jesus is above all the rule, the authority, and the powers of the heavenly beings. And we don't have to worry if when we get to heaven there should come another outbreak and another rebellion a couple million years. Down the road. For the Bible tells us that He's above all these rules and powers and authorities, not only in this present age, but also in all the ages to come. Forever. Jesus will be King. What does that mean to you and to me? It means that God has supposed to be a people to live by faith. It means, as you see in your outline there, that we are a people who consider that the most important thing in life is not What we accomplished and attain in this age. But the most important question for you and for me this morning is: what is my relationship to Jesus Christ? For I live in this age in the light of an age to come. Vitally important is not what happens in the blink of an eye of 60 or 70 or 80 years of this age, but what is going to happen to me in the ages to come. And what will happen to me depends upon my relationship with Jesus Christ. If you know Jesus Christ, the Savior of Lord today, He is the ruler of your life. And you are secure in Him. But if you are outside of Jesus Christ this morning and have never bowed your knee to Him, to give your life to Him as your Savior of your Lord. Then you should stand in terror of what it will mean when Jesus comes back and declares not only the acceptable year of the Lord's salvation, but the terrible day of the vengeance of our God. It will come when the next age is the world. inaugurated in in all of its fullness. What is your relationship with Jesus Christ this morning? Your eternity depends on the answer to that question. For because we are people who realize there's an age to come, We are a people who live by faith in the reality of that age. A reality that is seen by the work of the Spirit in us and what he does in us as a church to encourage us that that age is real. But nevertheless, we live by the world. live by faith. We're people who live not only by faith but also by hope because of this age to come. We are people who realize that there's a new age coming and therefore we live in the light of that perspective. I shared that some of you did this past week. I was discouraged in my own life in a number of areas. Discouraged by confusion and a number of things, wondering what God was doing in my life and in my ministry. And as I began to reflect on that, God led me to Psalm thirty nine. My reflection. And I looked at Psalm 39 where David says in the first three verses, David says, I'm in such a pitch right now that if I were to open my mouth and tell what I'm thinking, and any non-Christians were around, then they'd all laugh at the gospel. He said, I dishonour my God, and they'd have a field day talking about the uh spuriousness of the gospel, because I would say there's no reality to it. David then says in Psalm thirty nine verse five Lord helped me to see how brief my life is. Lord helped me to put things in perspective and realize how brief is this age. And if my hope, he says in verse 7. Therefore, Lord, what do I hope in? My hope is in you. For there is an age to come, and Jesus is the Lord of this age and the age to come. And therefore, my hope is in you. the fact that Jesus who will be vindicated in that great thing is the one who hears me today, and the one who gives to me that goal as I look to him. Whatever I'm living now, whether it's suffering, confusion, or joy. Finally, this means that we're a people of prayer. Loop goes to great lengths to show to us that the age that is the age to come, the messianic age, is the age of kingdom power that we Hebrews 6. 5 talks about those who have tasted of the power of the age to come. Have you and I tasted of that power? Remember as you read Ephesians 1. 21. That Jesus is the Lord above all will of authority and power, and every name in this name, both in this age and the age to come, he introduced that thought in verse 19 when he said that this power is for us who believe. Us is for believe. In this age, we can have the power of the age to come. In this age, why? How? As we lay hold of the Spirit of God in prayer. As we as His people call it. we come up with for ministry. Whatever ideas we have for discipleship programs, whatever we do, whatever we plan for facilities, all of these things are absolutely vain. And thus we are a people who are laying hold of the power of the age to come by humbling ourselves before God in prayer. I really say that not simply because it's time to talk about prayer again. Because from the very bottom of my heart, the greatest thing that I fear for us as a congregation is that we will proceed to talk about facilities and next stages of ministry before we have humbled ourselves before God to know what his power is. Easy for us to think that then we will know power when we have the right facility or the right opportunity, and to forget that the power of God is in his people. We must lay hold of that power in our lives now too. be in the right frame for him to use us as his people. A people who live and plan even in our ministries, not only for this age, but also in the light of the age to come. Because of that I call you. Brothers and sisters, to join me next Sunday afternoon at our home for prayer. Occasionally we have an open house in which we just invite people to come on over and spend some time with us. In this particular occasion, And I'm going to ask you to come over next Sunday afternoon, before the Lord's Supper. We'll say from about two to five to pray. To pray about the opportunities that God has before us. To pray as we humble ourselves before our God as a congregation of his people. If you need directions, ask me. I'll be glad to tell you how to get there. Next Sunday afternoon, two o'clock, let's come together. As a people who are ready to pray because we believe that we don't just live in this age in our own strength. For we believe that Jesus is seated above all rule and authority, above all power and dominion, and every name that's named. Not only at this age, but also in the age to come. That incomparably great power is available to us who qualify it in humble faith. Let's pray. Our Lord our God. Pervert us from being sucked in to all of the voices about us that tell us that the only age which matters is this age. That the only age which is is the age that we see and feel and touch. That we would not be children of this age, but that we would be children of the age that's coming. Children of the in which Jesus is Lord, King, gates that has already burdened upon us by the power of the Spirit Lord, help us. Help us to seize upon that power that you've made available to us. Your very purpose for us as a church is that we will come to know that incomparably great power now Oh Lord, help us to not miss that. Because we forget that there is an age to come, and that Jesus is coming back. And so our perspective ends, and we live as if this world is all there is. Open our eyes to see. Open our hearts to invest ourselves in the age to come. Lord Jesus, we humble ourselves before you as the King of all kings. Both in this age and in the age to come, hallelujah. Amen Please rise and turn to him. Two thirty-three. Rejoice all ye believers.