How do we respond to that? What what is your heart's response as you hear that? Do you believe that this is a great commission opportunity? By the way, have all the kids known with children's church to to go out so they don't if if if you if any of you have kids that are going to be worshiping, continuing worship during the message downstairs. I see people trying politely to creep out of their seats, you know, and so this is your invitation. Step out boldly and go on down there. But nobody who is an adult can because they hear of what's coming in the message, decide you're going to sneak out to children's church today, that will not work. We'll stop you at the door Now as you hear about this, you think of this as a great commission opportunity, and you say, hey, I'll pray about what God would have me to do It really is a test, you see, of how we view money, things. And so I figured because some months ago I was meditating on Luke chapter 6 myself And I came to verse 15, which kind of just hit me between the eyes, kind of grabbed me by the shoulder, and got my attention. I thought, well, since God used that to speak to me, and I had to do some thinking about how I view things, that maybe it's something that you could use also at a moment when we are thinking about money Luke chapter 12, verse 15, you'll see it coming up here on the overhead. Jesus gives a warning. He says, Watch out. Be on your guard against all kinds of greed. A man's life does not consist in the abundance of his possessions. That's a warning from a compassionate Savior. And so I would like to think about that just because it's God's word, and it's something that you and I need to consider. A word about the incident that led to that. Luke twelve, verse one says that uh Jesus was teaching and there were thousands of people pressing to hear him. In fact it says that people were getting trampled. There were so many that were trying to press to hear him. And so Jesus adopted the pattern of that day where he would teach his disciples and the crowd would be kind of listening in. And as he's teaching his disciples, verse 13 says that somebody in the crowd calls out, hey Rabbi! Tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. Now, why in the world would somebody call that out? Well, you need to understand the culture A rabbi at that time was invested with authority for judicial cases. Deuteronomy 21 and Numbers 27. speak of that. And so this fellow is just assuming that since Jesus is teaching, he must be a officially synagogue authorized rabbi who's a judge and he can declare these cases. But you notice that Jesus gives a kind of unexpected response in verse 14. Man, who appointed me a judge or an arbiter between you? Between you and your brother, that is? Uh why does he answer that way? I believe for at least two reasons. Number one, because I believe that Jesus is honoring the sense of calling and authority. He is saying I don't have that authority invested in me by the temple or the synagogue. I am not a judicially appointed rabbi. And so you need to go to them, I'm not in that position. My position is as a prophet. Therefore He wants to get to the man's heart rather than to settle the case. Now there is nothing wrong with seeking justice. That's not the issue. Jesus isn't saying that. You and I are so aware of our rights, aren't we? And there's times when we do need to go to court Not against another Christian, but there are times when we may need to go to court, and that's okay if injustice is being done. But in this case, Jesus sees the man's heart and he wants to address that issue, and that's why he gives the warning in verse 15. He says, but watch out. Be on your guard against all kinds of greed, because your life doesn't consist in the abundance of possessions. So two things that that verse gives us. First of all, there's the warning, and then there's the reason. Point one then, the warning, be on guard. Against all kinds of greed in your life as well as in my life. What is greed? I have over a hundred music CDs. Does that make me a greedy person? I mean who needs a hundred CDs? 50 enough? One of the things that really rankles me, and my wife and I talk about this a lot is style. We throw out perfectly good clothes because somebody says that they're no longer in style. And so to a degree uh I succumb to that. So I'm up here preaching and you'll say, why in the world? He's wearing that shirt for ten years, you know Don't you know that ties aren't like that now, you know? Uh so we all succumb to certain things to a certain degree. Does that make us greedy? Don't really need more shirts I've got dozens of shirts and sweaters. I make me greedy. But greed, you see, is more complex than numbers. Greed really is a heart thing. The Greek word that's used here is a word means which means a thirst for more. A thirst for having more. What I have is never enough. I'm not content. I simply can't live if I don't have that CD to add to my collection. I simply can't leave if I can't get that pair of shoes. add to my collection or that shirt or blouse or whatever it is. It's like salt water. The more you drink it, the more you want, the more you need, the more you crave. That's the word. That's the idea here. Watch out. Be on your guard against this essentially a lack of satisfaction, this lack of contentment that thirsts for more and more and more. What's enough? The Bible says what's enough? We all like it. Not a very popular verse. I don't think I've ever seen it on anybody's wall or desk. But 1 Timothy 6 verse 8 says, if you have what? Two things. Food and clothes. That's enough. You know, we say necessities are one car per driver One computer per human being over the age of five, one cell phone for anybody over the age of eight You know, and on and on and on and on. You know, um owning our own home, that's a necessity. What's interesting is that our son Dean is twenty-one years old. He has none of those things. And yet he seems perfectly content. What is it that is a necessity? What do we need to have? It's interesting to me that um This idea of greed, this idea of needing to have more, is really much more of a subjective state of mind, you know A Christian from the Third World was speaking to some American Christians and they said, you know what being rich is? Being rich is having the choice of which shirt or which pair of shoes you're going to wear today. From his perspective, that was being rich. You say, Well, Harris, you're an extremist, you know, you got more than one shirt, you got two cars for crying out loud, so don't tell me about living on basically contentment with enough. Well, but the attitude is, am I content with what I have? Or do I always need a little more? I don't need the vast amount, but just a little more. I think that's captured a little um painting that uh was in discipleship journal and so we got permission from them to show you this because this thing is so obnoxious that it sticks in your mind. And so Rick's gonna put that on here for you. That's it, you got it. Now, there's a couple of obnoxious characters, but You know you can see, you know, here's this guy and uh you know he's not even enjoying his ice cream, it's dripping down there. He kids take a look at this thing, you know. Uh but you know he's he's gotta take a little chunk out of this guy's Now he's not satisfied to just enjoy his cup. Gotta have more. Now, I would suggest the more you look at that, the more it sort of burns into your mind because they're so ugly And they're so obnoxious looking, but as I've looked at it, the more I've realized that's a picture of my heart I just want a little more than I have. Jesus says, watch out Be on your guard. And notice he says against all kinds of greed. See, there's various kinds of greed. We're not all greedy about the same things. I don't particularly lust for more quilts and cookbooks, just more CDs and theology books. And so Satan has each of us in certain areas. Now maybe for you it's technology Uh you know, you just have gotta have one of those large screen, high definition TVs. VCR is Nothing. It's gotta be a DVD. You know, or one cell phone in the family is not enough. Everybody's gotta have a cell phone and all the accessories and the answering machines and all the stuff that goes with it. So much technology. We need to have it. Or maybe it's clothes for you. You care less about the technology. But boy, I can't pass a clothes store. without seeing a sale sign and running right in there. Pretty gonna miss something. Gonna miss a sale. You know, or I don't have enough shoes to go with my color combinations. Or maybe house furnishings. Or maybe it's investments. Need to build up my portfolio. Not enough security for the future. I was amazed, you know, I did something, my computer, something popped up. Yeah, computers now, they they sort of bug you. It's not enough. You don't tell them what to do. They tell you what to do. So you know, up on the screen comes this thing that says, you know that you can point blah blah blah again So I thought, well I'll just kind of hit this thing and see what happens. And then this thing comes and it sort of grabs me by the throat and it says, Now with one more click, every time you log on, you can find out All of your stocks, how they're doing, and whatever's happening that day. You know, there it is. Wouldn't you love to do that? And I think, you know, stick pins in my eyes. Can you imagine? Starting every day, finding out how much money you lost Or even if you gained it, it begins to consume you. And so we're surrounded by things that are always making us aware of stuff. Of money, investments, on and on and on. And I you know, I don't know about you, but I've been getting more catalogs in the mail than I ever thought knew were printed recently. I don't know what has brought this on But all of a sudden, you know, I mean Columbia's gonna have to enlarge the boxes because I reach in there. I can't get my mail out, because there's large catalogs in there. I don't know, I never ordered any of them I go to put jelly on my bread and I take off the lid of the jelly jar and it says, for our free catalog, you know, just write to this. I'm thinking, why do I need a catalog for jelly? All I want to do is stick it on my bread. But the insidious thing about catalogs, you see, is you look at a catalog, and all of a sudden you must desperately have that item on page 21 that wasn't even on your radar screen five minutes ago. And that's the nature of our society, is so much is produced that there must be a market created that says there's a need for this stuff. And so even as Christians, though we would say, of course, a person's life doesn't consist in the abundance of their possessions, in a subtle way it grabs us, doesn't it? You know, it's not a one-day choice. It's day by day, choice by choice, the slippery slope, the change of priorities. Various kinds of greed. Looking at an issue of modern maturity recently, don't ask me how I got an issue of modern maturity. I also didn't ask for that. Just showed up. And uh they had this article called Stuff Glorious Stuff. Found out that 80 98% of the people that read this thing collect stuff. And then they asked, how large is your collection? 29% of the people said my collection number is in the hundreds. 35% said, I've long since lost count. Boom. Then I said, how often do you sell or trade items from your collection? 63% said I could never part with any of them. I gotta have my stuff. I but everyone is so precious to me. And then this question, what do your friends think about your collecting habits? Thirteen percent said they think I'm nuts Fifty-one percent said who cares what they think? Bondage to stuff Various kinds of greed. How do you be on guard against that? Remember last year we talked about some of the danger signals. Among those, I talked about when you go from managing money to being anxious about your money You're anxious about your money. You're saying, Lord, I'm I can't really trust you to take care of me. I've got to start worrying about it myself. That's certainly a danger signal. Or when you think more about what you don't have rather than enjoying what you do have. Or when you find that you see your identity connected more with what you have, then simply who you are in Christ. Or maybe it it the clue for you is when you lose the joy of cheerful giving. And you start looking at giving as some legalistic duty, and then find ways to rationalize how minimally you need to keep that obligation. You know how to know where your heart is? By thinking of the answer to this question Where do you spend money effortlessly? Where do you spend money effortlessly? That's where your heart is. And so Jesus gives this warning, not to spoil our fun, but because Jesus understands something that he wants to warn us of. out of love. It's the same Jesus who came to the disciples that we saw last week and said, Peace be to you. Why are you troubled? Why do doubts grow in your heart? Come on. Touch me and feel me, see that a ghost doesn't have flesh and bones like I have. Come on. It's that same Jesus in his tender compassion. It gives this warning. We tend to look at them very different, don't we? I I I appreciate what he said on Easter, but you know, this verse sort of sticks in my crawl We need to understand it's the same loving Jesus who's trying to deliver us out of bondage, out of a trap. And why is it that he gives us this warning? He gives the reason right there in verse 15, the latter part. He said, because your life doesn't consist in the abundance of your possessions. Doesn't consist in the abundance of your possessions. We say, well, of course, we all agree that as Christians, but yet in a subtle sense, don't we think That the abundance of your possession really makes your life significantly richer. I mean, have you ever fantasized winning the lottery Now not that you play the lottery, we understand. I mean that the ultimate CPC dilemma would be if one of our members won the lottery, wouldn't it? I mean, you know, there's these two thoughts that come to themselves, right? You know, first is, I won the lottery. And then it's, uh oh I wouldn't lotterate. How am I gonna explain this to my friends at C P C that I'm playing the lottery, you know? Now they're gonna know. So what are you gonna do, you know? But you know, okay, so you don't buy the tickets, you know, but ever just think about it, you hear about this Powerball winner, you know, it's well what if I just won a one of the little ones, you know, just a weasly little twelve million dollar one, you know, what if you know I Wouldn't that be kind of nice and you can sort of think about it, you know, and and you realize it wouldn't make you a different person like these other people that go off on the deep end, you know Build houses like down there off of Route 108, you know. You mean you be the same simple person that you've always been and Boy, just think of all you can do and be generous and you'd say, hey, what problem with the early debt retirement? Oh wipe out, that's only a couple hundred thousand dollars. Hey, no problem. I'll give to missions and I'll give to my family and I'll give to my friends. And boy, would you have friends You know, and then I'd do little things for myself that I've wanted to do. I had that vacation I wanted to take, and you know, bigger house and you know a new car and maybe an antique car or something, you know, funky and nice that just kind of enjoy because hey it's just a pittance and con contrast to all that I have, but I'd be the same basic person and Can you even taste that? You know, just what that would be like. And people say money doesn't make you happy, somebody added, but trebs whatever comes in second place. You know, but some people have done studies of those that won the lottery. And um it's not always very pretty. Now th this is reality. I mean this is not, you know Screwy stuff. There was a study that was done. My wife got this off the internet for a class she was doing. Two years ago, 13 Ohio machinists won the $295. 7 million power bulb. Jackpot. Two hundred that's nearly three hundred million dollars. And uh so uh they followed up some of them to find out what happened And uh they found out that uh a number of them bought expensive houses and very expensive neighborhoods, and then found out they didn't have anything in common with the people whose neighborhoods they lived in. And so they felt lonely and rather alienated. They found out that staying at their job was kind of hard because they didn't need to work for the money anymore, and all their friends were just always hitting on them for money. making smide snippy remarks that they finally got tired of and so quit. Then they found there was a lot of pressure put on them by other people to help them out Like one couple where a woman called up and said, I I need fifty-six thousand dollars to escape this abusive husband that I'm living with, and hey, that's nothing to you, so cough it up Were the other couple that said, You need to put my kids through college, because you can do it. You know, or inventors who want them to fund their creations, and on and on and on it goes till finally These people not only have to hire very expensive uh security equipment because everybody knows they're rich, people to manage their money, they change their names They will not publish their addresses or phone numbers. They live in secrecy and fear, simply in bondage to the money. A number of them said they wished that it had never happened. He's like, how can I imagine that? You see, we don't want to win the lottery. We just want a little more than we have. And that's exactly what Jesus warns. He says, be on guard against the thirst for just a little more. Because either you are content with what you have now, or you won't be content. It will not be related to how much you have. Maybe you've known enough people to know there is very little correlation with how much people have and how happy they are And so Jesus says there's two kinds of riches. There's material riches and there's spiritual riches. And he gives a parable to illustrate. He says it was this guy who had some very productive ground, produced a good crop, verse 16. And he thought to himself, you see it there. He thought to himself, what am I going to do? I don't have any place to store all this stuff. So he said, that's what I'll do. I'll tear down my barns and I'll build bigger ones And there I'll store all my grain and my goods, and I'll say to myself, You have plenty of good things laid up for many years. Take life easy, eat, drink, and be merry. Anything wrong with that? Anything wrong with being rich? Nothing in the Bible condemns that. Anything wrong with making provision for retirement? The Bible says go to the ant and learn. Nothing wrong with that. What's the problem? Verse 20, God says to him, You fool, this very night your life will be demanded from you. Then who will get what you have prepared for yourself? What's the problem? It didn't count on the fact that this life was so brief So verse 21, Jesus says, this is how it will be with anyone who stores up things for himself, but is not rich toward God. Not spiritually rich. No virtue and poverty. It's rather a matter of perspectives and priorities. Because life's more than what you possess. In fact, he goes on and says that in verse 23: Life is more than food, and the body is more than clothes Or verse 31 of Luke 12, he says, that seek his kingdom. And these things, that is, all the things you need, the food, the clothes, the various things, these will be given to you as well. Do not be afraid, little flock, for your father has been pleased to give you the kingdom. If you belong to Jesus Christ this morning, you are a citizen of God's kingdom. He's giving you his kingdom. James 2. 5 says, You are rich in faith. You are rich as a citizen of the kingdom with eternal treasure. Verse 33. He says, Sell your possessions and give to the poor. Provide purses for yourselves that will not wear out. A treasure in heaven. They will not be exhausted, where no thief comes near and no moth destroys, for where your treasure is, their heart will be also Where do you spend money effortlessly? That's where your heart is. You know, I remember um when Kathy and I first got married, uh my first salary for the year after we got married was $5,000. And even back then that wasn't much. Our honeymoon, we lived in a cabin that we got was seven seventy dollars for the entire week, and everything that we owned fit inside of a Chevy suburban. Everything. But I felt rich. I really did. Why? Because I had Kathy. I had her love. And she and I were starting out life together. I was perfectly content. It's a little bit that way with Jesus, isn't it? It's not how much you own. It's whose love you have. It's the relationship you have with Jesus Christ. If that doesn't make you content, everything else is a salt-thirsty substitute to try and find something to make up for the lack. And so Jesus is simply making us aware of our hearts here. And so when you hear about this challenge of the early debt retirement in two weeks, what's your heart's response? Is it oh they're gonna start talking about money now, huh? Well, they're not getting my money. That's for me. Or is your response There's an opportunity. I don't know what I'll do. Averages out to $144 per person per giving unit here. Okay, I'll pray about that. Because Lord, I love you and I trust you. And I simply want to be open to what you want me to do. I'm open to that. You open to that? See? That's silly issue. The issue is not for me to tell you. You're not going to do any pledge cards. There's no pressure. It's totally between you and the Lord. What you give will be only what you know, and we will report the total the following week. But I think it's an opportunity for each of us to examine our hearts. And that's spiritually healthy. You know, it's uh we're not we're not living in good times in the Church of Jesus Christ in this area You realize that the average evangelical Christian gives two point five percent of their income to the church. And when I say the church, I'm talking about the Christian causes. 2. 5%. You know that that is less than Christians gave in 1933 during the heart of the Great Depression You know what else is even worse? Recent studies have shown that less than one out of every ten Christians tithes And that the higher you go in the income brackets, the fewer tithe. In general, the higher you go The lower the percentage of giving. Somebody interviewed Henry Blackaby uh a well-known Christian today, Baptist, and they said, uh, what do you see for the future of America? And Henry Blackaby said, I'm scared to death. Not because of what I see in the unbelievers, but because of what I see in the believers. Because he said, as an example, a recent Barna research study on 153 items about values showed no difference. Between people who said they were born again and the world. No statistical difference in attitudes toward money as well as many other things. So it's a hard issue, isn't it? It really isn't something to quantify, it's something simply for you and for me to look at. And forced to recognize that we're all greedy. I hope during the message you're not sitting there saying, well, let me see if I can justify that I'm really not greedy. You know, because what's it taking, you know, do I slip through the, you know, hey, that's not the issue. I'm greedy. You and I are greedy in ways we don't even realize. That's why Jesus says, be on guard. Be aware. Get in touch with your greed. Recognize those areas that Satan wants to substitute the satisfaction with Jesus to say, if only you had this To recognize that as Rick read in the beginning of the service, the earth is the Lord's and everything that's in it, everything you've received, you receive from Him. If you belong to him, it's up to him to take care of you. You can trust him to do that. You believe that? Are you anxious? You have to acquire for your security. And so it's the time now for us to come before the Lord, to confess that, to just get it out before Him. Lord, I am greedy, but you know The good news of the gospel is that God loves greedy people. That amazing. He loves greedy people so much. That his son Jesus Christ left the riches of glory and heaven to become poor, 2 Corinthians 8:9 says, so that you through his poverty Would become rich. Hebrews says that for the joy that was set before him, you talk about deferred gratification. You see, the Bible never talks about poverty. As some virtue in itself. The issue is only ever priorities, relationships before things, and deferring gratification for the sake of the kingdom. Jesus, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, despising the shame in order to purchase forgiveness for you. In your greedy heart, and my greedy heart, so that he would give us unimaginable riches in glory. You ever think of why you buy what you buy? Is it really to make up for some deficiency, some poverty Of your spiritual life. Come to Jesus now. And as we come to Him, let's bring that. Bring our greed, bring our need Bring the early dead retirement and just lay it before him. Let's pray. Come on, let's just come to the Lord. Lord, we ask you now, in the name of Jesus Christ, who came and gave up the riches that he had in glory in order to come, not owning anything, never owned a house or a donkey. And you, Lord Jesus. For somebody who enjoyed life, it wasn't because you were ascetic. You loved life. You loved life more than we could ever really understand. But for the joy that was set before you, you endured the cross for greedy people For people who are insecure and people like us who feel like we we really can't trust you to take care of us or we really need that thing Because down deep there's this longing, there's this lack, there's a dissatisfaction, there's an emptiness. There's a we feel like we need to compensate ourselves for impoverishment in other areas. Lord, we confess that to you now. We confess that we thought we're owners rather than stewards. And we bring that before you and ask, Lord Jesus, would you deliver us from our compulsiveness? Would you forgive us our greed because of the cross Lord, we bring that to you each one of us individually, in our own hearts and lives right now. Lord, restore to us, we pray, the joy of giving. Teach us The delight of spending effortlessly in the things that delight you. We pray for that offering on May the 6th. And we simply pray that you would place, that you would get our hearts as a congregation in the right attitude toward you, a people who are joyful in our forgiveness and the gospel. Who are freed from the bondage of our things, who are open to pray about what you would have us to do and not feel any pressure from the leaders of this church, but simply to come before you. And we might trust you. We might grow in faith by maybe making a step of faith and giving something that we can't quite budget But to trust you, because we love you, and we want to honor you, and we want to build your kingdom in your church. And so we lay that before you, Father, that you would do what you please. And we would watch you work and be thrilled to see you glorify your name. For Jesus' sake. Amen.