While we're continuing in our series in Ephesians, we have seen that Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 to 3, were addressed to you kids. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment with a promise that it may go well with you and that you may enjoy long life on the earth. Now we see that verse 4, right after that, addresses you parents. You notice the title of the message, How to Exasperate Your Kids. So probably you parents are reading that and saying, oh goody, now I can learn some more ways how to exasperate my kids. But of course, that's what you kids think that your parents are thinking. In fact, what the title is intended to convey is that we want to become aware of how we exasperate our kids that Paul is telling us not to do. So this isn't kids, don't worry, it's not some ideas to Help your parents to build up their arso of ways to exasperate you. Rather in verse 4, Paul says, Fathers, Do not exasperate your children. Instead bring them up in the training and the instruction of the Lord. So can we have that verse up there now? Now you notice Thanks. That uh the key idea here, do not exasperate your children. The idea the word exasperate has the idea of do not provoke them to anger or embitter them so that they're discouraged. That really is what that word means. And um remember that this is the second in a series of three pairs that Paul's talking about in relationships to those who are under authority, wives, children, and those who are in authority, husbands and fathers. So as with a husband, the father, the parents are responsible to God for how they lead. I think we make a couple of uh introductory comments before we kind of get into the thick of this that clear up some confusion. A lot of people will ask, why does it say fathers and not parents? And uh I believe there's a couple of good reasons for that. First of all, I think what Paul's doing is highlighting that it is us fathers who are ultimately responsible to God for the raising of our children and how they are raised, how our homes are conducted. And so Paul is focusing on that. The buck stops with you, Dad. And that's important because I think that We as fathers are more likely to abdicate that role, that responsibility of parenting, much more than the moms are. Back in 1995, David Blankenhorn wrote a book, Fatherless America Confronting Our Most Urgent Social Problem. Uh nobody's written the book F uh Motherless America. You see, Fatherless America's focusing on how, particularly in contemporary culture, so many fathers simply abdicate the responsibility that they have for the children that they have. And he says that produces boys with guns and girls with babies. And he says that must be addressed. This is a crisis problem. However, this verse, I must say, applies equally to Imams. So you don't get off the hook. It's not that, you know, moms can exasperate their kids all they want. It's just fathers who can't do it. What Paul's saying applies equally to moms because if you look back in verse 1 You notice he doesn't say children obey your fathers in the Lord's children obey your parents. So this is a joint effort, but the father is ultimately responsible for God to see it discharged. Clearly, from the verses you have there like Deuteronomy 21, 18, a number of verses in Proverbs, when the dad speaks, it is always, son, daughter, obey the words of your mother and your father. So therefore the the uh responsibility of parenting is to both of them. Uh I think also he may mention fathers and single fathers out because fathers are more likely, I believe, to exasperate their children. than mom's, uh, because we tend to be stricter, maybe less sensitive to the effect of our words, more controlling. uh than moms would be. In fact, in that culture, the culture to which Paul wrote, the f the father in Roman culture was an autocrat who had absolute authority over his children. In fact, even the uh the right of capital punishment. He could execute his kids. Uh he had that authority in that uh culture So when Paul says, fathers do not exasperate your children, that's a radical statement. Now Paul is speaking to those who are not used to hearing, at least in the Roman, the Gentile culture more than the Hebrew culture. They're not used to hearing somebody limit their authority and to take their kids and their feelings into account. So that's the first thing. The second thing to notice is there's two parts to this verse. Notice there's the negative, do not exasperate them, but then there's the positive. Instead, bring them up in the training and the instruction of the Lord. And again, you see the beautiful balance of Scripture. You have both sides. Don't do this, do this. We're going to look at the negative side of that today in exasperating. You know, this is the exasperating message. And then the next two weeks we will be looking at the positive side, the training and the instruction And that will bring us to the conclusion of this appropriately on Father's Day. So let's look just at this one first command in this part of this verse. The command, do not exasperate your kids, and of course that's the first blank there to put in. Do not provoke them to anger, do not embitter them so that they're discouraged. In fact, it's interesting if you look at the parallel. command in Colossians chapter 3 verse 21, it's fathers, do not embitter your children, or they will become discouraged. And so that's the idea. Now, this is one of those messages where, kind of like, well, you know, that's sort of plain. Don't exasperate your children, don't embitter them, uh, don't discourage them. Uh let's move on. It's not a message where you kind of look and say, well, we need to understand what that's saying. It's more that you and I had the danger we could read that and we'd say, yep, gotta make sure we don't do that, and just continue right on doing it and not even realize that we're doing it. So I believe that what we need to do to do justice to God's word this morning is for us to look at what this means and how it applies, how it works out. Now let me say that I I have those of you who do not have children very much in mind in this, and even though Paul's focusing on this to fathers and mothers Uh I I expect that those of you who are single or without children are able to see principles here that apply to human relationships in general. So all of us need to come under God's word as it speaks to us here this morning. Let me also say that what I'm planning to do as you look in your bulletin outline is to give twelve examples. Of how we exasperate our children. But this is not a seminar on child rearing. It's a sermon in order to show us our hearts and bring us to Christ. Therefore, I need to go over these points very quickly, and it may exasperate you as I do it. And I don't intend to exasperate you as I speak on not exasperating our kids. But I will touch on some of these very quickly. And you may say, well, boy, you know, you just opened it up and you don't deal with it. It's simply for us to see it as an illustration. Unfortunately, sadly, many of these illustrations, or many of the ways that I was able to develop this, was out of personal experience. But let's let's hit some of these right now. I could have gone on, I could have given you 30, you know, but um you'll notice after the of the 12, the twelfth one is the one that you fill in in discussion at lunch or dinner with your kids. That's a joint one because there's all kinds of other ones you can fill in. That's for you to fill in. But let me give you eleven to get you started. Okay? First example of how to exasperate your kids, out of control, temper when disciplining them. That is losing your patience and striking out an anger to hurt and simply say of frustration, you know, I just I just lose control. Uh that's wrong. Um we dare not discipline our kids when we're out of control. In fact it's interesting that the the root of this, the uh command that Paul gives, remember started in chapter 5, verse 18, where he says, do not be drunk with wine, but be filled with the Spirit. And one of the fruits of the Spirit is what? Self-control. So the whole idea is that you are in control of your emotions as you seek to raise and dis discipline your kids. To help me in that, in raising our kids, we had a kind of a one, two, three rule that I found helpful for me. When our kids would be doing something wrong, you know, it was time to go down to the storage room which was the kind of our counterpart of the woodshed, uh, get down there with the old uh Sears paint sticks, you know, that stung but didn't do any damage. Uh and uh there were three things that had to happen. Number one, why is daddy going to spank you now? They had to tell me, we had talked about it, but they had to tell me, here's why you're gonna do it I thought that was important so that they were able to say, this is why I'm getting it in my words, and to try to help them to get to the attitude of the heart behind the behavior. Then secondly, they would ask always, and I'll tell you, I can say with assurance, always this happened, they said How many, Dad? And I had to give him a number. You know, three. Ah, you know. No, four, five, whatever, you know Sometimes six or seven. I think as many as many as eight. That was probably the highest we ever got to. That was very rare. But there would always be that in Minnesota if it was six. Oh, six, oh no, you know But they knew how many were coming, and I knew how many I could give. And so I had to make sure that that was what was going to happen. Then, and believe me, everybody was counting very closely upon that. Make sure, you know, not 40 lashes, 39 lashes, you know, six. Then the third thing was I would invite them to come to me, and I'd open my arms and say, come, and you know, could but that time, you know, you're kind of trying need earplugs. And so I would say, come on, and I would comfort them. Now sometimes they wouldn't want it, but there was the offer to confess, to repent, to be restored so that they saw that this was an event. It wasn't just something that happened because everybody was just so out of control. Can't say certainly we did it perfectly, but I think the kids would say they look back on those times as events and that those um that was at least helpful to us. Secondly, to refuse to hear excuses Uh, you know, you here's what you did, but you know, but you don't understand yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, I was there's all you know, you're never the one that's in fault. I don't care. And so after a while you just get you get exasperated, so you say forget it and you just strike out and you discipline. And then you find out that really it was wrong. The kid really wasn't, hadn't done what you thought. And I knew one father that when that would happen, he'd say, Well that's just for the times I didn't catch it That's exasperating. The kid feels there's no recourse to justice. And it's disheartening. A third thing is to be unpredictable in your discipline according to your mood. So that the kid gets away with disobedience when you're in a good mood, ah, that's okay. But when you're in a rotten mood, then the slightest thing can tick you off and get this overreaction. That's a classic way to produce neurotic people. You know, there's the insecurity that's that says I never quite know the consequences of what I do. That's exasperating. That's disheartening. That embitters kids because they feel like there isn't any predictability And uh that's I think one of the things Paul's talking about. Fourthly, there's no grace because that would be inconsistent. You know, you realize from James Dobson and others, you know, we must be consistent in our discipline. Every misdeed has got a consequence, you know, and so whatever it is that's automatically produced, there's kind of a standard formula. And if you bury from that, that inconsistency is going to mar the kid for life. I remember a time with us that um That Julie, our second daughter, who's a real dancer, she loved dancing gymnastics and all this, and she was flipping all around in the living room And she took one wrong turn toward this lamp that had been in our family for a good time, and it was a beautiful amber glass lamp. Hits the table, there goes the lamp, and the lamp is history. Well, at that point, I'm thinking, that was careless. You know, why I'm ready to, you know, you know, boy, that one's worth eight. You know, I mean maybe we're gonna go for nine on that one. I love that lamp, you know. But as soon as I saw the terror in his eyes, you know, oh boy, what's this gonna get something in me spoke that that this is not the time to land on her. She already knows she feels terrible about this. This is an opportunity for grace. And so rather than to discipline her, she knew I felt terrible about it. It was an opportunity to try and comfort her, which The shock value of that was worth something in itself, you know. But it enabled her to see that there is grace in the world. Now, my other daughter would say I was too consistent, too predictable. She tells you you didn't do that enough, and that's probably true. But there is a judgment call for each of us in this. To know the point is I want to reach my child's heart. And there isn't a standard formula for the consequences that can be written out in advance for that. It's knowing the heart. If we don't, that's exasperating. I know that opens up a whole lot of things. I'll just leave it and move on. Fourth, fifthly, focusing on flaws, the focus only on flaws. Your kid comes home with a report card here this month, three A's, two B's and a C. What do you talk about the most? I mean way the most Uh, you know, is it is it just to focus on the things that are wrong, the things that need to be corrected? You look back on this past week. What was the what characterized the discussions? You know, we are such critical people because we don't live out of the gospel. And therefore we need to find fault with other people, don't we? In order to feel a little better about ourselves. And who is it easier to find fault with than our kids? Boy, do we know all the stuff they do wrong and they drive us nuts with it, right? So You know, after a while you finally have to stop and say, I need to try and catch my kids doing something right so that we can talk about that You may need to do that because it gets so discouraging, both ends, if all we talk about is the wrong stuff, the things where you messed up. We need to be able to live out of the gospel in a way that we notice the right things. Otherwise, we exasperate our kids. Winston Churchill's father had no time for Winston. He didn't even like to have him in his presence. Didn't like his voice, didn't like his looks And Churchill bore the scars of that throughout his whole life. A father who was only ever critical And that's something that's a matter of the heart. It's not just a matter of, okay, I'm going to remember to affirm my kids in three things this next week. It's a heart matter Fifth, sixthly, conditional love. By that I you know we all say we want to love our kids unconditionally, but when do they feel your love? Is it just when they achieve something, they do something to please you? There's again a subtle difference between needing to try to reinforce obedience, good behavior. discourage, negative reinforcement of the bad behavior, and the kid getting the feeling that my parent my parents really don't love me for myself, but only the things that I do that make them look good or that achieve something. or that simply please them. There needs to be the sense that is communicated to the child, I love you at all times. There are the consequences, but I don't simply love you for how you make me look good or what you achieve. Seventh, possessive control. Speaking of controlling them by trying to, you know, manipulate through positive reinforcement, negative reinforcement. It's a bigger issue for some of us. Some of us try to live our lives through our kids Particularly maybe in areas where we fail, demanding that they fulfill your dreams to be what you never could be. The classic of this, of course, is the father who insists that his son is going to be the star athlete when a kid hates sports. Have you ever studied your child? You know, just notice them and say, what's their passion? What do they love to do? What would they just incline naturally to do? What would they really be good at? Rather than this is what I'm convinced they ought to want to do. And so often it's what we impose rather than the way they really are. I believe that's why a lot of us at a certain point begin to not like our kids when they're less pliable, when there's something in them that begins to resist the control. When they begin to want to do things that we do not find are on our agenda for them. And for a lot of parents, it turns to I just don't like my kids And the real issue is I am having certain dreams that they must fulfill, and I'm going to demand and control, and if they don't, then there's a withdrawal of your spirit. And that exasperates your kids. Now let me tell you, kids, do not use this as ammunition Alright, or I'll never preach a sermon to help you out again. Don't use this as ammunition to say, see, get off my back, let me do what I want to do. That's what the pastor said, you know? That's not what I'm saying. But I am saying you may need to have a heart talk. About the areas that are not biblical areas, but preference areas, where you will differ on the direction that your life takes from what we as parents would like to have your life take. The eighth thing, not recognizing the need for more choices as they mature. As your kids get older, you know, it's really hard for us parents to let out that rope of freedom. And yet we have to remind ourselves that someday we have to let it go. And so it's easier to do it gradually. But we hold on to it. And you know, kids, why we hold on to it? It's out of fear. We're afraid of the kind of music you may choose to listen to and the effects that we know that could have on your values. We're afraid of the kind of TV shows you may want to watch on your own, or the movies that you'd want to go see on your own, or the kind of friends that you'll choose to hang out with. Because we've been around the block a few times and we know consequences of things. And so we often react out of fear. Dating issues, driving, you know, all these things that produce fear in us And yet, we need to learn that every child uniquely needs to be able to develop choices And a schedule where they can handle that. It's a principle in Song of Solomon 8. Don't have time to talk about it now. Someday we hope to do a series on the Song of Solomon to see that principle of how uniquely you handle responsibility with each child. I remember for our own family, dating non-Christians was simply one of the basic rules. And there was a point in high school where Heather uh wanted to date this fellow who was a nice guy but clearly not a believer. And uh so we went around and around on that issue Finally got to the point where it was time out for a lunch at Wendy's, you know, and I still remember going over there. I remember the seat that we sat in over at Dobbin Wendy's as we talked about this issue And as we talked about it, I sensed that what was really the issue here was not so much whether or not that she could date Gan, but it was an issue of trust. Was I going to trust her in this choice? And so as we talked about it, and I'm telling you this is not a principle for you, I'm Heary and the point of this, issue is not dating non-Christians. The issue is choice and trust. I became convinced at this point it was more important for me to demonstrate trust and for her to have that freedom. than to keep what I thought was a very important rule that I'd seen out of my years working with college students in inner varsity, the pain that occurred when believers and unbelievers would date And so I said to her, Heather, I'm going to trust you on this and give you the choice to do what you want to do. You know her reaction? She wept. She wept in the gratitude to believe that I would trust her that much to do it. So she did date him. In fact, she led him to Christ. And he professed faith here, TPC, and joined the church. Now, that is still dangerous activity. I'm not advocating it. All I'm saying was it was a point where she needed to make a choice And we it's important for us as parents to give our kids the freedom to do some of those things while they're still at home rather than to keep a tight rein so that when the kid then gets out, away from home, All of a sudden there's all the choices and they go crazy because they they don't know how to handle them. So there has to be that gradual uh recognition. I know of a son of an evangelist who traveled around in Maryland to summer camps. The evangelist would preach and he'd have his teenage son give these powerful testimonies of God's work in his life and all these great stories and everybody was very impressed, except the kids and the adults who knew that kid. And knew that he had the mouth of a sailor on the off times and what he would try to do with the girls in the camp as soon as he would get them off alone He would act as a pagan except when he was forced by his father to act the way he demanded The father even arranged his marriage, picked out the girl, arranged the marriage, no consultation with him, marriage only lasted a few years, and now that that kid who's an adult is not walking with Jesus Christ. We want, you see, to control, and that's number nine, the manipulation for our kids to say what we want to hear. We want to control their behavior. Last fall I had lunch with our oldest daughter Heather, in which I felt uh convicted to talk to her about ways that I believed that I had exasperated her as a dad. It was a very difficult time, but I went into it, having confessed this to the Lord, and I went and I said, here's some ways that I think that I've exasperated you as you grew up And she of course agreed with those. And then I said, but now you tell me, uh what is some other way that I've exasperated you that maybe I'm not aware of? And what she said to me surprised me. She said, the way you've exasperated me, Dad, I guess the most, is that I always knew what you wanted to hear. And I knew what I could say to avoid the lecture and the hassles. And so I learned to give you the right answer rather than to really speak from my heart. And I played a game with you. And you know why I did that? It was out of fear. The fear of really knowing her heart. We have that, don't we, as parents? We would rather hear the safe answers, the answers we want. And you kids know how to give those answers in order to avoid the hassles But ultimately that's exasperating you because it's saying, I don't really want to know your heart, even if it's something painful. And so Heather grew up as the kind of near perfect daughter who chose to go to Christian college and met a fellow there first year who she loved, who was a terrific Christian guy, married him. And then about five years into the marriage, the marriage fell apart, and her faith fell apart. And I better not go on on that if I'm going to continue in this message. It's been the most painful thing for Kathy and me. But you know what's come out of that? We're now talking honestly for the first time in our lives. We're talking things that are painful, but things that are genuine There's no more saying what I want to hear. There's saying what her heart is really feeling. In fact, we had an interaction. We see her weekly and um We had an interaction this week where she thought I was saying something and she emailed me last night. Dan, were you angry about this? And I said, no, I actually wasn't, but I rejoice that our communication is at the level now where we can talk honestly about those things. How many of you would rather hear the answers you want to hear rather than to really know your kids' hearts? I'll tell you that's one of the deepest struggles for a parent. And intend to do what I say but not what I do. You know, to To know that my my life is not an example, I think of the uh quote from Julian Lennon, son of John Lennon, who is a member of the what group He'll just make sure that you know he still had the culture that understands who they were and get too out of touch. He wrote um when he was thirty-five years old, when Julian, the son, was thirty-five years old, he wrote about his dad John. I felt that he was a hypocrite. Dad could talk about peace and love, you know, all we need is love. Out loud to the world, but he could never show it to the people who supposedly meant the most to him, his wife and his son. How can you talk about peace and love and have a family in bits and pieces? No communication, adultery, divorce. You can't do it. Not if you're being true and honest with yourself. That's his sensitivity to the reality. John Lennon abandoned Julian when he was five years old to go off with another woman. Proverbs 22, 6, that we love to quote as Christians, which we all say, train up a child in the way he'll go, and when he's old he won't depart. Actually, the literal of the Hebrew there is, give a child a taste of the way he shall go. And when he's old, he won't depart. Our children need to see a taste of what it means for us to live out of the gospel. That doesn't mean being perfect parents. Far from it. That they see us in our repenting, in our believing, in our growing. But that it's genuine. And then 11, again related to this, aiming to reform the behavior rather than to conform the heart. I mean, excuse me, to convert the heart. Aiming to reform the behavior, not to convert the heart. And that's what we do by nature, isn't it? We give them the law Hoping that if they obey the law from the outside, that eventually it'll work into their hearts. The same thing we've been talking about week after week. That's the law. Gospel change is from the inside out, from the heart to the external. We try to have our kids live, Ephesians 4 to 6. without Ephesians 1 to 3 in place. And so we've got to be living out of Ephesians 1 to 3, out of our New identity in Christ, so that our kids see us repenting and believing, living out of the gospel. Otherwise, we exasperate them by trying to get behavior conforming so that we hope that somehow that's going to work from the outside in. And so the twelfth thing is for you to ask your kids, kids, you know, take the risk. How if mom and dad exasperated you? And for you kids not to abuse that's a hard question. But to give an honest answer. Now, if you're like me, after you hear these things, you need the gospel. Because maybe when I began this message you thought, oh boy, twelve things. Well You know, I don't look at myself as a particularly exasperating parent. How many of these can I get through? And, you know, maybe we can score above average at least. But then as you hear these things What happens? You feel crushed. You feel like, oh, I am so far from where I ought to be as a parent. And so you feel like there's this condemnation. There's this failure. How can I go on? You know, I just feel depressed. Why did I come here this morning? Let me tell you something. The point of the message, and I believe that what Paul's point there in Ephesians 4:6, 6. 4, was to see that we are all. Exasperating parents. That's that last blank. Capital A L L. Not just occasionally, frequently Whether in big things like Stu Batstone talked about in his stubborn arrogance, insisting on renting a car in Vienna, even though it hurt the family, to those niggling little things day by day And so I bring you, brothers and sisters, to two final points. Number one, that you run to Jesus Christ for his parent righteousness. What do I mean by that? I mean that his righteousness is all that you need. Even as you look at your failure as a parent, his righteousness covers your parent unrighteousness. Jesus does not hold against you. You're exasperating your kids if you are trusting his finished work on the cross. You can rest in that. He doesn't hold it against you. Isn't that good news? Amen. I'll tell you, I need that desperately. To think of how I've exasperated my kids and then to look to Jesus Christ and know, Lord, you don't hold that against me. That makes the gospel personal So that when I read Ephesians 3 and I pray that prayer about knowing the power and the love of Christ That power, which he says is beyond all of our imagination, is not just about casting out demons. It's about not exasperating my kids. That's the level that it operates on. It makes a difference. Living out of the gospel enables you and me to grow in that area because we recognize out of our flesh we'll continue to exasperate our kids more and more. Out of our fear, our demandingness, our control. But Christ is sufficient to free us up from that. And then finally, you don't have to pretend that you are not an exasperating parent to your kids. Okay, kids, you hear that message? Let's just give thanks to God that you don't live in an exasperating family, right? Okay, kids? You better say yes. How does you can be broken and go home to your kids for lunch and say, kids, God has shown me today in new and deeper ways, maybe I've ever seen before How we exasperate you. Pray for us, kids. Pray that God will reveal to our hearts, to mom and dad, the ways that we do that. We don't want to do that. We want to love you and we want you to be all that God wants you to be. But in order to do that, we need the Spirit to fill us and to enable us to live out of the gospel in our new life in Christ. I mean, what do you think your kids are gonna do that with that? They have to pick themselves up off the floor, you know, know that the conversation is on that level You're working together as a family to learn about grace, to learn more about Christ and what he wants to do in your life. And that applies whether you're a parent, whether you're a kid, whether you're single. That's for all of us. Let's pray. So, Lord, we recognize, we want to pretend that we're not exasperating. We want to pretend that we don't live out of fear and control, but we do. And Lord, the only thing that's going to change that is for us to not keep denying it, but to Read this word from Paul and realize that that word is in the context of the rest of the book of Ephesians. And to know that that's something that Paul knew we could not do in our own strength. And it's only out as we live out of chapters 1 to 3 and are filled with the Spirit. That we are able to be less exasperating. And our kids, as well as us, see the gospel coming more and more alive in our homes. Lord, transform our homes from homes of fear and control to homes of freedom and trust. And Lord, help us even today as we pray and think about this, that you would need us in new and deeper ways, each of us. In Jesus' name. Amen.