Well, in our study of Ephesians, we are now in a section where Paul deals with how being filled with the Spirit affects relationships first with husbands and wives and then parents and kids. And you kids remember that he has addressed you first in chapter six, verses one to three. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother, which is the first commandment, with a promise, that it may go well with you, and that you may enjoy long life on the earth. Three verses to you kids, and then just one verse to us parents. But what a verse. Well, fathers, do not exasperate your children. Instead, bring them up in the training and the instruction of the Lord. And we've seen how uh this is such a different view of the family from what the world without the Bible has. Because in in this view, you see, if you don't have the Bible Then as a parent, you're not really sure what your authority is. Is your authority based on size, power, how smart you are? You know, what what qualifies you But with Scripture, you see that this is a God-appointed authority. You're not parents in charge because you're smarter. It's because God has said you are in authority. And there's a great security in that. And you kids know, right from wrong, God says, obey your parents, for this is right. There's a security in knowing that if you obey your parents, God says it'll go well with you, and there is a security in trusting him in that So last week we saw that the first thing that Paul says to the parents in verse 4, and remember that the father includes father and mother, it's not just dads. Father is ultimately responsible as head, but it's the parents, mom and dad together. So father, parents. Now see on the um overhead there, let's flip this up so you can look at it. See, thank you. Fathers and mothers with them. First thing was do not exasperate your children, do not provoke them to anger or embitter them so that they're discouraged. Last week we looked at that, that idea of what it means to exasperate your kids. And a number of you said, thanks a lot, Al, you know, I only knew of about six or seven ways and I gave you twelve and so you got a lot more Ammunition, a lot more ways you can exasperate your kids. But actually what happened, of course, was that a number of you were saying, I didn't realize how many ways I in fact exasperate my kids Because we like to think of ourselves as non-exasperating parents, don't we? You know, other parents exasperate their kids, and we occasionally exasperate our kids, but not habitually. And so when you see these lists, it's kind of like, well, how well did I do and what do I do to correct the ones that I messed up on? But if you thought that, which I hope you didn't, then You missed the point of last week, which is that we are all exasperating parents because it comes out of our hearts. It comes out of a heart that wants to control our kids Wants my kids to make me look good, wants my kids to fulfill my dreams, I want to control them, I have my demands, all these things, you see And so we are by nature exasperating parents. But the good news that we saw last week is that Jesus came and died for exasperating parents, or if you're not a parent, for exasperating people. Amen? That's good news. Let me illustrate what I mean by that. What does it mean that that that is good news and frees me because what I'm saying, what I tried to say last week is that the more we live out of the gospel, the less we will become ex- or the less we will be exasperating parents. Let's suppose that tomorrow you went to your mailbox and you found in there a certificate, and this certificate was signed God, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. Don't ask me why he used US mail, but he sent it through there and you now have this certificate from heaven. And on the certificate, for those of you who are parents, that certificate says Certificate of perfect parenthood. You have been declared by God to be a perfect parent. Now, how would you feel about that? They probably say something like, Man, wait till the folks at CPC see this. They thought I've been screwing up. But I'm going to take this next Sunday and they're going to see I God says I'm a perfect parent Well you see, that's what the gospel does. Jesus' death means that your debt of the tremendous gap between your performance and what God's standards are for parenthood has been closed. Jesus has fulfilled that. And that's not just in general you've been forgiven. But particularly for those of you who are parents, you have been declared Perfect and given Jesus record of parent righteousness. So now having that, knowing that God has declared your parenthood to be perfect What do you do? You say, well now I can live out of learning what it means to behave like a perfect parent. How do I grow into that, you see? How do I in my day-to-day treating of my kids learn how out of that security, out of that forgiveness, out of that record I've received, how do I learn How to be less exasperating and how to do the positive side he says. That's living out of the gospel. That's Ephesians, you see. Be what you are And if you miss that, then this will become simply a law that is unattainable for you in verse 4. So we've seen the negative side. The negative side is don't exasperate your kids. Don't provoke them to anger or bitter them so that they're discouraged. The positive side that we look at today and next week is instead bring them up, he says, in the training and the instruction of the Lord. What is it that you're basically to do? The basic idea there, the root command is to bring them up. But that word bring them up, you look into your outline, bullet and outline now What are you to do? The first blank there is you are to nourish them. The word bring them up in Ephesians 6:4 is the same word that you find in chapter 5, verse 29. In fact, chapter 5, verse 29, remember this was to husbands. It said, after all, no one ever hated his own body. But he feeds and cares for it, just as Christ does the church. The word there feeds is the same word that you have in chapter 6, verse 4. To bring them up. To bring them up is to feed them. It is to nourish them. Now you think of how you feed yourself. You feed yourself, you pay attention to what goes in, don't you? I mean, you know, you don't just throw any old thing that happens to be lying on the table into your mouth you think about what's going in there. Something that's going to be nourishing. It's not going to be poisonous. Something that's going to be good for you. Some of us are a little more uh intense about that than others, but you know, with we think about what goes in. Well, it's the same way with our kids. We think about what goes in, not just their bodies, but their minds What goes in through your TV, what goes in through the video games, what goes in through comic books, or whatever other influences there are, you pay attention in the feeding of them, in taking care of what's going into them. But it's and and you set certain standards for that. And so it's important that you're not apologetic for those standards. I'm God's placed me in authority and so Not only am I in charge of feeding you physically, but I'm in charge of feeding you and what goes in, and there are certain standards in our home, and these things don't come into our home. And you don't apologize for that. Firm but gentle. These things stay out of our home. It's not an option. But there's a gentleness to it, you see. That word gentle is really involved in this idea of feeding. It's a gentle nourishing that is involved in that Greek word. In fact, when Calvin, John Calvin, came to translate verse 4 and comment on it, his commentary was, his paraphrase, Calvin's kind of paraphrase was, Let them be kindly cherished. Uh the idea was that uh when you feed yourself, you don't just jam the food in, you know, just stuff it down Um well some of us don't do that and some of no, I mean it's exceptions of course. But the idea is that you want to savor the food. You want to enjoy it And so a Christian home should be a place where kids savor life there It's a fun place to live. It's a place to enjoy. It's a place where we make happy memories. We're nourishing our kids' spirits. by occasionally just breaking the routine and doing something special to make a happy memory, like the time that we decided that we'd sleep on the deck instead of inside the house, you know, and just drag the sleeping bags all out on the deck and slept outside that night, you know, or the time we camped in the backyard or the times that you stop and just go to see something. To do something special. You know, in our in our home, April Fool's Day was kind of right up there with Easter and Christmas and you know We planned April Fool's Day for days ahead. How we could trick the other members of the family and do something that would just Get everybody you know, he in fact we used to give out prizes for who won that April Fool's Day in the family. I won't go into any of the things we did, but you know, I don't want to give you ideas, but if you want to pry some of them from me, I could maybe be talked into that afterwards. But you know, there's things that our kids still look back on as fun. And a Christian home ought to be more fun to live in than a non-Christian home. You know Uh it ought to be that you know it's enjoyable to live here. You know, I my friends, I you know, feel bad for them. They'll live in our house, you know, because we're nourished. You see, there's something here that is full and that is so enjoyable. Now, how do you do that? What's interesting, what he goes on to say then, is you nourish them by training and instructing them. Those are the particular things. The idea of training, those are the next two blanks, the idea of idea of training there, uh, the first word train, is uh the emphasis is on the action of discipline. It's what you do. The word instruction, the emphasis is on the words that you teach. This is how to live. This is what we believe. This is who Jesus is. So training has to do primarily with the action and instruction has to do with the teaching. So you see in this very simple statement, instead nourish them in the training and instruction of the Lord, you see three elements. Number one solid, consistent discipline, secondly, clear verbal instruction, and thirdly, all wrapped up in nourishing tenderness. And I would submit to you that every parent every parenting manual that has ever been written is summed up in those three points. Solid, consistent discipline, clear verbal instruction, wrapped up in nourishing tenderness. Now, I could quit there, but since you probably want to hear a little more about that, let me um say a few more things of what I think Paul is trying to get at here. First of all, in this idea of training and instruction, there are two extremes that I think we need to avoid. The first is the extreme of harsh authoritarianism. The idea that my word is law, you cross me at your peril. You know, I I find occasionally somebody, a a dad who will kind of delight in the fact that his kids live in fear of him You know, my kids know they'd never do that. I you know, I know they've never done that 'cause they're still alive, you know. A and there's this kind of delight that being a real father with authority means that the kids live in in terror of that authority. But the problem, of course, is when the kids become teenagers and they move on, uh it will not be the terror that keeps them following those values. The only thing that will do it is the relationship. And primarily, that relationship needs to be with Jesus Christ, and secondly, that there's a relationship with you And so we found out very early as we moved through those 18 years of choices, if the relationship wasn't maintained, there wasn't going to be the fear that would continue to keep them in line. But now there's the other extreme to that, which perhaps is more of the issue today, and that is people who believe that There should not be any corporal punishment, that is, any use of the Sears paint stick or whatever happens to be your choice of uh implement uh of instrument for that. We used the old Sears paint stick with the holes that sort of whistled as it went through the air, you know. Good sting but there was no lasting damage Uh and uh I find a lot of parents are kind of afraid to do that, uh afraid they're gonna mar the child or afraid that uh This the child will not um love them. I mean who hasn't heard I hate you, I hate you after about with the Sears paint stick. And you know, there's times when we had to say, uh hate me you may, but uh I love you and I believe that uh that this is what God would intend is good for you. He says that And um remember that uh we did that as an event with the 123 rule, number one, there was um The child had to tell us, what did I do that was wrong? So it's real clear why they're getting it. No just out of control, whap whap whap. And you figure it out. It was real clear, secondly, how many? State the number. of smacks they're going to get. And then thirdly, that there would be the embrace, the openness to be reconciled for confession, tears, and the rest of that for comfort. And uh having done that, we found that the the kids look back on that now and would say, I think all of them would say that that was a positive thing Much better, more effective than infinite lectures and timeouts and privileges taken away. Now those things need to come in, of course, as the kids get older, but I'm talking about when the kids are really young Uh some people try all kinds of creative alternatives. I heard of a fellow once who decided that he was going to teach grace by uh stating what the consequence was and then paying that consequence himself. And uh often he would say that, whatever, I don't know why I picked this, but he said, um because of that you don't get any dinner tonight. But that's okay, you can eat, daddy won't eat, I'll take the punishment for you And uh he did that for a while until finally he was losing so much weight and missing so many meals and found out that his children's compassion on him wasn't what he had hoped He finally ended that uh way of dealing with it. But then there's parents that uh may be guilty, they feel guilty for doing this because they have so little time with their kids during the work week and so They feel like, well, I just I can't spend my time in that way, and that's something that uh you have to work through, uh that there is the time. Um or maybe it's a reaction to your parents. Uh Parents that maybe were abusive, that did this in a way that was not constructive, not helpful. So we react to them rather than seeing what God says And scripture is quite clear on this from Proverbs. I give you there four references for you to look at to see that God says that um that the discipline, this idea of discipline, the action part of it, which is with uh this the spanking idea. I'm I'm not by the way in favor of using the hand but the idea that there would be uh spanking uh verse such as Proverbs 13 verse 24, he who spares the rod, that was the Hebrew equivalent of the Sears paint stick, hates his son, but he who loves him is careful to discipline him. He will in fact use that. And there's other passages that say that same kind of thing But it's important to understand that why we do this is rooted in a Christian view of human nature. Paul doesn't specify that, but that's behind what he's saying here. Fathers, parents, don't exasperate your children. Don't provoke them to anger and bitter them so that they're discouraged, but nourish them in the training and the instruction of the Lord. And that comes out of your view of what their hearts are like. So I thought uh I for the rest of time this morning I have one more message on this. Just want to say a little more about that. Five points. Number one, we believe The children are made in God's image and therefore unique and precious. Therefore, you can't ever try to control them with some standard formula. You don't treat them mechanically. How many times I've heard parents confused and frustrated saying, I don't understand with him. It worked with his older brother. Um and the problem of course is he had his older brother and so it done work with him. It's each child is different. Each child is unique. Let me give you two examples of different kinds of differences in kids. It's interesting. You see a little matrix there, the two uh two by two there. And uh I was surprised after the first service How many parents had filled out the numbers for their kids and were telling me, well yeah, I got a one and a four, I got you know I got to do the and so uh you know it seemed like it would help them. But just think about this as an example. This is not a seminar again, it's a sermon to help us to see Christ. and to see what Paul's saying. But this is an illustration of it. There are two kinds of kids you see on the up and down there, the dependent and the independent. That's what I call 'em. The dependent child is a child who is very dependent on your approval. This is a child who is very sensitive to whether or not you are accepting and approving and whether there's any alienation. Often a first child is like this. And this child is one who you can easily control through just disapproval. And the danger is that a parent will use guilt to keep that child in line. And I said that's dangerous because if that's what you use, as the child grows into teen years and beyond, there's kind of a a building up of a resentment that may come out of feeling that that was a manipulative tool because the values hadn't been internalized. They were simply based on acceptance, non-acceptance. You have in contrast to that the independent child who it seems at times doesn't give a rip what you think. For this child, life's been a power struggle from diapers on. This child seems like they are sometimes impervious to consequences or spankings. Uh these are the strong-willed child children who in this case, you know, particularly if you've had the first one who's been the dependent as your first child You get thrown off and you cannot this was verified by a couple of witnesses after the first message. Yes, boy, do we see that? We never realized that principle You expect the second child who may be more independent that you can keep the 53 rules that you had for the first one. And you'll be killing yourself. You kill yourself, you kill the child, and every day, you know, you just go to bed exhausted. You've got in this case to say choose your battles. Minimize the essentials. What are the non-negotiables? so that you can get through it and begin to show and talk a little more about that the idea of the act of righteousness. But it's important that we beware as a congregation of judging one another as parents in this Seeing a child who may seem a bit unruly and simply concluding, if they just did what we did, that kid would come into line. That may not be the case. It simply may not be that simple. Now there are parents who need help because they're not secure or they're not able or not disciplining their kids the way they ought, but there are parents who do and still find with very strong-willed children, children somewhat impervious to consequences that the things don't simply work the way they did with other people and their kids. We have to be careful that we don't judge one another. out of our own self-righteousness in that. Another example of difference is the future versus the present oriented child. And uh I was indebted many, many years ago to Tony Campola when he was doing youth work about this distinction. I think it's an important insight. Some kids are future oriented. They're wired that way. So they grow up by the time of middle school, they're already thinking about which college they're going to go to. They're already thinking about the grades they got to get and all the rest of this. By the time they're in high school, they're planning their careers, you know. Uh and so these kids are always future and they're very much sensitive to consequences. These are the kids who, like when I was a kid growing up, knew that there was somewhere out there this permanent record that you had to always beware. Anything you did was going to mar your permanent record. It wasn't until I was an adult that I found out there wasn't any permanent record. I just thought there was. They used to use that. You know, watch out. You do that, it's gonna go in your permanent record. You know one of my favorite cartoons is um Zitz I don't know if any of you guys read this, but here's a perfect description of a of a future oriented kid. Uh Jeremy, the hero of this little comic strip, uh is in the guidance counselor's office and his guidance counselor is talking to him and she says, Jeremy, I see a potential problem here If you don't raise your calculus grade, there's a chance that you won't get into AP class next year. And if you don't have a lot of AP classes, you won't get into an Ivy Lake College. And if you don't get into an Ivy League college, then you won't develop the high-powered connections you'll need to help you succeed in your chosen field. Sweat's starting to come down And if you're not a success in your chosen field, you may end up in some dead-end middle management position where you drag yourself to work every day for 40 years and then retire on an insufficient pension And spend your remaining years picking aluminum cans out of trash bins for prescription money. The last panel shows Jeremy, you know, and he's in a Man, am I stressed out? This friend said, well maybe you ought to go see your guidance counselor. Now, my point is, you give that same speech to a present-oriented kid, and you might as well be speaking Chinese. Many kids gonna think, how long is this gonna end so I can get out and go play with my friends? You know? He doesn't give a rip about picking trash cans, I mean, you know, aluminum cans out of trash cans for prescription. He doesn't care about next week. In fact, for kids on the ends of the charts of the present-oriented, they don't even connect consequences. If I do this, that's going to be a negative consequence. Very difficult in that kind of situation. God has made each person individual different, loving them, learning how to nourish them in the discipline and the instruction of the Lord is knowing their unique heart. Now I've given you this little chart just to help you to see here that um the one, two, three, and four is now What I judge is the ease of raising these kids. If you've got a dependent, future oriented kid, you get no sympathy from anybody because you got a piece of cake. That kid just boy, you know. Very simple. Life's a breeze. You wonder why these people have so many problems raising kids. Usually it's the first kid, you have the second kid, you're really humbled, you know This the the two and the three, you know, they're kind of in the middle. The dependent present-oriented kid tends to be harder uh at first but they get easier um as they excuse me they are uh The independent, I knew the other way. The independent future-oriented is the one who is easier later on. The dependent present-oriented is easier in the early years But in the later years when there's choices, they become harder. The independent future-oriented kid is harder at first. But then they become easier as they move into the teen years. For those who have the independent, present-oriented kids, we hold extra prayer meetings. And there is uh extra grace and uh sympathy and mercy and we offer up whatever we can for you. Those are tough That's a tough situation. And we need to recognize as a body that all kids are not the same and that God humbles us in the particular kids that we have to see that we can't simply change their hearts. Um anyway, I I gotta move on. Second thing is to see that our kids, whatever they are in that grid, The point is that their hearts are like your heart and my heart. It is a heart which is evil, totally depraved. Left to themselves they will incline always toward destruction. Just like you and me. And so um we we need to realize that as Christians we live in a day of the onslaught of the self-esteem movement which says kids are fine, their hearts are really good, you just kind of let them be what they are. You Christians are so negative, you're always talking about kids being sinful and people being sinful What's interesting is more and more evidence is being demonstrated to show that b the the basic idea of the self-esteem movement is kids feel good about themselves, they'll behave well and they'll do good things to other people We're finding that some of the kids who are committing some of the most brutal and violent crimes now are kids who have very high self-esteem. The problem is they view that they don't deserve to be treated like they are by other people, so they're going to take them out. There isn't necessarily, in some of the research going on, now they're saying there's not necessarily any correlation between how somebody registers their self-esteem on a scale and how they treat other people If there's no other values, it is not something that's going to predict positive behavior. We live in a time now where, for instance, in one class in a college in Boston, I think it might have been Boston U There was a professor who asked his class, it was a philosophy class, he said, I want you to write a paper on some time when you had an ethical struggle because you were tempted to do something evil. How did you handle it? The class couldn't write the paper. They said that makes sense to us. We never had such a struggle. I'm not kidding. This was recently, and the class as a whole had a discussion on why they couldn't write the paper That's the world that we live in. So when we talk about the fact that we realize the Bible says that we are alienated from God, as chapter 2 said in Ephesians, we are dead in our sins. that that goes against the grain, and we are constantly being pressured to romanticize our little cherubs. We dare not as Christians fall for that. Proverbs is very clear, our kids have a capacity for evil that is monstrous. And we need to love them, but we need to not romanticize them. That's why there's the discipline and the instruction. So the third thing is we need to lead them into active righteousness, to show them that they can obey the law externally. There are rules to follow. There are things that we require in our homes. One of the best statements of this that we used in our home was in Proverbs chapter 4. This is a powerful chapter on child rearing. So I commend it to look at this afternoon. Proverbs 4, if you look In verse eleven or don't look, just listen. Verse eleven says, I guide you in the way of wisdom and lead you along straight paths. When our kids were young, I happened to be reading that. In I don't know why I was reading it in the Hebrew, but I noticed that the word at the beginning of verse 11, I guide you, is literally in the Hebrew, I cause you to walk. So literally it is, I cause you to walk in the way of wisdom and lead you along straight paths. When you walk, your steps will not be hampered. When you run, you will not stumble. That's when they're young. We cause them as parents to walk in a certain way. We require an active righteousness. This is what you must do, or there's consequences. But the rest of the chapter is an appeal to the son or daughter to choose that righteousness, choose that wisdom. Now you choose this way. You see, there's a transition. There's a point where you're going to need to decide whether you want to continue to walk in that way. And so guard your heart, he says, don't swerve to the right or to the left. This is what you must do. It's not changing from the outside to the in, it's simply saying, this is what you must do, so that number four, this demonstrates passive righteousness The kids see I can do that on the outside, but it still doesn't change my heart. Doesn't the fact that I have to be kind to my brother doesn't make me love my brother I still hate him. I want to rip his head off, you see. But I have to be kind to him. Well, that's the opportunity for the instruction of the gospel. You see, you can't separate those things, the discipline and the instruction. So that the child sees that just like me, I can't be a parent that loves you, so you can't love your sister or your brother, apart from Jesus' work in you. The passive righteousness is that righteousness received from Him because of His death on the cross, of what He has done to forgive us our sins and to change our hearts. So the port the important thing is that as parents were always aiming for the hearts rather than simply the behavior. And that's where there's a tremendous trap within the contemporary Christian parenting movement, with all of its strengths, many strengths, of the tremendous awareness that contemporary Christian parents have of the active role that we must play in the lives of our kids. One of the dangers is that we have this pressure to have perfect Christian kids. Tom Bissett, in his book, Why Christian Kids Leave the Faith, very helpful book, makes this statement. The point is, stop making perfect Christian kids the ultimate goal of Christian parenting. Stop trying to produce perfect little saints. It can't be done, nor does God expect it should Christian maturity involves struggle and growth. Our children are going to have moments when it seems they haven't learned a thing we've tried so hard to teach them. Anybody identify with that? At times they're going to be difficult, disobedient, and disgusting. I didn't say that about your kids. He said that. Okay? That's part of the growing up process. To expect perfection is to stir up needless fear and guilt in parents and unnecessary anxiety and resistance in the children. We are so prone to parent out of anxiety for how our kids reflect on us. And Paul says, Nourish them in the discipline and the instruction of the Lord. They need new hearts. That's the fifth point. And so we pray for God to change their hearts. How many times a week do you pray with your spouse for God to change the hearts of your kids? The temptation is for us to kind of coast until we're in trouble and say, we've got to pray for Johnny Mary, whatever. Yeah, but why have we thought we didn't need to? And so if there's one thing you take from this, it is to talk together as Husband and wife, mom and dad, to say, we need to pray both for and with our kids. That's part of what we say every time we baptize a child. You promise to pray for them and with them That God would give them that new heart that only He can do. And what is your hope of that? The third point is your hope is that it's of the Lord. You see, he says, bring them up in the training and the instruction of the Lord. And that means that what you're doing is you are imitating God in his discipline. That's why Evan read Hebrews chapter 12. Because nine times in the verses he read, you had this same word here, discipline. God disciplines us, it says, out of his love, with rebukes. The whole idea there is that there is current pain for future peace. So the point is that as you and I not try to follow the rules, but as we get to know the Heavenly Father, as you spend time with Him, as you live out of the gospel with greater intimacy with Jesus Christ. You reflect his character in raising your kids. It's a heart issue, your heart and their heart. And your hope is out of the Lord, of the Lord, that just as Tim reminded us two weeks ago, we are in covenant. See, that was what he was trying to show you. God has made a covenant with families. And therefore, our family is set aside if at least one of the parents is a believer. Hopefully both. So that we can claim those covenant promises of Jesus being with us to change the hearts of our kids. We're going to talk more about that next week, but I want you to see this, that this is what the gospel is about. Nothing humbles us like parenting. And if you're not a parent, well pray God will humble you in other ways. But if you're a parent, you know how God will humble you. You think you have things figured out, and a week later you're thrown totally off. And so it's because Jesus is saying, I want you to learn more about me. Live out of the relationship with me. Learn that I'm the only one who can change your heart and your child's heart. And when he does, he gets the credit. And we know it is not by our superstitious trying to follow some technique that we'll ever do it. Let's pray. And so, Father, teach us, teach us to trust you. So often, Lord, as parents, we parent out of anxiety. Fears. Rather than Lord learning what it means to know how you discipline us and to simply nourish our children out of that relationship that we have with you. And seek out of faith to know that you are with us. As we teach them to do right Not wrong. Lord, to know that that simply is a way of leading them to see that their hearts like ours cannot do that. That we would not have self-righteous, arrogant, good behaving kids, but that Lord that we would have broken sinners, kids who aren't perfect, far from perfect, but Lord, kids who love you. That's what we ask for, because Lord, we want to be those kind of people ourselves. And we ask you to do that in us and in our homes for Jesus' sake, that he will get the glory. Amen.