We are indeed a nation that is obsessed with health, aren't we? Just look around you, at what part it has in conversations. The place it has in the media, television, magazines, look in a typical bookstore, how many books are devoted to matters of health. Physical, emotional. Washington Post has a weekly supplement called the Weekly Journal of Medicine. Last one I looked at was 28 pages. uh a thick supplement every week on the matter of health. We talk about cholesterol all the time, don't we? You know any guy over forty, the big number is not his IQ, it's his cholesterol rating. We love to boast about how I brought it down ten points, you know, and what are you doing to bring yours down and you know we share our guilt over chocolate and anything else that's bad for us And uh all the cholesterol charts that we carry around, make sure that we're not uh doing a no-no, you know, and measuring it all out. Concern for our health In fact, sometimes it seems like the more food you look at and learn about, the more there's really nothing that's safe to eat. You know, if it doesn't cause cholesterol, then it may be carcinogous. Uh I thought I was rather safe when we went over to the potter's house and I began to carry home bottles of pure spring well water that had been filtered three times, big filtration system over there, you know. Then I read that it may have radon in it, you know. And even if you avoid everything else, who knows what radon is leaking through your walls of your basement right now And you begin to wonder if there's anything you can do to really ensure your health, to make sure that you're safe. We have experienced for a number of years the fitness craze, you know, not only what I take in, but what I try to do to keep my body fit. And so we've jogged and we've rode and we've cycled and we've swam and now we're into Nordic, you know, and everything else that comes along to ensure that we can be fit people. Live longer. Enjoy health for a longer period of time. And then there's a whole question of stress. And how that's related to our health. A recent issue of Psychology Today magazine listed 286 cities in the United States and their stress index. You want to live long, stress-free life? You know, you just pick the city. I'll save you the article. Uh you want to know what the number one stress-free city is in the entire United States? State College, Pennsylvania, there you go. Wanna live a stress free life? Move to State College, Pennsylvania. You know, and Of course, if everybody took that article seriously and did it, State College, Pennsylvania would be the highest stressed city in the United States. Go from one to two hundred and eighty-six like that Just in case you're all wondering, Baltimore was 214 on that list, down toward the higher end of the stress level. No surprise there, is there? I didn't even see Washington, D. C. listed. I think it must have been off the chart. But there's more and more interest in this kind of thing. The whole question of the relationship between stress and physical health of The relationship between emotional well-being and physical well-being, or what has been the age-old question, the relationship between the spiritual and the physical. And it's right here that our text comes in. Because God has something to say about this. The Lord gives to us in Proverbs chapter 3 A prescription for health. Now, it's not a guarantee, it's not a promise, but it very definitely is a statement of what is conducive to good health. And so that itself is worth a million bucks. You know, here is something that God says is conducive to your own well-being and good health. And what is it? Proverbs chapter 3 verse 7 and 8. Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and shun evil. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones. Now see that in the context of what we've been looking at, beginning at verse 5. Solomon says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Lean not on your own understanding In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. He'll direct you into smooth and pleasant paths. Do not be wise in your own eyes Fear the Lord and shun evil. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones. Now I'm just simple enough to believe that that text means exactly what it says. And if in fact it means exactly what it says, then here we have an amazing statement. Because it's God's prescription for health. Not only is it amazing because God is telling us here directly what is one thing that will bring good radiant health But it's also in direct contrast to what our world says, to what our own culture says. You see, our world says that the fear of God produces sick neurotics. People who are following the Bible and believe that we should fear God and flee to Jesus Christ to protect us from that fear and find our security in Him. are kind of sick neurotic religious people. Now you see we're relativistic enough today that you can't say it's not true. I mean nobody can say, make such a statement. That's not true, this is true, who knows what's true. But what you do is you say, all I can do is look at the effects. And the effects of religious people who believe the Bible literally are that they tend to be sort of sick neurotics. God says that the fear of the Lord produces radiant health. Now it seems to me that's rather an amazing statement because it's somewhat verifiable, you see. Here's something you can look at. You can say, now let's look at the evidence. What about those who fear the Lord? Do they tend to be sick neurotics, or do they tend to be people who are in fact healthier? And I believe in order to test that and look at it, we need to realize that this verse encompasses, I believe, three kinds of health. The first, of course, is the simple, straightforward physical health that he has in mind. Physical health. Do not be wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord and shun evil. This will bring health to your body. Now, I don't see any way around saying that that's talking about physical health. This is going to bring health to your body. Again, it's not a promise. It's saying this is something that is conducive. Obviously, Christians get sick. Obviously, there are Christians who die from illness as there are other people who die from illness. Trusting Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord doesn't make you immune to illness. It doesn't give you some supernatural immunity system. So this cannot be saying that this will bring and guarantee health to your body that you'll never die. The Bible clearly tells us that that's not true. But it is saying that this point, verse 7, not being wise in your own eyes, but rather fearing the Lord and shunning evil is conducive to physical health Because notice that first word of verse eight. This, you see, what he just said in verse seven, this is going to bring, it's conducive towards good health, physical health. Now, one obvious way that this is literally true is of course in the area of what are called sexually transmitted diseases, STDs. Because people who violate God's law in this area, and God's law is absolutely clear here, that there is to be no sex between a man and a woman. outside of the marriage relationship, the marriage relationship being a relationship between a man and a woman. That where that is violated, there is the risk of physical effects as well as emotional and spiritual. In chapter 2, verses 12 to 15, he had talked about the straight path that God gives to us to follow, and he talks about the danger of walking off into that crooked path. And then right after that, you see the same idea as chapter 3 here, smooth, straight paths. Right after that in verse 16, he says, It will save you, this path, you see, will save you from the adulterous From the wayward wife with her seductive words, who has left the partner of her youth and ignored the covenant she made before God. For her house leads down to death None who go to her will return or attain the paths of life. Her path goes to the spirits of the dead. And this is, you see, physically true as well as spiritually, not in every case, but there is the possibility in that Now uh if you look at this and you say, uh I have been guilty of that, and uh is this then saying that I should uh live in fear and dread and anxiety for the rest of my life. No, there is repentance certainly for that. God can bring healing, but there is going to be, just as in any case of life, physically there will be, the reaping of what you sow. And so there is that possibility. Now God can bring a victory spiritually over that, but there is the consequence. Hereof not fearing the Lord and not shunning evil, that the proverb is saying, will perhaps not result in health to the body. There will be those effects of the sexually transmitted diseases. God who said, You shall not commit adultery was the God who spoke, as we saw last week, from smoking Sinai. He did not suggest that. He said, This is my purpose for you. And he stated that with absolute authority as a God of love who has given to us commands for our own good, as well as to reflect his glory. And so God has given this to us to follow. And of course, the most dramatic example of that today is the whole question of AIDS. Over 55,000 Americans have already died from the AIDS virus. It is estimated that right now there are over a million and a half people walking around in this country. carrying the AIDS virus in their body. And not in many of those cases it hasn't yet broken out into AIDS, but they have the virus that seems almost inevitably to produce AIDS. Almost all of those are homosexuals and drug users. Now I realize that as I say that We've had homosexuals in our own congregation who have repented and turned from that lifestyle. And so while on the one hand I say that that is a clear example of the violation of this, not fearing God, not shunning evil, and therefore reaping physical consequences, even to death in AIDS. On the other hand, I am not saying that those people are to be despised, that somehow they are beneath our notice or the grace of the gospel. A friend of mine, Lon Solomon of the Clean Bible Church, God has drawn that church into a ministry to AIDS victims, and he is finding That there is a literal fulfillment of the scripture that says, it is not the whole, but it's the sick who need a physician. Do you know that church has begun? God has just led them into a ministry with AIDS patients. And over the past months, they have found that 90% of those they have ministered to have given their lives to Jesus Christ. Now, if that's not a right harvest field for the gospel, I don't know what is. So understand me clearly, I'm not saying in this that people who have AIDS or who are practicing homosexuals or drug users or people that we should shun and not have anything to do with. If they do not profess Jesus Christ, we need to be open to God bringing us to their lives for a ministry. But I'm also saying that that's an example of the truth of this verse. And even as we bring the gospel to people like that and are willing. to at some risk, perhaps, be involved, perhaps sometime in the weeks or months ahead, as a congregation in that kind of a situation. We need to remember that God's word is true. Those that don't fear him and shun evil may in fact pay with their physical lives. But it's also the truth of the gospel that brings people to see that the Bible is trustworthy and that there is grace and forgiveness for those who, like the rest of us, will one day die. Sexual abstinence and faithfulness within marriage leads to health. That's one of the things this is saying. That's obvious in the sexual area, but it's also just as true in other areas where it's not quite as obvious. That's one level. A second kind of health that this verse, I believe, is speaking about is emotional health. Emotional health. Do not be wise in your own eyes, but fear the Lord and shun evil. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones. And it's that phrase nourishment to your bones that I think speaks of emotional help. Why do I say that? Well, because the word bones in the scripture, but particularly in Proverbs, refers to the inner person. It refers to the spirit or to the emotions of a person. For instance, in chapter 15 and verse 30, Proverbs says that a cheerful look will bring joy to the heart. And good news will bring health to the bones. And you know, Hebrew poetry uses words in parallel to mean a similar thing. And so you have in that one verse the idea of heart and bones used in parallel. They're referring to the same part of a person His bones are his heart, his inner being, which is either cheerful or depressed. In chapter 16, verse 24. We read that pleasant words are a honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and healing to the bones. And again, you have the idea of bones used in parallel with the soul, the inner person, their emotions. He's talking about their spirit, which is cheered by the pleasant words. The healing, there is an emotional healing, because it's a healing, it says, of the soul. Well then, thirdly, there is chapter 17, verse 22, the example that says, A cheerful heart is good medicine, a crushed spirit, however, dries up the bones. Well, you know, crushed spirit doesn't literally give you dry bones, you know. It it's talking about the inner person, it's talking about their emotions. It's saying that they will be dried up, they will feel withered, depressed. So it's talking about the inner person. That's what this is saying. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones. Not only physical health, but also emotional health to your bones, to your inner person. Now, why does it say that? What is the connection between not being wise in your own eyes, fearing the Lord, and shunning evil, and emotional health, nourishment to the bones? Well, I think it's quite clear when you think about it that you see the phrase fear of the Lord in the Old Testament is the is the phrase that refers to that relational, salvational experience with the living God. Fear of the Lord is that fear of God which makes us realize that we are in fact under his wrath, that we have violated the commands of an angry God. who holds us in his hand, and that therefore we flee to him who is the only one to give us refuge and protection from his own wrath and judgment. And as we flee to him, and understanding the full orb of the revelation of Scripture, we flee to Jesus Christ and what he has done on the cross. Then we hide from God in God. We come to Him for refuge. And as we hide in Him, we are delivered from that fear And that fear of the Lord, then, which causes us to shun evil, brings us into that place where we not only shun evil because of the fear of the Lord, but now as Christians, we shun evil because of our love for Jesus Christ. And that I call gospel health. And gospel health is seen in at least three ways that deliverance from that fear Which comes because we have hidden in Jesus Christ the understanding that we are a forgiven people. First of all, there is what I refer to here as Helpers High. That's a phrase from the October 1988 Psychology Today magazine, which refers to something that to me is a beautiful illustration of what God's saying here. You notice this says, Fear the Lord and shun evil. This will bring nourishment to your bones. Now, evil throughout Proverbs and the rest of Scripture, one of the basic evils is the centering in on myself. Loving and caring only for myself and not for my neighbor. Now the October 88th Psychology Today says that they have found a very interesting phenomenon. Let me quote from it. People who exercise vigorously often describe feeling high during a workout, a sense of calmness and freedom from stress afterwards. New evidence reveals that these same emotional and physical changes can be produced with activity requiring much less exertion, namely helping others. An analysis of the experiences of more than 1,700 women were involved regularly, who were involved regularly in helping others, highlights these surprising effects. In many cases, this quote helper's calm was linked to relief from stress-related disorders such as headaches, voice loss, even pain accompanying lupus and multiple sclerosis. Simply helping other people made these people feel better. It relieved a lot of physical ailments and stress. It ends by saying taking time to help then may be basic, a basic step to protect your health. Stress assault us. 70% of Americans say there is a lot or some stress in their lives, and 40% believe stress has made them sick. And it says that one of the basic cures for that is caring for other people. You believe that? That's psychology today. They say helping other people makes you healthier. That's exactly what God's saying here. Fear the Lord, shun evil, don't simply be wise in your own eyes, and this will bring nourishment to your bones. Caring for someone else. Or there's what I call secondly the freedom from anxiety and stress that comes from the gospel Beginning of verse 7 says, Don't be wise in your own eyes. Don't worry about how you're going to figure things out this week. What's the stress that confronts you for this week to come? What are the things that you're scared about? The things that make your stomach turn in knots as you think about how you're going to face them this next week or this next month or the project ahead or the time you're going to face that committee or the boss or the exam or whatever it is, what is it that causes you that stress? Proverbs says, trust in the Lord with all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge him, and he will direct you into those smooth and pleasant paths. Don't be wise in your own eyes trying to figure out all the ways that you can manipulate this situation and figuring your odds and angles and all the rest of that, but fear the Lord. And just shun evil. Turn away from what you know is wrong and follow him. And this will bring nourishment to your bones, a deliverance from anxiety and stress. Again, is this true? Is it verifiable? Back to psychology today. Hardly a Christian journal Psychology Today, November 1988. It was an article entitled, A Healthy Dose of Religion. In this article, they basically, to sum it up, say that people who are active as evangelical Christians tend to pray. And those people, it says, experience measurable stress reduction. A quote. Stress reduction, a sense of control over one's life, and optimism have all been linked to better health in a spate of recent studies Active and meaningful prayer may be yet another means to these ends. Those who were active Christians were healthier than the others in this test. They reported having fewer colds, fewer headaches, fewer ulcers, fewer respiratory problems, and other ailments. And the only thing they could test that was different between these people and other people was that they prayed when they had problems. See, they couldn't measure what they believed. They say that's not, you know, that's not empirical But he said the one behavioral thing we noticed was different about these people was they prayed when they had problems and they were measurably healthier. Isn't that interesting? Proverbs says, Fear the Lord, shun evil. This will bring nourishment to your bones. It will bring health, emotional health, and relief from anxiety and stress. And then there's the third area. And let me, before I go on to that third area, make sure again that you see this personally. When you think about this next week. And that which is going to bring anxiety and stress into your life. Is your motto, as I've said before, why pray when you can worry? Or do you take this to heart and say, Yeah, I really believe that this is a promise that God has given to me. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. He will direct me into smooth and pleasant paths as I acknowledge him in all my ways. Try it this week. Spend an hour today, perhaps, just taking all the burdens of the last week and all the worries of the next week. And rolling them on to the Lord and saying, Lord, this is what you've promised. I'm going to take you at your word and see what you do this next week. The last thing, in terms of emotional health, is the freedom that comes from the deliverance from the anxiety of guilt. Gospel Health Course centers in the freedom from guilt. The gospel provides us the freedom that comes from realizing that our guilt's been taken away. Jesus Christ has borne it all. And therefore we have his righteousness and nothing that we can or need to add to that. I think of an example in this of a person by the name of Flo Flo was a 61-year-old Christian who had known Jesus Christ by her own profession of faith for over 40 years. But Flo was not a very happy person. Flo was a person who was always rather grumbling, and she was known as a gossip in the office. She worked in a Christian bookstore office, and she was a rather miserable person. Besides that, Flo's health was so bad that she had to continue to reduce her work hours because her health wouldn't permit her to continue to work full-time. Her husband had left her and had divorced her, left her for another woman. She felt bitter, angry, guilty Against God, against others, and never resolved that. And her health was continuing to deteriorate. Finally, she had to resign her job because her health was so poor. At that time, a person who was on staff of World Harvest Mission with uh mission uh that the cars are with and do the sonship uh training that some of us are familiar with. Uh one of those staff people uh was interacting with Flo because they shared a common building And begin to just share with Flo some of the truths of the passive righteousness of Jesus Christ that we have when we trust Him. And how there is nothing that we can add to his finished work but the freedom that comes from the gospel that delivers us from that guilt once and for all, the total acceptance that we have in Jesus Christ. As she began to hear these truths, Flo responded. She believed this. Now you say, well, she'd been a Christian. Yeah, but you know, we as Christians can deteriorate in our belief of the truth of the amazing grace of the gospel. And Flo believed again. She believed that she had never believed before and understood that grace really is grace. And her life was transformed. From being known as a gossip and complainer, they kitted her that her favorite word was excited. She was excited about her job, excited about living, and excited about people. She started a number of Bible studies She began to get involved in other people's lives and was the cause of renewal and a transforming understanding of the grace and the power of Jesus Christ in their lives. Do you know what else? Her health changed dramatically. She said shortly after this that she felt like a woman ten years younger People that knew her said she seemed like a woman ten years younger. Deliverance from anxiety that comes from the burden of guilt affects our health And when you and I believe the gospel, really believe that what Jesus Christ did is sufficient to take away that guilt that plagues us. And that we really can rest in his finished work, we are in fact healthier. There is a burden that's lifted. Anxiety and stress are taken away. Because the gospel transforms us emotionally and then from that physically. Now If you are saying in your own life that you envy Flo and wish he could enter into her experience, I can't guarantee that for you. But I can tell you that what Kathy and I are going to be doing in the Galatians course for the next four weeks will in fact deal with that exact question. The burden of guilt and how the book of Galatians deals with that. Now, the other three teachers may think that's a rather sneaky taking advantage of the fact that I had the pulpit to plug my own course. I'm sorry if you are going to the other courses Don't let that deter you. But if in fact you were beginning to think, I'm not sure that any of these courses meets a felt need, but I wish something spoke to that, I want to tell you that's what we'll be speaking to You see, that brings us to the third point, and that is that this ultimately is speaking about spiritual health. That's really at bottom line what this is talking about, our spiritual health. That's the heart of it. Because you remember what James 1, verses 14 and 15 said. And that temptation leads or spawns the desire within us to sin. And that desire leads to sin, and sin, when it's finished, leads to death. Physical and spiritual death. You see, if there is no fear of God and you're wise into your own eyes, then you will never turn from your sin to Jesus Christ. And if in fact you don't turn to Jesus Christ, then you will never see that you have offended the God before whom you will one day stand. And give account for all that you've done, whether good or bad, not by your standards, but by his standards. And you will see how insolent and arrogant you've been through your life to think that you were good enough without the work of Jesus Christ and his dying for you as necessary to make it right before God. The only totally healthy person that ever lived since sin entered and death by sin in the life of Adam was the person of Jesus Christ. He was born without sin and therefore without disease and sickness. Jesus was the only totally healthy man since Adam. And because he kept the law, he had the right to eternal life, to never be sick, and to never die. Imagine having that right, that guarantee in your own life. And yet he gave up his health, and he gave up his life. So that you and I would be made well. It reminds me of an incident back in May of 1946 in Los Alamos. It was the team that was testing for the further testing of the atomic bomb. They were working on determining the critical mass of uranium-235 that was needed to continue the chain reaction for the atomic bomb. One of the scientists, Lewis Sloten, had as his job to join two hemispheres of uranium-235 And when they were testing this, as soon as that chain reaction would begin, he would force the hemispheres apart with a screwdriver, so I'm told, and immediately stop the chain reaction. And then one day in May of 1946, the screwdriver slipped. Immediately the room was filled with a dazzling blue light. As a bomb began to explode, a nuclear bomb, right within their midst. Snowden had a split-second decision to make. He could duck and run and seek to save himself, or he could throw himself on those spears to pull them apart with his bare hands. In an instant, he decided to throw himself upon the uranium, and he ripped it apart with his bare hands and saved the lives of the other seven people in that room. He knew what the cost of that would be. And nine days later, he died in terrible agony. Jesus Christ was perfectly healthy. And Jesus Christ walked right into the very center of the radiating effects of sin. Threw himself in the heart of the destructive power of that, and died on the cross, so that you and I Would be saved, would be made well, so that you and I would know the health that is described to us in the book of Revelation In chapter 21, verse 4, He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and there will be no more death or mourning or crying or pain. For the old order of things has passed away. Whereas Isaiah 35, that should be 35, not 25, describes it. The eyes of the blind will be opened, the ears of the deaf unstopped, and then the lame will leap like a deer, and the mute tongue shouts for joy Water will gush forth into wilderness and streams in the desert. The ransom of the Lord will return. And they will enter into Zion with singing. And everlasting joy will crown their heads. Gladness and joy will overtake them. And sorrow and sighing will flee away. For as Revelation 22 says, The angel showed me the river of the water of life. This is where Jesus is bringing us. Where there's a water of life as clear as crystal flowing from the throne of God, and of the Lamb down the middle of the street, the great street of the city. And on each side of this river there stands trees, the tree of life, which bears twelve crops of fruit, yielding its fruit every month. And the leaves of these trees are for the healing of the nations. Jesus Christ, the great physician, wants to bring healing into your life right now. Physical, emotional, spiritual. He guarantees to you that come to him, he will bring to you spiritual life and health. He guarantees also that if you rest in him and trust in him with all your heart, It'll bring nourishment to your bones, a relief from stress and guilt and anxiety. And he offers to you. The possibility that he may in fact work in you physically. Sometimes he does. And sometimes he restricts it to the emotional and to the spiritual. But this morning, just as we've done before, we're going to offer you the opportunity, those of you who want to, to come back into Smith Theater at 11:15. Laugh groups will be meeting just as usual. But for any who want to, to come back this morning and say, I would like you to pray for healing in my life, for spiritual healing, for emotional healing, for physical healing. Or you'd like to come back and pray for others. Or perhaps you'd like to come back and tell what God has done, perhaps in response to the prayer for healing that we had last summer. I know of at least one person who said that God dramatically worked in healing as a result of that time. Perhaps you'd like to come back and share what God's done in your own life. And to show that these verses are literally true. God really does accomplish what he says. And he wants to in your life, and he wants to in my life, as we believe him. Let's pray. Lord our God, we are a sick people. We're sick with anxiety and stress. Some of us, Lord, are physically sick. Some of us are physically sick related to the stress. Others of us are physically sick and it's not related to that. Lord, we recognize our spiritual illness. We recognize that in all areas where we need healing You, Lord Jesus, stand ready. You stand behind this promise. And you who are the great physician want to heal us. Oh Lord, may none of us be so foolish as to continue to walk in our sickness and not allow you to touch us with your healing touch. We want to come to you now and know wholeness, which only you can offer in Jesus' name.