That many of you have been asking, that question is, how does a Christian deal with a guilty conscience? How does a Christian deal with his guilt? I have said that a Christian is a person who is justified. That is that the person who has been declared not guilty by J uh in Jesus' name. But God remembers our sin no more That our record is clear. But yet we all feel guilt because we're all constantly doing and thinking wrong things What is it to detail really about the thing? Think about one thing. One thing that really bothers you. One thing that spreads you and guess what. I'm not going to tell anybody, it's just in your own mind between your own alone. But think of one thing that continues to plague you in good. And how do we deal with that? I know there's something to do that because uh we all exists have a problem with But the question we deal with this morning is how do you deal with that field of consciousness? How do you deal with that matter The bothers us, if you're thinking about right now. Many Christians are barred down in this because they've never learned to make a very basic distinction. The distinction between accusations And discipline. That's what I want to be able to discuss. Activation thing is constantly Discipline is from the Holy Spirit. And they both produce a guilty conscience. But the purpose of this is greatly different and the response that we should make to English is also vastly different. So now we want to learn how to deal with your God's way as Christians. A reference to this is in Romans chapter 8. In verses 33 and 34. That's what we're going to be talking about. I'd like to read that section of scripture now as you follow along. Put it in context, and so we'll begin with verse 26. Romans chapter 8, beginning with verse 26. In the same way, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We do not know what we ought to say, but the Spirit Himself, it is used to us, it rose, that words cannot express us. He who searches our hearts knows the mind of the spirit because the spirit intercedes for the saints in accordance with God's will. And we know that all things, in all things, God works for the good of those who love Him, who have been called according to His purpose. For those God foreknew, he also produced him to be conformed to the likeness of his sons, so that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those he redempted, he also called. Those who called, he also justified. Those who justified, he also What then shall we say in response to this? If God is for us, who can be against it? He who did not share his own son but gave him up for us all. How will you not also, along with him, graciously give us all things? Two, the bringing part They are peace against those whom God has stolen. It is God who justifies He is either condemned. Jesus Christ, who died more than I, who was raised to life, he was the right hand of God, and is also ill healing for us. Who shall separate from the love of Christ? By trouble, by hardships, persecution, of famine, of nakedness, of angels, of swords. As it is written to your safe and face death all day long, we have considered it to be fellows. No, and all these things you are more than conscious to him who loves it. For I am convinced that either is death that life is nor angels nor humans, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither heights, nor depths, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God. But it's in Christ Jesus, I know. Now go focus on verses 33 and 34 Who will bring any charge or accusation against those whom God has saved? But it's God who justified. Who is he but condemned? Jesus Christ, who died more than that, he was raised to life, is at the right hand of God. And it's also it is heeding to Now note here outline three things about these verses. Number one, that there is no accusation because of God's justification. Secondly, that there is no condemnation because of Christ's intercession. And thirdly, we want to notice the difference between accusation and discipline. First of all then, and then we want to see how to apply it. First of all then, let's take a look at the first point in verse 33 There is no activation because of God's justification. Continuing in the subpoints concerning justification, the heart of God's justification. This word there in the beginning of verse 33, who will bring any charge against is a word, it's a legal term. It means to accuse, to make a legal accusation, and a legal accusation. Lawful. The word of heat in reference to little accusations six times in the book of Acts. Two by Demetrius and Silversmith against Paul. with regard to that incident, uh two with regard to felix and two with regard to Agrippa. And it's a word that simply means to bring a legal accusation against someone. Now who is it that's accusing? You see there in verse 33, who will bring any charge? Well who is it that this has reference to? Well, do you remember a couple weeks ago we read in Zechariah 3. 1 that when Joshua was standing there, he was taken. who was bringing the accusations against him in Zechariah 3. 1. So with particular reference here to Satan, this question is asked. Satan is being accused of that's one of his means. The first accused at the beginning of the worship service this morning in Revelation chapter twelve. We saw this That was his name. He is he accuses who accuses us day and night before God. And he also accuses our consciences. How can you call yourself a Christian? And have such a cold heart. How can you call yourself a Christian and fear so little about God reading the Bible? What means call yourself a Christian and there's so little change in your life from where you were before you. How can you call yourself a Christian and continue to lose your temple day after day? Continue to have those lustful thoughts. How can you call yourself a Christian when you continue to say? These are the accusations that are brought up to us in many again and again. If you know the tone of the question, it's almost a mocking tone. Who is it that's going to bring any charge, any accusations against God's intellectual God's own chosen Jesus Christ. But mercy is because it's God Himself who justifies it. We see the tone of this. We see what Paul says Who dares to bring a charge, an accusation into the court here now against one that God has declared innocent? God himself has already filed this case God himself has said that you're innocent. God himself has declared you're righteous. He has acquitted you. So the question comes again, who is it that is bring that so Here stands one who has continued to fail. You and I acknowledge that. But God says he has tried us. And we have been given the verdict that was given to Jesus Christ's own life. We stand before God as if we had lived his life. Now he's going to bring a charge against Jesus Christ. And just as effective as a charge against Jesus Christ would be, that's how effective he is against humanity. Because we have his righteousness. That's what the church says. Our conscience is cleansed. Take a look at Hebrews chapter ten to see the extent of this. In Hebrews chapter ten, the author there is telling us that we can enter into God's own presence. Notice what he says in verse nineteen. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence. To enter the most holy place by the blood of Jesus, that place that could never be entered by the Jew and the Old Testament. Only the high priest once a year with the sacrifice of the atonement that we talked about some weeks ago. I was the only person who could enter into it. Now it's the invitation. We can enter into that most holy place. How? By the blood of Jesus. Because the veil's been rent by a new and living way, opened for us, through the curtains into the great one of God. That in his body, since we have a great high peace over the house of God, since we are new to God The two things, mate, with a sincere heart number one, with so assure it to say Uh sincere hard imposed to interface having, number one, our hearts sprinkled to cleanse us from a guilty conscience. Our hearts should be sprinkled clean from a guilty conscience. And secondly, having our bodies watch these pure water. Isn't that what troubles you? If you'll be conscious, conscience is says that you and I call anyone to the holy place is God's own service. Explain your mind and be successful. We can end them to make some place because we have once for all. had your conscience spoken smoothies. Secondly, you've had your body last. I find it to be a particularly confident practice to go explain with such more Those who say yes, yes, all those other things I can believe. But I can't believe that God should forgive me for what I did, what I did with my body, what I did to another person I can't believe that that somehow has been all taken through us. God says the bodies and body All those sins that you've committed in your bodies have been flamed in Jesus Christ. Who dares to bring in his charge against you? Who dares to bring an accusation against you? It's God Himself has justified you. And you and I stand righteous in the righteousness of being clothed with a garment of his righteousness. Our conscience is cleansed and our bodies washed with pure water. So we can stand there and laugh at Satan Let me add to your list a little bit And we can see it has no weight against me, Satan. Those accusations can no longer molest you. They can't accuse you. The law no longer can accuse you, it can only correct you. You and I can never be accused by the law of us. The use of the law in the life of the Christian is to correct us, not often to Notice the second thing that's saying. Not only the question of who can accuse those who got accused. No one, of course, because God is justified. Then it goes on to say secondly, who is he who condemns? Who is he who condemns? Who dares? Why? Because Jesus Christ died. He died condemned for our offenses. This is what he said in verse 3. Take a look back in that same chapter. There he said what the law was powerless to do, and that it was weakened by the sinful nature of God himself. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful men to do a free offering. And so he condemned sin. It's the same word that's used there in verse 34. He condemned sin. In simple man, in order that the righteous requirements of the law might be fully dead to not exist. That's just the truth. Jesus Christ was condemned so that you and I could never be condemned, so that the righteous requirements of the law would be fulfilled in your needs. They're in your account. They're in my account. And therefore there can be no condemnation. Because there's no double defined limit. Jesus Christ is pays the contemplate. So no no one can condemn us. He goes on to say not only Christ has died, but more than that he was raised to life. And of course we read in Romans 4. 25 a couple weeks ago, that he was raised for what? For our justification. You see, his his being raised to life proved that his sacrifice was accepted. And so because he was raised to life, death has no more demeanor. We've been justified. Our case has now been fired and we've been acquitted. Because we have people's righteousness. And then he thirdly goes on to say, not only had he died more than that, he was raised to life, but right now he's at the rightest hand of God in his head for us. Now what's the relationship there? But now these are advocates You notice the transition has taken place. Jesus Christ is the judge, to whom it's been committed the judgment of the Father. But for the person who is in Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ steps down from the throne of blood and stands beside us to clean our case with our adversaries. But there's a graphic picture of this in Acts chapter 7. Do you remember when Jesus, after his conception of faith before the son Jesus was dead signed by that Jew's force. And the Jews, as they speak to them and they accuse him of blasphemy, give him what is a very quick legal trial And they try him and find him guilty of blasphemy, and they act as his judges to condemn him, and so they stone him to death A legal proceeding. But if Stephen is being condemned by the Jews, what is the reason he sees the Jesus? Notice in Acts chapter 7, verse 10 56. We read that uh Stephen standing or Stephen um verse 54 when he heard this, when they the heard this, they were curious, they masked their teeth at him, but Stephen full of the Holy Spirit. Looked up to heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. Look, he said, I see heaven open and the Son of Man. standing at the right hand of God. Well the Jews know that he does this when it is the It is even for him. That's the position with Jesus Christ to remain because he's been justified. Before Jesus stands to receive us, he could receive it on our behalf. Who can condemn us? No one until the whole chapter begins with that state. In verse 1, there is therefore now no condemnation. The same word in verse 34. No condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus Because through Jesus Christ the law of the Spirit has set you free from the law of community. Because there's no condemnation. There's no accusation. But I've still got this guilty conscience. What am I going to do with this? So you see what we need to do is we need to see the difference between accusations and display. As Plato said in his good works on the tabernacle, the Christian has no more conscience of the that is under God's judge, but continue to have a consciousness of sin. And there's quite a difference The guilt we see is a signal, like seeing in a piece, that something needs to be corrected. Guilt moves us to action, like the peace moves us to the demonstration. And a person who has no pain, who has no pain reflections is a person much to be pitied. And because that person can continue to destroy themselves in spite of themselves. fire and everything else would be to rot out of their heads. Everything else is uh could be destroyed and enemies ever know it. And so pain is a blessing. The guilt of the Christians It's a signal. It tells us there's something wrong. Something needs to have some action taken. But we need before we can take the correct action To distinguish between guilt, which is Satan's accusation, and guilt, which is the Holy Spirit's discipline Now I'm thinking about this, I searched around to find out what words referred to the Holy Spirit Tactims. You know, you never find in the New Testament the words to the Holy Spirit. We find that the Holy Spirit and the Christians reprove it, they rebuke it, they correct us And I think the word that sits most of it, which seems to be the general term for the call, is the word discipline. The whole spirit and the stripes discipline And you see this is simply the uh same old thing we talked about before. The judge accuses them. Father, disciplinary. Now then let's take a look at the difference between accusation and discipline. Notice the difference between the judge and the father. The judge is uh condemned and accused, and therefore it's Judge, we saw in verse 33, he has justified us. And now therefore we are under the uh we we link now to God no longer as judge, but as to a father. to correct and discipline. Now how do they tell the difference? Well first of all the sports. First of all Notice that the choice of accusation is patron. Father is never disciplined. He always accuses it. The Holy Spirit never accused us. See all these differences. But hang on a tall difference in the perception. The purpose. The purpose of antigen can be structured. The purpose of discipline is time structure. I can think interior standard makes it feel written and ineffective. It has no constructive purpose in your life. When you feel guilt, first thing you need to ask yourself is what is the purpose of it? What is the intention if I'm feeling guilty? What can I do about it? A guilt from the Holy Spirit in God's discipline on each other is constructed with us. It produces your constructive power, it produces holiness. What about the reference? The reference is all difference between accuses and differences. The reference in terms of accusation is perfect results In terms of discipline, it's the principal undeserved. And I didn't get that back to what I meant. Is that even though we're justified, we may have things that are unresolved in our lives of Christians. There may be things that uh require some restitution to be I went through a person who deceived, became a Christian, and said, uh well now that I'm a Christian, I don't need to deal with all those things that I have, so become too much. And I would leave our whole life for that consciousness. Now God has redeemed it out of the life that we're in. We want to reveal it in that consciousness. Confirming the things that we have submitted. And God will continue to bargain us and make us feel that you It's also the case of needing to seek the forgiveness of another consciousness. That's God's forgiveness, he's justified, but we need to seek someone else's forgiveness. In order to make that relationship right between that and also we have a clear conscience in that relationship. And God will continue to bother us and that we excuse until we deal with that. But the point now is that the Holy Spirit will only bother about things that are unresolved in terms of restitution or relationships that have not been a good idea. Well the thing in its organization will deal with us about 10 sixties. It'll hold it off. Nothing can be done there. As far as I know my constant are continually bothered with field events. If that's the case, it's probably after the in the universe and Satan seeking to discourage you, seeking to destroy you by that accusation. So as far as God can tell, he's taken care of. for now this has no constructive purpose. Put the two in terms of foods resolved in the past. Secondly it also has to do with time And that's the difference between false field and studio. I put false field in quotation marks because I think oftentimes what we call false field is studious and we just call A lot of times we feel guilty about something and we're saying, well God doesn't really say anything today. But the point is that what And if we believe that that thing is wrong, even though an expectant maybe is wrong, nevertheless it may be free guilt because it's true that you But I'm talking here about the kind of false guilt races. You and I have a schedulous force. As far as you know, you are doing everything that God is intending And it's oh you cannot another phase. You get a phone call. Somebody says, Hey, you know, phone case trip. Put together a castle or some of the trying to help out and uh put together a cat roll and uh bring it over there once again and it's never gonna get to this kind of thing and uh inspired this can't be Well how do you feel about that? Oh well Lord I submitted it to you. If you wanted me to do that, uh then I would have had to find a few other commitments Or you schedule school and somebody says um It's a real opportunity over here to leave an event to five of things. It's going to run for about ten weeks when these are five is using the best both users. That's good. Why the Lord made that clear to you? He has not made it clear to me. And so you say I my priorities are are set. I'm full. I can't do it. Walk away with a pure country? Yeah, many times it feels guilty. It's a good thing. Is that really the right thing? Maybe it wouldn't want to be But having set your priorities, there will be things you and I need to say no to. Things that we should say no to with a clear conscience. You know what happens? Take a few people It's a false guilt. It's not what God's calling us to do, it's something some other person's calling us to do, but we're feeling guilty because we condemn them. Other of things. Maybe uh you feel guilty about the responsibility of others. You've been talking to somebody about the Lord Jesus, and that person hasn't responded. So what do you do? You feel guilty about how They haven't responded. Surely I've done something wrong, respondents are not responding. I know one woman who feels guilty about what her husband doesn't seem to do. We have so far if you feel guilty when we have it. And many of the people feel guilty about the responsibility as other people for false guilty. We can't control them. And yet when they don't behave in a way that we believe they should, we feel guilty about it. That's Satan, that's using us, to discouraging us. Here's another example. Many of us become intimidated by persons with weakest consciences concerning something. Well let's suppose that in all the way that you understand what scripture teaches, you're keeping the Lord's faith as the fourth commandment dictate. You're keeping Sunday in a way that you believe God will have you keep. If somebody comes to you and say, ah, that's not the way I do that you keep Sunday, I have a list of 15 things I do every Sunday. And this is really the way you can keep Sunday I don't believe God's calling you to do that. But so many times what Christians would do is rather than examine the scriptures and say, well, what is God telling you to do that? I think it's going to have heavy views. And now I still do the same things I did before, but I just feel lousy about it. Now I just feel good about it. Becoming instead of I was telling us to say, rather than taking it to the scriptures and saying that it's God telling me to do it, intimidate one another. And we are intimidated by another feeling a false view because it is not something that we believe is something Christian, that God is famous. Something something else that some other person has made as their thing Maybe a personal thing, maybe something in the personality of background. And these things are proven. Provence can be related to the system We can look at it quickly, we can understand it strictly, and we can see what God is saying to us about what is learning. So if anything is quite weak in our attitude Not to be my accent, sometime for the attitude. What I'm interested in about the Lord today is not that I'm not doing those things, but what I really feel worried about is I've got a lot of attitude about the word. Even if those things fit to be done, I don't want to do it. People have the idea what tender it is. But I need to be clear with him what is the answer, they feel about it, what in fact are it telling you But in fact I have inspired disciplinedness that I need to do. I never can ignore if something is hard in some some right way to see true guilt. Positive say, well I'm justified, I don't need to be a without God's love meaning. And God loves me and him his love will continue to fulfill me The process was different within the two things. Notice the process in us was only from ourselves focus and discipline with the cost. Well today we say we just keep just looking at our skill. We see our whole and will alienate us from Christ. The Holy Spirit will always, when he fills us our wrongs, also show us the payment of Christ's The Holy Spirit never leaves us simply focusing on ourselves. But when the Holy Spirit points out a sin to us We're reminded of the cross. We're reminded that we're justified in Jesus Christ. That it's God who has justified us, that Jesus Christ who has died in us. Given again now in two forth and then one drawing him in Allah that produces a joy of obedience. Now it's trouble again, it's not as simple as it's all But that is the process the Holy Spirit will lead me through as I respond to that. I'm not left to myself. What about the actions? In terms of accusations, I cannot correct the situation. In terms of discipline, I always tend to arrest what is causing me that you're guilty. If you find that you're feeling guilty about something that you're Absolutely. Nothing you can do about it. It's something in the past. It's been taken before the for that is involved. There's no way you can do it. What's your right without? That's accurate for some things. You simply try to discourage you and to give you that to take you away from the Lord. Whenever the Holy Spirit pushes them here and me, it is always with regard to something that you and I can correct now. Something in the change. In fact, we said it's three seventeen tells us that the truth is offered to the doctor who is true, remember, was lead to correctness which leads to the cranian weight of how we look back in decembases. Because it will always be that kind of dynamics. And you can always say to yourself, I know what I could do if I were Willing to do it. I may not be willing to, but there's always the hope that God will give you the joy of the beauty and never try in discipline And always thinkable, the Christian is always speakable. And go into answers. And my hobby sensors may be. You and I are never in a position where we cannot It's simply a matter of hearing it's a part of two people. It's disappointing and healable. It's awful because So then how do we deal with these things? That's the final thing. The result we may get in despair at the particular despair. I've covered that at the dead end, the analysis things, the good Now in application, how do I do it? Well first of all you need to be able to find an obedience is your content plan because of justification in Jesus Christ. Have you ever come to Jesus Christ with one thing? Have you ever come to Jesus Christ and realized there's nothing that you could do before God? God to make yourself right before. You realize that there is nothing that you can do right those minutes to face God as your father. Rather, you know that you have never received that uh that declaration of not guilty of pity because of the righteousness of God If you stand in your own gifts, if you've never received that saying the water, it's not later up, if you can. And having done that now, what do we do with this automatically have itself? Well, number two. The interesting thing, you make a list of the things uh that you feel guilty about, that's the first thing you do Make a list of the things you feel clearly about, don't you go to the statistics for some period of time, and note whether it fits the category about you feel distributed Well that's the first thing we need to do. So hold on, make a list. What are the things we got in the new game? If you've got that down, then say, well what are these things need to be like In your things, then God will be justification of human faithful impressions. By the way Don't deny the thing. A lot of the descriptions are live with idea because we're always welcome on here. What kind of thoughts I have? That's the kind of motivation I have. That's the kind of pervert I am. That's the kind of person reading template. That's the kind of stuff can I have. to the point what it is. And then realize the Jesus Christ is with him, not with Jesus. The frequency is his trend. And therefore There's no accusation or condemnation that can come upon you. That is your father, not your God. Now, if it's an accusation, look on that. And if it is accusation, If the philosophy can stimulate in its mass, then people have find that God himself remember to assume no more events. It's God Himself. You can't remember that's going to be Do you to continue to bring it up? Do you to continue to start the truth over yellow and blessed? Remind yourself We can justify and move on and now faith us in the sun. We need to draw on after the world. And we can put it into the heart. The second thing now is if you can imagine with regard to the present, some false field of the presence, then the first thing you need to do is You're feeling guilty about some big thing, you're not really sure if it's right or wrong, but somebody's learning something on it. success it maybe there's something wrong about it. So you need to go to the 50. You need to say no. You said something non-violating the 50. So I noticed you I said you may need happen. We can't feel embarrassed to grab hope from each other and say, well, I'm having some sticky problem if we are. I'm not really sure whether we are. This is something that I always want to review now. What do you think of Sticky? But let's put the state involved in it. And let's come together in each picture. Others who maybe not feel embroiled in it and look at a little more objective. And talk to the elder, the understanding What's the intensity? God will tell us to submit ourselves his words and that's just completely And then renowned Satan's attempts because it shows you a burdens that you were not meant to be. So many of us bear burdens of God never intended And so let's go to the future, see what God's priorities are, and then we get to this next. Final model, what if it does What if you need congestion if you don't think it's power? Investigation is still as a little power in the Not under the justified or under parental to be specific and specifically. You would convict the world of the So these disciplines, what do we do? The first thing we need to do is compress the law and keep the retention test to then just the law of things I'm making a little bit nice big on trying to make it this big and I'm trying to squeeze and And I need to just simply confess that's how big it is. I have to call it what it is, and I have to simply uh get it what the root thing is. Lord, I don't just feel guilty of of it slapping at my wife if she hands into this. I'm guilty of a bitterness against something she did last week. I'm bitter against them. So that's probably soon to stop and eventually when it will come and continue it again. Or um well I'm just not patient with my husband anyway. You have to call this thing what it is. And I'm looking at me. And temptes to what I have those things in good place and what I'm covering it. That's what I'm doing. I'm building with that. So he might be controlled You've got to conquer it and then speak to God again to the point. See Lord, I I don't want to really think that we joined this thing. And we'd have to do it without your students, you're in front of us. And so maybe I'd say I know you want to think, but maybe I could back up and say, Well about I want Now once we've done that, when we see them, look specific steps of collections of regular light in the same formative way With them. You might ask yourself these questions and speak up on the question. So what would I do if I were to follow Christ completely in the What would I do in the field? Let's just suppose I were to do that. What would that mean that I would do in the field? Well, uh, if I were to do that, I guess that would mean I would once you've written them down. And you'll find in an obedient thing in the priority. You can start things in an obedient idea. It takes trusting God with your announcement. And it is where you not be there. And it takes the spirit of obedience to simply say, Lord This is true. Therefore it's hard to find out. And if I do that, if you're all you're doing is you're working up and justify the truth and basically The world is a God. Well, in these voices are going to become I want to become more like this. I want to become more like the person you'll come to do the God Because you see, we have given to me a clear conscience. And my conscience is really simple through. And my body Who is the two lamb? You and me. He declared to God. In fact, Rose of Lamb is the one he introduced. And that's Mary says, it's David. We have to do in this thing. We can expand the proof and sickness. Lord I was doing we just need to happen. So I can And we're right and those things is good for us. And if the comments are the one who is willing to take some of us. We would not include. How is to be placed back into our face and feel the story of man can do it. Where is he in activists? Because we could be given all that. Then you might keep things and constructive things. We're going to do those brain and concerns and five practices. How do we need to understand if we need them and before? If you all give it to students, we can give it to me. There is one thing from the three things and that's the thing that's only