It was a glorious day in Israel. The banners were flying, the colors were unfurled. It was that long-awaited day, the day that the ark was being brought up from Baal of Judah, or Kiriath Jiarum, unto the new capital in the land. The city that David had conquered from the heathen Jebusites, that city called Jerusalem. Past are the days of fear and lack of leadership under Saul. Gone is the fear of the threat of the Philistines, for David has recently decisively defeated them and chased them all the way out of the land to Geezer. And so now, this is the day of celebration. A day to celebrate the goodness and the faithfulness and the favor of our God with us. And so they had a parade. And they brought the ark up from Baladah in the midst of this parade. And this wasn't just an ordinary parade. The Bible tells us there were 30,000 men in this pare, plus women and children. There were singers, there were dancers, there was a full orchestra in this parade. And everybody is celebrating, we're told, with all of their might. These aren't just a bunch of Presbyterians celebrating in this parade. These are Jews that are all dancing and singing and hoying all over the place with all their might. It was sort of like a charismatic parade coming down the road. And it was just magnificent. Everybody leaping and shouting and celebrating the very goodness of God. And the focus of it all is the ark. The ark which symbolizes the very presence of that God. For the occasion, this ark had been placed on a brand new cart. to come up in the parade. As they reached the threshing floor of Nathan, suddenly the oxen stumbled. And the ark began to totter. Instinctively, one of the attendants, Guza, put out his hand to steady the ark, and he touched it. And immediately as he touched it, he dropped down motionless to the ground. The music stopped. The singing died away. A few went up to check Uzzah, and sure enough, he was dead as a stone. It's hard to imagine such a stark contrast of emotions from one moment to the next as there would have been that day at the threshing floor of Nakin. One moment singing and shouting, a profound sense that God is our friend. And the next moment, fear, dread The horror of death, and the suspicion that God is our enemy. Imagine what a turn of events and what a juxtaposition of emotions. God, who has seemed so faithful, now all of a sudden seems unpredictable. God, how could you do that? That we're here in your honor. And this man does something simply to serve you, and he's struck dead for it. How can you be like that, God? What about David's emotions? Well, we don't have to guess at them, because the Bible tells us very specifically That David had two very distinct emotions that day. In 2 Samuel chapter 6 and verses 8 and 9, we're told that David felt both anger and fear. First of all, he felt anger. God, how could you do that? This whole thing was in your honor. Azov was just trying to help. How could you be like that, God, and spoil the whole celebration? It doesn't make any sense Have you ever been angry at God? Because everything seemed so perfect, and all of a sudden it seemed like God smashed the whole thing. All of a sudden, in some senseless turn of events in your life, it seems like everything has come crumbling down. And God is behind it. No getting around that. It's not impersonal weather. The Bible tells us in 2 Samuel 6. 7 that God's anger burned against Uzzah. Remember reading that? God's anger. They called the place Perez Uzzah because God's anger broke out Perez against Uzzah. And David's angry. But along with the anger, there's fear. And that's his other emotion. Fear. A dread. A dread of the unpredictable power of God. It seems like you never know what's going to make him mad, you know Have you ever felt like that? God, I I'm just never quite sure how to deal with you. What do you want from me? And there's a fear that this God who had seemed moments before to be so steady and so faithful and so close Now there's an awesome dread of his holiness. And he seems removed and unpredictable For some years I've studied the Psalms in the life of David. One of the things that I've sought to do in my particular study of David and the Psalms is to try to place the Psalms within the life settings of David, to try and tell where in his experience they fit. Now, in a few of them we're told by the headings where they fit, but most of them we're not told. And commentators are usually reluctant to speculate. Whether it's from arrogance or just interest, I'm not so reluctant. And I'll admit that it's guesswork, but I've had a lot of fun through the years trying to study the life of David and each psalm and place that psalm where it most seems to fit historically, circumstantially, and psychologically in the context of a particular event in David's life. I'd like to suggest that I think I have a fair amount of evidence That it was just after the death of Uzzah that David wrote Psalm 39. So if you haven't turned to it already, make sure you got Psalm 39 open before you. I believe that Psalm 39 was written just after the death of Ozah, in spite of the fact that I have checked seven of the most respected commentaries on the Psalms. And not one of them suggests that this psalm was written after the death of Uzzah. Now, before you think that's a fatal objection to my theory, let me hasten to add that six out of the seven commentators don't suggest any historical circumstance for it. They just don't even think that they can speculate. The seventh one suggests an entirely different circumstance in his life far much further on. But I would like to suggest two points of evidence for which I think Psalm thirty-nine was written there. And so what? Well, the so what for me is that it helps the Psalms to come more alive if I can realize that something prompted that Psalm. You know, often we read the Psalms and we just read it and it just sort of is there, lying on a page in abstraction. And it's hard for us to enter into the Psalm. Now, whether the psalm fits this particular circumstance or not, it's still just as true, and all of it's just as helpful. But I think it so effectively fits this purpose, this particular point in David's life, that for me it helps it to come more alive if I can understand what might have prompted it. The two reasons why I think it fits is because the emotions and the thoughts of Psalm 39 precisely fit the circumstances of 2 Samuel chapter 6. It just fits. There's a psychological fit to the thing. And I think you'll see that as we go through it. The second reason why I think that this was written at this time is because of the dedication Hey, that's the part that nobody ever reads. Notice there at the top, to the director of music for jettison, a psalm of David. Now there are only two, possibly three, Psalms that are dedicated to Jedathan, which raises the question, who in the world is Jedathan? Jonathan, it turns out, was David's music director and choirmaster. He's the director of music of Israel. Now, 2 Samuel 6 doesn't tell us this, but I would imagine that Jedathan was leading the singing and the orchestra that day as they were marching up to Jerusalem. And can you picture David and Jedathon at the very peak of their careers? I mean, this is the high point of their lives. Thirty thousand men plus women and children screaming and yelling and singing and dancing, and they're leading the whole thing in the honor of God as they go up to Jerusalem. And then all of a sudden, Uzzah is struck dead. And the whole thing is brought to a crashing halt Now, as David works this through in Psalm 39, he comes to some new insights that help him to understand what God intends for him to learn from it. Doesn't it make sense then that he would look back on his friend Judithan and dedicate this psalm To the one who more than any other person that day shared in his grief and in his pain about that. For what it's worth, think about it. To me, it helps me to see perhaps what was the circumstance of this psalm. But now why are we going to look at the psalm? Well, basically, because the psalm I think helps us To gain some real insight on how to deal with tragedies that come as a bolt out of the blue into our lives. But even more, the Psalm has a number of references to the brevity of life. And therefore, particularly fits the beginning of a new year. And that's why we look at it. Now, you'll see that there are blanks there at the headings. Those are five P's for you to fill in. Alright? Try to fill anything else. It doesn't begin with a P, you got the wrong word. Five P's? Follow along as we trace through David's thought in the Psalm. First of all, we see perplexity in pain. Perplexity in pain in verses 1 to 3. Follow along as I read. I said, I will watch my ways and keep my tongue from sin. I will put a muzzle on my mouth as long as the wicked are in my presence. But when I was silent and still, not even saying anything good, my anguish increased, my heart grew hot within me. And as I meditated, the fire burned, and then I spoke with my tongue. You see, David here is saying God, how can you do this? And He wants to scream and curse and cry. He wants to give vent to all this confusion. He wants to cry out. He's the kingdom, you see. And there's people watching. And all those people that are watching, not all of them are friends. Not all of them share his grief There are some political opportunists there who would like to take an opportunity for David to curse God or to say something unseemly in order to bring either discredit upon David or, more importantly, discredit upon the God of David. And so David says, I'm in a terrible fix because I have all these emotions, but I can't express them, because the enemies are here, you see. As long as the wicked are in my presence, I've got to keep my tongue quiet. I can't even say how I feel. Maybe there's some things I can share with my friends, but I really can't express how I feel openly. And there's something for us to learn here. When you and I are struggling with real grief, it's perfectly appropriate, I think, to share our struggle With our brothers and sisters in Christ, and be very, very honest about how we feel. But there's a principle not of dishonesty, but of loyalty. To not pour out all of our complaint before those who do not know Jesus as their own Savior. David says that would be disloyal. And so what you see here is not dishonesty, but responsible self-restraint. But yet as this pressure builds within David, and he says, I gotta talk to somebody. Who am I gonna talk to? You see, another principle that's very important for us to learn. Look at the end of verse 3. He says, I meditated, the fire burned, I couldn't hold it in any longer. And so I spoke with my tongue. That means I spoke out loud. And who does he speak to? Verses 4 to 13 are all Addressed to the Lord, not to man. I think often we're too quick to speak to other people about our complaints. I think too often, if I'm frustrated or I'm depressed, or I'm down about something, that I can't understand what God's doing, I want to talk to another person so that they can comfort me, you know? So that they can tell me that I'm right to feel that way and they can offer some words that I'd like to hear. When what God wants me to do is to come to Him. What God wants me to do is to bring my complaint and my crying to Him personally, so that He can deal with that in a way that no other human being can. I think we're often too quick to go to other people. When we ought to go first to the Lord in the pressure that we're feeling building up within us. And that's what David does, and he gets an answer. And so you see David going to Jehovah, to the Lord himself, And the point two is that he gains new perspective on life. New perspective on life in verses four to six. You see, what I want you to see from this is that the beginning of his understanding of the unfathomable ways of God Come from this perspective, a changed perspective on the importance of life. See, David doesn't begin Because his words to God begin in verse four. He doesn't begin in verse four saying, Lord, why did you do this? Lord, why in the world were you behaving like that? Help me to understand What he starts with is a different perspective on life. And that's what gives him the insight. And so he begins with three requests, three statements, and three vanities. Verses 4, 5, and 6. Very easy to follow. Notice them. Follow along of those verses and read with me as we see what he says. He begins in verse 4 with three requests. Notice the first one. Show me, O Lord, my life's end. Show me that I too am going to die. You see, we all think that we're the exception to death, don't we? You hear about death and you hear about other people dying, but somehow it's hard to imagine our own death. Because when we die, everything's going to stop. It's all going to cease. Surely the world will not continue. And so we have this inside thought that somehow we're the exception to other people who die. It was a book that was recently written on the history of the family through American culture from colonial times to present, was reviewed in the Washington Post just last Sunday. And in that uh review, the reviewer points out some insight about American life throughout our history. He says that the colonial American knew nothing about a midlife crisis. He said, because a midlife crisis is when you're first faced with your own mortality in a new way that really grips you. But he said the colonial American was faced with that from his childhood. He was faced with the reality of serious illness and death from the very time that he was aware. And so he never had anything like a midlife crisis that made him realize all of a sudden that yes, there will be a time that I will die. And that's what David's saying here. Lord, help me to realize I'm not the exception. Show me my life's end. That I too will die in order to begin to gain perspective and wisdom. You see, unless you have come to grips with the fact that one day you too will die, You cannot begin to get God's perspective on life. And you will never understand his ways. And you will never come to know him in a really personal way until you've come to grips with that one fact. Then the second thing that he says, verse 4, and the number of my days. Show me the number of my days. Well now if you live 70 years, how many days do you live? Well, sat down and calculated. It's 25,550 days. Show me the number of my days. 25,550 if I live to be 70. That's not a whole lot of days, is it? I mean, since last beginning of January 1986, another 365 have gone like that Yeah, those days are moving. Very few days altogether. And so he goes on to the last part of the verse. Let me know how fleeting is my life. Lord, first of all, show me that I'm going to die. Show me how few are my days, and show me how quickly they speed by. Literally the Hebrew there is ceasing. Show me how ceasing are my days How quickly they're going to pass me by. As Longfellow said, it's not till time with reckless hand has torn out the pages of life to light the fires of passion with that we stop to notice that the pages which remain are few in number. Show me how quickly they're moving, Lord. How ceasing is my life. There is Ozza. And he was a friend and he was full of life. And now he's dead. I could be dead tomorrow. You could be dead tomorrow. And that thought leads him on to three statements in verse 5. So verse 5 he says, You have made my days a mere handbread. Now he's concentrating on this brevity, the speed of life, and he says, first of all, you've made my days a mere handbreadth. How do I measure my life? Not in miles, not in yards, not in meters. Not in feet, but in a handbreadth. You know the Hebrews and they had a handbreadth, they didn't even consider the hand from the tip of the finger to the tip of the thumb. They didn't include the thumb. That's the handbreadth. David says, I look at my life. Is that wide? Very short. Very, very narrow. And then he goes on. In the middle of verse 5, the span of my years. Again, continuous ideas, hand breath span, the span of my years. Is as nothing before you. You're eternal. What seventy years in comparison to eternity? No dot on a line, no matter how long the line, would be small enough to show the comparison of 70 years to infinity. When the line, or seventy years to eternity in time. You say, but when I think of my life to get some idea about that, think about your life in comparison to a fruit fly. How long is a fruit fly in it? A few days You know, that's why they use 'em for genes, you know, all those experiments 'cause they go reproducing so quick and die off. You think, Well, you know, and look at my seventy years in comparison to a fruit fly How brief is the life of that fruit fly? God helps me to give some sort of a conception of that, but it's an utterly inadequate inadequate conception. Because comparing the fruit fly with my life is comparing finite with finite. And that's nothing like comparing finite with infinity. David says, the span of my years is really as nothing before you. You are so great. You are so much greater than I am. And then he finishes off the verse, each man's life is but a breath. Just a breath. That's how long David says, once the exhalation is finished, there is no more. Just a breath. And that idea of breath, the word breath that's used there is the same word that's used in Ecclesiastes for vanity. That idea then leads him to three statements about vanity in verse 6. You see, the last statement of verse 4 leads you to verse 5, the last statement of verse 5 leads you to verse 6. Three statements about vanity. He says, first of all, man's a mere phantom as he goes to and fro. In other words, life's but a shadow. The word phantom there could also be translated shadow It reminds me of C. S. Lewis's statement, This life is mere shadows, and the real life is yet to begin. Just a shadow. That leads into the second statement. He bustles about, but only in vain. Haha what a verse for Columbia, nineteen eighty-six, huh? He bustles about, but only in vain. Man, you gotta take that little phrase out of Psalm thirty nine, verse six, and put it on your refrigerator door, you know. Look at it every morning. Decapage it and hang it on your wall or something, you know. He bustles about, but only in vain. Lists, lists, lists, more lists to get through, to cross off, to check off, so many of the lists that had to do with my accomplishing something so that I will impress the people who evaluate my performance and how many things I can get through in my list. David says in the light of eternity, he bustles about and he misses the big things because he's so occupied with a little crossing off of his list. David thinks, you know, there's also a man I remember before we started the parade and he was telling me all the stuff he had to get done by Thursday. How's he ever going to get it done? He said, Well that's okay. Stop offline, you know, we'll have a parade and you can fit it into your schedule. And then you can go back to your lists. And now Uz is lying dead. Man, he thought that the world couldn't continue if he didn't get all his stuff done. But things do go on. He bustles about, but in vain. Our bustling can be a way of hiding the important in our life. Living. in the presence of God, the God of eternity. He bustles about, but only in vain. And then the third statement. He keeps up wealth, not knowing who will get it. Keeping is in vain also. The word welfare is not in the original Hebrew. Literally it says he heaps Not knowing who will get it. And I think that brings it out a little better, you see. Because it's how you know whatever you're into heaping, you know? We're heapers, aren't we? And different people heat different things But we're into heaping. Some people heap up clothes. You know my wife was I mean my um My wife doesn't heap up clothes. My mother was talking to me on the phone yesterday. Well I'll pay for that one, won't I? My mother was talking to me on the phone yesterday and she said, I got a friend that was cleaning out her closet. And yesterday she threw away eighteen pairs of shoes. Everybody thinks of a Melda Marcos, you know. Eighteen pairs of shoes is what she threw out. Imagine how many she has left. A shoe heaper, you know. Some people heap cars. Some people heap up electronic toys. Yeah, whatever you're into heaping. We're heapers. I heap, you heap. David says here, hey man, in the light of eternity, heaping is in vain because you don't even know who's gonna get your heaps. You know somebody once observed I never saw a hearse with a U-Haul behind it. You can't take it with you. And we heap as if we're going to keep it for eternity. David says, I've had my eyes open by watching Uzzah drop dead. It showed me a few things. What's the hope in the light of all of this? And that brings us to the third point. The hope isn't a person. Hope is in a person, verses seven and eight. But now, Lord, what do I look for? You know, in the light of all of these statements, it seemed pretty gloomy and dreary, and you say, hey, you know, this isn't exactly making my day here. You know, uh, you've shown me the brevet of the. and the futility of all this. What do I hope in now? And then you have that resounding statement in verse 7, my hope is in you. My hope is in you, the God of eternity. My hope is in you, Lord, not religion, not Presbyterianism. You are the one. Who will save me? You saved me from death. Because Jesus, God's Messiah, would come And he would taste death so that you and I would be delivered from tasting death and would live forevermore, the hope of eternal life in Jesus And we had that hope of life and not death, because he says, you save me from my transgressions. Lord, my hope is in you. Save me from all my transgressions. Do not make me the scorn of fools. And I think at this point David might have begun to have a glimpse. But what Mark began to talk about, in fact, I thought he was going to preach the whole sermon. He's really getting started there. Now this fact that, you see, David realizes that he Was the cause of us's death, really. You see, David realizes that it wasn't that God was unpredictable. God, in fact, was acting entirely according to his character. Because Numbers 4 and 7 explicitly forbid that the ark would ever be carried upon a cart, but rather should be carried by poles on the shoulders of men, Levites in particular. And that had been ignored. The card had been carried like the Philistines carried it up. Heathen. And so God was simply acting according to his character. And David says, Oh God, forgive me for my arrogance. God forgive me for ignoring your ways and your laws. God forgive me. And you and I, when we see life in its proper perspective, come to realize that God must act according to his character. You can't ignore him in his ways with impunity. But he's the God who forgives. Save me. Forgive me from all my transgressions. And he can forgive you. And he can change your life, and he can give you new life in Jesus Christ that he offers because he's a God of forgiveness. My hope is in you. Your hope in Jesus Christ this morning. To save you from your transgressions, from you living as if God was a corner of your life rather than the center Perhaps that's why all that had to come into your life. And so you see in the fourth place Purpose in pain. David now begins to see God's purpose in his pain in verses 9 to 11. See how personal this pain had struck him in verses 9 and 10. He says, I was silent. I would not open my mouth, for you are the one who has done this. See, he's going back to what he said in the beginning. I couldn't say anything about it. It's not like complaining about the weather. God, you are the one who did this. Remove your scourge from me. I am overcome by the blow of your hand. I love doza. And I'm overcome by his death at your hand. But then he sees God's purpose in verse 11. You rebuke and discipline men for their sin. You consume their wealth like a moth. Each man Is but a breath. David says, I shudder to think what you need to do to get my attention sometimes. Lord, I shudder to think that those things which don't make sense to me Or simply what you had to do to consume my heaps, my wealth, to show me that I'm but a breath. By a time, I could give a number of examples that I know in our own congregation. How God has gotten our attention, as C. S. Lewis said, He whispers in our pleasures. And he shouts in our pain. That he might get our attention to show us himself and bring us as children to himself. So that like David will be able to say, Lord, my hope is in you. You alone are my hope. Save me from my transgressions. And David sees here now a certain purpose that God had in all this. That by taking away his idols, by taking away his misperception about realities in life, God would bring him to himself. And so he finishes with a prayer, still in pain, in verses 12 and 13. Hear my prayer, O Lord. Listen to my cry for help. Be not deaf to my weeping, for I dwell with you as an alien, a stranger as all my fathers were. Look away from me That I may rejoice again before I depart and am no more. Very realistic ending, isn't it? Hey, boy, now I see all things work together for good for those that love God and are called according to his purpose. What he's saying is I'm still working through this. But oh Lord, now turn away from your wrath. Take away my grief in my brief life. That I might have some joy again, Lord, before I die. Lord, your child has learned some things in this. I think I have things a little more in perspective now. So please. Consider, see my heart that I've learned the lesson, that you might take away the pain and the grief, that I might have some joy. The idea of walking as an alien and as a stranger doesn't mean that he's alienated from God. It means, as we've looked at in other New Year's messages, that he's an alien in this life. He's a pilgrim just passing through. And so David is saying, Lord, I I realize I'm not at home here anymore. Lord, I am an alien. I've learned some things. Now help me to learn from this and to live with life in perspective. Now what's the point of this whole thing? The point, I try to illustrate in those little lines down there, because the point is simply this, and it's stated there under the word point. My view of God is inversely proportional to my view of this life. What I mean by that is we tend to look at things like the first line. Boy, this life really consumes my interest. There's so much here to see and do and get and achieve and all this kind of thing. And that's very important to me. And so God gets crowded into a small corner. And when he's crowded into a small corner, whatever he does must fit my small categories. And then all of a sudden a tragedy strikes. Something that I cannot explain. And as George MacDonald wrote last century, Everything difficult indicates something more than our theory of life yet embraces. Something happens, I can't explain it. That means my categories are too small. Sometimes our categories cannot be expanded large enough, as in the case of Job, and all we can see is that God is so great that our categories could never be as great as Him. But what God does in the pain and in the tragedy, as we see in verse 11, comparing that with the other verses before it, Is that God wants to make Himself bigger in our eyes, and the way He does that is when we begin by seeing this life smaller Does that make sense to you? The beginning of the insight to God's unfathomable ways is to get this life in perspective. To begin to see how brief, how fleeting are the events and the circumstances, no matter how pleasurable or how painful In the brief span of our 70 years or whatever they may be. So that when I get down to that second line, and this life takes on a more proper perspective in comparison with God, who grows bigger Through seeing that the span of my years are as nothing before you, then his purpose and his character grow. And the categories grow, and I begin to see that his purposes for me are much greater than I ever imagined As C. S. Lewis said, I begin to see that he is not intending to rearrange a cottage that I might be a remodeled version, but rather he's making out of this cottage a palace. And that requires a lot of tearing down of walls and rebuilding. What is it that God's been doing in your life in order that He might give you a bigger picture of Himself? That he might make himself greater in your eyes, so that you, like David, are able to say, Lord, what do I look for? My hope is in you. My hope is in you, Lord Jesus, the center of my life. Lord, save me from my transgressions. Let's pray. Lord help us to hear Lord, help us now as we turn to you in prayer to learn What you want us to learn for this psalm very personally, not general abstract principles, but that which will lead us to the feet of Jesus That we might come to trust him and know him and love him. That he might grow in our lives to become so much bigger. Because through pain, through difficulties, you have reduced the importance of this life in our own estimation. You've put things in perspective. Lord, we pray that for each need that's represented in this room, you will do that gracious work for each person. For each of us who are thinking now of our own situations, our own hurts, do that work we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.