How do you listen to a sermon? How do you listen to a sermon? Maybe you're one who says, frankly, I don't listen to a sermon. Uh I know a fellow who used to look forward to Sunday morning messages as the best time he could catch up on his rest. And invariably he would simply just go off to sleep during that time. There was a person in this congregation I remember, not here now who uh as soon as I would begin the reading of the scripture and the Methods would always lay back in great big old yawn and sort of settle all down in his chair and uh finally I went to this brother and told him that he made me sort of jealous that Uh he was getting all the rest here while I was doing all the work and could he maybe encourage me in a little more interaction? Some people don't try to listen to You know, I remember the story of the preacher I had heard of who had a fellow who was always in the front row and would always just fall asleep while he was preaching. And so uh one Sunday he thought he would try to correct the aberrant ways of this brother, and so he in preaching stopped at one point and said in a very low voice, Everybody here in this room who would like to go to heaven, stand up. And of course everybody stood up except this one fellow who's you know sleeping in the front row. And so then after but everybody had sat down he then said in a loud booming voice And still in a low voice, everyone who wants to go to hell, stand up! And of course this fellow just popped up out of his seat hearing the stand up, waking him and looked around and there he is standing along with the preacher there and so turns around and says well preacher I don't know what we're voting on but it looks like it's only you and me for it Well, there are some people who don't try uh to listen to sermons. Uh or maybe you'd be a person if I said, How do you listen to a sermon? you'd say, Well Well what do you mean how do you listen to a sermon? Yeah, you just listen, you know, you just sort of sit there and something grabs you, you sort of take it and uh go with it and uh If it doesn't grab you, well, you know, you didn't expect to get a whole lot anyway. I mean, you know, I always look back to those inspirational speakers I had on my conferences away, and those were the people who moved me, but I really don't expect a whole lot out of of the daily diet of Sunday morning sermons. You know, there's just sort of the bread and butter of the spiritual life, and maybe once a month you'll pick up a good point here or there that you'll sort of grasp But you can't really expect to get much more than that. Or then there's another person you ask, how do you listen to sermons? And they say, oh, take notes. You've got to be very active in listening to sermons. Notes, notes, notes. I take notes as soon as he opens the Bible and I start taking notes from the beginning right to the end. And then you say, uh, that's really good. Now uh what do you do with all those notes? Oh man, I file them in my Bible. There they all are. You know, it's kind of person they drop their Bible, it looks like a file cabinet, just thumped out on the floor When the Bible gets too thick and the pages start getting all busted because the back's getting torn from the binding, then they just file them away How do you listen to a sermon? A sermon is not a lecture. A sermon is an interaction between you and God. A sermon is a point in which I must go to the very heart of God and to receive his thoughts. Then I must bring those thoughts from the Lord Himself through His Word and present them to you so that you can receive that. So that you can sit as you hear God speak. And that is an awesome interchange. And you think that God comes to speak to us through his word at this point? Each Sunday morning. Speak to us at this assembled body of his people. I'm responsible in seeking to present God's word to you faithfully. And to present it to you in a manner that is interesting. I think there's nothing so sinful as a bored congregation during a sermon. A message that's boring and a people who are bored as they hear God's word. But you on your he on your side are responsible to receive that one. How does God God say that we're to listen to a sermon. With those questions in mind, I want you to take a look at some verses from Proverbs. There's a background, chapter two And then we're going to focus on the two verses, Proverbs chapter 3, verse 1 and 2. So first of all, from Proverbs chapter 2, the first 11 verses. My son, if you accept my words and store up my commands within you, turning your ear to wisdom and applying your heart to understand. And if you call out for insight and cry aloud for understanding, and if you look for it as for silver and search for it as for hidden treasure, then you will understand the fear of the Lord. And find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom, and from his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He holds victory in store for the upright. He is a shield to those whose walk, whose walk is blameless, for he guards the course of the just And protects the way of his faithful ones. Then you will understand what is right and just and fair, every good path. For wisdom will enter your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. Discretion will protect you An understanding regarding. Remember, we looked at those verses a couple of months ago, and then The author of Proverbs goes on to talk about the particular ways that will protect you, saving you from the wicked man and from the adulterous. And then after having talked about the need to seek wisdom, In chapter 2, he goes on in chapter 3 to talk about the need to practice wisdom. And he begins that by talking about how to receive God's word in chapter 3, verses 1 and 2, which say this. My son, do not forget my teaching, but keep my commands in your heart For they will prolong your life many years and bring you prosperity Let's pause for just a moment and ask God to teach us how to receive His Word Sunday mornings. Lord, we are in a place now where you have promised to speak. Speak to us, to meet with us as your people, assembled as the new Israel, as those who do not assemble around Mount Sinai, but in the heavenly Jerusalem. We come to hear you speak to us now. For Jesus' sake. Amen. To follow this, you might want to get out your the green Mimeo. That's this sheet that simply has the two verses on it. Give you an opportunity to mark that up, put any notes that you want to reflect your thoughts as you receive them about uh what these verses are saying If you like to have the verses put on a sheet like that, uh let me know. I'm thinking of Um perhaps changing the method of having the sermon outlined on one little half sheet like this. And perhaps if it would be more helpful to you, I'd be glad to have the verses put on the top of the sheet and then the sermon outlined down the sheet with perhaps some room on the back for notes or application Um Uh that means you have uh a full sheet rather than a half sheet. If you would like that after trying some of that this morning or the next uh time or two, we may give it a try And let me know about that. But what we want to understand now is what God says in these verses about how to receive His word. And I want to focus our attention, particularly, restrict our thinking to how to receive that word in sermons. With the assembled people of God coming in, the word of God preached to us. So I want to take a look at these two verses, and I'm going to be very heavy on the application this morning. Be a little briefer on the teaching from the verses itself to give you suggestions. About how to listen to a sermon. First of all, you see in these two verses, a command and a promise. Verse one is a command. Do not forget my teaching, but keep my commands in your heart. Verse 2 then is a promise that follows on that, for they will prolong your life many years and bring you prosperity or peace. First of all, the command then in verse 1. What is it? You see that it starts with the phrase, my son. Uh who's then speaking to whom? Well, this isn't something that's simply restricted from fathers to sons, but that's an introduction there, you see, which is a statement of tender authority. That is one who is speaking to a person who can be addressed as a son in a relationship, a covenant relationship. A one who stands in the place of God, whether as a physical, biological father, or one who stands in the place of authority, representing God's teaching. And so that is a statement that I think can be applied to preaching. It's a statement where you have the authoritative declaration of God's Word. But it's a statement of tender authority, not a harsh authority. It's not, hey you kid, it's my son And then he goes on to the command, don't forget my teachings. Don't forget my teachings. How much do you remember of the sermon on Sunday morning by Sunday evening? Say, well, you know, I remember a few illustrations and judgment. I'll remember that one about the guy in the front row for maybe a week or two, but you know. How much do you remember about the points of the message? The principles of God's Word. The Lord says here, don't forget my teaching. Now you see, uh, I don't think that that's saying that it's a sin if you can't in 24 hours reconstruct point by point the sermon outline. That's not what this verse is saying. What I believe it is saying, however, is that the principles of God's word, when they're opened up to you, should stick. You should say, I want to grasp the whole man. I don't want to turn away from them Now the word there for forget is a word which means to turn away from willfully. It's not simply a matter of a good memory It's a matter of a good intention. It's the word that's used there in chapter 4, where he uh says in verse 5 Get wisdom, get understanding. Do not forget my words or swerve from them. You see, the idea of forgetting is linked with not swerving, not turning away from them. It's the word that's used in First Samuel twelve nine when your outline it says twelve six should be twelve nine. Used in first Samuel twelve nine where Israel forgot her God. Uh let me tell you about Jehovah and they say, Who forgot all of that? Who's that? It's not that they forgot who he was. They turned away from him. They weren't interested in knowing him or keeping his word. And what this verse is saying is, My son Those were don't when you hear my teaching, when you hear my principles, but don't say, well, you know, that one got a little close. It sort of made me squirm a little bit, but uh that's okay. As long as I don't act on it, as long as I don't take any note of it. Um by three o'clock this afternoon, I'm sure it'll pass And so we turn from his teaching and we forget it because we're not interested in making it stick. Don't forget my teaching. The second part of the verse helps us to understand that further because it's a contrast. Don't forget my teaching, but rather keep my commands in your heart. Not a word there to keep in verse 1. The phrase really, literally, would be better translated, let your heart keep my commands. That's really the literal rendering. Let your heart keep my commands. And the word there to keep has two kinds of meaning, both of which I think are significant in understanding this verse First of all, it means to watch or to guard something. In chapter 13, in verse 3. A proverb says, He who guards his lips guards his soul. He who speaks rashly will come to ruin. It's talking about setting up a guard, a protection, in Ezekiel, the watchman. That is watching the city is the same word, the same Hebrew word, one who guards, who protects, who preserves. So the idea of keeping there is that you're keeping something precious. Same ideas in chapter 2, verse 1 that we just read. Son, my son, if you accept my words and store up my commands within you. You see, you're taking them. You hear God's word and you say, that word is precious. That's the guide for my life. And when I hear the Bible opened and I hear what God says, I want to keep it and I want to saturate my mind with it. I want for that to enter into my being and I want to hold on to it. I don't want to turn away or forget it because that's where the way God says to live. That's what God's telling me about how I can know Him. That's precious, and so I want to keep it and guard it and store it. That's not all that's involved in this. The other part of that word, the other meaning, is to obey or to to observe or to do something. You see that use of the word in Psalm 119, where at least ten times the word is used with reference to obeying God's law. or observing his law or keeping his law. It simply means to apply it. Apply it to your life. Just don't don't think about it. Don't just take it to say that That's great to think about. It's sure good to have God's ways in my heart. Then you don't ask them. It's talking about your heart keeping it It's talking about your inner being, the Hebrew there you see for heart. In the in Hebrew the idea of heart is the innermost person. It's your thoughts, your values, your motives, that which causes you to do what you do from the inside. Not simply an external obedience, but it's from your heart wanting to do what you hear. God's way. And so it's that desire to build it in to your life. When you hear God's principles, you want to build them in. Chapter 2 verse 1 talked about storing it, the first idea of keeping. In chapter 2, verse 2 we have a second idea, you see, where he says, turning your ear to wisdom and applying your heart. To understand it. Apply God's word in your life. Now if you do this Did you come with that intention to not turn away or disregard The authoritative declaration of God's word to you who are in that relationship to Him by Jesus Christ, but you desire to keep it there, to call it precious in your life. Say, I want to do what you're teaching me to do, Lord. Lord, it's hard. Lord, I don't have the strength to do it. Lord, I can't do it myself. Lord, in my heart, I want to do what you're telling me. What's the promise? Look at verse 2. For they, that is the command, the teaching, they will prolong your life in many years, and they will bring you prosperity. Promise of two things. Long life, first of all, and secondly, peace and prosperity. First of all, a promise of long life. If you're familiar with Proverbs at all, you know that many, many times, some of the times some of those times are listed on your bulletin outline, but there's a number of that Proverbs promises long life to those that follow its precepts. But now, is that then teaching a one-to-one correspondence? It's what he's saying here, my son. If you don't forget my teaching, but you keep my commands, then to the degree that you'll do that, that'll determine how long you live. You know, you can sort of keep it so so you may live to fifty, you know. But if you really keep it, you might live to seventy or eighty. If you really blow it, you probably won't make thirty, you know, so you just You realize it's not talking about that kind of one-to-one correspondence. But I think there is a principle of two things that the author here has in mind. I think there's two things. First of all, there is a general principle That obedience to God's ways will tend to give you a longer, happier life. People who live according to God's ways tend to have less violence There's less abuse of your body. There's less tension. And psychology now, thousands of years after this was written Is coming to more and more research, which indicates that tension shortens life. And guilty consciences shorten life because of the tension produced. So that there is simply a general principle here in God's word that those who walk with a clear conscience, according to God's principles, tend to live longer and have happier, more peaceful lives. You know, the average in in inner city, in some inner city areas, one out of every five people die before the age of 20. Now uh there's a lot of violence. Uh there's an awful lot to contend with that's contrary to what God's ways dictate to us. And so there's a general principle here. But I think there's something that's much deeper than that. And that's simply this. God's ways are life. And the opposite is death And so what God is saying here is that a person who obeys his ways follows the way of life. And a person who would do that perfectly would have eternal life. Of course, there's only one who ever did that. Jesus did not forget God's teaching. He never turned from it. And Jesus kept the commands in his heart. Jesus grasped them in his heart, and they were precious. They were his meat and his drink, he said. And his heart kept them fully, perfectly, and completely. And so Jesus has eternal life. Jesus, the Bible tells us, gave Up that life, in order to be cursed, in order to receive the punishment that was due the person who had turned from the teaching, whose heart did not keep the commands. And Jesus bore all the full weight of God's cursing and God's punishment so that you and I would have our life preserved many years, yeah, even to eternity. You see, you and I inherit the fulfillment of promise in verse 2 through Jesus. Because Jesus did not forget his teaching. Because Jesus Kept, grasped, and obeyed God's commands. You and I have our life prolonged many years, even to eternity, because his obedience is reckoned to our account. Do you have that obedience reckoned to your account this morning? Or are you trying to gain God's favor by the keeping of these commands and teachings in your own strength? By your own religious practices and seeking to do good. If you are, I'm very sorry for you Because you're in a hopeless situation. There's only one way that you can gain promise in verse 2 to have your life. Given, a life given to you that's endless, to that's full of peace and prosperity. And that's by having what Jesus did. Given to you freely. God offers that to you this morning. You can simply acknowledge to Him that you're guilty of not keeping those commands, of not following that teaching. and that you desperately need with Jesus. Not yourself to me. Every one of you will be there with this morning. Don't turn away. Notice the other promise there is a promise of peace. It's a promise that in the NIV is translated prosperity. It's the Hebrew word shalom. A word which means the full-orbed peace that has to do with tranquility and all of the blessings of this life. It refers to a peace, first of all, with God. The peace that is with God and a heart that has a clear conscience based on the finished work of Jesus Christ that we've just talked about And when you have that relationship with Jesus, you have peace with God that nothing can take away. A relationship that, regardless of the circumstances and the subjective feelings that you have, can never change. He's your father for eternity. You have peace with him for eternity, and he will never ever judge you or his wrath come upon you again. Peace with God. But beyond that, the promise is also one of peace, the peace of God. God. My son, if you don't forget my teaching, but keep my commands in your heart. These commands will prolong your life many years. Yes, even through the Messiah, give you eternal years. And they will give you peace. Bodily peace with me, says our God. But it will give you my peace itself. The peace of God, God's own peace in the midst of any circumstance. Just this week I was reading about a New York executive, Ed Leaton. who had uh two teenage sons, not one, but two, die in succession from muscular dysper in their early teen years In looking at that experience and uh writing on it, uh Meaton says that at that time he saw his sons Uh going in that horrible cycle that is so common in muscular dystrophy, the boys first discovered that they weren't able to run. And then after a while they were just they discovered they weren't able to walk. And then after a period of time that they weren't able to even stand. And at that time, Neaton says, I committed my life to Jesus. And I felt a perfect peace in the eye of that storm. It really is the peace that passes understanding. And so the death of each boy was transformed from the tragedy even to a victorious event. In a particular case of one of these two boys, Ken, a number of people seeing his life and the peace that he had of God came to either a closer relationship or into a relationship with Jesus Christ. So we can say at the end of his very short life, a lot of people might not have known Jesus if God hadn't done this in Only Jesus can give that kind of peace. The kind of peace that comes from longing for Him and for His Word. Following his wings and following Jesus Himself. The peace that comes from a hunger for God that transcends anything else you're in a The peace of God. Now, drawing from these principles, I want to make some suggestions. Some suggestions about Sunday by Sunday, how when we sit here We can follow these principles. We cannot turn from his teachings and forget it. Our hearts can keep his commands, and we can know Jesus Christ. and the peace that he has to offer. These are five suggestions. They're what I call my five ups. This is not seven ups, the un cola. It's five up, the unboring sermon. Now, if you follow these, I will not guarantee you will never sit through an unboring sermon again in your life. All I can guarantee is that you can be fed by the Lord. He will meet you Because his word is faithful, and he's faithful to his promises. So take them and I hope that they can help you in learning how to be fed, how to listen. A sermon as God's word is open to you. Five us. First of all, look up, then open up, mark up, follow up, and check up. Look up, open up, markup, follow up, and checkup. What do they mean? First of all, I'd suggest that you, first thing that you do is to look up We have to remember that it is God who's speaking to us. And so before he even begins to speak, we should look to him. Before you come here on Sunday morning, to pray Pray that God would give you a teachable heart. Do you come preparing yourself for worship and to receive his word? Or do you say that, well, it's enough that I go there Uh it's up to the guy who's leading the worship or the preacher to give me the word. Well, it won't come as C doesn't come on hard ground to penetrate Unless the ground is softened and you soften your heart by prayer. Look up and ask the Lord to give you a teachable heart And you notice that occasionally there will be a time when we will pause briefly, even as we enter into that time of receiving God's word. For a specific just couple of minute moments. Prayer. Look up to the Lord at that point. Say, Lord, give me a teachable heart that I won't miss the best that you have for me this morning. Lord, deliver me from criticism. I was talking to a woman just a few days ago who goes to a very well went to a very good church. It wasn't this one. Went to a very good church and said she can't go there anymore And I said, That's a shame, it's a good church, why can't you go there anymore? She says, Well, you know, every Sunday morning the choir stands up and sings and they do a real good job and the preacher never acknowledges them. After they finish singing he just goes on with the worship just as if they didn't do anything. I said, well maybe he wants to preserve the continuity of worship. I don't care. They ought to be acknowledged. I'm not going back to that church. All kinds of things can block us. From the work of God, if we are looking for things to be unhappy with. Pray that God will deliver you from criticism. I pray that the Lord, uh, heaven forbid, will deliver you from comparing me with other preachers. You know, that's a deadly thing. You hear a number of different speakers, and so you begin to compare preachers and speakers. Oh yeah, how good is this guy? Yeah, how how good is he? How interesting is he? How good is he with his illustrations and his application? Look for God to be Martin Luther used to say a lot of people go hungry because they're so concerned about the plates the food's served on, they never get the food. You know, and you've got to look to the Lord to feed you. Look up and ask God to teach you, not to entertain you. Look up. And the second thing I would suggest from this is that you open up. Open up your Bible and follow the text. First of all, you gotta bring your Bible. Most of you do. And praise God for them. In fact, we're known as the congregation that has Bibles. Somebody was looking for a Bible around here one time and they said go over to Columbia Presbyterian. Bring your Bible. Never come and listen to a sermon with a closed Bible It's God who's speaking to you. I'm not giving you a lecture. I'm trying to open up a passage of God's Word. So open up your Bible with me. Look at that passage and follow it along. I need occasion to remind you to look at verse 1 or 2 so that you can see that's what God is saying. See, it comes to you with much greater authority when you look and say, oh yeah, that's what the Bible's saying. That's not what just Al Harris is saying. God says that God says, don't forget my teaching. He's not just charging us to not forget his sermons. God says, don't forget my teaching. That has more to say to me than the fact that he might not like me to forget his messages. Look at what the text is saying. Open it up and follow it along. Let me make a suggestion for you. If all else fails, here's one. Memorize the text. You ever try to do that? I've done that when things get pretty grim, you know. You're listening to a message and I'm not getting anything out of it. Memorize the text. That'll do at least four things for you to try to do that. First of all, if you memorize the text, you know, suppose I'm going through this and saying, well, I'm going to try and memorize verses 1 and 2 while he's preaching. And I'll see that if by the time he's finished, I can have these two verses memorized. What'll that do for us? Number one, at least the text will feed you. If I don't, at least God's word will get through to you because you know that that's God's power. So you're memorizing his word and that will feed you. You can't go away from the series. I wasn't fed this morning. Didn't you read the Bible? Yeah, I read the Bible. Why wouldn't that? Didn't God feed you? He gave you bread. What happened to it? It dropped. Memorize it. You get some feeding out of it. Secondly, if you memorize it, the uh second thing that'll do is that as you try to memorize it You will raise questions in your mind. You know, you if you've done much Bible scripture memory, you'll notice. As you try to say the verse, you'll say it wrong. And then when you say it wrong That causes you to ask, well how come it's said the way it's in the text and not the way I thought it was said? How come he said it that way? Why'd he put it that way and not this way? And that'll help you to raise some questions so that as I'm speaking, maybe I'm speaking to a couple of those questions. And as you begin to raise questions about the text, you become more interested in the text. You say, well, what does that text say? See a lot of the things, a lot of the problem in preaching is that I may be speaking to questions you haven't raised. I try to speak to questions I think you're raising. But if you try to memorize the text, you'll begin to have some questions about what God's saying. That'll help you. The third reason I would suggest memorizing the text is that it will engage your mind fully. You can think much quicker than I can talk. And sometimes I talk pretty fast. But you can still think a lot faster. And as you think fast, the tendency is for your mind to wander, because you can begin to think about what you're going to do when you go home this afternoon, tonight, and tomorrow and next week and everything else, in between a couple thoughts that I'm giving you. But if while you're hearing me, you're trying to memorize these two verses, you're saying, well that's kind of hard. You know, I'm just trying to memorize this and you keep interrupting me with what you're saying. And I keep trying to get back to this, and you're going to find that your mind is more fully engaged on what God is saying. It's pretty hard to memorize two or three verses of scripture. Listen to me, get the points, follow the bullet in that one. And plan next week's menu. Engage your mind in the text. And finally, the fourth thing is that you will find that if you memorize or even begin to approximate memorizing anything in the text, that the message will stick with you longer. It's just the simple, most obvious application of verse 1, don't forget my teaching. If you memorize the text, the points of the message will hopefully suspend from them. If my points are related to the text you can reconstruct the teaching by simply saying, oh yeah, you know, the first verse is a command. What was that command? Had two parts to it. Second verse was a promise, had two parts to it. Here's what it was And so the message and the whole idea of the morning will stick with you much longer while you're memorizing the text. Third thing is to markup. Look up, open up, markup. Mark up your outline. Mark up your Bible. Mark up your verse sheet. That's why I'm suggesting a possible Inclusion of the verses on the sermon outline is one application for me, you see, in studying this text this week. Because then you'd be able to circle words, underline them, put some notes on it, relate it to some things in the text, and you'd be able perhaps to Play with the words in a way that will engage you more fully in receiving them. But mark up in some way so that you can grasp a hold of what you receive. You know, you forget most of what you hear. You forget a little less of what you both hear and see. That's one of the reasons I give you an outline. But you forget much less of what you hear, see, and then express yourself. And when you're writing down a thought, you're expressing it in your own words. That helps you to grasp a hold of the thoughts that God's giving you. Remember just a few weeks ago, one person was saying, in fact, one of the elders was making a point about something I had said in my message. And said, even though Al didn't say this, and Elaine Cullen turned to me and she said, Yes, he did say that. Here it is. Elaine takes copious notes and she had exactly what I had said. It was one sentence in the whole point, in the whole message, but she had it. And I had venture to say that the reason Elaine could remember that I had said that was because she had taken it down. If you take it down, you will remember much more, and you've got therefore more data for the Holy Spirit to work on with you as you reflect on that and think about it. Now, make sure that you get this clear. Don't just write down what I'm saying. That's deadly. That's the lecture method. This is not a lecture. This is declaring to you God's word. This is an interaction. Don't just write down what I'm saying. Write down what the Holy Spirit is teaching you through that. Write down your response to what I'm saying. For example, I go through this and I talk about not forgetting my teaching and talk about the application I've given you here and you write down what I say, but then you also write down I need to begin scripture memory. God's been speaking to me about that. Now I'm going to start memorizing one verse a week. And this week I'm going to get a hold of a scripture memory packet that's going to help me to do that. You see, you're writing down as you're listening and receiving from God what God wants you to do with that. There's an interaction going on between the Holy Spirit and you in all of this Let me be very clear, you see. This is not a lecture and I don't want us to I'm not trying to make this into a classroom And I I want to make sure that that's completely understood. When I talk about notes and I talk about taking all these things down, this is a worship service. But in worship there's an interaction as God is speaking to us. And so as God is speaking to us, I'm simply saying, how can we more effectively receive from Him the thoughts that He's trying to direct to us? The things he wants to do in changing us, speaking grace and truth to us. And I'm suggesting that our active response in writing helps us to receive the word more fully So you notice there was another green cheek that you had. And that's just to simply help the kids. So that you kids can also respond to what the Lord is giving you in a way that's more fully done. This is probably most helpful in ages six to ten, but it certainly can be expanded beyond that. Maybe some of you adults thought it was for you But um you fill in the first part from the bulletin. Uh you put in the outline from the bulletin outline. Maybe you need some help from your parents, kids in getting that. But uh take a look at that, copy that down. And then you kids as you go to that little part where it says listen and write, you jot down a couple things that the Lord's speaking to you about. You may not understand the whole message. You may not grasp all of that, but you say, here's one or two points. Here's something I saw in an illustration. Here's some point of application that I can understand applies to me with my friends at school In my time at home, my own walk with the Lord. Write down one or two of those things. Then if there's a verse there that you see part of the text You may not memorize that whole verse there. Maybe you will. Some of you kids are better at memorizing than some of us as adults. But you could write down the verse. That'll help you to fix it in your mind. And then what's a particular lesson for you? And then your chance to draw something that illustrates the message, some concrete idea. It will help you to see what that's about, to engage your mind as we're moving along in this. In our Under Shepherd group, we begin our times in the evening by sharing the picture. That kids have drawn during the morning message. And it's a chance for you then to share with the adults some things that God's taught you. Uh unless you think this is a creative idea on my part, I must say it is totally plagiarized. It was given to us from the church that uh Jerry and Char Baker go to in Italy. So this is from the Baker's Church in Italy. You came through Elaine Cullen. And uh so we give thanks to that church, passing back to the United States an idea that's very helpful. Use it as you want. There's more copies that will be available hopefully each week at the rear table. So you can simply pick one up as you walk. in if you want to use it and help you to also receive from the Lord his kids. Then fourthly the follow-up. Follow-up. We can't simply look up, mark up, open up, and mark up And then let it stay there. We've got to follow up on what God's giving us. Personal practical application. You notice there's a time at the end of each message for us to talk to the Lord about what we've heard. Use that time, to speak to Him, to interact. It's a very important time. As you just take a moment of quiet to speak to the Lord about what He's talked to you about. And then secondly, write specific application as you review it While you're writing during the message, as you review it afterwards in the afternoon at some time, write down some thoughts that come to you then. Do look at it again So that you're able to do that and review it. And then thirdly, discuss it in your Under Shepherd. That's part of the whole purpose of the sermon discussion. So that we can come to a more definitive understanding of what God's teaching us, what He's speaking to us about. In our Undershep Group, we had a goal this year that do it For a person to enter into the discussion of the message, they would have had to have spent at least 15 minutes that day thinking about the application of the message. It was pretty hard to enforce. I'm not sure we did a real good job on it. But at least the idea was so that we would come to share our own review and follow-up of the message. And then discuss it with your family. Hold each other accountable. Here's what God showed me this week. Share that together at the dinner table at various times. And then be able to pray for each other and find out what God's doing in the days and weeks ahead from that. And then that leads to the last point to check on. Review your notes occasionally to see what God's doing in your life. There won't be a major life change each week. We couldn't handle that. Some weeks the primary application in your life may be simply thanks and worship for what you see in Jesus Christ. Other weeks there may be something very significant. Don't just plow it away. Take it out again occasionally. Check up. Keep these notes on file so that you can look at what God's doing. So that you can see Him fulfilling His promise. That you don't forget His teaching. But your heart keeps, grasps, applies his commands, so that he will give you life in Jesus. And peace not only with God, but his own peace in your life. Let's go. Let's take that moment now for each one of us to covenant and speak to God about what He's been speaking to us about. Lord, we confess to you that we often have such low expectations. of meeting with you Sunday morning, for you to really speak to us. As the Holy God who wants to meet with us And Father, so often we feel like we're dealing with so much already that we just don't want one more thing to have to deal with. And so we want to forget your teaching. Lord, forgive us for thinking that you want to lay too much on us. Forgive us, Father, for are wanting to pick and choose those things that we want to notice from your word Open our eyes, that we might behold wonderful things from your law, that we might not turn away from or forget your teaching. If you would help us, Father, as a people who would come expecting, for you to teach us and to meet with us and to feed us and to instruct us week by week, that our hearts We keep your commands, that we might know that life, that general peace and prosperity that comes from walking with you, the clear conscience. the peace that comes from following your ways. That we might know even the eternal life that comes because Jesus kept all of those commands for us and died on our If there's anyone here, Father, who does not have that life, we pray that you would open their hearts to see and to receive Jesus. Lord, we look to you with thanksgiving for what you'll do in us as we seek to apply what you've shown us this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's sing together now hymn number one hundred fifty-seven