Pray for uh thousands of Korean Christians who were gathered at that moment. waiting in confident expectation that within the next half hour Jesus was going to return. And there was the concern that if he didn't return that there was going to be mass suicides and pandemonium in Korea. And so a number uh about a third of my class that day was Korean. So there was a lot of interest in that And uh so people prayed uh urgently and fervently, and God seemed to hear, and there was not the suicides and the pandemonium was expected. I also found myself challenged in that Because my first response when I heard that all these thousands of Korean Christians had been led to believe that Jesus was returning at midnight at that day, um, that I was thinking, of course, well we know he's not, so these guys are going to be real disappointed. But then I was convicted to think, how do I know he isn't? Maybe he will And so I had to stop and think of my own expectation. But it was another illustration to me of what happens when Christians don't understand how to interpret biblical prophecy. And can be easily led astray into false teaching, which is sometimes extremely destructive In just the last couple of months, I've received two letters from people that I never heard of. In both cases, I think they were groups. who were circulating these letters to pastors in the United States, confident on the basis of biblical prophecy that some dire things were going to happen in the next weeks and months, and that I better pay attention, or else I was going to be consumed in God's wrath. Another example to me of a wrong use, because the way they used Old Testament prophecy was utterly in contrast to the way Scripture teaches us to use prophecy. And again, people led into false teaching. When I uh was growing up, the church that I went to was a church that was almost obsessed with biblical prophecy. We were taught to read the newspaper in one hand with our Bible in the other hand. Have you ever heard that kind of thing? Particularly the books of Daniel and Revelation. We had prophecy conferences one whole week out of the year. We were expected to come every night during that week in order to understand the end times and what Jesus was going to, with the circumstances of his coming and all the things that surrounded that, much of which I believe now was a misunderstanding of Scripture. I'm afraid that in our day, Christians have gone the other extreme. Most Christians today are rather agnostic about prophecy. They have kind of the idea that, well, you know, the Bible's sort of like an old Rubik's Cube, you really can't know how to put it together. Christians disagree on this. And so we really can't make head or tail of it in some vague way. I guess Jesus is coming back someday, probably not very soon, probably not in my lifetime, maybe, but it doesn't really affect my thinking or living very much. And I really can't figure out very much about how to understand Old Testament prophecy. In fact, more and more research is showing that the typical evangelical Christian's understanding of the Old Testament in general is abysmally Low. I quoted uh from a uh just a kind of an informal study that had been done by Intervarsity uh some months ago, in which at one camp for small group leaders They surveyed in this one instance, it was 40 students, and they asked them to locate the Ten Commandments. Where are they in the Bible? Two places they are. Only three out of forty could tell where the Old Testament, where the Ten Commandments were. The overwhelming majority failed to locate the fall of Adam and Eve. In Genesis, or even to be able to identify the person of Abraham. Then there was another study done in which a number of Old Testament characters were placed In a list, and you all you had to do is put them in chronological order. Who was first, second, third, fourth. Not one single student was able to do it correctly And the effect of this is that we are, I'm afraid, becoming a generation of Christians who, particularly as we approach the year 2000, where there will be a lot of probably talk about The end of the world and history and time, where we will be open to be led astray into false teaching, as well as to have our faith undermined. In fact, one of the things that I have noticed Is the Christians who are grounded in the Old Testament, not just the New Testament. Many of us have this idea that, well, since I can't understand the Old Testament, and particularly prophecy, I'll just stick to the New Testament and I'll stick particularly to the epistles and those straightforward teachings that show me how to live and some basics of who Jesus is, and then I'll go on from there. That's all I really need to understand. Now just show me how to live. But I find that Christians who are not rooted in the Old Testament and understand the nature of God and his dealings with Israel and how he revealed himself in the Old Testament. not only have a much more shallow understanding of Jesus, but they tend not to stand when trials and difficulties come in their life. Lives. There's not the deep roots that are necessary in understanding Scripture and the way of God and the nature of God in order to sustain us in times when easy answers won't suffice. You see, the problem with Scripture is that when you and I think all I really need to do is to understand those basic New Testament truths of the epistles, that are straightforward and tell me how to live just today. The problem is, you see, I can't really understand the epistles unless I understand the gospels. Because the epistles open up what Jesus did in the Gospels. Well, the problem with that is that I can't really understand the gospels unless I understand Old Testament prophecy and writing because Jesus said he came to fulfill the prophets and the writings or the poetry. The problem with that is I can't really understand the prophets in the writings unless I understand the Old Testament law, because the prophets in the writings unfold what God revealed in the law. And so you see, I really can't understand the epistles unless I understand the rest of Scripture in a growing way. Now that doesn't mean that you can't walk with God and have a fruitful, successful Christian life unless you know the whole Bible from beginning to end. But there must be, I believe, that growing understanding, not only of the New Testament, but of the Old Testament and how it fits together to know God. And so every Christmas time we take a look for a couple of weeks at Old Testament prophecy and see how Jesus fulfilled that. Seek to understand both how Christians in the Old Testament or believers in the Old Testament understood that prophecy and then how Jesus fulfilled it. The interesting thing to me is that last week, when I looked at Isaiah 7. 14, I suggested to you that Isaiah 7. 14 did not have direct reference to Mary and to Jesus. But that in fact Isaiah 7. 14 had its direct reference to a contemporary virgin who would soon be married and have a son who would symbolize the idea Emmanuel, God with his people to deliver them. The basis of that is, of course, that the sign that was given in Isaiah 7. 14 was a sign that God would deliver in the next five years. Not that God was going to deliver 730 years hence. And so the sign of this virgin and child was a sign to increase the faith that God would deliver in seven thirty BC, not vice versa. Now it's interesting to me if I was an early in you know years ago as a as a new Christian If I had heard that, I would have said, boy, that guy sounds like a liberal to me. You know, he's kind of playing around with scripture there, saying it doesn't really mean a direct prophecy of Jesus and the virgin birth. What are you doing with Scripture? Now, interesting to me, not one person questioned that last week. Now, it might have been because I said I was going to try and prove it to you more basically this week. You're all saying, well, I'm going to give them the benefit of the doubt. I don't know. But the fact is That I believe to understand Isaiah 7. 14, we need to have some basic understanding of how to interpret Old Testament prophecy, which is basic for our lives as Christians. And so what I want to do this morning is I want to show you from Matthew 1 and 2 that there are three times that Matthew quotes from the Old Testament. Three times he quotes Old Testament prophecy. And in every case, the way he interprets it is a key, a clue to how you and I are to interpret Old Testament prophecy. Because I believe that the only way you and I can understand how to interpret Old Testament prophecy is a very, very simple way. It's often missed. It's so simple that most Christians overlook it. The way to interpret Old Testament biblical prophecy is to see how the New Testament interprets Old Testament prophecy. Simple enough, right? So all you gotta do is you look at every time the New Testament quotes an Old Testament prophecy and says, here's how that was fulfilled. You say, No. How was it fulfilled? And how can I gain a principle of understanding, passages in the Old Testament that maybe I'm clueless about, but will begin to come alive and be exciting to me as I understand what they really mean. And I guarantee you, if you begin to understand the Old Testament and delve into it, and don't avoid it because you're afraid that this is just going to not make any sense to you, you've got to be an expert with two or three degrees in Hebrew and Aramaic and Chalcedon. I mean Chal uh uh uh Chaldee, right? I didn't even think of that. Thank you. Chaldean, language, and all these other things, that you're not going to be able to make sense of it. It's not true. Three times Matthew quotes in the Old Testament. And we want to look at those three clues that he gives us in how we can understand the Old Testament. First of all, then Notice that Matthew 2 verse 15 quotes Hosea 11. 1. Now, this is after Jesus' birth. And Jesus now is a few months, perhaps a year old. He's living in a house with Mary and Joseph. And the uh wise men have just come to visit him and to bring their gifts. And after they have gone, Matthew chapter 2, verse 13 says that when they, the wise men, had gone, An angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream. Get up, he said. Take the child and his mother, and escape to Egypt. Stay there until I tell you, for Herod is going to search for the child to kill him. So he got up, took the child and his mother during the night, and left for Egypt, where he stayed until the death of Herod. And so was fulfilled what the Lord had said through the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. And Matthew there is quoting from Hosea chapter 11, verse 1. That's the prophet. And you might say to yourself, gee, I didn't know that Hosea prophesied that Jesus was going to go down into Egypt and then return. Well, the problem is that if you look at Hosea chapter 11, and you might want to turn to that, but if you Look at that. You'll probably, after you read it, say, I still don't think Hosea is saying anything about Jesus going down into Egypt and coming back. Because Hosea, you remember, as Bible reminded us some months ago, Hosea is God's passionate love letter to his people. And Hosea uses a number of metaphors and a number of figures of speech for God to show how much he loves his people. And in Hosea 11:1, God says this: When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. Now what's that referring to? Well, obviously it's referring to e to Israel. And do you remember that when we did the names of God back some months ago, we looked at Exodus 4 And we saw there that God calls himself Israel's father. In Exodus 4, verse 22 God says, say to Pharaoh, this is what the Lord says, Israel is my firstborn son. And I told you, Let my son go, so that he may worship me. But you refused to let him go. So I will kill your firstborn son. God there is saying, Israel is my son. I've adopted him Israel's like a a son to me. And in their childhood in Egypt, God was going to bring them out of uh out of bondage and then mature them in the land, in uh the relationship with him. So God's son is Israel. But now Matthew says that this son reference is to Jesus. How can it be both? Until you understand That the Son was the one that God had adopted into that personal relationship with Himself. He had made a covenant with Israel. So that Israel would be in that particular relationship, and that the true Israel was the one who kept that covenant. That God revealed when he brought Israel out of Egypt and revealed himself on the mountain of Sinai, particularly in the Ten Commandments. So the true Israelite is the one who keeps that covenant. And of course, as you go through the Old Testament, you see again and again Israel failed to do that. And so what Matthew is saying is: when you think about it, there really is only one true Israelite. It's Jesus. And so in your blank there, you see that Jesus is the true Israel. And Jesus, therefore, is the true Son. You see what Hosea is saying, that God is calling Israel, the nation, out, as his son. Matthew is saying, Hosea only saw that on this level. He didn't understand that on a deeper infinitely more exalted level, God was going to call the true Israelite, Jesus, his only true Son. out of Egypt and bring him back into the land to accomplish redemption for his people. And so this idea that Hosea has Is amplified and filled up in the fulfillment of the anticipation of what Israel was and what God's Son was in the person of Jesus Christ. You see that? It's an idea that the prophet has in mind that Jesus ultimately fulfills. The true Israelite, the true Son, come for us. I'll give you another example of that. In Matthew chapter 2, the second example is that chapter 2, verse 17 and 18 quotes Jeremiah. Chapter 31, verse 15. He continue in Matthew's account. After the angel says that uh you to take uh this true son down into Egypt, for out of Egypt I called my son. Verse 16, when Herod realized that he had been outwitted by the Magi, he was furious. And he gave orders to kill all the boys in Bethlehem at its vicinity. who were two years old and under, in accordance with the time that he had learned from the Magi. Then what was said through the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled. There it is again. What did Jeremiah say? A voice is heard in Rhema, weeping and great mourning. Rachel weeping for her children and refusing to be comforted. Because they are no more. Now, how many of you have ever looked up Jeremiah 31 when you read that at Christmas time to find out what he's talking about? Well, honest group. Many of us do that, do we? Now if you did that, you'd probably be impressed with a couple of things First of all, you'd wonder where in the world's Rama? Who's Rachel? And what's this had to do with Jesus and the Herod killing these babies in Bethlehem? It doesn't seem to have any connection whatsoever. Well, let me give you a little background to understand something of that. If you look at Jeremiah chapter 31, you see that the subject of what Jeremiah is talking about is his people being brought into exile. Because of their disobedience, they're going to be brought into out of Jerusalem and Judah by the Babylonians into exile. Now, Ramah is a town about five miles north of Jerusalem. It was right along the path that the exiles traveled as they were carried out in captivity to Babylon. What was significant about Rhema? Remah was probably where Rachel died. Who's Rachel? Rachel was Jacob's favorite wife. She was the mother of Benjamin, excuse me, of Ephraim and Benjamin. And Ephraim, the most significant of the ten northern tribes of Israel, became symbolic for Israel. Remember Isaiah 7 refers to all of Israel as Ephraim? Benjamin symbolized Judah. Benjamin and Judah. And so this idea of Rachel weeping for her children is Rachel, Jacob's wife, weeping for Israel. In Rama, where Rachel died and was buried, Jacob erected a pillar as a memorial to her, and he wept for Rachel. Jeremiah takes that solemn scene and he says, Now in this day Because of the sin of God's people, because their iniquity has pressed the one who is infinitely patient Because of his holiness, he cannot continue to overlook their sin. He's bringing the Babylonians to take you out of the land. And there is going to be weeping of Rachel. He's picturing Rachel as if she's turning over in her grave, weeping. For the daughter of her children, for all these who are being carried out. And probably as they went out of Jerusalem, The Babylonians were killing some of these, the old and the young. Those too feeble to make the trip to Babylon. Don't want to be slowed down by them. Or any of the babies who are going to be in the way. They will be cut down. They will be slaughtered at that point if they haven't already been killed in the siege and the destruction of Jerusalem. Jeremiah pictures Rachel weeping for that. But then if you go on in Jeremiah 31, you find that that's where God says, but I'm going to bring back a remnant. And I am going to make a new covenant with him. So he says in Jeremiah 31, in verses 33 and 34, just a few verses after this quote. This is the covenant I will make with the house of Israel after that time, declares the Lord. I will put my law in their minds and write it on their hearts, and I will be their God. They will be my people. No longer will a man teach his neighbor or a man his brother saying, Know the Lord, because they will all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. declares the Lord, for I will forgive their wickedness and I will remember their sins. Your sins and my sins no more. Now, what in the world then does this have to do with Herod and Bethlehem? Well, you see, Matthew says quite clearly here, that fulfilled it. The word means again, it filled it up. So Matthew now is picturing that Rachel is now continuing to look down through the ages as she looked at the people of Judah who were carried into exile. Some five hundred and eighty years say before that. He's continuing, he says, now Rachel is looking, and again Rachel sees a slaughter going on in the in the uh suburbs of Jerusalem. Bethlehem is just to the south of Jerusalem. And Rachel is seeing her children slaughtered again because of sin. And what Matthew is saying is, this now is filling up the anguish of sin. This is a picture of what happens to God's people in their sins. But out of this once again comes a remnant. And so in this case, you see, Jesus is the true remnant. He's the one who escapes this slaughter. You see, back 580-some years ago, there were a whole number, there were thousands who escaped the slaughter of the Babylonians. And they went to Babylon and they lived there for seventy years, and then fifty thousand or so came back, and a lot of them stayed there. But out of that remnant, God brought forth Mary and Joseph. And from Mary and Joseph, he brought forth. Jesus. God's always preserving a remnant. No matter how bad things get in our culture, no matter how bad things look in the next few years in the United States, always remember God's always going to preserve. A remnant of his people. But God says the ultimate remnant was just one person. See, out of all this slaughter, God says, I saved one One baby boy. And Rachel's weeping for all these dead bodies of babies scattered all over Bethlehem. And it's a heartbreaking sight. But out of that is going to come the remnant of Jesus. And Jesus is going to be the means of God fulfilling the new covenant, writing the law in your heart and my heart, and forgiving our sins and remembering no more. Because Jesus is the true remnant into whom we are grafted. And because of that, our sins are forgiven. Now do you see once again what the Old Testament does is Jeremiah presents an idea, this idea of remnant and judgment and salvation out of that. And says that Jesus is the final fulfillment of that whole idea. Now, when you take a look at Isaiah 7. 14, you see it in a different context. Because you see, twice now Matthew has said, what I've taken here was not a direct reference. Jeremiah in writing about Rachel was not intending to write Some specific prediction of Herod and the slaughter of the innocents at Bethlehem. I'm sure that Jeremiah didn't have any clue about what that was By the Holy Spirit, he was writing down these ideas that God was taking to fulfill in a way that no human being could have ever seen, far beyond what Jeremiah could have ever anticipated. And so when you look at Isaiah 7. 14, you see that Matthew 21 quotes Isaiah 7. 14. And that gives you a clue about how to understand prophecy. Remember that Isaiah was saying to Ahaz, Ahaz, God's going to be with you. He's going to deliver you from your enemies, Israel and Syria. These nations that you fear are going to be so enfeebled in just four or five years that they will be no longer any threat to you. Now, God's going to give you a sign, Ahaz. You refuse to choose a sign? God's going to give you his sign In order to build your faith to do that. A virgin is going to conceive, Isaiah 7. 14. A virgin is going to conceive, will be with child. And she will give birth to a son and will call him Emmanuel. He will eat curds and honey When he knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right, but before the boy knows enough to reject the wrong and choose the right The land of the two kings you dread will be laid waste. Do you know that notice Isaiah 7. 16 does not say, in the span of time it would take. But he says, before this happens, indicating clearly it's to be fulfilled in the next couple of years. Because that's what God did. But now what you see the Holy Spirit does. And real this, you know, I I don't know what you're thinking, but I'll tell you, it ought to make shivers run up your spine when you understand Scripture. God takes that picture and he says, remember there's no figure that we know of in scripture who had the name Emmanuel. She says, gonna call him Emmanuel. Jesus Matthew said was called Emmanuel. That wasn't Jesus' name. His name was Jesus, wasn't Emmanuel. We don't know who Emmanuel was that fulfilled it back in Isaiah's day. But what we do know is that name is used three times, as I pointed out last week, and it pictures the idea of God with his people. And so Matthew says, now we've come to the day in which there's a true virgin who's going to have a child as a virgin. And this virgin is going to bear the Son, who is in fact the fulfillment of all that God ever intended in his picture of the tabernacle dwelling with his people. In his picture of the temple and its glory, of God being personally with his people. God is now going to come in the true tabernacle, Jesus, the true temple And in him, God himself resides with us. Now, do you see that that's the fulfillment of all that hope and promise in the Old Testament? In a way far beyond what Isaiah could have ever imagined when he wrote about the sign given to Ahaz. And do you see that that is an opening up to you and to me about how do I understand the whole Old Testament? I mean just because the New Testament takes a couple of these and says, Now I want to show you specifically how this happened, you and I tend to think, oh well, okay, in that case We can see it. The Jesus in Hosea was the true Israel and the true Son. Jesus through Jeremiah was the true remnant. That Jesus in Isaiah was the true Emmanuel, God with us. But what you and I need to see is you can generalize this to the whole Old Testament. You know how I know that's true? Because Jesus said it was. In Luke chapter 24, we're down to the so what now, okay? Luke chapter 24. After Jesus rose from the dead, you remember he was talking to the disciples. And he said to the disciples in Luke chapter 24 that he was showing them, beginning at Moses and the prophets. Prophets, all the scriptures pertaining to himself. And so what Jesus was doing was he was saying, You can see on every page of the Old Testament me. There I am, I'm pictured in the law. I'm pictured in the sacrificial system. I'm the one pictured in the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings. And I'm the one that's pictured in the office of prophet and priest and king. And I'm the one who's the true remnant and the true son and the true Israelite, the true covenant keeper. And all these ideas and themes that run through the Old Testament, Jesus says, I'm the one who fulfills them. Don't satisfy yourself with some superficial mechanical sounding like this sounds like this in the Old Testament, that sounds like that with Jesus. But come to understand the ideas. And as you read the Old Testament then, look to see how Jesus is the fulfillment of the idea, the concept, the office, the ritual, the type, whatever it is presented. Because you see, that word that Matthew uses, fulfilled, is the key word. When the Bible uses the word fulfilled, it generally doesn't mean fulfilled like a weather report. You know, we think fulfilled means the weatherman said it's going to be cold on Monday, and it was cold and clear on Monday, and so the prophecy was fulfilled that the weatherman spoke on Channel 2 News. That's not the way the Bible thinks of prophecy. When the Bible says something's fulfilled, it means that it was fulfilled up. There was an anticipation and an expectation That was fulfilled. It was filled up like a cup filled to overflowing with the idea. It's the complete realization of the meaning that was set forth. Jesus fills up the meaning of the Old Testament. That's what Matthew's saying. That when Isaiah spoke, this was to fill up the meaning of the prophet. That a virgin would bear a son Emmanuel. This was to fill up the meaning of Hosea, that there would come one who was the true Israelite, who would go down into Egypt and come out as the true Son to save his people. This was to fill up the meaning of Jeremiah, that though there would be destruction and this world would be full of grief and sin and judgment, there would come one remnant of that. Out of that, there would be a survivor, Jesus, true to God. He would be the one we'd be grafted in, so you and I would be joined to God forever. That's what Matthew's saying is the way you and I should read the Old Testament. And if you do, then the second point comes. Not only will you find that to be satisfying, you will find the Old Testament begin to come alive, but you will grow in your confidence. Of the inspiration of Scripture. And that is absolutely vital to your life and the mind, isn't it? That we don't rest on some past experience or proof that we read in a book that says the Bible's really true and you can trust it. You and I at times in our leaves lives need to know beyond anything I feel or am experiencing at this point. Can I trust this word? Can I rest my life on it? I'm tempted to doubt it. Doubt its promises. I'm tempted to disobey it at this point. I want to go my own way. And even though this is what the Bible says, I don't really think it works. I think I've got a better idea about how to live, and I want to go this way rather than the way the Bible says. It's at that point that being rooted in the Old Testament and seeing how all these themes wov woven together in an incredible mosaic and pattern have been blended in a tapestry to produce a picture of Jesus, your Savior. and mine, as the one who fills up the meaning of thousands of years of all these different authors writing. And we see that one beautiful picture formed together and we say, I cannot doubt this God. I cannot disobey him, for he's true, and his word is absolutely sufficient in my life. Now, if you have any questions about that, I decided we're going to set aside the second hour, the middle hour here. And for anyone we're finished, the newcomers, I'm not trying to just lure you away from another laugh group, but if any of you would want to come and discuss. Let's look at that some more. I got a lot of questions that you've raised here. Then I'm going to be down in the same place where we've been having newcomers, room A150, first door as you go through the double doors there. Anybody wants to just come on down and talk about how to understand the Old Testament? We're just gonna do an hour on that. Alright, just a one hour seminar. If anybody wants to talk about that. All I'm saying to you now is that you and I need to have a refreshing view of the Old Testament and its riches. For I'm afraid for many of us, the Old Testament has not been a book that we've spent much time in, that collection of books. But I tell you from Matthew right on through the New Testament, you look at how the New Testament interprets it, and there are gems and gold to be mine for your life and for my life Let's pray. Lord, we want to grow in our faith. We are ashamed of how shakable and fragile is our faith. How many times this week we've doubted you. Lord, continue to work in our lives. Give us an unshakable faith. Give us a determination to follow you because of your work in our lives that will be uncompromised. Because we believe that you are true. Lord, we pause right now, in the quiet of this moment, to examine our hearts. In our own view of your word, to confess to you our doubting it, our ignoring it. Lord, speak to us now. Give us a new love for that word.