Well this is the message that I promised on hell. Notice that we do Up and down. I haven't even gotten started yet. You guys are already reacting. Okay, kids. They don't they certainly don't want you here for this one. Okay. Kids all dismissed. Children's church. Give you a moment to get out, thank you. So long kids. We'll see you. Okay, yeah. All right. This is the message that I promised, as I said, on hell, and uh You notice that we had the air conditioning working this morning. The lights are set with their normal kind of brightness and no special effects coming. You know, it's funny, isn't it? We we always like to kid about hell because hell is such a serious subject. It's very difficult for us to face it without kidding. We almost compulsively joke about hell because we're afraid to look at the reality of it. Now last week I spoke on delighting in God's Word, and nearly 50 of you took that little sheet on the simple inductive approach to Scripture. That was very encouraging to me. We had a reprint more. And I decided this week that because this is the kind of a subject that uh I don't want it just to be kind of a a one-shot effect, but I want you to be able to think about it Now you'll notice along with your bulletin outline this week, there is a little sheet called For Meditation. And that's to help you in this next week. To be able to take each day some of the thoughts from the message, to be able to explore them yourself in Scripture. We'll cover a lot of Scripture this morning. And so that's for you to be able to take each day. And let me know if you find that kind of thing helpful. I could do it again, but I don't know that I'll ever do it again if Uh, don't find that you use it, but if you do and you find it helpful, I'll consider doing it other times also. So please give me some feedback if you want me to continue that some other time. Now you may ask yourself, what in the world does hell have to do with the series on delighting in God? And I would say that there's a very, very important connection. Because you remember that the verse that we've been looking at, our theme verse through these past months on this series, has been delight yourself. And that's Psalm 37, verse 4. That's right embedded in Psalm 37. And Psalm 37 has as its key motive for delight the fact that you and I will not be cut off with the wicked. But will rather inherit the land, the kingdom of God. Take a look at Psalm 37. If you haven't turned to that, you might have been turning to Matthew. But let me call your attention to how important this is to the idea of delighting in God. In Psalm 37 The Psalm begins, do not fret because of evil men, or be envious of those who do wrong, for like the grass, they will soon wither. Like green plants, they will soon die away. Then verse 9, for evil men will be cut off But those who hope in the Lord will inherit the land. Verse ten, a little while, and the wicked will be no more. Though you look for them they will not be found. Verse twenty But the wicked will perish. The Lord's enemies will be like the beauty of the fields. They will vanish, vanish like smoke. Verse 22. Those he curses will be cut off. Verse 28. The offspring of the wicked will be cut off. Verse 34. When the wicked are cut off You will see it. Verse 36. He soon passed away talking about the wicked, and was no more. Though I looked for him, he could not be found. Verse 38. Sinners will be destroyed. The future of the wicked will be cut off. And the great contrast of this psalm is that you and I, if we are trusting in the finished work of Jesus Christ, in his death on the cross, and his resurrection that if by faith we are looking to him for his record and his merits, not our own, to stand before God, then the promise of this psalm is that you and I will inherit the land which is a picture of the kingdom. You see that repeated again and again. Notice again verse nine. The contrast, evil men will be cut off, but those who hope in the Lord will inherit the land. Verse ten. A little while, and the wicked will be no more, though you look for them they will not be found. But, verse eleven, the meek will inherit the land. That's quoted by Jesus in the Beatitudes, the meek will inherit the earth, the kingdom, and enjoy great peace. Or verse 22. Those that the Lord blesses will inherit the land. Verse 28. For the Lord loves the just and will not forsake his faithful ones. They will be protected forever, but the offspring of the wicked will be cut off The righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it forever. Verse 34. Wait for the Lord and keep his way. He will exalt you to inherit the land. And so you see this again and again and again, and it's because of this that he says in verse 3 that you and I trust in the Lord, do good, and then dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture. Delight yourself in the Lord. And he will give to you the desires of your heart. Because you have this hope. Now you see, the problem is that today this hope is no big deal. Because hell's no big deal. And so you and I miss the weight of this. We miss the hope. We missed the good news of this psalm because we live in an age in which hell is kind of a joke. We live in a time because of our secularism and our materialism that we view hell as something that is some superstition of a bygone age, of Dante's inferno, and We have all these caricatures and these pictures of hell, and so hell is dismissed. It's ridicule. Now it's interesting that we're seeing a lot more now about A resurgence of hell. I don't know if you've seen this, but there's been a number of articles on this about four years ago. U. S. News and World Report had a cover article on the comeback of hell Wall Street Journal a few months ago had an article on resurgence of hell, and I've seen a number of other articles in secular periodicals. talking about how there's a renewed interest in hell. Now, before we applaud too quickly as Christians and think, wow, this is great, you know, people are beginning to see again that there's hell We need to realize that the motive for this is in part, I think, a good one. I think there is more of a a sense of secular people today that we are more than we're hearing in our college courses. We're more than just a biological bag of groceries that grows and just exists for a few hours, days, years, and then passes on into nothingness. In fact, in a recent college course that was held on death in the afterlife, there was only room for for 100 students. 400 signed up for it. They had to cut it off. A book written by John Blanchard, a British evangelist on hell, is in one year in its third printing. Because it's been sold out so quickly. So there is an interest, and that interest is something that I think that we can be glad for. But on the other hand, I don't think that interest is saying that people are really alarmed about health. Now it's interesting that Gallup poll shows that 60% of Americans believe that there is a hell And that's up. 1965 it was fifty-four percent. Nineteen eighty-two it was fifty-three percent. Now in just the last little over ten years, in fact The uh survey was done a couple years ago, so in ten years it's moved from fifty-three to sixty percent of Americans now say they believe in health. But the interesting thing is that hell is always for other people. You don't understand? In fact, one article talked about this. This woman said, Well, I don't have much faith, but you know, it would really be very satisfying to think that people who really don't have any excuse for their evil are going to roast in flames. Very satisfying, she says. And so the interesting thing is that for most Americans, they'll say, I believe that there's a hell, but I don't believe I'm going there. It's for other people. It's for the nasty people. It's for the evil people. And of course I'm not one of those. Most people have this blind sense that I'm going to go to heaven. More people believe in heaven than in hell. What about hell then? The Bible teaches a hell, but for most of us, the hell is not a reality that you and I come to terms with very much. Not only is it because of our secular world, but I believe also it's because that many who call themselves Christians uh water down hell, no pun intended there, but that they say that, well, you don't really have to take hell as seriously as the Bible seems to portray. Because of three things that you see listed in the outline there. First of all, because of the teaching of universalism. Universalism says that, well, hell may be real, but ultimately it's going to be empty. God's grace is going to triumph, and everyone is going to ultimately come to Christ. Whether they know him by name or not, they're going to be saved by his work. I call this Santa Claus theology. You know, it's kind of like Santa Claus where you hear the threat that, you know, if you're not good, you're going to get coal in your stocking, and so it's only for good little girls and boys that there's going to be presents under the tree. But of course everybody knows that even though there's that threat in order to try at least get some behavior out of you in November and December, that um when you come on Christmas morning I mean nobody really had coal in their stocking if it wasn't a joke, right? I mean how many of you really had coal in your stocking on Christmas morning? Yeah, see? You know, you've got the threat, but ultimately everybody's going to make it. It's just kind of to keep us in our place. That's universalism. The second teaching that's come under the name of Christianity is what I call purgation. Now I didn't misspell that, I didn't mean purgatory. Purgation is a more general term. It's sort of like purgatory, but what it says is that ultimately because God is a good and loving God, he's going to purge out in some uh time after death of suffering, torment, uh sin will be purged out and people will ultimately, after some period of time, come to return God's look of love with a return gaze of love. That's almost a quote from Madeline Lingell, who's often read as a Christian author. George MacDonald believed the same kind of thing, and others who go other under the name of Christian writers. The third thing that is often taught today, and this one is particularly becoming popular within evangelical churches. Is the notion of annihilation, annihilation theory. And annihilation theory says that God is too good to cause people to suffer forever and ever. And therefore, what he does is when you read in Psalm 37 that he cuts you off, that means he will literally cut people off. They will no longer exist that hell is the destruction of the soul. That these people will not continue to suffer. They will be destroyed. They will be annihilated. They will not exist. Only the righteous, only those that belong to Jesus will exist. But those who go to hell, in that hell, they no longer exist. There is no consciousness, there is no more existence. Now that uh is being perpetrated in things like the Evangelical Dictionary of New Testament Theology, Volume 3, page 99, says that when the Bible speaks of eternal punishment, it doesn't necessarily mean eternal. That it simply means that there will be a final punishment. And you see this in a number of evangelical writers today. Now what does the Bible say? Not as what Alan Harris say, not as what Columbia Presbyterians say, not What does Presbyterians in general say? What does the Bible teach? And specifically what does the Lord Jesus teach on this subject? Well now let's turn to Matthew chapter 26 because I want to look at this one verse particularly One verse in which we focus on his teaching in the context of his general teaching and the teaching of Scripture. Because I believe that it's important if you are here this morning without an assurance of a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Christ, or if you are here this morning and you are sure that you have that relationship, for us to know exactly what the Bible teaches about hell. One verse very clear. Look what Jesus says. Now, first of all, notice that this verse is at the end of his teaching that begins back in verse 31. On the final judgment, in which the Lord Jesus says that there are two categories of people, like sheep and goats. He doesn't say they are, he simply says it's like that there, you know, you're either a sheep or you're a goat. There's no hybrid, there's nothing in between. There's the one or there's the other. And then he finishes up this teaching about these two sets of people standing before the judgment throne by saying in verse forty-six, then they, this is talking about the wicked, will go away to eternal punishment. But the righteous to eternal life. Now notice four things that Jesus teaches about hell, four facts about hell is the first point here. First of all, hell is real. This teaches us that hell is real. It is not figurative, it is not symbolic. Chapter 25 has three stories. The first two are parables. Verse 1 begins: At that time the kingdom of heaven will be like ten virgins. Parables always begin with that kind of idea. The kingdom of heaven is like this. And then Jesus gives us something that is not literally true, but it's a picture in order to describe spiritual reality. Then in verse 14, again it will be like a man going on a journey called a servant. And you have the parable of the talents. But you notice that when you get to verse thirty-one, the language is different. Verse thirty-one does not say this is what the kingdom of heaven is like. Verse thirty-one says, When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, He will sit on his throne in heavenly glory. All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate the people one from another as a shepherd separates sheep from the goats. There's no allegory here. This is not a parable. It's a preview of the final judgment. This is not meant to be symbolic language He's speaking to us of truth that is described in a way that we can understand it. Hell, therefore, is real. It is not something that is figurative. Jesus intended for us to understand the reality of that, and you and I look at that and we say, but that's a scary reality. And Jesus says, you have every right to be afraid of that. Back in chapter 10, verse 28, Jesus said, Do not be afraid of those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather, be afraid of the one who can destroy both soul and body in hell. We have to be careful, I think, to not get sucked in to the kind of secular thinking today that makes fun Of hellfire and brimstone kind of preaching. Now, I'm not advocating the kind of preaching that was manipulative in order to get people to walk down the sawdust trail and give their lives to Jesus out of pure fear. But we can overreact to that kind of manipulative device in order to get decisions for Christ by saying that hell is not something to fear. That our only motive for coming to Christ should be out of love for Christ or out of the grace of the gospel or something like this. Jesus says very clearly, fear hell. Hell is something that you and I ought to dread, that we ought to realize it is real, and therefore it is really to be feared. It is to be dreaded. The second thing to notice is that hell is torment. Hell is torment. Then they will go, Jesus says, to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. Notice what he said back in verse 41. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you who are cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. Hell is the place prepared for the devil and his angels and all that follow in his course. Hell is described in chapter 3 and verses 11 and 12 as an unquenchable fire. Again and again Jesus warns us, he says, it'd be better if you plucked out your eye or cut off your arm and enter into the kingdom than to go into hell because of something that is So precious to you that you're saying, I refuse to give that up in my life. For many people you say, come to Jesus and receive forgiveness. Be delivered from hell and they say, no, I will not give up this relationship. I will not give up that habit. And Jesus said, be better to be maimed. And be able to be delivered from hell than to keep everything you want in this life and wind up in hell. It's torment It'd be better to be drowned, he says on another occasion. He said to Judas Iscariot, it would be better if you had never been born, or about Judas Now, all these things picture to us the torment of hell. Now, if I had time, and maybe in another message, I would like to cover Luke chapter 2 Chapter 12 verses 47 and 48, because they speak of the fact that there are variations in degrees of punishment. Not everybody suffers the same. Bible's very clear about that. Those that knew the Master's will suffer many stripes. Those that did not know the Master's will, few stripes, relatively speaking. But the Bible is very clear that in every case, hell is insufferable. It is not as if those who suffer the least don't have very much to be concerned about. In every case it's insufferable, but there are degrees of the intensity of that suffering, according to what how the person responded to the gospel or to the conscience that directed their lives. Physically, there is an indication that there is a sense of suffering. It's spoken of as fire, as darkness, as unquenchable thirst Also, emotionally, the Bible speaks of hell as a torment. There's a sense of loneliness, there's a sense of separation, of the bitterness of regret and remorse. I once read a story about a father who was backing his car out of his driveway and accidentally ran over his four-year-old son. Dashed out of the car and gathered up his son in his arms just in time to hear his little boy say it, Oh Daddy, and died in his arms. I see that and I think, what would hell be like? For in hell it's not an accident. In hell, it's a drunken father who comes and says it's out of my carelessness, it's out of the wantonness of my disregard that I lived my life the way I did. And now I'm suffering the torments of all of my conscience. All those things that I said, I didn't really have to worry about this, I didn't have to think about that. God wasn't going to really pay me back for my sin. I'm really trying the best that I can, and I keep rationalizing and blame shifting, but in hell there is no blame shifting. In hell, I'm left to face the regrets, the remorse of all that I have done. And there is no hope. No hope. No hope to change. No hope of deliverance No hope that I will ever be rescued from this, but simply the bitter, agonizing facing day after day, year after year, century after century. The consequences of my refusal to take Jesus Christ into my life. The refusal to bow before Him. The refusal to live the life that the Bible spoke of and commanded. Hell is torment, a torment that you and I cannot begin to understand. Except in some of the extreme cases that we see, such as I described, or in others that we can think of. Thirdly, Hella's punishment. Hella's punishment. Notice verse 46 does not use the word hell. Jesus says, then they will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. You notice it's not purgation, it's not purgatory, it's not annihilation, it is punishment. Forever and ever. Chapter 12 speaks of sins that are not forgiven. In Romans chapter 2, you have that warning about storing up wrath. Romans chapter 2, verse 5, for instance, but because of your stubbornness and your unrepentant heart, you are stirring up wrath against yourself for the day of God's wrath When his righteous judgment will be revealed, and goes on to speak of his punishment for sin. 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 8 and 9. We read that he will punish those who do not know God and who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. They will be punished with everlasting destruction. And shut out from the presence of the Lord and from the majesty of his power. Punishment, not simply inevitable consequences in some impersonal way. But the punishment of a God who hates sin, of God who is so righteous and holy and pure in his being When you and I decide to go our own way and to disobey him, we bring upon ourselves his personal punishment and wrath. This is not my opinion. This is simply what Jesus says. Look in the Bible for yourself. Matthew 25, 46. Then they will go away to eternal punishment. That's the Lord of love. That's Jesus who held the children in his arms. Jesus who healed the lepers, who warns you and me that hell is punishment for those who refuse the gospel. Hell is punishment for those who have gone against their conscience, who perhaps have never heard the gospel, with less punishment, but nevertheless insufferable. You know that today a two polls have been done recently, asking evangelical Christians What would you say about Mahatma Gandhi? Let's suppose that Mahatma Gandhi did not turn to Christ at the end of his life. What would you say about him? Would you say he is in hell Do you know most evangelical Christians today will not make a dogmatic statement that he is in hell? They'll say, well, you know, I think maybe, but if you know, possibly the Bible's very clear on this for you and for me. Hell is a punishment for those of us who refuse the gospel and refuse what God has revealed to us. And finally, hell is eternal. Hell is eternal. Again, look what verse 46 says. They will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. Eternal. You notice the words used two times. It's interesting to me that many commentators today are saying that The eternal that refers to life there really means eternal. But the eternal that refers to punishment doesn't really mean eternal. Now on what basis can the word mean eternal in one case, but not in the other? It's used precisely in parallel descriptions. And if the one is eternal and you and I are looking forward to eternal life with our Lord Jesus On what basis do we say that a person without Christ does not suffer eternal punishment? Certainly not the basis of the words of the Lord Jesus. He's very clear. It's crystal clear in this verse. Eternal punishment. Again and again the Bible says this, all the way from back in Daniel chapter 12. It spoke about the uh threat of eternal destruction. Matthew chapter 3 speaks of unquenchable fire. Matthew chapter 12 speaks of sin not forgiven in the age to come. Doesn't simply say in this age, but it's not forgiven in the age to come, implying it goes on and on. Matthew 26 Jesus says about Jews, it would be better if he had never been born. If he was annihilated, if he somehow eventually was going to be brought into heaven, then no matter how bad it might be, if the rest of eternity was in heaven, certainly it would have been better if he had been born. The only way it could be better if he had never been born is if in fact hell is in fact eternal and a punishment for his sins. Second Thessalonians that I just read, you notice It speaks of the punishment as everlasting destruction. In Jude 12 and 13, we speak, Jude speaks of the blackest darkness reserved for the lost. Forever. And in Revelation, you have again and again this idea of eternal punishment. For example, in chapter 14, in verse 9 You read, a third angel followed them and said in a loud voice, If anyone worships the beast in his image and receives his mark on the forehead or on the hand, he too will drink of the wine of God's fury, which has been poured full strength. Into the cup of his wrath. He will be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy angels and of the Lamb, and the smoke of their torment rises forever and ever. Hell is eternal. And any teaching that you read or see today that seeks to undercut that, seeking to minimize what is in fact a terrible thing for us to contemplate. Because in an age in which we don't take sin very seriously, we will not take hell very seriously either. Now What is the alternative? Do you notice that there is an alternative? And praise God for that Because in verse 46 of Matthew 26, we read that they will go away to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. Praise God for that alternative. You notice that you have that alternative back in verse 34 and 41. To the sheep on the right, the king says, Come, you who are blessed by my father, take your inheritance, the kingdom prepared for you since the creation of the world And then verse 41, the alternative. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you who are cursed into the eternal Father, prepared for the devil and his angels. Now you see if there's nothing that could be any clearer than this teaching. Could it? You're either a sheep or you're a goat. There's no hybrid. There's no you know head of a sheep and the tail of a goat or anything. You know, it's you are either sheep or you're a goat. Either you go into eternal punishment or you have eternal life The Bible doesn't speak about some in-between category, and that's what most Americans I think kind of depend on. Well, you know, I'm really not bad enough for hell, and I really wouldn't presume to go to heaven, but somehow it's going to work out in some vague way. But the Bible is absolutely clear. It is either insufferable agony forever, or it is unspeakable delight in the presence of the Lord. Now, how do you gain eternal life? It's not something you have inherently. It's not something that you can earn. But the Bible is absolutely clear in Luke chapter 12, verse 32, Jesus says, it's been the Father's pleasure to give you the kingdom. So eternal life is a gift. And that gift we read in Romans chapter six is a gift that is opposed to the idea of wages. Romans chapter six You read in verse 23 that the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. How? In Jesus Christ our Lord. In Romans chapter 3, he told us how we get that gift. He said that gift is given to you through faith in his blood. Faith in the finished work of Jesus. That alone is the way that you receive the gift of eternal life. That is the only way that you receive the deliverance. Romans 6:23, the blanks there, wages of sin versus the gift of God. Received hell, not by your efforts, but by faith in his blood. Do you want to see what hell is like? Look at Calvary. Look at the cross. For there you see all the components of hell. The physical suffering. The loneliness and the abandonment, the hopelessness, the termination, all that Jesus suffered, encompassed as God infinitely So that you and I would never have to go to hell. Jesus suffered hell for you. If you trust him and cleave to him so that you will not have to go to hell that you deserve for your own sin. Are you sure of that this morning? Are you sure that you have the right to stand before God? And to claim the satisfaction of Jesus Christ, his record in your place, his death, his suffering in your place, so that you would never have to suffer that hell. Are you sure? I couldn't believe it. This week I was talking to somebody who had come to Columbia Presbyterian for a few weeks and hadn't seen them for a while, and so I called them up and I asked if they had found a place that they were worshiping. And as we talked It turned out that the person was saying, since we've come to Columbia Presbyterian, we're no longer sure that we're Christians. And we've begun to wonder now, do we really know if we have eternal life? And I said, how can I help you? And they said, well we're going to look at some other churches and see if we like something else better. Yeah, we we can laugh at that, but you realize here's a person saying, I may be going to hell. But I'm going to go someplace where I'll be able to hear something that'll make me feel good. That's tragic. Every one of us knows people like that, don't we? In our family, in our friends What about any of you here? Are you sure? There's been others in the recent weeks and months that we've talked to who have said I'm I'm not comfortable at Columbia Presbyterian because I'm not sure that I fit, I'm not sure that I Know the Savior that you're talking about, the way that you describe him, and I think I'll go somewhere else. There's nothing more tragic than I can imagine than that Pray God there'd be nobody here this morning who would make such a fatal error. Whether you come to Columbia Presbyterian or not is not the issue. It's whether you know Jesus. Make sure of that. Talk to me. Any Christian here to direct you to that assurance. Hell is eternal. You know, if you know that you have this assurance, then I suggest, one of the days I suggest this this week, that you read Psalm 37 again. And in the light of understanding what it means to be cut off, read, of the promise of the gospel. The hope that you have to inherit the land, the kingdom. And as you read that, realizing I deserve to be cut off. I deserve that hell. But Jesus has given to me the kingdom because he suffered in my place. May God bring to your heart a new song. May He bring to us as a congregation a new sense of the joy that comes from realizing that you and I have been delivered from hell and have been given heaven. Amen. Maybe we've come to realize that, brothers and sisters. For nothing will motivate us in our service of the Lord Jesus like delighting in him who is the fountainhead of our pleasure instead of hell. Finally, you thirdly, you see why you and I are commanded in Scripture never to cheapen hell by jokes or by language that says hell and damn in some casual way, because the world always wants to make fun so that it doesn't have to worry and fear it. Be careful in your language, but you don't add to that. Finally, you see why the gospel then is so urgent. If there's somebody God's placing on your heart this morning in your family or your friends, and you're saying, I'm not really sure they're a Christian, but it's no big deal. May God lay upon you and me the urgency, not the anxiety, not that we rush out and throttle them, that we come more insistent in our praying. That those that we care for would not suffer hell. Because of the Savior who did, that they would know heaven. Let's pray. Oh Lord our God, we cannot begin to fathom the stakes that lie before us of the alternatives of heaven and hell. Lord Jesus, when you said in your word here that the wicked will go to eternal punishment, but the righteous to eternal life. We barely can begin to understand what that means. Open our eyes, Lord, that we would see the realities of heaven and of hell, and that we would live in the light of those realities. That there would not be one here this morning who would cavalierly dismiss this or put it off and say, I don't really have to worry about this But that you would, Lord, work by your power in every heart and life the desperate need for the salvation that Jesus offers. To deliver us from hell that we deserve. And have the heaven that you offer. May it be our delight, Lord. May it be our delight. In Jesus' name.