I once read of a Sunday school teacher who was describing to her class what heaven would be like and how great it would be. She's talking about the streets of gold and perfect relationships and all these things. And so she asked the class, how many of you would like to go to heaven? And everybody put up their hand except little Herbie. And so she went over and she said, Herbie, don't you want to go to heaven? He says, Well it sounds like you're getting up a busload to go now, and I think I'll put it off. All of us want to go to heaven, but very few of us want to go today. At least if we have to go by the way of death. We like to think of going sometime But we don't don't like to think about when, and we don't like to think about it as very soon. In fact, uh, I understand this series of messages that come at the beginning of the year has a reputation of Paris's death sermons and people sort of like to avoid them, you know. We need to think about that. I remember just this last year I had a dream in which I had cancer. Very vivid dream. One of the most vivid dreams I ever had. I had cancer and I had only about six weeks to live. And I remember in that dream that it was so vivid that I actually was able to see a whole different perspective on everything about me. Things that had been not very important to me before became all of a sudden of monumental consequence. And other things that were very important became very trivial to me. And all my perspective changed. And two questions particularly were raised by that dream that you see there in your bulletin outline. Two questions which our own mortality that we just sang about raises for each of us. Number one, am I ready to face God and whatever is beyond death? Now before you answer that too glibly, because you've made some profession of faith in Jesus, Listen to Psalm ninety, God's Word, as we hear what God says about our position before Him Let's give attention to God's Word. Psalm 90. Let me read first verses 1 to 12. Lord, you have been our dwelling place throughout all generations. Before the mountains were born, or you brought forth the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Return men back to dust, saying, Return to dust, O sons of men. For a thousand years in your sight are like a day that has just gone by. Are like a watch in the night. You sweep men away in the sleep of death. They are like the new grass of the morning, though in the morning it springs up new, by evening it is dry and We are consumed by your anger, terrified by your indignation. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. All our days pass away under your wrath We finish our years with a moan. The length of our days is seventy years, or eighty if we have the strength, and yet their span is but trouble and sorrow, for they quickly pass. And we fly away. Who knows the power of your anger? For your wrath is as great as the fear that is due you. Teach us. To number our days aright, that we may gain a heart of wisdom You feel the weight of what he says there in verses 7 and 8. We're consumed by your anger, terrified by your indignation. You've set our iniquities before you, even our secret sins that nobody else knows about. Are open before God to see, to judge. No doubt when your conscience is honest You and I have a great deal to fear about standing before a holy and righteous judge, don't we? But God has not left us there. And so he goes on in the prayer and the hope in verses twelve to seventeen. See what he says as he continues. Moses prays, Relent, O Lord, how long will it be? Have compassion on your servants. It's my only hope. Satisfy us in the morning with your unfailing love. That we may sing for joy and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, for as many years as we have seen trouble. May your deeds be shown to your servants, your splendor to their children. May the favor of the Lord our God rest upon us. Establish the work of our hands for us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. So you see in the Psalm that the only hope that you and I have It's the forgiveness and the compassion of God in Jesus Christ. We looked at these verses for two weeks, about a year ago. We saw then that our only hope was the compassion and the forgiveness of our God in Jesus Christ. That's a certain hope in Jesus Christ if we have in fact prayed the prayer of verse 13. Have compassion for me. Not because of what I've done, but simply because of the work, the finished work of Jesus Christ. Have you ever placed your faith and trust in Jesus Christ personally that you might know his forgiveness and his compassion? That is your only hope when you ask that question, am I ready to face God whatever is beyond death? It is only the fact that you You can rest in the finished objective work of Jesus Christ so that his record is substituted for yours before God. And if you have, have that confidence. If you have not, don't wait one more day before you trust Jesus Christ. That you might be able to face God without the terror that is described in verses 7, 8, and 11. But there's a second question that was raised by that dream that I had. And it was the question, what will people think about me when I'm gone? I hadn't thought about that a whole lot, but all of a sudden I began to think What is it that people will think if I were to die a month, two months from now? What would be the response of those that knew me? Would anybody miss me? Would anybody really care that I was born? Am I precious to anyone? Would anyone read beyond the appropriate expected time? Or would I be soon forgotten and replaced? Heard once of a fellow that used to visit a restaurant and go in every day, and it was a waitress who was there and served him in He noticed uh after a couple of days that she wasn't there, and he asked the owner what happened to this waitress. And he said, well, she died And he said, well who's going to fill her vacancy? And the owner snarled and said, she didn't leave any vacancy. When you and I go, will we leave a vacancy? Will there be a hop that's felt? Will there even be relief by some? This question is raised by our priorities, the things we invest in. And so at the beginning of 1991, I'd like to call to our attention just verse twelve of this psalm. Lord, teach us to number our days aright, that we may gain a heart of wisdom in what we invest ourselves in. And to test that, I would like to look at three deaths in Scripture. The deaths of three biblical characters, and see three different reactions of the people that knew them and lived beyond them. That you and I may number our days right and gain a heart of wisdom through this for 1991. The first reaction is the reaction of hatred. Point one. Hatred For the life of Jehoram, recorded in 2 Chronicles 21, verses 16 to 20, turn to that And be able to follow. Now Jehoram was a king of Judah in the years 853 to 841 BC. He was the fifth king after Solomon Began to reign 77 years after Solomon's death. When Jehoram came to the throne, the first thing that he did was to murder all of his brothers in cold blood because they could be possible rivals for the throne. Then he wiped out all their families and any other person who might possibly have a claim to the throne. He married one of uh wicked Ahab's daughters. The guy lived a pretty rotten life. He only reigned eight years, you notice, died at the age of 40 In fact, his days were so evil that God says the only reason that he didn't obliterate his entire family was because of the covenant that he made with David. That there would be one on the throne from his line through whom Messiah would come. Jehoram had a lot of enemies. Elijah the prophet once wrote Jehoram a letter in which he catalogued all his sins, and then he said at the end, God is going to deal you a heavy blow, Jehoram, as a consequence of the way you've lived. And you're going to have a prolonged illness of tremendous suffering, the result of which your bowels will literally come out of your body, and you will die. And so you read in 2 Chronicles chapter 21 and verse 18 that after this the Lord afflicted Jehoram with an incurable disease of the bowels. In the course of time, at the end of the second year, his bowels came out because of the disease, and he died in great pain. A fellow who lived only for himself and his own success and cared what no one else thought. That they were an impediment to him, they were simply to be removed. And he died in sufferable agony, for two years in agony. Finally his bowels came out. I don't know exactly how that happened. It reminds me of a true story that I read back in the frontier days of our uh own country of a fellow by the name of Jacob Greathouse. Jacob Greathouse was such a despicable character, he was a sadist, and he used to torture and kill Indians who were absolutely innocent simply because he hated Indians. The Indies got a hold of him though, and in retaliation and revenge for all that he had inflicted on their people, they cut a hole in his gut and tied his bowel, his intestine, to a tree. And then beat him around the tree until his intestines unraveled, and he died in terrible, unspeakable agony. Now before you think I'm just giving you a gory illustration, that's picture in scripture. This fella died, that kind of death Now, my point in all this is what is the response? When you see a person suffering like that, people's hearts went out to him and thought, what a way to suffer. What happened to this fellow? How did they respond? Notice what verse 19 and 20 says, His people made no fire in his honor, as they had done for his fathers. Jehoram was 32 years of age when he became king, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years. He passed away to no one's regret. He was buried in the city of David, but not in the tombs of the camps. They were glad that he was gone. I'm old enough to remember the McCarthy hearings back in the early 50s. And I remember the day that Senator Joseph McCarthy, who had tried to carry out a communist purge within our country, And in doing that became intoxicated with power, ruining people's reputations, careers, slandering people left and right with impunity just a remarkable time in our history, a man who is very hated. And you know how when people die, particularly when they're famous, there are always eulogies and statements of things that they did well. But I remember the day that McCarthy died, there was not one good word in the press about him. Even the day he died, people were glad that he was gone He died to no one's regret. I remember as a young pastor, I was a visiting pastor in a large evangelical church. One of my first assignments There's been a pastor there for a week or two, still going to seminary. And I was told to visit a man who had just lost his wife. I didn't know the man, but they had been married for over thirty years I felt utterly inadequate for the task. What do you say? Young whippersnapper like me, what do I have to offer to a guy like that? Been married for over thirty years and loses his wife. So I determined that I would go over and all I could do would be to ask questions. to help him to talk about his wife and to be in touch with his feelings. So I went over to him and I simply said, uh, Sir, I'm Alan Harris from church and I don't know you but I've heard that you've lost your wife. You must feel a tremendous loss without her. Tell me about her. He looked at me and he said, Are you kidding? I'm glad she's gone There was nothing happy about living with that woman. It was only pain and misery. And now she is dead. I am free. Don't cry for me. I've been looking forward to this day. I couldn't believe what I was hearing. And the guy began to talk of the misery. of living with this woman for thirty years. Do you ever stop to think is anybody gonna say that about you when you die? Is there anybody that you know you think, oh, they're gonna miss me? Gonna leave a real hole in their life and say, well, I'm glad the old son of a gun's gone. He died to no one's regret. What a terrible thing to say about a life. Lord teach us to number our days. We may gain the heart of wisdom. The second response that you can get is a response of indifference. Indifference. Exemplified by the life of Methuselah in Genesis chapter 5. Methuselah, we know, is the oldest man in recorded history. But his whole life is summed up in three verses. In Genesis chapter 5, verses 25 to 27. When Methuselah had lived 187 years, he became the father of Lamech, and after he became the father of Lamech, Methuselah lived seven hundred and eighty-two years and had other sons and daughters, and altogether Methuselah lived nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and then he died. Methuselah's father was Enoch, who had walked with God. So it came from a godly heritage. We don't know whether Methuselah trusted God, whether he was a believer or not. We don't know very much about Methuselah at all, do we? All we know is that he tended to put off having kids. We talk about putting off kids today? This guy was 187 before he had his first son You know, I felt like he needed to mature a little bit, I guess, to handle the responsibility. Of course, I was still young at that point. He lived another hundred seven hundred and eighty-two years Who knows how many other kids he had, you know. Probably populated a whole town with him by that time. Guy lived nearly a thousand years. If he had been born a thousand fifty, he'd still be alive today And yet what did he do? All it says was he had kids and he died. So I get the impression that he, you know, he worked, accumulated his stuff, came home, raised some kids, watched a lot of TV, and then he died. Not a whole lot of feeling for a guy that lived almost a millennium, is there? He lived and he died. And so it can be with many of us. What mark is there? What have we accomplished? What have we done? I remember reading a tombstone or about a tombstone some years ago. It was a person's name, birth, death, and the statement on it, to sum up their life, was Bold 300 in 1959. I mean there is an accomplishment, okay? All posterity goes to that cemetery. There's that person, Joe Smith. What did he do? He bowled three hundred in nineteen fifty-nine Philip Yancey, one of my favorite authors, wrote an article on death whispers back a year or two ago. In writing that article, in order to understand how our culture seeks to deny death, he went to a support group. called a make today count, people with terminal illnesses. And they get together and they talk that they might be able to help one another and cope a little better. He speaks about a woman by the name of Martha who has ALS Lew Gehrig's disease. She had already had her arms and legs rendered useless at the time he saw her She breathed with great difficulty. Whenever she fell asleep at night there was danger that she would die from oxygen deprivation. She was twenty-five years old Somebody in the group asked her, What is it, Martha, that you fear about death? Martha thought for a minute and then she said this, quote, I regret all that I'm going to miss. Next year's big movies, for example, the election results. And I fear that I will one day be forgotten, that I'll just disappear, and that no one will even miss me. That's not just the little people. It's true of also the greats. Take Howard Hughes, born 1905, became a multi-billionaire. Died in 1976 without a wife, without children, without any friends, alone, an obsessed man. When Hughes died, there was no viewing for him. The service was sixteen minutes long with seventeen mourners assembled. The pastor insightfully read from 1 Timothy 6 7. We have brought nothing into the world, and it is for certain that we shall take nothing out. It said that when Hughes was lowered into the ground, there were no tears shed. His PR director instructed his casino in Las Vegas that there would be a moment of silence in his honor on the day of his funeral. And so there was a very uncomfortable moment in which all the gamblers stood around in silence, stopping the play. Said that after 59 seconds, one of the pit bosses looked at his watch and said, He's had his minute, roll the dice. And that was the end of mourning for Howard Hughes. Where do you take Donald Trump? A couple years ago I kept the article, January 1989, two years ago, probably at the peak of his career. He's on the cover of Time magazine that week. And this is what one of his associates said. Looking toward the future, this associate peresees Trump building bigger and bigger projects in his attempts to fill the hole in his life. But finally ending like Howard Hughes, a multi-billionaire living all alone in one room. Hey, life is life, says Donald Trump, whose coiff blonde hair is just beginning to gray at the temples We're here for a short time, and when we're gone, those people don't care. In some cases, they're quite happy about it. And that's his philosophy of life Psalm 90 verse 12 says, Lord, teach us to number the days of our life alright, that we may gain a heart of wisdom. In what we're investing ourselves in. Investing your life in things or in people Third response is the response of love. Love Illustrated by the death of Dorcas in Acts chapter 9. Turn to Acts chapter 9. You might see that You notice in Acts chapter 9, beginning in verse 36, how Dorcas is described. In Joppa there was a disciple named Tabitha, which, when translated, is Dorcas who was always doing good and helping the poor. Did you ever hear of Tabitha in your list of the great saints or Dorcas? Not a very famous Bible characteristic, not one that we know a whole lot about. A relative unknown. But I'll tell you this, she's great in the kingdom The Bible tells us that she was always going about doing good and helping the poor. And so look at verse 37. About that time she became sick and she died. And her body was washed and was placed in an upstairs room. Then verse 38. Lida was near Joffa. And so when the disciples heard that Peter was in Lita, they sent two men to him and urged him, please come at once. Well why did they do that? Lyd and Jopper about 12 miles apart. They sent two of her friends to go run to Peter because they wanted them to conduct the funeral? No Because Dorcas was so loved that they refused to give her up. She left such a great hole, such a great chasm in their lives And there were people that she associated with who were full of faith that I said, maybe God could restore her. Maybe. It's so hard to think of Dorcas as gone. We love her so much. Go run. Tell Peter. Maybe God would be pleased to give her back to us. And so they run to Lydda, and they get Peter, because of their deep, deep love for Dorcas. She's missed terribly. Fine. Because she was rich and successful? No. No indication of that. Because she was smart, intelligent, read all the books, and had all the answers I doubt that very seriously. Because she had accomplished great things and was well known for all her accomplishments. All we know about her is that she went around doing good and helping people who couldn't pay her back. Why was it? Because she was kind. And so she was loved by those who knew her. She had learned to number her days aright, and had gained a heart of wisdom. And say you notice verse 39. And they got Peter, Peter went with him. And when he arrived, he was taken upstairs to the room. All the widows stood around him, crying and showing him the robes and the other clothing that Dorcas had made while she was still with him. Probably the widows there refer to other widows. She probably hung around with a bunch of widows, no indication of any other family, so Dorcas was probably a widow and fellowshipped with them, making all these things in the time that she had. But you notice again how she's introduced in verse 36. A disciple When you're dead and gone, how do you want people to remember you? You want them to remember something that you wrote and had published or Some breakthrough that you made in research in your field or something that you did that got you acclaim, whether you bold 300 sometime or whether you did something in your job, who knows Or whether it's because you had some title, some position that you're proud of? Is that the thing that you most closely identify with? But perhaps your relationships that you're the mother of somebody great or somehow you're related or connected to somebody that's great and that's your identity. What is your chief identity? For Dorcas, it was simply that she was a disciple of Jesus. Not described initially as a widow or anything else, just she was a disciple. And therein you find the key to it. All else is passing. But Dorcas's chief identity, because she had counted her days aright. She had a heart of wisdom, was to be a disciple of Jesus. And because her master washed feet and served others, Dorcas was a servant. Dorcas gave herself to those who couldn't even pay her back. Peter was probably very moved by that scene, I imagine, as he saw the love of these people for this woman. A great woman in God's eyes. And so what does he do? We read in verse 40. Peter sent them all out of the room, and then he got down on his knees. When you and I want to do some serious praying, we generally reflect it in our body language. We get down on our knees. We don't just casually cast an eye to heaven. Peter got down on his knees to get his thoughts together and he prayed. And then turning toward the dead woman, he said, Tabitha, get up. And she opened her eyes. And seeing Peter, she sat up. Isn't that amazing? God actually restored this unknown woman, not one of the apostles or the disciples or some great prophet. He restored this woman that you and I would not know anything about in recorded history except for the fact that God restored her to life. And why did he? Because she had given her life to people who loved her so much they refused to give her up. And they sent for Peter And God was merciful and heard their request. And what happened as a result of that? Look at verse 41. He took her by the hand and helped her to her feet. And then he called the believers and the widows and he presented her to her to them alive. And this became known all over Joffa, and many people believed in the Lord. You see the chain reaction. Because she was kind, simply using the gifts that God had given her. Simple gifts, nothing great, nothing profound, simply doing good and helping those who couldn't pay her back. People loved her. When she died, they called on God to do a great and mighty work. And God did that work, and a number of people were converted and came to faith in Jesus Christ. Because of her life and her death and her renewal to life again. How did Dorcas get that way? Not by saying, I want people to love me when I die. I want them to remember me. That would simply be self-serving. Simply because she saw that Jesus, who had died for her, called her to demonstrate her love to him by doing good to other people. And she was his disciple. He saw that she he she saw that he washed feet, and so she washed feet. And when she did that simply where God had placed her, with simply what God had given her, not complaining that she wasn't more known, that she didn't have other opportunities, but simply acting where she was like you and I can do this week. God honored her. God used her life. She understood Psalm 90, verse 12. She numbered her days aright. And gained a heart of wisdom. I recall a woman by the name of Madge. Read about Madge? After the time in her life. When she received a phone call that told her that her brother, her brother's wife, and her brother's wife's sister, and her brother's wife's sister's two children were all instantly killed in a car crash. Mother called and she said, Madge, come as soon as you can. She was in shock. She was disoriented. She was confused. She didn't even know how to order things and how to get things going. A number of people called and they said, Madge, if I can do anything to help you, just let me know. She didn't even know what to tell them to do. So she tried to bring some order and what needed to be done and packing and getting the kids together and what things needed to be canceled and what she could do and trying to understand the fact that her brother was dead and so many of those that she knew and loved. She was a faithful woman, worked in the nursery. You know, that Sunday she had nursery duty. And so she thought to call the nursery coordinator. I can't serve in the nursery. Could you get somebody to replace me? She didn't know the woman very well, knew her husband even less. But a few hours later, the nursery coordinator's husband showed up at her door. And he simply said, I've come to clean your shoes. He said, What? He said, I've come to clean your shoes when my father died and we had to take off. I remember that it was a big job just getting all the kids' shoes polished and cleaned and ready for the trip and the funeral. Give me all your shoes. And let me clean them. It was wintertime and they were muddy and messy and it was something she hadn't even thought about. But she brought them in and she set them down, she gathered all the shoes up. She said, something happened. She watched him there on the floor doing nothing, saying nothing, but just cleaning the kid's shoes, scraping the mud off, cleaning, polishing. She thought of Jesus washing the disciples' feet. And all of a sudden, that released in her all the pent-up emotion, and she sobbed and wept and wept. And then from that, God began to bring order and peace. And she began to think, okay, now I need to do the laundry. I need to get this and I need to get that. And order began to come into her life. Why? Because somebody had come to do her good in a very specific way. And so, not only clean to polish the shoes, he even washed the soles so she could stick them right in the suitcase. And she said, ever after that, when somebody has a deep need, she never calls and says, if you need anything, let me know. But you'll think of one specific thing, and often people will say, how did you think to do that? And she says, because one day somebody came to clean my shoes. What does that mean for you and for me in 1991? Lord, teach us to number our days right, that we may gain a heart of wisdom. That we might live as disciples of our Master, who invested his life in people, that we might think about specific priorities this year. What are you investing in? What kinds of records are you building for the people who know you and how they will respond when you have died? Lord, teach us to number our days aright, that we might gain a heart of wisdom. Amen.