We're back to Ephesians. We're up to Ephesians, chapter five, verses fifteen to seventeen. This is the class part of it. As I made it. And think that this is God speaking to me. Be very careful, but Like I said, I don't unwise, but it's polite, taking the most of every opportunity because of the Therefore, cannot be believed to understand what the Lord will give us. You're called out to the brother A principle matter of immense importance of practicality to me and to me as Christians, to every Christian. How can I know God's will? How do you have God's multiplicity? The second person is team. Therefore do not be flying. But understand what the Lord's will is. Now, in order to understand what he's talking about, we need to realize that the Lord's will If you listen in three different ways, it's three different references and uh all kind of hundred thousand of book about T. What do you mean? What are three things, three to things? of God's blood in there in the outline. So we need to be clear what we're talking about here, but Paul has in mind in verse 17. First of all, What God refers to his purpose and his providence. That is what he says and wills to happen The idea of all that is created will be God when you decrease what the sovereign God commands, exercises, controls Why say that publications, chapter one in verse eleven, we're told that in the end we were all encouraged to having been protected according to the plan of the And everything is worked out into conformity with the purpose of human will. That I and I are It doesn't mean that you are not responsible for your choices, well, just you know, God's will, whatever happens. But a mystery here to be I cannot fathom before which we bow and we worship. God's will is constantly being our mouth in his control of the defense and the details of the country. That's the first way we need to look at this well. It does whatever it needs to like. And you and I are part of that amazing thing to think about. But what about all the reasons rejected to his prefect and his commitments That is there are things that God tells us in His Word that He commands that we do, and He commits that we do, because of things that He tells us to do are And I don't mind refer to it as revealing book because it's revealed in the Bible. Well you have to go and read it. You can you can tell me it's Bible, right? Understand what he said. He intended me to do or to keep away from. See an example of that in chapter four. Verse seventeen, he said I would tell you that it's on it in the Lord must not look everybody And the unbelievers in in the futility of their thinking. God's will for you is back in verse twenty-four. God in true righteousness and holiness. And he goes on with the numbers specific commands telling you what that real will is. But then thirdly, we should speak of God's will. to mean his personal and particular will for you and for me uniquely. Nowhere in the Bible that I read that That I should be a pastor. And you will not read in the Bible somewhere that tells you that to be a book schooler or a teacher or an engineer or any other And that's what Paul is referring to here in chapter five, in verse seventeen. Therefore do not be believed, but understand. And that doesn't matter something that you can But all I'm saying is, therefore, if you apply the things that he's telling you, that will be the consequence. That's very good. Pretty much very good. Can you ever think about it the God who has created all the galaxies? The night stars in our galaxy in this little daughter planet. You won't be bottled in this daughter planet. God does everything to help you. And you can know something about that person to understand the workability. But you understand by saying that people understand what the Lord's will is. There are a lot of them I remember reading him colour in the mail from the travel agency. every time towards Israel. You always wanted to go to Israel. And you must have the point in your life now where you must read if you had the money. You got the time. And she was resting with more than your mind of a desk. And she couldn't make up a line and each will make a spot on the measure will and all these kind of things. She She couldn't make up her mind. She broke up and she now took the time as well for her to go executive. And it's at 747. And they have a college student who is cutting the cars. And he didn't know anybody, but he prayed that God would show it whatever will be what car and let by. One night, and it was green, everything was yellow. So he was ran another keep getting yellow car and went out the next day, looked on the lodge, and he found the color that blue not only was yellow. And that was clear where the car you would take for me. And then the bottom of the test card just blew it right there on the spot. And of course, it turned out They decided that that was God showing that they should be a missionary to the Philippines. It was a planned or talking missionary and then people put out and hang themselves. Decided, well that there must be a mistake trickless and black wheel and point it out and set. Then I would do likewise And that's not too bad. Whatever you do too quickly. There are a lot of nice ways to try I am discerning the Lord's will. I think Ephesians five as a basic guide to what I think about three basic principles for knowing God's will And I've used this to come and students for the years and use it again and again. And I've had people say those are really helpful and reliable techniques. About understanding in wisdom and respect The word will. First principle is to obey God by obeying his real will. The enemy of God therefore has given us up the other than some life of love, just as Christ loved us and gave himself up to us. As a favorite offering and sacrifice to God. So he tells us two ways to do that. First of all, first two, he says to walk in love He said, Well for us does Christ love you. And so you and I think that the love of Christ for us He gave Himself as a sacrifice for your sin and for my sin. Our hearts respond to that not out of diplomatic publication, but out of gospel radically. We respond by walking in above I mean tell us what that means back in category. It means don't lie, don't feel don't just take, don't be a uh a take or butt a big deal. Don't be there, rather than forgive. But if it's to love specifically, and then you can be and you can pray about that, or just This is what you can mean in this situation. This is got wisdom. Here's the limits of the other thing is the other principle is the walk in light. Chapters five verse eight. Therefore walk past children of light type thing. I said walk in love and walk in light reverse God. Verse Eden 16, verse carry, first John chapter five, first John chapter one, verse five. God is love. And it was Ephesians five, is that exactly Characteristics as the basis for power life. God is love. Walk in life. He talks about that light, that's holding this purity. There is nothing actually in the movie, therefore. You don't have to pray about whether to get involved in a sexual relationship with somebody or marriage. Well of obeying it. You don't have to be worried about whether you should marry someone who is not a believer. And darkness are not to be doing together and until we don't. You begin in a Chapter four and five are a number of good examples. And that is to learn what's your point. Children of light and trust and do it when it's not right. And first find out what to explore. That's a progression. That's something that you do as a process How do you do that? I think the principle works like this. You have your Bible, you read that Bible, you do the circuit command, you do this, you don't do that. And then every day there were questions that are more advanced. Turn on a TV. And if you look at that, that's just the wing attention. Uh I wouldn't feel descriptive if the Lord Jesus was just in here. I just wouldn't feel this. Now at that point I've worked You can turn that off because you know that God please the Lord. And what pleases for you to get ways of that. That all something happens in you. Your codec and your spirit becomes slightly more sensitive to what pleases the Lord. Every chapter five version number two talks about learners who are able to take on their own teaching because with limited practice they have learned to discover Oh my god, I heard this fucking hearts by this a lot. And if you look at that in an instant, you're saying, I back out of that thing because that's not pleasing from the word And I know there's a lot of person that says I can't look at this, but I know that doesn't please get out of there. Or I invulted my curiosity, I know And we suppose that's what it basically is. Because you walk in the light, find out what is pleasing to your family to wish. I'm just reading the Christ. And I've got to take a break today. You can take it back. I take my rest. But I know it please was what we're for me to be in. They make twins in the areas that please it. Your spirit becomes more sensitive to the sign of his will and think that are ridiculous And the areas that were clear. You make uncompromising choices. That's point A. Sensitizing your country. I uncompromising tuitions. Turn it off the TV, getting out of the internet, getting out of that, being for God's people, taking advantage of opportunities for training. It's not just saying that that hang out and go for coffee, don't have difficulty whatever the level thing growing. And take advantage of ways I can grow Rhyming and what comes in. Sometimes we're doing much right now than the buttons. And you do it as a deep sense of satisfaction or experience, that's a little bit of reclamation. I'm not gonna go that way. You learn his purpose and you're enjoying it in it. You learn his purpose and you're enjoying it in that purpose. And I influenced a lot of people in this matter of God's book by a simple principle. Except what's on we ask what is God's bokeh for my life? The focus there is only me. What is God's bulk for my life? Except what we remember what we keep asking is Where the God is up to and how can I join you in it? Just read this work about the revivals that have been going on college campuses. But the Holy Spirit is doing it on the campus that were used to be able to just be a couple months and turn up a chapel and couldn't get out of there quick enough. I remember both spoken one of the chapels. the Christian canvas. Since we're just sitting attacked, that's the red on the obvious. Obviously no break. She won't be there. And I know How are you going? They're saying, they're praying, confessing sin. And what are the effects of that? Isn't it answering the question anymore? What is God's will for my life? The question you're asking is, what's God's help? What's God's building in my life? Start with me. What's God Will says, What is what he is called? Now I think you ask that question, Paul says, and that's talking about Well we didn't take three years ago for this thing. Chapter one would tell you that your memory was meant to be ready and so Take a look at it again. Can you say that we're in this barrel? Ah, what is that? According to the fact that it would be purpose in Christ, we put it in effect when the clients will reach there and come, but that's now the day of Christ as Christ has come. Whatever that is, whatever that purpose Prepared to bring all things in heaven and on earth together under one hand, even Christ. That's his will. That's what he up to. People from every time and town and language, people from every culture, from every race together under the one hand Jesus, the shame of the right hand of God So that age of the age of every angel power that can judge us. The more you spend time within this word, day by day, the more your heart will beat the purpose that you are. And that The third principle I think make the most of every opportunity to serve God That's what he says. Verse sixteen. Verse thirteen, be careful then. How do you think? Not out of why it's not his boy, but why follow his word, follow what he says. I think that's that that's not a bad thing. matter of okay well that's what the Bible says we'll do this and doesn't say I have to do that so that's not that's whatever is the dog's work that wouldn't begin it What are you going to do right there? What are you up to? What are you doing in our name? What are you doing in in the culmination of the country? I want to be found ready when it comes. The most of every opportunity. Which doesn't work, like it means kind of a pregnant moment. It's a moment of pregnant. It it's like a a friend of mine was in a computer store recently. And uh you can stand that to the people that people ask them like what you say, you know, and uh what are you gonna do when that happens everybody? And I've got a couple of things to know about how we have And you will understand what the Lord will. We spend too much time as friends anxious about the hospital to make. And the key is to simply tell D what we do Today. It's close to what is him. Find that much life is working, facing it becomes much more early. And then as we make the most of each opportunity. So I know where it's giving me. messing up one up. Before the night opportunity, help me be more ready. Or happy that these are moments or when I'm in a situation like that. You know, I turn back What what did I learn from that? So the next moment I think Therefore, do not be foolish. It's supposed to be the very clear. Well look here at the asking beliefs about the weapon he has said. To that relationship with it by repenting turning away from the shin confession. And the following terms. So that you'd be working on it. He is praying on your vengeance of Jesus. Try and glory. That's a glory. Think about it, you know, those are pleasing tools. And you're just doing saying, I don't know if you want me to get married or about this person. Do you want me to go to college after high school? Where should I go? What should I make career? What job should I take with a job that I don't like? Do I just stick it out for character development? You're saying, yeah, well that's nice to do it. Stay waiting. Take a couple of vacation page. Whatever happens. I want to do what's playing, too. I want to make the most of every opportunity in my life to go short. What can I count for? It's more helpful to see. Okay, I don't want to make this right through some of this here, but then we settle that basic issue on your will for us. Living to ourselves. Shutting the way. Seeing our nature against us. To come to him, to trust him. It's the only one that can reconcile us to yourselves and forgive our sins and just anybody where your purpose begins to be worked out in us. We can pray for anyone yours. They're just thinking that they breakthrough right now. Your heart is showing you to us. But look at them for all the mistakes that they've made. All the ways they make foolish choices to just That seems a mysterious thing to us. It seems like something that we never can quite grasp. Or show us these principles are line with the meaning for us. The choices have we been making just this past week. Have we tried We pray for your spirit to come in. We are light. We don't have to walk in darkness. Not a single one of us here. Lord, we pray that it gives us heart. The laws were preachers yet. Dark diet that you look at the closer and spear. Why to get preachers to make the most of the average Enemies this week. Those several moments when we can either deny you, or we can compromise truly, or we can So it may be harder, but that looking at all please you also grow in our thing to see your power and work in us. But like in ourselves. Can I break his heart? What am I mama?