Well we've now finished our series on holiness. We finished with the name Yahweh Nikodishkim, the Lord Jesus. make you holy and with the three identities, new identities that he has given to you and me in Jesus Christ as his holy one. But just to make sure as we leave that series behind that everything Fixed in your mind. We're going to have one final review. Okay? So now, what is it, first of all, that God has set us apart to be? A holy Now come on. I'm not gonna do this alone. Come on. All together. A holy Somebody doesn't like me doing this What what is it? Oh try it again. A holy that's the last one. The first one. The holy people. Somebody said it out there Try it again. We are a holy people. Okay? Right. And that means we are his Private treasure. It's better on that. Okay. We're a holy people. We're God's personal private treasure. Second thing He has set us apart to be is a holy place. Well I'm sure glad I made them all peas so you get a sense of a holy place and that means we are a pure dwelling for his presence a few of you that kind of uh wait you know really get into this rest of you sort of watch come on you can be participants we're worshiping together we're worshiping responding to God's worship. Okay, the last thing is that He has made us to be now you can say a holy priesthood. And as a holy priesthood we offer spiritual Sacrifices, yes, thank you. For his pleasure. I think I'd do that for a while. Okay. I want that to be fixed in your mind. I hope the way When you wake up in the morning, that you're able to say, Yes, thank you, Lord. I am a holy person set apart to Jesus Christ for your personal private treasure. I'm holy places your dwelling today. I'm a holy priest to offer to you spiritual sacrifices. We talked about five of them and I'm not even going to ask you what those were. I'll just remind you, remember from Romans 12, we offer our bodies as living sacrifices and then from that we press that Hebrews 13 offering the sacrifice of lips praise to his name from that we come to offering worship to God the second command goes with it love our neighbor as ourselves to thank thank offering we receive from God to share with our brother and sister and so we also minister to one another. So it's bodies, uh worship, ministry. Ministry isn't just doing good in itself. It's also sharing Christ in the context of that cup of cold water. in his name. And so our the disciples that we offer to Jesus Christ who are evangelism are the fourth offering. And then the fifth offering finally is our intercessory prayer as priests who intercede on behalf of our community, family, smokers, and the rest of us. Okay? That's it. Now you're not gonna get that anymore. Okay? Finish. You gotta review it yourself I'm not gonna tell you anyone. Because now we've come to the holidays. Believe that? All's over. Shot. Now we move right on into the holidays, and believe me, I'm sure you're aware of it Because everywhere you go, everything's decorated is this Christmas, is next week. And so now we come into the holidays this Thursday, Thanksgiving. What I thought I'd do is in order to try and cement this in our thinking again make a connection. So I I thought we would look at a text of scripture that connects our holiness with thanksgiving. So if you haven't turned to it already, please turn to Ephesians chapter five. And you read there in verses three and But among you there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality or of any kind of impurity or of greed Because these are not these are improper for God's holy people. There it is again, you see, for his holy people, his set apart one. Nor should there be obscenity, foolish talk, or Horse joking which are out of place, but rather what? Thanksgiving. Okay? Now, um I love that So I understand why the air conditioning's off and it's November around here. But since this is uh our early service, I'm taking this off before I pass out. Now this passage uh is a fascinating passage when you look at what Paul's saying here. Really understand what he's saying. In order to do that, you've got to see what he says there in verse 4 in the context. And in order to do that, you've got to go all the way back to chapter 4. Now, this is one of the benefits for those of you that listen to the New Testament. on tape because in listening to the tape, one of the things that impressed me so much again was in hearing the whole New Testament was that there was no such thing as a particular text to be isolated. You know, Paul kind of gives you this little verse three and verse four and there it sort of sits by itself. It's always in the flow of thought that's in the whole book. And so in order to understand it, you've got to understand what he's leading up to. And you We can go back, of course, to the beginning of the book, but particularly for our time now. If you go back to chapter four, verses twenty-two to twenty-four, you see a powerful principle of the Christian life that he archives articulates there and then he applies it in a number of areas, of which one is what we're talking about in chapter five, verse four. But look at that principle, which I call the put-off put-on principle. People call it that too, I guess, but that's the basic principle. It's the put off, put on principle of the Christian life. See what he says? You were taught with regard to your Former way of life to put off your old self, which is being corrupted by its deceitful desires, to be made new in the attitude of your own, minds and to put on the new self created to be like God in true righteousness and holiness. Here it is again. We are a holy people. Now remember that that put off put on principle is one implication or a corollary of a basic principle that all of you get When you come to the newcomers class here at Columbia Presbyterians. And I'm not going to try to get you to all say that together, but a number of you do recall this, particularly if you've been in there recently. It's that basic president The Christian life, remember, is nothing more or less than making true in my experience that which is already true of me in Jesus Christ. Remember that? Christian life, nothing more or less. And working in Making true in my experience that which is already true of me in Jesus Christ I put off the old nature that has died in Jesus Christ. I put on the new resurrection life that Jesus has given me. I have that life. The Bible says, put that on. You must consciously put off the old way, put on the new way. Now Paul says that and then he begins to apply that in a number of ways. And so you see there in your bulletin outline of kind of the flow of that as you see how he applies it in verse twenty-five. Put off deceit, put off falsehood, put on truth, speak the truth. twenty nine to thirty-two, put off bitterness, put on kindness. And so he goes on and on, you see. Uh verse uh twenty-nine to thirty That 32 also talks about putting off corrupt speech, putting on speech which builds up the person in front. Then in chapter 5, in the beginning, becomes back to a basic principle of model and motivation for this. And so in chapter 5, verse 1 and 2, Paul says the basic model and the basic motivation of this is Jesus. You see there he says, be imitators of God, therefore, as dearly loved children, and live a life of love just as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us as a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Then he goes right back into the put off and the put on. Goes right back and he says now again. And here in chapter five he particularly Deals with sexual purity. That's a basic theme in the early verses of that. So again, among you, there must not be named any immorality. And so he goes back. Put off immorality put on purity by implication. Now let me just uh pause here to note something because verse three and four is our particular focus and particularly verse four but I want Notice something from verse 3. Very interesting. Notice how Paul says, Among you there must not be even a hint of sexual immorality or any kind of impurity or Greed. Now greed probably refers to the covetousness of another person's wife or husband. Uh it's that kind of a greed. It's looking for someone else's spouse or someone else's body, because these are improper for God's holy people. They need to understand that Paul was writing to whom here? To the Ephesians. The Ephesians Was the center of the cult of Diana. Now Diana was the goddess whose worship involved sexual orgies. And so the people that told Writing to here are people who are immersed in immorality. The sexual standards of their society are abysmally low. No one expects you to be faithful to your spouse. in this society. No one expects you to live in purity and cleanliness. Our bodies are to be indulged with sex. That's why we live. Very similar to a lot of But did you notice that Paul doesn't therefore say because you live in that kind of science, all I'm asking you to do is please don't fornicate or commit adultery Adultery and and don't do it openly. But Paul does not the slightest bit lower the standards of sexual purity to those that he writes to. I don't care what kind of society you live in, you need to come to Christ for that purity. But the fact is that even in that society, whether first century Ephesus Or 1990s in the United States and Howard County, Paul says there must not even be a hint of sexual immorality among you. That's on the one hand, that's um kind of sobering, isn't it, when you and I begin to think, well, with all that we watch on TV and all that we see, surely God understands that we can't be as pure as other societies where those things didn't go on, where we weren't constantly bombarded with sex and physical attractiveness and nudity and all the rest of that. Surely God can't expect us to hold the same kind of standard. As those a hundred years ago. But the scripture doesn't lower its standards because of our society. And so it says to those in Columbia Presbyterian Church, there must not even be a hint. Let me tell you something. Some years ago somebody called me up from our congregation. And uh it was someone who was talking to me and about some difficulties in their marriage. And as she went on, she began to talk about the fact that she was planning to have an affair. And so as I responded to this, I began to to speak uh as God just gave to me a a kind of an immediate visceral response to that and I responded very strongly. with I hope compassion because I've known the situation in the marriage, we've talked about it a number of times. But I charge the person absolutely there cannot be the slightest compromise on this. This must stop. You must cut it off. And it was very interesting to me what she said after this. She said, I knew you were going to say that. And I said, Then why'd you call me? Just so you'd say that to me. I needed to hear it. Brothers and sisters, you and I need to be in situations where we need to hear from one another the things we know are right, but we need to hear them, don't we? We need to hear someone else to be in our life to the degree where they can say, I'm concerned about this area. And particularly in the area of sexual immorality. In a recent Recent uh artic a recent issue of current thoughts and trends just done this past month. The first five articles all had to do with sexual scandals of public Christian evangelical figures. Five. And so I'm not naive enough to think that there's people in our congregation are being tempted. to lower the standards. And I'm not thinking of anybody in particular. I'm just saying I am not naive enough to think that if Paul wrote this to the Ephesians, did you and I in the society that we live in are going to be tempted to lower the standards of holiness in this area. All the stuff we watch on TV says we're ridiculous in holding to the standards of Easter Paul says there shouldn't be even a hint of sexual immorality. And then he goes on to connect that activity with our thought patterns and our speech. You notice what he says in verse 4. He says, nor should there be obscenity, foolish talk, or coarse joking. which are out of place, but rather thanksgiving. Now, first of all, I want you to notice You notice that uh there's some lines alongside the drift of the thought there going down. Those lines show you that in each of these areas there's something in common And what's in common in each of those areas of what were to put on and put off and put on is that in each case they had to do with words. And so each of the blanks you could put put in the word words. Because the first thing he says, deceit and truthfulness has to do with our words. The idea of corrupt speech, edifying speech, bitterness or unkindness is all expressed in in words. What he's talking about, corrupt speech particularly. And then when he gets to chapter five, verse four, he's talking about sexual actions, but then he connects it to words. And he says, our words reflect our heart. The Bible's very clear about that. Words are very important in scripture. You and I speak often times as if words don't really matter. So I mean we just, you know, whatever come off off the top of our heads, whatever we're thinking at the moment, whatever we feel like saying, kind of comes out. And yet Jesus said, in the day of judgment, we will give account for every idle word. So we just sort of shot off and didn't think much about it. Proverbs has As much to say about our speech as any other activities that we do. Look through the book of Proverbs again and again and again. Foolish speech, wise speech, foolish use of the tongue, wise use of the tongue. James chapter three we talked about a couple years ago. The whole emphasis of that chapter is how the tongue, which is such a small member, can do so much good or so much harm. Like the rudder of an ocean liner. Small that turns the whole course of the liner by that one small memory. And so what we say, the Bible says, is very important. How we use our words. And you and I are not able to control our tongue, are we? That's why we need Jesus Christ to come that the Spirit of God will control our speaking. Because What we speak comes out of our heart. But chapter five, verse four says, There should not be three things. Now notice he talks about where should not be, which is the vulgarity basically. Sum them up all by that basic uh uh overarching term. He said there shouldn't be any vulgarity among you. But now notice What it is in this case that you put on. Now you'd expect that he would say, you know, because every other case, look at them on your little list there, in every other case there's a parallel. You know, the obvious opposite uh opposite of deceitfulness is truth of bitterness kindness the rest but what's the opposite of vulgarity he doesn't say put on clean speech what's he say What's the opposite? Thanksgiving. Isn't that interesting? Thanksgiving is what you put on to clean your mind. Now let's take a look at that for a few minutes to see how that works. And so what I want you to do is to notice three things that are forbidden. Here, and then what is commanded, and then the principle and its application. First of all, notice what's forbidden. Three kinds of talk are forbidden. The first kind of talk is Obscenity. That's the first thing. Basically, he's talking about four-letter words. Filthy and degrading talk about sex. The verb of this Greek word means to dis Something, to make it ugly, to make it disgraceful. And that's what four-letter words in reference to sex do, don't they? They make sex something disgraceful Disfigured. They make it something which is cheap. Some Christians say, I can use such language because the Bible says I'm not to blaspheme or to curse, and that's not cursing. So the Bible doesn't anywhere forbid using four-letter slang words about sex. Coarse language. Take a look at Ephesians 5. 4. Paul says, nor should there be any obscenity. Brother and sister, that's very clear. Obscenity there. He's talking about four-letter words. Any coarse degrading talk about sex. So you can't say, well, the Bible doesn't really speak to that. The Bible does speak to it very explicitly. And it's in the context of our sexual activity and impurity as holy people. The Bible says there shouldn't be any kind of gutter language among Christians about sex. Why? Because that talk cheapens sex and sex And when you cheapen it in your thoughts through your word, eventually it'll work out in your actions. Because you no longer hold sex and its activity as something sacred And it's a gift from God. It becomes something cheap to laugh at. And therefore it becomes something to play with. And it's seen recreational. That sex can never be something that's recreational in the context of the way God gave it between a committed husband and wife for life. But it's not a recreational activity outside Second thing that Paul forbids here is foolish talk. Foolish talk Notice what he says there. Can be any obscenity or foolish talk. Very clear. What's that mean? Foolish talk, if you look at what this phrase means in the Greek. is referring, I think I tried to sum these all up. I took all the looking at all these things and wrote all down the references and I tried to just sum it up for you in one distilled essence of what it's getting at. And basically I look at this phrase as referring to attention-getting, empty-headed chatter. Alright, that's my best way. That's the Harris amplified translation of foolish talk. It's the word from which we get our English word, moron. And you remember that a moron or a fool in the book of Proverbs is not somebody who is intellectually inferior But it's someone who is morally rebellious. It's someone who refuses to do what they know is right. That's what the fool is in scripture. Not somebody who's simply got a low IQ. It's somebody who is resistant and says, I'm not gonna live God's way, I'm gonna live my own way. That's the kind of person is referred to here. Here it's the person who's always wanting to get attention when they're conversation. They want to dominate the conversation, they want the attention on themselves and the conversation. conversation. They're always looking for their opportunity, get their words in, not really listening to the other person. And usually it involves put-downs of other people to make me look superior. It's that kind of foolish, empty-headed chatter that just goes on and on and on as if words don't really matter, they don't really count, there's not a holy God who's listening to them, you're not important. in how it affects you. I just want to express myself. And you say, who's he to talk? He's taking a half hour up here to express himself. I don't get a word in, you know. But when we talking or interacting together, I better learn to listen. Because if I don't, then my whole ministry will be a foolish chatter. And so for you and for me, we need to learn to listen. And we need to bring before the Lord that desire for empty-headed chatters. The Bible says in the mind Multitude of words, there's always sin. And that's wrong. You see, that attention getting put down because of my insecurity, the Bible says, is sin Sin. It is not simply well you you know, it's not the wisest to do. It's sin. And so in our homes, around the dinner table, we kids, when we start just putting somebody else down at school, you know, to look good. The Bible says that that's sin, that that's wrong, that's foolish talk. That's being a moron. And we don't want to be a moron, do we? That's what the Bible says Now the third thing that he forbids here, in verse 4, is coarse joking. Coarse joking. Nor should there be obscenity. Foolish talk or coarse joking, which are out of place. The main idea in the word coarse joking that's used there is the idea of twisting and turning. That's the root idea of that word. And it has to do with the idea of turning the conversation into an unwholesome manner. It's the kind of person who, whatever you say, can always get a double meaning out of it to introduce something suggestive. You know the kind of person I'm talking about? No matter what you talk about, sooner or later they will cynically or suggestively turn the conversation in order to be witty. And maybe you laugh at it because they're good at it. But after you've finished laughing, you feel kind of dirty. don't you? You feel like it was funny, but it wasn't a wholesome funny. It was funny at the expense of someone or it cheapened someone or it cheapened sex. It's that kind of an idea that Paul has in mind here. It's conversation that usually will also involve some sorts of put-downs. But it's that double-meaning idea. Always moving toward the negative. Why is this forbidden? Why all of these? Because Paul says they're out of place. They don't fit with poly people. That's the next point. Why? They don't fit with holy people. Verse 3 says there shouldn't be any kind of sexual immorality. Verse 4. There shouldn't be any kind of a Obscenity, foolish talk, coarse judging. They're out of place for God's holy people. You see, God has set us apart to in our actions and also in our words To reflect what he is like. And God isn't crude. He doesn't just try to call attention to himself in an empty-headed way. And he doesn't suggestively turn conversation into something coarsely witty. Aren't you glad that Jesus isn't like that? I was thinking about that when I was preparing this, that Hollywood would have us think that the people that you like to be around are the people who can be coarse and crude because they're the fun people. See the people it can't be that way, well they're sort of stuffy and rigid, you know. They're probably religious and fundamentalists and law, and they're not very much fun to be with. But you and I really know better than that, don't we? Because we hang around people who are coarse and crude and suggestive. We know what it does to our mind. We know how they treat people. And we know that in fact a person who's like that isn't always just fun to be. And I'm so glad that the Lord Jesus isn't crude, isn't coarse, isn't suggestive, that he treats the people he talks about To his dignity, that he doesn't turn the conversation in some coarse way in order to get a laugh. But Jesus is pure. And when you're with him, you feel pure. You feel pure pure. Impure yourself, but you feel the purity of Jesus that is very attractive and draws you to Him. And that's what Jesus says he's come to do, to enable you and me to push Now how does he say to do it? He says what is commanded here is thank God Thanksgiving. That's what you and I put on. Thanksgiving. Put off these things, put on Thanksgiving. Why? Because thanksgiving sanctifies your thinking. Simple as that, you see. Thanksgiving sanctifies your thinking and my thinking. You want the best antidote when you're beginning to find your mind running in wrong ways. You wanted to look at the wrong stuff. You want to fill your mind with what is degrading and coarse and crude. What is suggestive? What is lustful? The best antidote is to turn from that and begin to give thanks to Jesus Christ for sex. as well as for everything else. You see, there's a basic practical principle right here, and it's that you can't fill something with nothing. The Bible doesn't say, now stop thinking muscle portion thoughts and then doesn't replace it with anything. Just like my saying, don't think of Bill Clinton. Don't think of the You see, now some of you are saying, I wish I hadn't said don't think of Bill Clinton. Now I'm thinking about the guy. I wish I hadn't said that. But you see, as soon as you say don't think of something, of course. the whole orientation of our minds is that's what we're going to think about. So the Bible says, put these things out, but replace it with something else. Else. Replace it by expressing gratitude to God for what He has given you. And particularly for sex. But all things, because He says that. Look down in verse. Verse 20. He says that you and I, uh when we uh in our worship and all that we do, uh giving you know psalms, hymns, spiritual songs, making music and all Verse 20, always giving thanks to God the Father for everything in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. And so the Bible tells us that you And I are in every situation, and particularly in a situation where you're beginning to feel that these thoughts are creeping in that are not helpful to you, that's not sexual It is getting you moving either in a way that is putting someone else down or is degrading sex or the person or whatever to turn from that and say, I'm going to consciously now begin to give thanks to you. Jesus Christ for either that person or the circumstance or whatever it is can enable me to sanctify my thinking by reflecting on the fact that the good things I've received He's come from Jesus, my Savior. And as you begin to orient toward him, you find that there's a basic principle here. Now that's the last thing. The principle and its application. basic points. Number one, that these two kinds of speech and thought patterns are utterly incompatible. They're utterly incompatible. If you're being crude, if you're trying to impress someone else with your foolish chatter, if you're trying to cleverly turn the conversation in a suggestive way in order to be clever and witty and get somebody to think on something, even though you know it's not wholesome, you know you can get a laugh out of it. If you're trying to do that, then say to yourself I want to stop right now and I want to just give thanks to the Lord Jesus for what He's done in my life in the last couple of days. You know what happened? You can't do it, can you? It doesn't fit You can't just stop from putting down and degrading to giving thanks to Jesus. It doesn't fit. And you feel like, well, no, no, no, no, I've got to wash myself out before I can do that. There's something wrong. It's not fitting together. It's incompatible. On the other hand, if you start in a conversation determining that you're going to express gratitude, When Kathy and I got married, we kind of adopted them as our Christian parents, him and his wife. I never saw anybody who was so grateful. I used to think it was just putting on. Then I began as I got to know the guy really well. I understood his whole mentality was to see life in terms of God's gift to him and what he had done for him in Jesus Christ. And he was so good to be around because I found it contagious. And I found that when I was with him and we talked About God's goodness, there wasn't room you couldn't fit in crudity and coarseness and degrading talk. It just didn't fit. Now that's that's the principle. They're incompatible. The second point is that you make a conscious choice which one you're going to interject into the other. the conversation. You make a conscious choice. You choose. That's the second point. You choose which one will set the tone of the conversation. Now most of us don't do this consciously It's subconscious, isn't it? We kind of drift in to one or the other, and often we take our cues from the other person. And that's too bad. Because Jesus Christ lives in you and me as it says there in verse 1, that he is the one who has given himself as a pleasing sacrifice to take away your impurity, to take away that coarseness, to forgive you and to give you a new heart. But if you If you and I have that new heart, then we can consciously choose to put on the patterns of that new heart. And what we need to do is when we find ourselves drifting in the conversation, we need to stop and we need to say, I am going to introduce the life of Jesus Christ into this conversation. I'm going to give thanks. Very practical, isn't it? I'm going to give thanks. Now I mention this because obviously it's Thanksgiving. So what better time to begin to practice that than this week to say, I am going this week to practice? introducing into my conversations thanksgiving. And when I'm with those people that I find I find it hard to resist how the conversation goes downhill, I'm going to give thanks. I'm going to set the tone They may not like it. I'm not saying they're all going to start giving thanks with you. Some people will be so cynical they'll turn and try to twist even your thanksgiving. But you know that gives you an opportunity to say, you know, I'm sensing that you really feel cynical about things and that there must be a lot of pain that you feel because of the way you respond to this. You want to talk about that? And they give you an opportunity to get deeper into that person's life because of their need to twist and to turn and to acknowledge there must be pain there that does that. Maybe God will use that, maybe he won't. But on the other hand Whether he does or doesn't, you and I are called to be salt, and salt keeps things from corrupting and getting rotten. And thanksgiving, in the beginning of a conversation, expressing gratitude for God's goodness. begins to season that conversation so coarseness doesn't fit. And if you want to begin to practice that this week, it's a great time to practice what I call extended dynamic Thanksgiving or extended grace. Beginning of a meal. You find your meal times at home get kind of coarse and they get put downs and foolish empty headed chatter and all that kind of stuff. Start by saying what was the most what was the best moment of your life today? And everybody just goes around the table and shares, what was the best moment of your life today? What was the that God did to was special for you today. And just begin with that Thanksgiving. And as you do, you will find that the conversation takes a different turn. You and I are called to do that. Not because we can do it in ourselves. We're ungrateful people. So we need to come to the Lord now and ask him to give us hearts to repent of that. Ask him to change us, to give us grateful Because it's pleasing to you. Let's pray. Lord, as we hear this, we realize that we are a people who Whose minds are filled with things that they shouldn't be. And Lord, so many times we just feel like I don't know how to get it out. Thank you that you give to us in your words such very practical Practical, not simply advice, but commands. And you have given to us here freedom from the bondage of impurity You have given to us here a very practical way for us in our lives this week to begin to feel the cleanness of Jesus Christ. by your spirit. And so we repent right now of our tendency to want to put down and to complain and then to follow into the suggestive course crude ways that those around us speak. Our hearts are impure and they are ungrateful. We confess that to you now And Lord, we ask you now that you would give to us a spirit of thanksgiving, a spirit of gratitude. In our families, around the dinner table, around the breakfast table, in those times that we gather together, that you would enable each of us to consciously set the tone of the conversation. expressions of gratitude to you. Lord, this would please you because we're your holy people. You've set us aside as a people who are your personal private And we want to bring pleasure to you for what you've done to us and for us in Jesus. And so we pray that you will do this in us now, for Jesus' sake.