My name is John Song. I'm the Director of Youth Ministries here at Columbia Press. I've been given the privilege and the honor to speak today on a peculiar topic as we're going through our series on God and governance. And if you've been here for a while, this will sound very familiar. How do we live as exiles? So I have added a little amendment also to that. What to do if your candidate loses. Now, if you've been here, we've been studying through scripture about how do we live as exiles in a foreign land. Our studies in 1 Peter and also our studies in the Old Testament have led us that. Uh I just want to reaffirm you are not experiencing deja vu right now with us talking about living as exiles. You are not in a movie featuring a groundhog and Dilmurry, right, or anything like that. This was an intentional effort by our pastoral team in planning for this series on God and governance on help us focus and reapply passages in Scripture that we've been studying. And now move it towards a practical vent. And it's important for us right now to revisit this topic of exiles Not because we are foreshadowing any sort of apocalypse with this upcoming election, but the hope of today is that we would actually have the Word of God ground us. We have been surrounded by a rhetoric in the last seven, eight months now that has thrown our country into a bit of a frenzy. And my hope is that the Word of God here would encourage us, remind us. The richness of what we can mine out of God's great gospel could help us give us a fresh perspective on what we've been hearing and seeing around us. The theology of what we've covered as how to live in exile has been a wonderful thing, but it cannot exist outside the rightful application of the theology in our day-to-day, particularly as we think about Our relationship to the government. One of the mantras of my professor in seminary I attended was, which I still hold on to this day, is theology without doxology is idolatry. And I believe that it holds true for us now. So let me preface before we get into God's words with just two things. One. The danger of how do we live as exiles can sound incredibly, and if we're not careful, uh moralistic. Um one of the things I was warned against during my studies in seminary was never to preach how-to sermons because the danger is that we lose sight of who the center of our worship is Christ and we just merely think of Christianity. As a set of moral codes and moral ethics to follow. Second, everything I say here today is not an endorsement of a political candidate, nor will our church ever come out in the endorsement of a of a political candidate. So please do not take anything I say with the greatest fault saying that I'm supporting a such and such individual or such and such a person. So before we get into God's word, and you can go ahead and turn your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 11 as I as we kind of uh explore this, let me set the scene a little bit for where we are as a culture and as a people right now. As of right now, we stand in a unique waiting period period in our political system where two candidates, sharply opposed in both ideology and approach, are facing a contentious battle for the highest Office in the land. Both have laid out their implications for what they would hope to accomplish in four years of office, and both have outlined their positions of why the other person is wrong, silly, and should be rejected. The resulting public outcry, based upon what these two individuals have stated, has led to what we would call an outrageous outpouring of vitriol, hatred, and divisiveness that has divided the country as sharply as these two candidates have faced. against each other. Commentary has reached levels of organized shouting, name-calling without listening, and everyone is now adapt uh adopting a certain sort of even almost violent Attitude and tears apart all of us. Tears apart what it means to be human. And at the resulting fear that has resulted Has caused all of us to be scared, worried about the future. This fear has played itself in such a profoundly sharp way that has called us Caused us to believe that the place that we once viewed as a safe haven, the place that we have all called home, is now something that is being taken away from us. Indeed, the commentary that's out, uh every critic and rebel and skeptic and outside voice attacks any sort of response or opinion that is that is Played itself out in our culture. This type of intellectual hypocrisy and name-calling has reached such a pivotal point that one individual writes in a book on Christian apologetics the following quote, and let me read it to you in full. Let's see if this sounds familiar. The new rebel is a skeptic and will not entirely trust anything. He has no loyalty, therefore he can never be really a revolutionist. And the fact that he doubts everything really gets in the way when he wants to denounce anything. For all denunciation implies a moral doctrine of some kind, and the modern revolutionist not only doubts not only the institution he denounces, but the doctrine by which he denounces it. Thus he writes one book complaining that imperial oppression insults women, and then he writes another book in which he insults women himself. As a politician, he will cry out that war is a waste of life. And then, as a philosopher, that all life is a waste of time. A pessimist will denounce a policeman for killing a person and then prove by the highest philosophical principles that the person ought to have killed himself. A man denounces marriage as a lie and then denounces the aristocratic profligates for treating it as a lie. The man of this school goes first to a political meeting where he complains that savages are treated as if they were beasts. And then he takes his hat and umbrella and goes off to a scientific meeting where he proves that they practically are beasts. In short, the modern revolutionist, being an infinite skeptic, is always engaged in undermining his own minds. In this book on politics, he attacks men for trampling on morality. In his book on ethics, he attacks morality for trampling on men. Therefore, the modern man in results has become practically useless for all purposes of revolt. By rebelling against everything, he has lost his right to rebel against anything. Does that sound familiar? Well, here's the rub. Everything that I stated in painting this picture of our society and history is really nothing new in the course of human history. In fact, nothing that I have said in laying out this scene uh isn't something that could have been said eight years ago, twenty years ago, a hundred years ago. Um that quote that I just read, um, that quote was written in 1908. By a Christian apologist named G. K. Chesterson, which I wouldn't agree with everything that he has written. But there is nothing new under the sun. And whether it be the political or religious divide that during the Crusades, the American Civil War, communism versus capitalism, Kanye West versus Taylor Swift, whatever, conflict. And hypocrisy in every sphere of life that threatens our peace is always going to surround us. And this is where we turn to God's holy word for instruction. For our hope. Then every generation of Christianity, we have the inerrant, infallible Word of God to guide us. So let's read Hebrews chapter 11 as a megaphone of encouragement for us here today. I'm going to read the first 16 verses. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, for the convictions of things not seen. For by it the people of old received their common commendation. By faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. By faith, Abel offered to God a more acceptable sacrifice than Cain, through which he was commended as righteous, God commending him by accepting his gifts And through his faith, though he died, he still speaks. By faith, Enoch was taken up so that he should not see death, and he was not found, because God had taken him Now before he was taken, he was commended as having pleased God. And without faith it was impossible to please him. For whoever draw near to God must believe that he exists and that he rewards those who seek him. By faith, Noah, being warned by God concerning events as yet unseen, in reverent fear, constructed an ark for the saving of his household. By this he condemned the world and became an heir of the righteousness that comes by faith. By faith, Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to a place that he was to receive as an inheritance. And he went out, not knowing where he was going. By faith he went to the live in the land of promise, as in a foreign land, living in tents with Isaac and Jacob, heirs, with him of the same promise. For he was looking forward to the city that has foundations, whose designer and builder is God. By faith Sarah herself received power to conceive, even when she was past the age, since she considered him faithful who had promised. Therefore, from one man, and him as good as said, were born descendants as many as the stars of heaven, and as many as innumerable grains of sand by the seashore. These all died in faith, not having received the things promised. But having seen them and greeted them from afar, and having acknowledged that they were strangers and exiles on the earth. For people who speak thus make it clear that they are seeking a homeland. If they had been thinking of that land from which they had gone out, they would have had opportunity to return. But as it is, they desire a better country, that is, a heavenly one. Therefore, God is not ashamed to be called their God, for he has prepared for them a city. This is the word of God. Thanks be to God. Let's pray together. Father, let your word be to us a comfort. That our faith in you grounds us to see the world as it really is. A place that is awaiting the return of the King and His kingdom. Father, until that glorious day, we pray that your word would encourage us once again to look towards the gospel of Jesus Christ And be faithful. And in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. So let's dive into it. Hebrews 11 is a book that reminds us that we are living as exiles in a fallen world. And that is the constant reality for the believer. And the first thing that we witness when we read Hebrews 11 is that living in exile, whether it be in a political system, in an oppressive government, whatever, we must ultimately first live as strangers in possession. Of the unseen gospel. Strangers in possession of the unseen gospel. You see, the immediate context of Hebrew is that Christians were living in a time. That was a little bit of a political and spiritual crisis of the day. You see, Jews were recognized as prominently in society. Judaism played a pivotal role In ethics, in morality, in spirituality. And Christians, and what Christians believed, were politically, socially, religiously at odds with that system. Christians were widely misunderstood in the context of Hebrews. In fact, one of the early church fathers, Justin Martyr, had to even write letters to political leaders, just kind of Getting rid of stereotypes that Christians unfortunately found themselves in. Christians were called cannibals because they kept on talking about eating the blood and body of Jesus every time they gathered together. And people misunderstood that as These are wild cannibals walking around. We need to destroy this religion. And there's a very real danger for them, you see. And perhaps they are wondering, as we do now, is Jesus really greater than the systems that are in place? Is Jesus really better than the Mosaic law that we that we held on to for all of our lives? What about the Levitical priesthood? Is Jesus better than that? So the writer of Hebrews in the first ten chapters is sort of addressing this fear that they have. The fear of the culture has swept them up in, the fear that they are misunderstood, the fear that they cannot Live freely as Christians. And the affirmation over and over again in the book of Hebrews is yes. Jesus is greater than all that you see around you. We just can't see it. Yes, you are strangers. But Jesus is still more powerful than any principality or law or system that is above you. And by way of example, in chapter 11, he reminds them of their history in believing in what they cannot see. In believing in the unknown, in the uncertain. If you look at verse 1, it says here this. Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for. for the conviction of things not seen. And the original language, that that word for assurance can also have a have a double meaning of substance. That faith is the substance of things unseen. So what that means is that this is more than just an intellectual sense a sense of truth. This is more than just You know, knowing in your mind that 2 plus 2 equals 4. This is faith that's that's made real. This is faith that that becomes tangible. In spite of all the evidence that's contrary to that fact. Now Believing in something without evidence of the contrary, the substance of faith, not blind faith, substance of faith. immediately puts you in the category of strange and the stranger. And anyone who's ever felt marginalized here in this room, and I imagine that's all of us here in some way. Whether it be your ethnicity, your musical choices, your whatever, you have felt marginalized. And you've felt this play itself out. Um growing up as a as a Korean American, I've often had to explain the the mystery that is kimchi to everybody. And and the look on people's faces, particularly who aren't Korean as I explain this process of how this is made, it it it you know, you just get this weird look. Yeah, you know, we ferment this cabbage and we it spoils and it's great. And and to keep it fresh, we we you know some some people they they they bury it in the in their backyard in pots. It's wonderful And when I explain this to people, you know, I just get this immediate category of, you're weird. This is this is strange. This is untypical. But everyone has felt this way. Our natural tendency in moments where we feel strange, or we feel like the stranger, is to try and justify our strangeness. Saying it's not so strange. We want our strangeness to feel normative in our culture. We want others to rally around us to say, you know what, what I really believe or who I really am is not really all that weird. But sometimes our longing to be normative is an idolatry in and of itself. Sometimes when we want Christianity so desperately, To be seen as the majority opinion in our culture, what we do is we create an idolatry That comes out of a good place of our hearts. John Calvin famously once said that the human heart is an idle factory. And in our longing for the political systems, the economic systems, the ethical code of our culture to be more Christians, sometimes we sacrifice the very heart of the unseen gospel in and of itself. This is the problem, isn't it, with the Israelites in the Old Testament, when Moses goes up to receive the Ten Commandments Their leader is gone, mob rule takes over, and they suddenly want the God that they worship to become visible, seen around them. So the bright idea is that you know what let's just make a golden calf. This will make our God visible. This will make our God tangible in the society that we live in. They wanted people to affirm their idols and put God secondary. The unseen work of what He is doing around us, visible before them. And if we're not careful, this can invade the life of our church as well, can't it? How many times have we heard this? If only we would have this, then our church would really come alive with the gospel. Even in American evangelism, you know, fog machines, laser light shows, all these things, not saying that necessarily all these things are bad, but sometimes we can place our confidence in the visible things in the church rather than the unseen work of the Holy Spirit touching ordinary people in ordinary ways. This is why we uh I love what we're what we do here at this church. We profoundly believe in that the worship of God, the people of God, the word of God preached to us, with the gospel heard every single Sunday, that reaches out to us in ordinary ways, that we may not see it visibly on here every single week. We have confidence that the word of God is effective in people's lives. Working in each and every single one of us. So the writer of Hebrews is calling his readers and us to remember that fundamentally the message of Christianity is one that will always be a minority position. And those who confess the return and the waiting of the unseen gospel to take fruit will be persecuted, will be oppressed, will face trials and suffering. The faith of Jesus Christ does not stand in submission or subjugation to any American political party, but rather stands. displaying a king who is lord over all. And that's why the writer of Hebrews uses the example of people that he uses. Take a look and glance at these names in this passage. We have Abel, Enoch, Noah, Abraham. I mean, when you consider the weight of what God did in their lives, they're a paradigm of people who did not live the American dream. Right? Abel didn't get to experience the joys of a Columbia tax. Let's just put it that way. But his life was one that exuded confidence of a man who saw that by sacrificing animals on an altar. Which, when you really think about it, just sounds very strange and peculiar. It was a symbol of the perfect sacrifice to come. It was a symbol foreshadowing Christ. And his obedience to faith, despite that his life was tragically ended early, that he his life was a testimony of the faith of the unseen. Enoch, the man who we we don't hear much about in scripture, had had so much faith in God that the Bible actually says that he walked with God, that he pleased God. How many of us can claim that? And his faith was was so so large that in fact that he was rescued even from death itself. He didn't know that God was going to do that for him. All he understood was: my God's word is true. And he walked in that. Drop the mic, move on. I mean perhaps nothing could be stranger than the story of Noah. I mean we Many comedians and pastors have have sort of lamented on how ridiculous the Noah story really is when you when you look at it from face value You know, God tells you to to build an ark, grab every animal two by two, place it in there. I mean, that seems a bit strange, doesn't it? There's gonna be a big rainfall. It's coming. Just just wait. And and and can you imagine just as he's building all the questions that he had to answer from people around him? Why are you doing this? This seems quite silly. You should stop. Noah faithfully building. There is something that is unseen in my faith. It's coming. Just you wait. How instructive is this for us? Well, it reminds us of the simple reality that no matter what happens in November, Christianity will still be weird. We are still awaiting the finality of the gospel in all of its completion But we as Christians have assurance that we know the end of the story. So yes, as Randy has stated here time and time again, yes, we should vote with our conscience. Yes, we should vote the way that we believe that the Lord has called us to be supportive of biblical principles. Yes and amen. Yes, we should vote in the manner that are that we we we feel confident in the person that we are voting for. But but let's make this clear. This election nor nor any other election should cause us to react in a way that that no matter the results, that we somehow feel like that we have lost. That we we carry a spirit of defeatism. Well, I guess that's the end of our faith Even with what is visible doesn't align with the heavenly reality that we see in Scripture, this should not betray our sense of what we know is true. Our God still reigns. So, with that assurance, this helps us to live as aliens awaiting their unseen king. Our second point here. Live as aliens awaiting their unseen king. Now alien in here is not meaning the word that you think. This is not E. T. or, you know, we're not Whatever movie that you want to think of. Alien in the sense here in this passage is that you live as people who are in a land that does not belong to them. You um you you're living in a land that that isn't yours yet. And so what this prevents us from doing and and rightly prevents us from doing us from doing is claiming America or any other nation on this earth as uniquely positioned in God's favor rather than any other nation in the world. Indeed, many of the mistakes that cults have made is to try and claim that this country or that country is more particularly God-owned than another. The reality of the situation is this. We know that our land right now is technically owned by the United States government and the states. I mean some might argue your mortgage company. Some might jokingly say the Illuminati or whatever, right? Whatever. Pick one. That some sort of institution controls the world that you live in. Even if you believe that. And even if you believe that if the candidate you voted against somehow will bring around a thousand year of terror or whatever, um Nothing will stand in the way of what the coming King will do to make us from alien to citizen And know that our place in human history, uniquely, is not the most unfortunate society that has ever lived in human history. Nor should we act like it is one. In fact, by all historical comparisons, the alienations of Christian today by is actually not as bad. We don't live in the time of Emperor Nero, right? We're probably a little bit more blessed than they were living back there. I mean the very fact that we even just more blessed materially. The very fact that I can talk to my phone, an inanimate object, and tell me to play any song that I want for $9. 99 a month. is probably a sign that we are living in a time that is more materially blessed than any other in human history. The doom and gloom and the apocalyptic language that we hear all around us. Is simply not the reality of the world that we live in. Know that we rest in the promise of this gospel This story that we are created with the purpose, and that the fall separates us from God. Our sin tears us away from this Christ. He has come and redeemed us on the cross. He has come and saved us. From being aliens and strangers to God Himself and calls us His sons and His daughters. Know that, that we rest in the promise of the fact that we live as new creation, even in fallen times. That we already have the promise of salvation as we await the not yet of the salvation that is to come. Know that God will restore Every broken institution, every manipulative and oppressive system, every majority position that preys upon the weak, every abusive relationship between the government and its people, our God is a great king and he will make all things new. We rest in that. By faith, we rest in that. Our God is a great King and even greater Lord, and though we feel like aliens now A time is coming when we will feel as citizens. This is the crux of why we as aliens are now can live as citizens. The third point. As I wrap up here, that we live as ones awaiting a coming kingdom. Hebrews spends a lot of time in chapter 11 here on the person of Abraham in this passage, more so than any other person in this very famous chapter on faith. Why? Well, Abraham was considered the forefather of the Jewish faith. A man that we're told in this testament had such great faith that, as Galatians 3 tells us, it was accredited to him as righteousness. Now I always wondered here in this passage if the writer of Hebrews was trying to pull a fast one here. Like he was trying to get us to forget what happened in Genesis with Abraham. I mean, do you do you remember Abraham's life? He wasn't exactly the most faithful guy, if you read the story. Abraham struggles with his conception a lot of faith. I mean, this is the man that was told by God that you were going to be made a great nation. In Genesis 12, that your enemies will, whoever opposes you will be destroyed, and now I'll make you a great nation, and your your descendants will be as numerable as the stars in the heaven. And yet so often in Abraham's life he stumbles In this in this faith. I mean he lies to kings, uh, yeah my wife, yeah, she's actually my sister, right? Like as if God wasn't going to be there for her God sends an angel of God to tell him, you will have a son, and he laughs it off. Very peculiar. So why then is the writer of Hebrews saying that Abraham's faith is actually a model of faith for us? I think rather than the writer of Hebrews being selective about his history, I think the writer of Hebrews is actually writing Abraham's story as an encouragement to all of us. How imperfect our faith is. How easily it is just swayed by the trials and tribulations in this life. How often we doubt the promises of God working in our lives. And especially in my work with youth students, one of the biggest things that they struggle with is this assurance of, am I really saved? I don't appear to be a perfect Christian yet in my life. I know that there are things that I'm working through. Am I really saved? And the encouragement that we have in Scripture when we even look at a story like Abraham's is this is that our faith and the accreditation of our faith faith is not dependent upon the the moral energy or strength of the individual that carries that faith, but is of the object of that faith in which that person has faith in. Our Lord Jesus Christ. Is our faith in a God who is perfect in all of his ways, who is completely holy, who is changing and transforming us. He is the one that we long for. This is why we can say that even for a young child at six, seven, eight years old, they can have a credible profession of faith. Despite they may not know the doctrines or the idea of the eschatology of Paul, that we can still accredit to them faith. That should be instructive for us here. So, this kind of a faith, as we read about, helps us seek the embedderment. of the society around us. Because now we live as citizens of an unseen home. As we live as citizens of an unseen home, we will try to we we are now actively involved in the work of new creation in the here and now. This is why this week we've been so blessed by so many of you who have sent so many emails to the leaders and members of our church and our deacon staff. asking them about how they can get involved in the work of new creation to embed her our neighbors around us in Algood City. And it's been such a a privilege Um as to see all this outpouring of what can we thoughtfully do? To be involved in this work of new creation, to bring a little piece of our unseen home in the here and now. This is why we as Christians, rather than being politically disengaged, should be very much engaged in the process of not just what's happening in our country, but also international and civil affairs, because we are seeking a better world. We are seeking the new heavens and new earth in the now. We're not waiting for some ethereal time and place or sitting on our hands waiting for Jesus to return. We have an active role today. As citizens of an unseen home that is coming. This is why Christians all throughout history have cared about the marginalized, the homeless, the widows, the orphans, the oppressed. Because we wish to help people see the coming reality of Christ, his power at work in each and every single one of us. This is what should drive us away from being the new skeptic that Chesterton puts it and makes us into a new creation. Actively seeking the kingdom of God even if your candidate loses in November. So, to answer the question at the start of the sermon, how do we live as exiles? We live awaiting the hope of the unseen gospel at work, in full faith and confidence that it is working here today. We live as aliens awaiting the coming king who will come down in glory to redeem the land that was already his to begin with. We live as citizens of an unseen home, working patiently, lovingly. To the day that we will see all around us, every nation, tribe, and tongue, worshiping Jesus Christ as the King of kings and Lord of Lords. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word to encourage us today. To live by faith in all things. To live by faith in the invisible, even when it seems that around us we see nothing but tragedy. Lord, we know that the story is yet unfulfilled. We know that the King is coming. And so, Father, help us to endure until that day where we can be. At our heavenly home. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen