And so the question comes up again. If the Bible teaches witness to believe and be baptized, then why do I baptize these? Why is that? Thank you to my baptized little Emily. Well a few weeks ago we talked about this time I baptized And uh we heard and thought to go that uh this was on the ground, the God has commanded us to do so on basis of his promise We look then at a number of texts concerning God's covenant God And I want to zero in on one of those texts because we very quickly moved over Uh that last time learned by Thomas to pursue it more length at the next opportunity. Proverbs 22, 6 I want to read now Proverbs 226 in the context of the beginning of our chapter. So turn in the first week to Proverbs chapter 22. I'll read the first six verses. Proverbs chapter. A good name is more desirable than great riches. To be assumed is better than silver or gold. Rich and poor have this in common. The Lord is the maker of them all. A prudent man sees dangers and takes refuge. But the simple keep going and suffer for it. Humility and the fear of the Lord bring wealth and honor and life. In the path of the wicked lie scorns and snares, but he who guard his soul stays far from them. Train a child in the way he should go. And when he is old, he will not turn from it. Here it is, verse 6. That's what I want to look at. In a series of a number of statements of wisdom, not necessarily connected. Some are, some aren't. But you see there it's staying down. He series of tricky things. Train a child in the way he should go. And when he's old, he will not train something I don't know about you, but that that verse gets me like a bomb shelf, but it's not in there. It's just sort of repeating along with certain things that yeah, yeah, yeah, can do yah yah. Now wait a minute, what's that saying? Train the child and waiting to go and waiting hold. He will mark. Department. I don't think that's me that I find one of the saddest experiences My calling is a pastor because it's keeping elderly. When I sit down and so often say it's quite difficult So sit down with a woman and maybe we're having lunch together in some social sort of situation. We'll be going to talk uh very lightly about the things of the Lord. And then uh we sneezed like so many times the conversation, the Winstones, the working scientific finance Uh as it went to uh along these lines. Well yes, but um I'm really concerned though my uh my two children And uh they're adults now. Neither of them have any influences and the feminine cells. I I don't know what went wrong. I mean, after all the cuts and deserves all the time time all three years. We always uh took them to funding stores. We went to first basically ourselves. And we were always made sure that they were in caterpillar We did everything possible. What was the problem? What do you think to a parent in that situation? Heartbreak Frustrated, holding on to the hope that well perhaps maybe still is going to be that turning apart But yet the thing that suspenses me, the thing that frustrates me and has has driven me very well is the fact that this is the rule rather than the acceptance. The people in our own purpose for me to talk to them and find out that in those truths and their children have gone away from Jesus Christ. No interest in the scriptures of the things of God And so we begin to take this in a very subconscious sort of way and something to be expected. We tend to uh begin to believe that uh well I guess uh We just don't have much of a sense, you know, it's in rough war like this. And uh what we can all hope for is that we can preserve them somehow from some of the effects of this curve But um that's all said and done you really can't expect anything expect the period of growth rebellion, perhaps the period would or fall away from the Lord and perhaps maybe never have any And we're not too surprised about that. What I'm saying this morning from this text is we ought to be surprised The Bible contradicts that. That's not what Proverbs 22. 6 says. Proverbs 22, 6 says, Saint a white child in the way he should go, and when he told he will not turn from it. So how do we reconcile these things? We need to take a look at precisely what these classes are teaching. So I intend to do that with the outline that you have before you First of all looking at the promise and the conditions and the nature of the covenant promises and the implementation. And again we need to do these things very quickly But I want to just touch on these things this morning. First of all, the promise. What is the promise? Well, the promise is literally in that verse is he will not turn from it. That's the statement of promises. He will not turn from it. Turn from what? Well, you look at the first part of the verse, from the way he should go. Frankfile in the way he should go, and when he goes, he will not turn from it. The if clearly refers to the way that he should go. And the promise is concerning them. He will not turn from the way he should go. The way of Jehovah, the way of the Lord, as we see earlier in that chapter and in the whole rest of the book of Proverbs, the way of wisdom, the ways of God These are the ways you should go. And if you train him in these ways, he will not turn from them. This is a promise. He can turn when he's old. That's not even just saying when he gets to the Acceliance. That word old means as long as he lives. So not transform. Now notice that that statement is not saying that children who are trained in the way they shall go do not depart from that way. If that was the statement, we'd say, well, that's a general principle. It's generally true. But I can't really claim that as a promise. But notice this statement is stronger than that. It's not a general principle. Rather, what Proverbs is saying here is saying account in the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not turn from it. A universal statement, a promise. Remember whenever God uses the promise, his own character and integrity and his own will depend on the fulfillment of that promise. Well now then uh that of course is uh to say that um if we can frame this part the shell, the loose, amules will not turn in the way they should go. Then how do we reconcile that by seeing so many truths turn from the way that you go? Is there some condition to this problem? Of course we look to the promise and we see that yes. There is a condition. What is that condition? The condition is simply train a child in the way he suggests Well that word strange is a very interesting word. And I think it's it's absolutely vital that we understand the meaning of that word because I believe it's the key to the understanding of this verse and the nature of that promise. That Hebrew word that is translated here by the word pain is not translated by the word pain in any other passage of the Old Testament. It is used, uh, it's translated by dedicate and various other words, but it's never translated by the word faint. It's a word that comes from the Arabic that means, if you can believe this, to rub the pallet of someone It's used in the Arabic to uh refer to rubbing the palate of a mouth of your mouth with seed base. Now uh different things turned different people on and uh apparently this was something that uh was rather popular. Um But the word is used that way. To rub one's palate with two gates. And the word rub palate is a word of pursuit connected with this Hebrew word. It's used of midwife to rub the pellets of newborn children with oil before they begin to bust. Apparently it helped them belong as some wise thing they did back and then to rub the pellet of these newborn infants with oil Refer that one to the late daily. But you see the Hebrew root of this word comes directly from that word And the Hebrew word root of this word means palate or tongue as an organ of taste. Well that's clear of the true if you just take a look over in the next chapter. In chapter, uh excuse me, two chapters over in chapter twenty-four, verse thirteen There you have the same root word used as we have here in 22 6. Feed honey, my son, for it's good. Honey from the cone is sweet to your taste. That's the same root word there, hate. Know also that wisdom is sweet to your soul. If you find it, there will seek your hope for you, and your hope will not be cut off. He's simply saying that the just as honey is keep to your taste, so is wisdom to your fault And the word there for chase is the root of this word. It's simply the noun form of this verb to train, to train your child and away to go. And so I would like to suggest that this verb, rather than being translated same, would best be understood to give a case to your child of the way he should go. And when he's old, he won't be part from it. The instruction here is to give our children a space. of God's ways, a taste of the way that there to go. A taste of the way of wisdom In other words, what God says, you don't just talk about it in your home, give your kids an experience of it. But the word taste is used throughout the Old Testament As a synonym for experiencing something firsthand. For instance, in Psalm 34, verse 8, you remember that we looked at that last night's given And we read that God's invitation there is to taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes breathes in him. And we saw clearly in the context of that But what he's saying there is experience for yourself firsthand that the Lord is good. Taste your goodness You see it's the same idea that we have here. So give your children a taste of the way that they should go. And when they get old, they'll never depart from them. And so the condition for claiming this promise that God is God has given, but they'll never depart from that way, is to give our children a taste of following Jesus Christ in our homes. And because that Because in arguing that as a whole, we give them the experience of that first hand, and that's the condition of God's personality That's the year with slavery, that kind of experience. And God says, your children will never depart from it. Now that raises the question Then of the nature of covenant promises. And that's the third point. Notice here then the nature of covenant promises. First of all, covenant promises in general You notice that my I'm speaking to establish here, we can look at the right side of that solution. But most simply what this is saying is that your children do not turn if they taste because God is trustworthy. Because the promise is trustworthy. Because God's principles are trustworthy. Now what is the nature of these covenant promises? Well first of all, in general notice The covenant promises are neither automatic nor fulfilled by merit. Covenant promises are not fulfilled automatically. That was what God Nor are they fulfilled by merit. They're not bargains. If I do this, I've got to do that I said it's fulfill my end of the bargain and he does his part. That's not the nature of covenant, you see. You can't presume upon covenant promises, nor can you earn their fulfillment. The nature of covenant promises, Proverbs 22, 6, and all of the promises of Scripture, are that they're in the context Of God's covenant is grace. Now what is that? Remember we talked about that before. But the very essence of God's covenant is that I will be your God and you shall be my people. And that's a statement that rests totally on grace. I will be your God and you shall be my people. By grace I shall be your God. By grace you shall be my people. By grace Jesus Christ comes, and he takes the curses of the covenant of those who are modest people. So you and I are justified, as we've been talking about in these recent weeks. By grace, therefore, we are adopted into God's family. And we become his people. But that grace demands a response, and that response is salted by grace. I don't simply say, Well, God said I'll be my God and I'll be my his I'll be his person. So I'll just sit around and see what happens. But you see to lay hold of that promise, to lay hold of his grace, is to respond In what the Bible calls covenant fidelity, is to respond in laying hold of his bumps, laying hold of Jesus Christ. And just as we lay hold of Jesus Christ for salvation, we lay hold of every promise that's within salvation by the same principle, neither by merit nor by presumption. But rather by grace. And that's what the promise is, you see. But the promise of grace. You see And I've written there we claim this on it uh not by presumption or by merit, but rather by feeding it, by asking one of two reasons Uh Psalm 81 is an example. Let's take a look at that later, but what this is. He says in Psalm 1811 Psalm 8110, God says there, uh, I will be your God He talked before that about redeeming the people from Israel, and he says, Open your mouth wide and I'll fill it. I'm gonna give you so many promises and brush and just open your mouth like uh the the custom was in the uh ancient east uh world a person uh was rewarded, uh the king might uh say to him, Open your mouth as wide as you can and I'll drop all the jewels in rubies, diamonds, and the wider you open the mouth, the more jewels you get to see. Because you breathe a choke, green of any of them. It was God saying, You open your mouth wide and I'll fill it with all the blessings you can contain. But was it automatic? No, because the very next verse goes on in Psalm 81 to say, But my people did not see me. And therefore they didn't enter into the promise. Thinking the promise is there. The Bible says we've got to lay hold of that promise. Well, specifically then, what does this mean with regard to our children? And notice what this means then, these covenant promises. Uh you notice also in that first part about promises in general, I I've listed there James 2, 14 to 16. See, I think uh I think James is saying exactly the same thing in the New Testament in a way that maybe easier for us to Yeah, so what's the same thing? I'm saying uh faith without words exist. Then well, you know, God says all All uh everyone who believes on Jesus should be saved. So yeah, I believe on Jesus. I've given a nod to God, I believe and I'm saved. So it's presumably on John 316. Um, Jim says that no, it's not a faith is A faith is biased for nature active. The faith bienthoric nature lays hold and acts on what God says. And that's exactly what Proverbs 225. And Proverbs 226 God says, your children will not depart from the way. But this is a promise to those who lay hold of it by giving their children a taste for the way that He does. Now, as I say in particular, what does this mean that we've got certain? Well, remember you have to see this Psalmist, 2262. In the context of Genesis seventeen, I will be a guide to you and to your children, we looked at it. In the context of Genesis 1819 Where God says, I'm going to be a God to him and to his children, because I know that he shall direct his children in the way they should go. I I give this promise to Abraham concerning his children's salvation Because I know Abraham's covenant fidelity. I know that my grace is operative in Abraham. And that Abraham will lay hold of you. And the Bible makes a statement to things, both sides of us, to promise and the response. The sovereignty are responsibilities, both placed together. That's what Proverbs is saying here. You see this also in other verses, such as Proverbs twenty, verse seven. Take a look at that So again, get a picture of the flavor of what what God is saying to us. In Proverbs 20, verse 7, we read that uh The righteous man that leaves a blameless light, that's the NIV Newmark and Standard, I think, a little more helpful in that is that the righteous man who walks in his integrity You see, he's going to have a rip races. But he's practicing that. He's walking in his integrity. What's the promise? His children are blessed. Blessing always in Proverbs refer to salvation, refer from to being apart from God, uh being uh lost apart from Our children are not blessed after us if they are lost apart from Jesus Christ. But then you see it's the same thing. When you walk in your integrity before your children, they're blessed after you. Uh when you claim that by God's grace, he thinks it can be home. And so 236 tells us then, give your children a taste of the way they should go. And when they're old. They won't depart from it. This does not work this week. Again, it's by grace we claim it's fun. It's not something we can be proud of and say, well, we're people who are giving our children a taste of the way they should go. That's going to be shown by the fact that other children aren't going to turn things It's that kind of pride that even very self nullifies the promise. It's not laying hold of the promise. It's saying, I'm going to work it out through my own frame. In fact, we've got to realize in our laying hold of this promise, it's only by God's grace our children may ever come to Jesus Christ. We have no claim upon God to produce this in some automatic way. And as soon as we begin to presume upon this promise, we feel that yes God somehow honor bound to fulfill this because we have given our children a taste of the way that they suggest. Somehow it's a bargain that God's locked into, we've lost the whole concept of it. It's the covenant of grace. And that God by grace enables us to give our children a place to the way we see But thy God thy grace fulfills this promise. What do you see there in the implementation of that statement? I want you to see very closely, very clearly. But in application of this matter, we suggest that we need more boldly to claim the promises. That means that we need to argue them before God. We need to say to God, Lord God, not because of me, but because of you, three promises. You promise that my body will not turn from the the ways uh your way when they're old. And Lord God, I argue that promise with you. I think you've cast that promise into the celestial banks And say, Lord God, there it is. This is what you say. I want to cast this honest email because of your honor and because it's your grace. Hold me to come before us. But our presumptuousness, because you see you go on to say we need more boldly to claim these promises and more faithfully to practice them So that means that as I'm laying it before God, I'm therefore saying, but God, I realize that by your grace, this is the way you operate. This is the means of your fulfilling this promise. In enabling me as a parent, in enabling me as part of this congregation, to know children of my own, but as one who has received these others to myself. As part of the covenant community, to more faithfully seek to practice, to give our children as a church a taste of what a covenant community could be Which I people could really operate like. So that I children look forward to seeing what I mean. Because the people really nice to be with We practice these things together. And then finally, if we humbly cast ourselves on God. Do we realize, Lord, you're not independent to move to this by your grace You give me, as a parent, the ability to give my children a space to deliver them to God. And by your grace you bring them to yourself Now specifically let me just ask a couple questions with regard to implementing this. But first of all, I'd like to suggest three areas, just three areas for questions Refer to the area of prayer. We need to give our children a taste of the way they should go in terms of prayer answers. A taste of prayers answered in our hands. The question, when the last time did your kids cause specific importance to answer the prayer in your hand? It's not so easy for us that people would appear to be very false people. It's so easy for us um to pray about things that seem very super people. We don't pray for the crop to hold so that we'll be able to eat this fall. We don't pray necessarily with any urgency that there won't be a standard this meeting. that will be neither devastated by floods nor droughts, subject to the immediate consequences of those things. We don't pray necessarily that God will enable us to avoid flight we fear like we can see through so much of human history. The God won't wipe out Colombia through some plague that's coming through and there won't be any way medicated by it. cast ourselves upon God because of danger that we feel that we're very vulnerable to. And most of us don't even cast ourselves upon God in terms of basic needs or even from monkeys. We want something, we go out and buy it. We don't take it before God and say, God, we want to see you provide this for us because we don't have any needs. A lot of us feel like we're So often those things are not originally mean. Sometimes they are When's the last time in your family your kids thought, boy, this is something we just had to lay before God? And if God didn't work, we were in trouble And God answered that. I saw that specifically as mom and dad and the three around the table praying about that night after night. And I saw God answered that. And I can't discount that. As I grow up and my friends tell me that this stuff doesn't mean anything, I look back and I say, but I see that in my home time after time as the stress. And we can't argue against that How many times do our children see us calling upon God, putting ourselves out on a limb, seeing Dad take a stand at work that may even jeopardize its job because of some end ethical principle. Seeing God used to make Christ known at work and pay the cost that may be involved in that. Seeing mom say, well, you know, I really believe God's telling me to read my star the Bible for and they're going to see you will come. They're going to see what happens. See him step out on faith and see us lay those things before God. That's giving up to our children a taste of the way they should go, living the life of faith and strength. Secondly, the question of our lives being changed. How clearly do your kids see you dealing with sin and growing in grace? Now it's quite clear that we need to discipline our kids. But we need to disappear them and correct their behavior with a rod, with a tank stone, or whatever you happen to use it on your hands. This is a privilege uh not to be taken for granted anymore. I don't know how many of you are aware this uh recently, just the last couple of weeks In Sweden, a law was passed by Parliament by a vote of 259 to 6 outlawing sanctions. It is now against the law in freedom to thank the children. He reported this and leaves you, uh, simply commented The states with disobedient children now, pleading mothers and fathers, can always resort to reasons. And if that doesn't work, they still have the right to stick out their tongue, throw tangents, or hold their breath until they can blow in the thing. You give me to be thankful, prepared, who love your mouth, who will take the stick, we thank you. About something that we need to be concerned about. Is that a friend being sex? We as parents need to exercise the God-given responsibility of thanking and correcting our children. But who are children to God correcting us How many times do our children see that we're saying, God has had to keep me in this? I've had to change my ways in this. And do we share that with our children? Last night we were reading our Bible story book. We were in the story of Jacob, Jacob, and Laban. We talked about Laban's coffee smith and greasy I asked Heather and Julia, do you think he had a problem with it? It was an immediate response just to that. But then I said, you know, Daddy's got a problem with this too. Sometimes I'm talking to some reason. Julie immediately smiled at all no dad, not you. And I said, yes, that's true. And her response was, but adults don't just again dog But she needs to have recollection there, you see, not in terms of her behavior, but she needs to see in me that God is changing my belief and my selfishness. But God is dealing with me as I'm dealing with her, giving her a taste of the way of God and sanctification. A tent in our family that we're changing, that we're seeing God working on us. Finally, the last thing And do our children have a taste of the way that we should go in our contact with the world? To our ministry The question, how many hurting unbelievers do our kids see and realize the ugliness of sin and see our compassion in bringing Christ healing in those situations? And evangelism, in our generosity, and our stance on social issues. In other words, we simply are contacting the world and seeking to minister to us. In seeking to open our homes. For so many Christian homes, we think that the way to train their children is to isolate them from the world, to somehow protect them from all of its effect and so the world takes on this uh sort of picture of some sort of a provision thing that must be like ice cream and candy, you know, if I can't see it it must be really terrific And they hear this from their friends and they begin to look at this as something tempting. And they can't wait to try it out. Our kids need to see the effects of sin As we in our homes and in our ministry are in contact with unbelievers, as we seek to minister in those situations, compassion. So that they get a tense of the way that Jesus would have used respond against the Jesus. They get a tense of what in fact life as a Christian in this world is like And they can see that in the security of our protection. Through the congregation, a rather young But we don't have a whole lot of third in the carrying yet. But if our children grow up, I ask myself seriously this question indeed What's to prevent us from going the way of so many other churches, from seeing our children one by one, marry unbelievers, go off with no interest in Jesus Christ and college They go off with no interest in spiritual things if they're able to exercise their own rights and desires and secretions And I say to you, the only hope we have is God's promise. But that is a promise. Proverbs twenty-two six says if we give our children a taste of the way that they should go. That when they're old they will not perish them. That's a promise because of God's grace. Because God Himself is said that he'll fulfill this in enabling us to do it, and enabling us to call upon him so that he'll fulfill us. Not this and the night focus Oh Lord our God, we come before you this morning and uh Lord, I know there is a a sense of um With this being uh a mixture, uh on the one hand probably we're bold, on the other hand, we come very humbly and sympathy We come realizing, Father, our false hearing. We come realizing our own inadequacy. become father realizing and that uh there is no way that we can give our children an adequate peace of the way they should go As some genuine reflection of all the fullness of what a life of discipleship under Jesus Christ means But Father, we know that by your grace you can give us. We know that you can enable us to be a genuine success or taste to be Even though Father it's not out of you, by your grace before you were me. But Father, uh deliver us from redemption with your people But also, Father, remind us to be blessed. Remind us of your sufficiency. Remind us, Father, that you are an able. You're able in your sufficiency. So to fulfill your promises to our children because of human people. And so we cast ourselves entirely to these people upon this emancy this morning. We thank you for that mercy extended to us. We thank you for your promises, all of us. Father, we pray that you may glorify and lift you up in in whatever difficulties. Whatever discourages people might be. Whatever uh disheartening temptations come upon us. Father, we might see your promise We might see your promises to depend on experiences. But ultimately, Father, you are the ones who must fulfill those promises. And so we cast ourselves in your grace this time. We praise you for your grace. And we prove Father in all of our circumstances. to experience your grace and to make your grace in our home, in our church, and in our community, for the sake and eyes of Jesus Christ. Now let's conclude our worship before God is uh hymn number six hundred twenty-seven. Happy is the home in which these things are true. We sing about that now for God's Hymn 627.