Well, you and I live in constant tension, don't we, not only of which service we get to and when we get up in the morning, but also the tension of a kind of a gravitational pull That separates our feelings from our faith so that our feelings tend to be related more to our circumstances than to our faith. Let me give you an example. Um as we have been worshiping here this morning, have you really felt like worshiping Jesus Uh my guess is that your answer to that question probably relates more to how your Thanksgiving weekend went than it does to the wonder of Christ and the promises of the gospel. And our our faith tends to drift from the facts on which it rests, our knowledge of Christ. Uh this week you have either drawn a little bit closer to Christ because you have thought about him, you have been relating to him, you have felt your need for him. Or you have drifted a little bit further from Christ because you have not been paying as close attention to him. Well that's why I, as many of you at Columbia Presbyterian, really look forward to the Advent season. When we take time to simply focus on the person of Christ. And it's kind of a tradition around here that we do that in a couple of ways First of all, we take a couple of weeks, two or three weeks, to uh look at messianic prophecies We started with Genesis three back in nineteen seventy nine, been working our way every year up to now Isaiah fifty three. I've been on Isaiah 53 for two years, started in 2001, plan to finish it this season. So that will conclude that section. Then we'll have just one week before Christmas, the Sunday before Christmas, to look at Luke chapter 2. particular element of the Christmas story. Then I thought this year, the Sunday after Christmas, I'm going to preach on rest. I figured that's probably a good time to preach about that, all right? Uh now if if you were to liken the Old Testament to the ancient temple of God with all its chambers and corridors, then Isaiah 53 would be probably the holy of holies. In Isaiah chapter 53, we see uniquely and most intimately displayed the heart and the mind of Jesus in his sacrifice for us. So when we look at this wonderful passage as we have the last couple of years We've seen that, as John read it, begins with a powerful prologue where Isaiah depicts this Messiah as being the highest above all, beyond comparison with any other. And then immediately goes on to say that he is also the lowest, that he was disfigured beyond human recognition. And that he also accomplished more than anyone else did, because he's not only cleansed the nations, But that he has reduced kings to silence in their awe before him. We saw then in chapter fifty-three the whole Psalm from 5213 to the end of 53 is five stanzas each of uh three verses apiece. Chapter 53 talks about how he was despised that his own people, Israel, didn't recognize that he was Messiah. And that he would be punished not for his own sin, but seven times, Isaiah says in verses four to six. that he would be punished for our sins. All we, like sheep, have gone astray. The Lord's laid on him. the iniquity of us all. And now this year, for this message, we come to the fourth of the fifth stanzas, Isaiah 53 verses 7 to 9. And in these stances, Isaiah addresses three questions about the Messiah's suffering. First of all, how he suffered, what his response to it was Secondly, then the progression. What was the progression of the suffering? And then thirdly, why did he suffer? And so he deals with these three things. And we'll deal with that in the message. So the first point then is how the Messiah suffered, and the answer, the first blank, is passively That's what he focuses on. Passively. Look again at verse 7. He was oppressed and afflicted, and yet he did not open his mouth He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is silent, so he did not open his mouth. You notice the Messiah is here compared to a lamb in meekness and compliance. Put yourself for a moment in the Old Testament and hear as you, a man or woman, or child of Israel uh come to the tabernacle or to the temple later on. You see now a priest coming and that priest is bringing along this lamb. He's leading this lamb because your sin That you come to confess, the Old Testament law says must be atoned for by the blood of a lamb. So as you see that little lamb being led, you know, first of all you felt guilty for your sin But now you feel even worse because you realize that this innocent lamb is going to die in a in a few moments. It's going to have its throat cut Not for anything it did, but because of your sin. And that makes you feel kind of bad about that, doesn't it? But you know what really grip your heart is as you see that lamb come along that the priest is leading, there's no resistance. It's not like a mule that digs in its heels, you know, and fights and tugs and pulls, or even like a dog, you know, you ever have a dog on a leash and try and get the dog to go somewhere You don't want to go, you know, and it's pulling and tugging and snapping and growling and barking and it doesn't do any of that. A lamb simply follows just willingly. And, you know, that just kind of tugs at your heart, doesn't it? You see that this thing is making no resistance. It doesn't know what's going to happen, but it it willingly follows where it doesn't want to be taken. Isaiah says Messiah was like that. Messiah would be like that. And that's a that's a startling thing that we can often miss because we don't think about it a whole lot. Annas, Caiaphas, Pilate, Herod, all were men To whom authority was trusted so that they would carry out justice. And in this trial of Jesus All of them utterly abused that trust. What's more amazing is that Jesus Who was the first to protest injustice? There were times when Jesus would disrupt parties, he would break up crowds because he would make an issue out of injustice He'd make an issue out of people being mistreated or put down or being abused. Jesus was the first to speak even when it seemed inappropriate because his honesty compelled him. To state what needed to be stated, and yet seemingly totally out of character. He goes through a mockery of a trial. The whole trial was illegal in its timing, in its circumstance, in its witnesses. And not once through that whole time did Jesus voice one word of protest. He allows himself to be taken to the slaughter. He was oppressed. He was afflicted And yet he didn't open his mouth. He was led like a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb. So he did not open his mouth. Peter makes a point of this in his letter, 1 Peter. In which he calls you and me to not only wonder and worship at what Jesus did, but to also do something that's very unnatural for us. To follow him in that same kind of behavior. I don't know about you, but when I'm mistreated or somebody deals in a nasty way with me Part of me says as a Christian I probably shouldn't complain, but immediately there is that other part in me that says, but there's a principle here. That shouldn't happen. This is wrong And I want to retaliate. And I want to vindicate myself. And I want people to know that I have been hard dealt by Paul says, or Peter says, if you're under authority and you suffer for something you've done wrong Then don't sound like that was a big deal to deal with that patiently. But he says, if in fact you are under authority and somebody deals with you unjustly And you suffer wrongful treatment, then he says, Remember that you have a master who has called you to follow in his steps. He says, if you endure suffering for doing good This is commendable because to this you were called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should not simply admire him. But that you should follow in his steps. That's what we don't want to do, isn't it? That's just unnatural. And then he quotes from Isaiah 53:9 He committed no sin. Excuse me, Isaiah 53, 7. He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in his mouth. When they hurled their insults at him, he didn't retaliate. When he suffered, he made no threats. Instead, he entrusted himself to him who judges justly. That's the key. Jesus was able to entrust himself to the Father who is the final judge. Peter said, You and I need to do that. So that he himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. So that we might die the sins and live for righteousness, for by his wounds you have been healed And then he quotes from verse seven, for verse six, For you were like sheep going astray, but now have returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. Jesus resisted, damning all those who so unjustly treated them, and bore their infernal injustices. Patiently and quietly. And you and I are called to follow in his steps Doesn't mean we never seek justice, but it does mean that our attitude is one of quiet Bearing of affliction rather than first defending our rights. You know what? I hate to say it, but you're going to be tested in that this week. Somebody's going to deal with you nasty this week. Somebody's going to do something, and you're going to remember this message. You're not going to like me very much at that moment. But you're going to remember this and you're going to have a choice. You're going to say, Lord Jesus, I worship you for how you did not open your mouth when you were led to suffer for me And I so want to get back at that person and retaliate But you will be called to do what is unnatural and even supernatural, to experience the grace of Christ not by simply admiring it in him. But to ask God, Lord, would you grant that grace to me to do what I cannot do and to follow Jesus in his attitude in death. So the first thing is to see how Jesus suffered passively and to not only worship But the follow. Secondly, notice how he suffered in the progression of his suffering In verses 8 and 9, this is an amazing couple verses. Little details of this I want to call your attention to. They're easy to miss. Notice, by oppression and judgment he was taken away. And who can speak of his descendants? For he was cut off from the land of the living. For the transgression of my people, he was stricken. He was assigned a grave with the wicked. And with a rich in his death, though he had done no violence, nor was any deceit in his mouth. Now I want you to see the way I have here changed this a bit. This is kind of a compilation, no exact translation of another version, but let me kind of walk this through with you as you look at it. There are five steps in the progression of Jesus' suffering. First of all, by oppression, the word means to confine or constrain someone, so Uh a number of Hebrew commentators say it it probably refers to his arrest where he was confined and restrained. It's not just oppression, but by A, that's the first thing you see in your outline, follows the A through the E, follows your outline on your paper. So by A, you're a his arrest, and then B, judgment also refers to a trial. So uh by his arrest and his trial. And the word by could also be from so let's take it that way, makes no more sense. From his arrest and from his trial he was taken away. See, that's the third thing. Now, in this one, who can speak of his descendants? What they did in that was to pick up on the idea of his being cut off and therefore having no descendants. That's verse 10, verse 9 and 10. But I think what is the better translation is NIV footnote in the ESV, who among his contemporaries considered that he was cut off from the land of the living Not for what he did, but for the transgressions of my people, to whom the stroke was due. Now let's put it all together so you see the flow of it. What Isaiah is saying here is he is he is outlining the progression from his arrest to his death, and he says, from his arrest And his trial, he was taken away, taken away from crucifixion. And who among his contemporaries considered that he was cut off from the land of the living for the transgressions of my people to whom the stroke was due? That's the first four. Now just look at A couple things about that. First of all, notice that he doesn't say he was taken away and he was killed or executed. It says he was cut off. The word cut off there is a very significant word. Because in the Old Testament a covenant was cut. And when someone violated a covenant, they were cut off. In Genesis chapter 9, verse eleven, God says that after the flood he will no longer cut off all flesh. by a flood those who had broken his covenant. In Exodus chapter twelve and verse fifteen he says, Anybody who eats yeast during the Passover will be cut off from my people. It doesn't mean just excommunicate, it means we'll be killed. It's a death sentence. Very serious matter. The word cut the idea of cutting off, the word cut off comes back to an experience that Abram had when God had given him a promise and he believed that promise Do you remember in Genesis chapter 15, God brought Abram that evening in the twilight into a deep sleep? And there we read that Abram experienced a horror of darkness, and he saw in a vision God telling him to do something that to you and to me would be very strange, but God said, take three animals and cut those animals in half. Then take the pieces of the animals and have them laid out so that the insides are facing each other dig a little gutter down in between so that the blood of the animals flows down in that gutter. Now, as I say to you and me, that'd be pretty strange, but it wasn't Abram. He was very familiar. That was what was called the cutting of a covenant. And Abram had done that so that there would be times when he would have walked through on that gutter of blood And he would have said something like, May such happen to me if I break this covenant. In other words, may I be dismembered. You know, it's rather dramatic way of saying, you know, I'm really giving you my word on this. May I be cleaved into if I break my word in this oath, this covenant that I am making with you Now Abram's heart must have skipped a beat when in that vision he saw the torch of the very God Yahweh. Passing between the pieces in the gutter of blood. And Abram would not have missed for a moment the significance of that. God is saying, May I be dismembered. If I go back on my promise to make you into a great nation and give you a new kingdom that I've promised. And Abraham would have thought probably something like, Wow, that's amazing, because God is spirit. It's impossible to conceive of God being dismembered. Oh, that's what he's saying. It's impossible, you see, by his very nature, to lie or to go back on his word. But even that insight would have missed the heart of the significance. Because you see, what Isaiah adds to that is he is saying, God Whose spirit became flesh, so that he could be cut off That he could experience death as if he were the vilest of all covenant breakers So Messiah is not only arrested, not only is he given a mock trial, but he is taken away and cut off out of the land of the living. Not for his own sin, but he says for the transgression of his people, to whom the stroke was due. Now notice one other little detail and I'm going to pick up something else. You notice he says cut off. The word cut off If that time meant that not only were you cut off, but your family was cut off. There were no descendants. That terminated you in the line But he goes on in verse 10 to speak about he'll see the offspring, his offspring. So Isaiah is saying he's going to be cut off, but he's going to have offspring. Now we'll pick up on that next week. Gotta come back to find out what that's about. See a very interesting little detail Isaiah very accurately puts into his prophecy. But now notice the last statement of this progression. And that is that he is buried. Verse 9. He was assigned a grave with the wicked and with the rich in his death. Notice now God's sovereign oversight of every detail of what happened in Jesus' death. In Acts chapter 4 and verse 28, Peter said in his message concerning Herod and Pontius Pilate, They did what your power and will had decided beforehand should happen. Now notice the detail of this. The Hebrew there for wicked is plural. He was assigned a grave of the wicked. Plural. And, the Hebrew can also mean but, and or but, with the rich, singular, but with a rich man in his death Now that detail is very significant because you see, when a person was crucified, they were then, as part of the cursing and the despising of them, simply thrown, their body was thrown into a common grave. But when Jesus died on the cross, he said in his last breath, It is finished. The payment has been made. The curse has been fully experienced. All is done. And at that moment God's determined the end of his humiliation has come. So even though the Roman Government would determine that he would be further humiliated by having his body thrown into a common grave. God begins at that moment to reverse the humiliation into exaltation And has Joseph of Arathea, a rich man, come and beg from Pilate the body. The Gospels record that. I believe all four of the Gospels record that. And he takes that body and he places it in his own new tomb. A mark of honor. But even more significant, you see, is that if Jesus' body had been thrown into the common grave with the wicked Then when he was raised from the dead, who would be able to tell where his body had been? They would just, well, you know, it was just in that pile over there somewhere. Who knows? You know, it could have been anybody got out of there. He wouldn't see anybody missing. But because he was in a distinctive, unique, rich grave, it was easy to tell where he had been and that the body was gone. Seven hundred years before the resurrection, which he goes on into in the last stanza, Isaiah makes that distinction, though he was assigned a common grave with the wicked. God determined he would be placed in the grave of a rich man in order that his resurrection would be vindicated and his humiliation was over. Now, you know, I mean, not only should you worship Jesus for that, but doesn't that encourage your faith in the supernaturalness of biblical prophecy? 700 years like somebody writing 1300 about something happening now and having that minute kind of precision in its prophecy Well, I hope you can. Yeah, you sit there and go. I hope somebody's saying, hey wow, that's great, you know? Is it great? It's great. Thank you. All right. Think about it. Now, final question. Why did he suffer? Answer the blank vicariously. He suffered vicariously. Now what does that mean? Well, a vicar is somebody who acts as a deputy to minister in the place of another person. they um they stand in there uh in the other person's place. Uh when we talk about uh experiencing something vicariously means you experience it through another person. This is what we do all the time. You know, we go to movies in order to experience thrills vicariously. You know, you don't want to go over the falls, but you experience the thrill of going over the falls but somebody else goes over the falls and the camera has you down there doing that, you know. You don't fight the terrible orcs, but you will get the thrill you see, a couple weeks of Seeing these people fight the orcs and know that there's victory against the evil in that, you see. So we experience things vicariously That is one in the place of another. Perhaps uh one of the best known stories of In modern times of someone vicariously experiencing suffering and death in the place of another is the story of Father Maximilian Colby at Auschwitz. Anybody familiar with that story? A couple of you? Well let me uh refresh you if you uh or familiar or if you haven't heard of it. And uh to do it, let me um probably do it best by uh reading an excerpt from Max Lucato's Six Hours One Friday where he talks about this story. February 1941, Father Colbe was incarcerated at Auschwitz. He was a Franciscan priest. In the harshness of the slaughterhouse he maintained the gentleness of Christ. He shared his food and gave up his bunk. He prayed for his captors. He was soon given the nickname the Saint of Auschwitz. In July of that same year, there was an escape from the prison. It was the custom at Auschwitz to kill ten prisoners for every one who escaped. All the prisoners would be gathered in the courtyard and the commandant would randomly select ten names from the roll book. These victims would immediately be taken to a cell where they would receive no food or water. until they died by starvation and water deprivation. The commandant begins calling the names. In each selection another prisoner steps forward to fill the sinister quota. The tenth name he calls is Yujanichek. As the SS officers check the numbers of the condemned, one of the condemned begins to sob My wife and my children, he weeps. The officers turn as they hear movement among the prisoners. The guards raise their rifles, the dogs tense anticipating the command to attack. A prisoner has left his row and is pushing his way up front, his Colbe. No fear on his face, no hesitancy in his step. The capo shouts at him to stop or be shot. I want to talk to the commander, he says calmly. For some reason the officer doesn't club or kill him. Colby stops a few paces from the commandant, removes his hat, and looks at the German officer in the eye. I wish to make a request, please, that no one shot him as a miracle. I want to die in the place of this prisoner. He points at the sobbing to Chanakchek. The audacious request is presented without stammer. I have no wife and children. Besides, I'm old and not good for anything. He's in better condition. Colby knew well the Nazi mentality Who are you? The officer asks. The Catholic priest. The block is stunned. The Commandant uncharacteristically speechless. After a moment he barks, Request granted. Prisoners were never allowed to speak. So Gachanachek says, I could only thank him with my eyes. I was stunned and could hardly grasp what was going on, the immensity of it. I, the condemned, am to live, and someone else willingly, voluntarily offers his life for me, a stranger. Is this some dream? The saint of Auschwitz outlived the other nine. In fact, he didn't die of thirst or starvation. He died only after the camp doctor injected phenol into his heart. It was August 14, 1941. What can I add? Isaiah must have wondered as he wrote these words. From arrest and from his trial he was taken away. And who among his contemporaries could consider that he did this Not for himself, but for the transgression of my people, to whom the stroke was due. You notice he doesn't say to everyone. He says, My people. Question for you this morning is, are you one of his people? You can't presume on that to say, well that's for everybody. It's only for those who recognize that I have a choice I can live my life and I can stand before God and plead my own record. And that record will determine how I spend eternity. Where I can recognize that beyond all the things that I fear in this life, there is nothing that I fear more than standing before God to judge me in my own record. And by that admission know that you have as your only hope in that day The vicarious substitutionary sacrifice of the Messiah Jesus Who was led as a lamb to the slaughter, making no protest because he willingly went to take your sin and my sin. And to bear the shame and the cursing, to be cut off from the land of the living before God's presence. As the vilest of all covenant breakers, so that you and I could live Now last week there were a hundred and forty-seven Christmas child boxes presented to our deacons. That's just amazing. That thrills me. 147 boxes of gifts put in there for kids all over the world to receive some word of the gospel and presents to open. The Christmas Child Project is administrated by Samaritan's Peirce, who is headed by Franklin Graham, who does a lot of relief work in Muslim countries like the Sudan and other places. Now imagine with me for just a moment that Franklin Graham in his work in the Sudan, where the Sudanese Christians are often terrorized and killed by the soldiers in the Muslim government in Khartoum, that one of those Muslim soldiers in authority, gathers his soldiers under him, and they they herd two hundred and fifty Christians into one of their church buildings And as has been done, then seal those doors and light it so that the Christians inside are roasted alive. That has happened. Now let's suppose that this murderer is actually caught, arrested, and brought to trial. And that that Muslim terrorist who has just killed 250 innocent men, women, and children because they were Christians, is condemned to die. Let's suppose further that at that moment Franklin Graham stands, steps forward, and he says, I would like to offer my life in place of that terrorist. What's your reaction? Is it something like that's ridiculous Franklin Graham has so much to offer. I mean, he's the heir of the Billy Graham Association, preaching the gospel, all this relief work, all the things that he does No, no, no, no. I'm not going to let that happen. I don't care if the guy accepts it or not. I don't care if the trial accepts it. It shouldn't happen. All that he has to offer compared to this worthless fella Something in us is repulsed by that, isn't it? But are you ever repulsed by the fact that Jesus, in the prime of his life at age 33, with all that he could have done in the years ahead? Stepped forward and said, Father, I want to give my life for you For every one of us, not just corporately, but you and me Do you ever feel like that's wrong? He shouldn't have done that. Well, I'm not worth that. I can't imagine that you would do that for me Brothers and sisters, never get used to the vast discrepancy of the sacrifice. Never. Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, the love of Christ compels and constrains us. Because we judged that his death was for all, therefore we died, that we would no longer live for ourselves, but to him who loved us and gave himself for us. Let's pray. Oh Lord Jesus, Lord Jesus, forgive us For beginning to take your sacrifice for granted, to to think somehow that perhaps it was even equitable that that uh we're not we're not shocked and repulsed by the fact that you Would give your life for us. Be arrested. Go through a mock trial With no protest, be taken away and cut off, cursed, so that we could be forgiven Lord, I pray that there would not be a single person in this room that would put off that sacrifice and say, I'll risk it on my own and stand before God with my record. Lord, speak to the heart of every one of us, sanity, reasonableness to see that such an offer only a fool would refuse. Lord, you break into our hearts. That we would receive Christ as He's offered to us. That those of us who know you, Lord Jesus, that we would follow you, not just admire you Your love would constrain us and compel us when we are treated in nasty and unjust ways this week, to follow you, to worship. To seek your supernatural grace to change our hearts, that we might follow in your steps. Because that brings you glory. Amen