Okay, good morning. What a privilege it is to be able to preach God's Word on a week like this. The culmination of VBS, where the gospel was being preached and taught in a way that these children would understand, what your children would understand. And so that's why we're doing a little bit of a sort of a topical sermon today. You might have noticed in your bulletin, how to be saved. That's exactly what the gospel is. It's good news on how to be saved. Recently there was an interview about two or three weeks ago or so. You might have heard of Ben Shapiro and Pastor John MacArthur. Ben Shapiro and this and John MacArthur have done this interview a few times already. And there was a question that Ben Shapiro asked John MacArthur, Pastor John MacArthur, that I thought bring some relevance here for our time this morning. He asked them. What should the relations between the Jews and Christians be like? How should Christianity approach the Jews? And I think Pastor John's answer was fine as far as it went, but I was I was imagining myself in this moment answering Ben and thinking, I would go to Romans 10, 1. Which is what we're going to look at this morning. That verse says, My heart's desire and prayer to them is that they may be saved. So this is how Christianity should approach the Jews. See, because Paul was Jewish. Advancing in Judaism beyond many of the Jews of his own age, but after he became a Christian on the road to Damascus, he no longer believed that a person is saved by just being Jewish or by their good works. In fact, this is how really Christianity should approach anyone and everyone who is a non-Christian with a fervent desire in our hearts that they would be saved. But the question is, that you'll see in your outline, there's going to be three questions that I want us to go over. Saved from what? And then saved to what? And saved by what? This is really precisely why we make a great interest of doing VBS every year, because we want children to understand how to be saved. Saved by God's grace, saved by his mercies. Why we do local missions, why we do global missions, because we want as many people to be saved as we as can as possible. So I'm going to read the text for us this morning, Romans chapter 10. If you have your Bible or you want to follow along on the screen, verses 1 through 13, and then I'll pray for us and we will continue our sermon. So please hear the word of God. Brothers, my heart's desire and prayer to God for them is that they may be saved. For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God but not according to knowledge. For being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own, they did not submit to God's righteousness For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes, for Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law That the person who does the commandments shall live by them. But the righteousness based on faith says, do not say in your heart, Who will ascend into heaven? That is to bring Christ down. Or who will ascend into the abyss, that is, to bring Christ up from the dead. But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart That is the word of faith that we proclaim, because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. For the scripture says, everyone who calls on the everyone who believes in him will not be put to shame For there is no distinction between Jew and Greek, but the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Let's pray. Gracious Father, thank you for your word that teaches us very plainly how someone is saved. And give me grace, O God, as I teach this word. But give us all grace as well, Lord, to understand this ever clearly. Especially for those who may already be saved, may their faith be strengthened this morning. But whoever hears these words and are not yet saved, who do not yet believe, would your spirit cause them to understand this text this morning? So that they too, in the end, would look to your son Jesus Christ and so by believing in the Him be saved. Amen. I failed to introduce myself earlier. I'm Edward Ruiz. I'm a pastoral intern here. And I know Bob was really disappointed to not be able to be here and preach this morning on this great opportunity to really plainly described the gospel. And so please pray for me as I present the gospel to you all this morning. And I'm wondering and I'm hoping that you're not wondering to yourself that I'm st I'm pulling a text right out of the middle of Romans chapter ten. uh out of the book of Romans and curious, am I going to take anything out of context? Is this discussion of the gospel being taken out of context at all in any way? And I assure you that I am not going to do that. If you were to read the beginning of Romans all the way through in one sitting, I think you could summarize the book of Romans in this sentence. That there is a righteousness available to everyone who believes in Jesus Christ by faith. In Romans chapter 10. Very succinctly, as we just read, and I think in a very granular way, teaches us how exactly is a person saved, whether you are a Jew or a Gentile. It doesn't matter. Salvation is available to everyone. And so we need to make sense of those three questions that I posed earlier that I think verse one provokes. And the first question being, save from what? The prayer that he's praying implies that we need salvation. And salvation is necessary. And so it's natural to ask. We should ask. Saved from what? So there's in your bulletin there's two things that I think the text shows us that we're safe from, and there's other things that we could say, but to stick with the text, the first thing that we are safe from Is our ignorance concerning the righteousness of God? For I bear them witness that they have a zeal for God, but not according to knowledge, for being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own They did not submit to God's righteousness. And so Paul was initially talking about his Jewish brother and sister. But if you read the rest of Romans and you read all of Paul's letters. Very clearly, Paul is talking about the rest of us, every single person. We all have an inclination toward this ignorance of being the ignorance of the righteousness of God. Now, what is righteousness exactly? Righteousness simply means right standing or to be in the right. So I see this every day when husbands and wives come into the counseling office, for instance. There's a bickering back and forth, there's an arguing about who is right and who is wrong. It's really an argument about righteousness. Or when children bicker back and forth, that's also another argument about righteousness. When we say that I'm right and you're wrong, I'm saying I am righteous and you're unrighteous. So Paul says here in these verses that the Jews were ignorant about God's righteousness, which is to say they did not really know how to get in the right or how to find right standing with God. On God's terms. So that's the first thing that we are saved from is our ignorance concerning how to get right with God. But the other thing that we're saved from here. is seeking our own righteousness. Paul points out here in verse 3 that due to this ignorance about the righteousness of God There's an effort on the part of the Jews. There was an effort on the part of the Jews, and really an effort on the part of everyone who is ignorant about this righteousness of God, where we seek to establish our own righteousness. We want to find a way to get right with God in our way. And that's what that means. But how does a person actually do that? I mean the the law of God was in fact given to the Jewish people. God gave it to them. They didn't make it up. So it is right and good to try to obey the law, but the righteousness that was the st that he's referring to here that they sought to establish on their own. You can summarize it like this. They believed that obedience to the law equaled righteousness. That essentially you can find a right standing with God based on your obedience. But when we're when we're exercising obedience according to the law, whether we're aware of it or not, we're actually also exercising faith. The question is, is what is the object of your faith? And the object of this works righteousness or this righteousness that is established on our terms. That is the object of our faith. It's our work that we say this will make us right with God. And so this is what Paul meant by their ignorance, that this the self-established righteousness that came out of their ignorance. Was that right standing with God, it could be achieved if you just obeyed God long enough and you obeyed Him hard enough? But as we see here in the second half of this verse, verse 3, they did not submit to God's righteousness. So there's a there's two kinds of righteousness that is being compared here. The righteousness that is a self-established righteousness, one that we we achieve on our own, we try to work out But it's ignorant of God's righteousness. And that's the other righteousness. This is the righteousness that we can't make up. It's a righteousness that we can't work out on our own. It's a righteousness that we have to submit to. And so there's a very serious problem, of course, with this, because every single one of us, and I am the foremost, we are all born with this inclination to still want to work out our own righteousness. We're all, in a way, still living with this sort of blind ignorance of sorts. We want to make our way right with God on our terms. And the reason why we do this is very plainly because of sin. Now, Romans chapter 3, we're not going to go too deep into it, but Romans chapter 3 says that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. And we I think they sang about it too earlier, and we'll get to that verse in a minute. But sin, where did sin come from? It came from, what Paul talks about in Romans 5, came from our first parents, Adam and Eve, when they fell. And so, in a very similar way, if you inherit a certain physical character trait from one of your parents, well we inherit sin from our first parents, Adam and Eve. But the difference between inheriting a character trait like a certain eye color or a hair color, the sin that we inherit is such that it was as if we were there in the garden having sinned ourselves, and so we are just as guilty as Adam. And then Romans chapter 6, what happened to Adam? What happened to Eve? They died. And Romans 6 explains very simply, the wages of sin is death. And so if we are saved from our ignorance concerning the righteousness of God, and we are saved from seeking our own righteousness, what are we saved to? That's the second question in your bulletin there. I'm picking up in verse 4, for Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. For Moses writes about the righteousness that is based on the law, that the person who does the commandments shall live by them So here's what we are saved to. We are saved to a righteousness that is based on faith in Jesus Christ. So righteousness is still a A matter of great importance. It is still necessary in order to stand before a holy God. And if there's a non-Christian listening to this, or somebody who's curious, wondering, well, what is what does Jesus exactly have to do with this? Well as Paul just said, Christ has everything to do with with this because he is the end of the law of righteousness. R. C. Sproul summarizes this idea in this way, that if we seek to obey the law but we go around Christ, We've missed the entire point of the law. And Galatians 3 makes the point that this is the point and the purpose of the law. It's to point us to Christ. And it's to show us the great magnitude and impossibility of being in the right with God, apart from God. And so Jesus did to the law what no one could ever do, and no one will ever be able to do under their own strength. And what did he do? He obeyed the law. He obeyed the law perfectly from beginning to end, and he himself is perfect. That's why he was able to do that. And so because he is perfect, and because of his perfect obedience, he satisfies the law's requirements for righteousness. Now you might ask, if he was perfect, what righteous requirements are there for him? Quite simply, there are none. The righteousness that he established through his obedience was not for himself, but it was for you. It was designed to be a gift given to you so that if you believe in him by faith, and his work, then that righteousness will belong to you. It will be given to you as a gift. And so this is when Paul says that he is the end of the law. He is the end of the law, which is another way of saying If you believe in Christ, the way that Paul's talking about here, then you have fulfilled the law's demands for righteousness. Now, if a person is intent still on wanting to work out their own righteousness in their own way, Paul is going to say, go ahead then. Here's the standard. the entire law of God. And you must obey the whole law of God, absolutely perfect, from beginning to end. In verse 6 and 7, it's a little bit of a difficult two verses to interpret. But when he says, But the righteousness that is based on faith says, do not stay in your heart who will ascend into heaven, that is to bring Christ down. Or who will descend into the abyss, that is to bring Christ up. Let's ask the question this way to try to understand this. For the person who has based their righteousness on faith, why shouldn't we say in our hearts, who will ascend into heaven? Well, really, simply it's because the righteousness that is based on faith recognizes that salvation only comes from heaven. It can only come from heaven. Righteousness based on faith recognizes the utter depravity of our situation, and that we are at the mercy of God to save us. So the righteousness based on faith recognizes that we cannot make God come and save us. We can't make him do for us what he needs to do, what needs to occur for our salvation. And so those two parentheses there that we see in each of those verses, these are things that are necessary to occur. God must come. He needs to come if there's going to be any hope for us. In fact, these are things that actually occurred. Christ did come, He He lived. And he lived the perfect life according to the law, and then he died, and then he rose again on the third day according to the scriptures, and he did this freely for us. He did this so that anybody who calls on him, they will be saved. And now this leads us to our third point. If we're saved from our ignorance concerning the righteousness of God and from seeking our own righteousness, and we're saved to a righteousness based on faith in Jesus. Then we are saved by what? What's the, you might say, the mechanisms of how we are saved exactly? That's the title of our sermon this morning. I broke it down in two subpoints. This first point, here's the first what that really makes our salvation possible. Christ's death and resurrection. Paul says a little bit earlier here, in verse 8, or excuse me, in verse 8, he says, but what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart. That is the word of faith that we proclaim. Because if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Verse 8 is a way of describing, and I'll go back into another texture in a moment, but it's a way of describing that Salvation by faith, righteousness by faith was the whole plan of God all along. And how do we know that? This is why we need to go to look at Romans 9 for just a very brief second. He says, What shall we say then that the Gentiles who do not pursue righteousness have obtained it? That is, a righteousness by faith, but that Israel who pursued a law that would lead to righteousness did not succeed in reaching that law. Why? Because they did not pursue it with faith, but as if it were by works. And they stumbled over the stumbling stone, as it as it is written, I am laying in Zion a stone of stumbling and the rock of offense, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Christ is that stumbling stone. So this was the promise of God thousands and thousands of years ago, all along. It was always the case. That God's people would look in faith to Jesus Christ for their salvation. And so how can you be saved? This is really probably a bullet point that goes under the title, but your second sub point there. Filling in the blanks. This is how you can be saved. Confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. In verse 10, for with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. And so there's a new word here that Paul's bringing into our attention. It's the word justified or justification. What does that word mean? It's a very important word. Very similar to the idea of righteousness, but it goes a little bit further because it actually is a legal way of describing a legal standing with you and God. So, for instance, if a person stands trial, okay, and the verdict comes back and the verdict is not guilty, then that person has stood trial and is found to not only be in the right, But they are justified then to go free. They could go home and they are free. And so righteousness says you are in the right with God. Justification says you have a right to be in the right with God. And this is what Paul is teaching us here. If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will receive God's righteousness as a gift. And this is the righteousness that we need to submit to by believing these things. And by believing these things, you will be in the right with God. And more than that, if you believe in your heart, you will have a right to be in the right with God. Paul says in Romans 14, a very serious warning for us, in verse 11 and 12, he says, As it is written, As surely as I live, says the Lord. Every knee will bow before me. Every tongue will acknowledge God. So then, each of us will give an account of ourselves to God. So then on that day of accounting, what will be your accounting? What will be the appeal? That you will look to as a basis for your righteousness? What legal standard will guide your accounting before God such that you will have a right to be right with God, or such that he will be obligated to save you? If your accounting is something other than Jesus Christ and him crucified for your sins and raised on the third day according to the scriptures, the accounting will not go well for you. But if you look to Christ right now and believe in your heart by faith and confess with your mouth that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this glorious news that we can be saved by your Son. And we confess that we are unable to save us ourselves because of our great sin. But you were merciful. You demonstrated your great love for us in this, that while we were sinners, Christ died. So help us to be strengthened by these things, and for those who hear these things for the first time, help them to believe these things we ask, O God. In Jesus' name. Amen.