If you ever start the first, if you look next week, you and I will be exactly as spiritual as we want to be. There's nothing that's going to hold us back to walking with Jesus Christ as closely as we liked it. Professor Flexi at the beginning of the threshold of the New Year traditionally calls for New Year's resolutions. Some of you may have noticed and in Columbia I'm this week. In the re asked column, the question of the air was uh what new resolutions do you trying to make in nineteen seventy-nine? You may have noticed this. and 50 inch and the left. Well, that is one of our own most um simple lights degrees that are the unique despite of those lifted or continuing to seek God's will for her life. But that is something we come a lot of our minds now, to uh goals and new resolutions. New family makes it a new year's resolutions or some excellent Not a bad idea, you know. Keep the concentrate on an area or three. You need to look for and expect to see some progress in your life I'd like to consider that this morning. I'd like to think about that idea, encourage it, to do some thoughts together. The problem, however, for many of us in making our resolutions is that we don't relate them closely enough for a proper use of scriptures and our And therefore we find that we're unable to do it because we haven't been really clear on what it is God wants to accomplish in it. That's true because for many of us we don't know how to use the scriptures for light things. So this morning I want to speak on this question of the use of scripture the life stream in general, and then to apply that to the question of new its resolution in general And then finally to make a specific suggestion for adopting a year's verge as the basis for your resolutions for the new year. Now, 2 Timothy 3. 15 is the classic precept for the inspiration of Christy. I want to examine that with you this morning more closely and see that the main point. of 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17 is not the source of scripture, but rather the use of scripture Let's take a look at that passage now together and look at God's word, follow along as I read. From 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses 10 to 17. Let's hear God's word. If you can if you followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, perseverance, persecution, suffering, such as happened to me at Antioch Have I funny? Have it lifeless? What persecutions I endured, love them all, but the Lord delivered me. And indeed all who desire the most godly in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. But evil men in his possible proceed from bad to worse, deceiving and doing deceased. You, however, continue in the things that you have learned and become convinced of, knowing from what you have learned them. And that empowered who have known the sacred writings that are able to give you reason that leads to salvation through faith, which is in Christ's needle. All this is inspired by God, is God-blieved, and profitable for useful, for teaching, for recruits, for reviews, for corrections. Put praying in righteousness, that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work That's why the scriptures. Now Paul, in verses 16 and 17 here, tells us two things about scriptures He tells us first of all about its source, and then secondly about its use. And many of us have been able very successfully to keep these two things quite separate. Yes, no Christians having to know the Bible is God's word, and immediately they'll be able to replace 2 Timothy 316. That's how I know that it's God's word. Literally it means it's God's words. Literally, it's not inspired, but God inspired Expire would be a better translation. All scripture is read out by God. Very good. So we know that the scripture is God's words That winged word God dreams actually tells us two things about scripture as its source, having its source in God. You see them there listed in the outline, following along You see first of all there that concerning the source then the scripture is personal. That's told to us about the by this phrase here, God's read. You see, the scripture is the very breath of God's Himself. It's the same word you see in the Greek that used to translate Genesis 27, where we read there that God when he poured men out of the dust of the ground three leaves in his nostrils to And in a very intimate exchange, God in a very personal way imparted light to man. It speaks of God's intimate personal communication to me. This is why you see this uh White Arminius, our great evangelist of last census. How do we say the scriptures on his means? He was so over all by the side. God parts is communicating persons if you hear when we have existence. But the history of unclearly You never dare lose talking about that when you and I pick up the bike. No matter how many translations it goes to, no matter how many copies you have lying around the house. God is speaking to me. The second thing that we see about this phrase that the scriptures God reads is not only that the scriptures personal but also that it's powerful. That's the same word you see with us in Psalm thirty-three six, where we read there that by the word of the Lord the heavens were made and by the breath of his mouth all the host You see, the word of God is the bless of God. And God, by that breath, by that word, created the heavens that they raised. He would accomplish what he said. And when I speak, we hope that it'll have some effect. And God's peace, it inevitably accomplishes exactly what he says. And so the word of God is extremely powerful. The Bible is alive with power. That's why when thought I was frozen without my sentence, how would you defend the Bible without the white rehab I defend the Bible the same way I defend the Lion. I'd just let it loose and let it defend itself. You see, the Bible is power. The Bible has power because it's God And that's why get our evangelistic items, we'll be taking friends, evangelism fibers, to get our members and our friends into the scriptures to get To examine the things of things, because the scripture is powerful. And James and Peter those tell us in the New Testament were born again by the living word of God So the scripture is personal and the scripture is powerful. So these are the dichotomy. We recall the 50 God's word. And we say the fifth is very safe. You know, in my house where I grew up, we were never allowed to put anything on the Bible. Never put a coffee cup on the Bible Bible, you never put any piece of paper on the Bible because the Bible is God's word. Unfortunately you never put your hands on the Bible either. You never put anything on the Bible, it's just factory on itself, very paper, very precious because that's God's words. But it had no relationship to change in my life. Well in God's speakers. But what we've missed, you see, is that what Paul said is here In Second Timothy is not simply a precept but an inspiration of scriptures. Most people when they quote this verse will say, How do you know the Bible is insane? I'll say 2 Corinthians. The people also seek its guy by God. They stop there. And his main point is where he goes on to talk about its use The source he sees is the guarantee for its accomplishing its use. Now what it's use, he goes on to say, all ships is inspired by God, it's God's dreams. And it's useful for four things. The deepers, the recruit, the collection, the pain of my system. Now uh I've listed that of the four words speaking, conviction, correctness, and terminalization. If you don't have beginning and ending with a two with two C's in the middle, we can also have three C's and a C and call it concept, conviction, correctness, retaining right with you. The point is the same. The scripture is useful for these four things. First of all, we see the scripture is useful for teachers, for content. The scripture gives us vital information. Information about who God is, what his nature is like, who we are, why we were made. Why we're alienated from God, what the problem is, why there's suffering and evil and frustration in the world, what God has done about that in Jesus Christ. And how we can be reconciled with him, who saved in Christ, how we can have peace with him and his own peace. And then how we can live according to his intentions. And how we can have a fullness of life if you like it. But that's doctrine. Because doctrine has become a dirty word to many And the reason for that is because of two misunderstandings about doctrine, which you see also missed a bit in your outline. The two wrong views of doctrine are first of all that doctrine is unimportant. That's the view that thinks that, well, you know, really it's all life is all that really matters doesn't really matter what your food is. Food is personally turn me off, don't you? It's just a matter of how you live. I just believe the Bible and get down to the business of living But the problem of course you see is that God itself is a truth, that's a belief. Because truth themselves are unimportant because you see anything between beliefs, is a truth, is a doctrine. And a sense of papers have reminded us again and again. What we believe will determine how we live. And so God will even pass vitamin things. Everything that you believe will determine how you live. And the way you live is determined. By what you believe. But then the service wrong view of doctrine, that it's turned about and then it's linked to that, and then the action To the fact that doctrine is unimportant, that reaction then goes to the other extreme in fact that Boslin is all important. This is the reaction case while now the the really big thing in the Christian art is to just get your document too The problem with that view is that in doing that we equate knowing with being Because it's one thing to know the doctrine of sanctification. It's another thing to be sanctified And I may know a lot about God and the Christian life without having worked it through to my own living in a way that's pleasing to God. The problem with the spinning others, we could appear after that word specific in 2 Philippians in the You say that well what Paul really had in mind was that all 50 is profitable if all 50 is God believes and it's profitable and useful to people. But that's really what's important. And I'd like to challenge that making very strongly Because I believe that these four uses of scripture are practical and progressive. And that these four items here stem one from another. That's why you can do the arrows in the void. But in fact, the keeping is meant to leave the convictions, not forgottenhood. The word conviction is a word that could also be translated re-proof or review. The scripture is useful for teaching, for doctrine It's a word that needs to expose sin for the purpose of repentance. The same word receives in Ephesians five eleven. We call there it tells the Ephesians do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of God's But instead of expose things. The same word there with the word expose is the same word that we have here in verse 16 to retrieve, or reuse, to expose something. The picture of this is given to us in numbers chapter five, in what is called the jealousy object. Now in the possibility that you haven't read numbers 35 and Gelope offering in the Sciatine recently, let me refresh your mind about what that offer's about. Remember in number five, if her husband suspected that his wife had been unfaithful to him and had committed adultery We had a recourse in the law of God of bringing her before the priest. He would make an offering, and he would put it in her hands, and she would make his offering to God And then the priest would give her a a bowl of water, which was holy water, it contained two things First of all, it contained dust from the tabernacle floor. The second thing that it contained were the charges and the prices for the crime. But he was a two second. These charges and these poses recorded in numbers chapter five were written on a scroll And that flow was then blotted out in that bowl of water, so that the water literally contained the worms of those targets and persons. And then that woman would submit voluntarily to that fire by supernatural ordeal And she would say, yes, so do it. But if in fact these curses are true, may this curse, the curses that are written here, come upon them The coast that was written there was probably what we know today to be rocky of the ages. Whereby what we read in the deviator there is that her thigh her belly would swell and her thigh would rot, which probably meant is that by dropsy of the overs our body was filled with about a hundred pounds of fluids and fluid females and dialogue For her own unfaithfulness, for her adulteries, for his thing in sponsor. But because they are also and that if I am innocent, may this vindicate me. And my innocence and my purity would be true before all this So that is common, so we can pass that with two. Nothing will happen to him. And then he will And God promised that in every case the outcome would be precisely like, according to the innocent reality. Now what's the point of all this? It's just this. Put time remember to pass through five We read that that water is called the water of goodness, which brings forth the current. And that was the curse that we're The company word in the deep translation of the Old Testament of the word new to the fifteen, the word that we translates convictions or review or repeat. The water is fit in it is in itself, totally has. You see, that's the water is raining from lifting. Now book number five telling you and me today. It's telling us that you and I, you see, are that women and the scripture is that water. And it's telling us two things about the use of scripture. Number one, it tells us there that we must drink it Those words had no effect upon that woman as long as they laid there on the floor. They had to be blotted out into the water, and she had to drink that water in order for that water to expose the fish. Now are you willing to take the words of the scriptures from off the page and to refuse them into your life that God could serve you to change them your life that you Because we must in humility, James 121, we must in humility receive the word implanted, which is able to say two souls To prove yourself to be fearers of the word, not really fewers who believe themselves, because anyone's a fear of the word, and not as Jewish like a man who looks at the chapter face in the mirror He looks at his face, he looks at himself, and he says that's a pretty ugly face. He's like, So what can I do about it? The hair's all messed up. And he just turns the gig then away and says the click I can get away from that mirror, the click I can forget how ugly I am and I don't have to bother with it. He goes away, he's forgotten what kind of person he was. But the one who looked contently at the perfect law, the law of liberty And abides by it. Having not become a forgettful hearer but an object of hearer, this man is less than what he does The second thing, that number five tells us about the youth existing, not only must be waiting and be willing to put the word into our lives and let us take The second is that the word is effective. You see that word, the words that they were blotted out into that water that seems like accomplish what they say The whole thing read about how that word dispersed her out, it's guilty. And if she is guilty, it exposed it and made it faith. And if you're outside of Jesus Christ. The word will accomplish what he spoke to you concerning the outcome of your life and your own gift before a holy God outside of God. The word will bring about the curse that stands over you because you stand in your own sin and not in the righteousness of Christ. But for those who are instant, this tells us that the words will bring about the peaceful readers until God changes by coming on That's quite a scary thing, isn't it? You know that it really isn't awfully intelligence. You know that God won't let go of us. That when he begins to speak to us about something in his word, he's not gonna let go of us. The reason that that word is to lost a painful. Is because Jesus ultimately was reformed. He threw the person that was due to us. So that the person passed from us to Him. So that to us, this word conviction becomes a word of receive, reuse rather than curse. There is no curse for the Because Jesus likes all the curses. He took them all upon himself. And so whereas in number five, that word is curse. What is we do is three if that would lead to the third point corruption There you see it. The word in the history is for correctness. Now this is a word which in the Greek is a parasop From which we get if it's root word or faith, from which we get our English word or sabbat And ortho from the Greek means a straight line or a standard. This word in 2 Corinthians 3, 16 A panel of things used to bring into line with that which it speaks to or collect You see, the orthodox subsequent church is called out because the word orthodox means correct orthogonal And so that's where we get that combination of four things, slate, selects, and pieces. And here, besides we have a stair a straight line, Paul says the use of this is to bring a person from the conviction In the correctness, to bring us in command with God's standards, because that's faith. That's the purpose and the use of this. Notice this thought. Scripture is never intended to convict us, but that it also is meant to correct us. That's a very full sign between the outfit based use of patients and the review of the whole field Within your life we find guilt, it is displayed, if you called corrupt, if you called you, that has no objective representation If nothing you can correct, there's nothing you can change, it's quite likely that that's the thought of the evilness of status Because when the Holy Spirit takes the peaceful scriptures and we look at our lives and see that it doesn't match up and therefore we're rebuked, we're convicted, the Holy Spirit always brings us into that next step of corruption. That's his purpose. That's his use of the scripture. You say the scripture is always meant to correct it whenever it can give us. And that correction will build that truth into our life in a way that can form it and a little more closely to the most easy I'll give you an example of what I mean by this. Let's say we're taking a look at Ephesians and we look at Ephesians chapter 4. Can we look over verses 31? 33. Not all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and plan to be put away from among you, along with all malice, to be kind to one another, tender hearted, forgive each other, just as God in Christ is also forgiven you. If you look at that You're aware of bitterness, anger, gossip, hard feeling if you have voice from us. That is the people of God who forgiveness You lack of all bitterness and anger, of all bitterness and malice. And you look at that people and you're convicted by the fact that you have bitterness and malice Now what are you going to do with that? So it could be two possibilities. One would be you would look at that and say, Well yeah, well that's that's a problem. I don't have time to deal with it and and laugh and clamor and gossip and Lloyd helped me to not do that anymore in nineteen seventy-nine. Helped me to be a little more patient, take away the bitterness. I'm asking How much do you think we're going to really see happening in nineteen seventy-nine out of September 12? Bow maybe racist, you know. That's not the proper use of systems. The apparent view is it would take that piece. When we can zip to buy it, then we could apply it to correct it. Now what's that mean? Well it's Take a look what we should mean by that. First of all, we say, Now Lord help me. I affirm that I'm going to put away the good image. Okay, okay, good. Put it away. I'm going to take a definite step of putting away that goodness. Secondly, I'm going to remember your forgiveness. So I'm going to make a goal here now in 1979 of every time that I'm bidding attempts to gossip or criticize someone I'm going to meditate, I'm going to remind myself of God's forgiveness of me in my things in faith. And then thirdly, I said the looks great to fear that. And what do I see in verse 29? Let no unwholesome word proceed from your mouth, but only such a word as gives gratification, according to the need of the knowledge. Very very practical corrections. You can say, well now Lord, whenever I'm tempted to gossip, I'm going to remember that and I'm going to watch my word And as I watch my words, I'm going to find my attitude to interface, as I could feel on the gossip in the Buddhist This is just a brief example to give you some idea of the fact that you please I can begin to correct what God has convicted me. And then the fourth thing I would suggest is that first of all or determining not to do it, meditating secondly on it, thirdly watching my words. Then fourthly I would say that I would apply other scriptures because if I've offended someone that I go to them. I find in my own life kind of a greatest expense for change in my inner relationship with others is that where I have got at the wrongone to force myself to go to that person and ask for forgiveness I want to tell you, if you did that in 1979, bibliologists, if you and I were to force ourselves to correct what God has been giving us now By going to the gun and asking for forgiveness where we've been offended. Asking for forgiveness when we have offended someone else And in fact, if someone else has appeared us, why wouldn't it gossip like someone else and asked him to claim to that person? Rather than go to that constant with that problem, we will find that that would correct them at the very classical thing. to the conviction to be in the conversation. The fact is you're saying the right system. And I'll You think tiny languages is a process. That's what that word used. But the word which is used is the hearing of children And that word tells us two things about weary children. First of all, it tells us that we're to be born or lady in our youth of system. When we take the people, we see that we've missed the mark of that people and therefore we recounted that, we decided to change that, we work that out in practical steps of steps correct them, then by doing that we begin to initiate a process of training. A process of training that brings us into righteousness. And that's our goal We have a goal before you see a goal of becoming like Jesus Christ. I find so many Christians and we ask them what their goal is. What is your goal to Christ likeness in the next year? Well, to grow growing what? Well you grow as a person. But how are you going to grow? What what what areas is God teaching to you about? What areas are you is are using the picture of find? Oh you know you know the malice. God wants it to begin to be more sufficient in the game sick fixes. So that we can begin to train ourselves in righteousness, in a goal for Christ likeness, whether we're training as master, or whether you're training as a parent for children. You have a goal set before you, and you train for that goal by the repetitiveness, setting forth of the standards, seeing where you've missed the things, correcting to bring in mind of the thing. And framing yourself, continue to see the progress in it. The progress in the culture is not only that we'll be goal-oriented in doing it, but that God has his way of accomplishing it. In patiently. He patiently claims it as a father. Probably as many things you see when we begin to make these resolutions, you say, Well I've written down my twenty-five resolutions for the year I've surveyed my life and I've seen all the things that really need to be changed. I've written them all down and I used them right orders in there. There they are. That's what I'm going to do this year And uh we go for about uh six hours and then we show where the whole nation is there. You see what God wants us to do is to begin to zero in Well what is what you are as we do with our children. It's a lot of something to accomplish with food to live with a twenty-one year old when they're six And I find it so so intelligent to me we are sometimes sad that we accept more of ourselves oftentimes similar exceptions. He expects to accomplish more this next year than God expects to accomplish it. And therefore, you see, we become quite quickly disgraced. That's not the case. He's very realistic. Who knows what his spirit will be accomplishing in us? And if we get in line with what he is doing in our life by examining the scriptures and using it in the way He intends will begin to pick up a little more of what he intends for to make training of righteousness in that Christian process. We're working on very tight ways according to his ways and context. Finally must apply this now In terms of a broad life view, you see that I'm arguing to increase the always life change, but no doctrine is abstract and unrelated by how you sent them Do we see the doctrine is first of all important? And secondly, do we see the doctrine is very practical? Everything that you do is related to how you think We need to understand that this scripture is designed to change our lives, transforms our thinking, and then our decisions becomes conformed to us. So let's have a view of scripture which scripture is not to see for season, because that season is meant to lead to convictions, to corrupt us, to explaining and righteousness. Secondly, in terms of your new resolutions, don't just write down a list of some Somebody criticizes you on something and say, Yeah, well I guess I ought to make that immediate resolution. So then it's fairly money. Examine the scriptures. In terms of the speakers, area to God to be speaking to you about. If you see you don't, your life is not in conformity today So you're convicted, so you begin to ask that, make a trial for that, and what it changes that. Then from this down, specific steps you And makes those resolution. And finally, Lantin is this little part with the LMADAX I don't think he would consider a doctor, a new third, and if not, if you at least see how a part like this can be used and happy to use the scripture in a way that I think you'll accomplish what Second Timothy 1672 is talking about. Let's suppose you were thinking of taking a universe in 1979. What might this be But first you'd ask yourself, what is the scripture that I would most want to or need to build into my life this year? If I had my choice of all the scriptures and all the Bible, what one verse would I like to own? by nineteen the end of nineteen seventy-nine. But a year from today I'll be able to say, I have entered into that birth, I've had to read it, I know it's got explain or not I possessed it, that verse has possessed me, and I see changes in my life. Because that verse has really become a part of it. God's begun to work it out in my living. One verse. Yeah, just the thought terrible for quite a minute, full allowable. What one thought did you want to take You might say it's something to do with the nature of God. Maybe it's a promise that you want to pray. Maybe it's a command that you want to build into your life. Or a prayer of scriptures that you want to make your prayer. I talked to you about a month ago from Psalm 348, you remember, and that was a new verse of mine a couple years ago Now in Psalm 34, remember that verse it says, the Lord is good, how blessed is the man who trusts in him. I was thinking there's the nature of God. We needed to know more of his goodness. I related that to the promise. that I could think that I would uh take and see with you it's good. I would take that it's the person is left to trust in it. I wanted to see what that problem By obeying the command of hasty and free. Well, whatever it is, I would suggest that you take a look at that slide And if you put along those lines, take the verse, whatever it relates to, may relate to one, two, or three, four things. Think what is the teaching? What is it that I want to learn? Secondly, what is the condition? How am I missing it? Thirdly, what are some goals for practical things in 1979 as a result of it? And then fourthly, how can I trace the progress through the year? The progress of training and Thomas is descriptive by the power of God spirit really quickly. for every good work. Because God wants to let you and me and on the power that He has of our experience, the building of the scriptures into our lives in 1979. If we do it to use his words, basically losing conduct to convict us, conduct correctness, and that failing away with it, rather than Okay, I have to do that. So how would I see your word? We consider it again, Father, that this is something that we have grouped yourself. We're aware of our Authority with absolute trust over. Father, you so grateful to you that you have given us that you have spoken to you We this is a very good dude because we have an example. We find our bathroom with seating When we've considered you in past days, we have said what you ought to be like and we have tried to break into our conversations to tell us what you're like. We told you to shut up to do me better what you ought to be like But in the most very time to go out. By the words it's always what we are. And you can just be both of its morning. If you're not only much more asked Much more to be feeling an often and objective by than you could have ever conceived. But also you can explain it, more graceful Not in Father. More loving of the Father than we could have ever gets ever gave the hope. Father we pray if you have any of the executive In its encouragement and in its context, the thing is peaceful, it's in me to not complete the feedback and human look out of your things The father that will read incentive to be bored and not only failed. So we could make classical and suggestive music. But who would teach us? Tell us those areas that you want to bring us in community with what you teach us. And that that will not simply leave us in a dirt, free-floating gifts about how we can. How rotten we are and how much we've lifted the father that we have leaded to some people. In a couple areas that we've dealing with the battle. In nineteen seventy-nine that we might be hard to Because of humans, because of wearing Because in the beginning of this year, the happy will go to Mexico and Cuba for the next week and a half by the 30 years, give them a good step. This is true there is here, which is teaching between the theological education by extension programs. That Father, He is God. Be able to make your word clear and plain. And we will look up and build up the place in Mexico world that they're teaching. one in the name. We pray for the most of us, the thank you father for the spirit of little faith and for the arrival of the mother and your children in this world. Sodom pray for the customer reconduction on her and prayed as any problems we have. Sodom The request of honoring you ask, the glorified Moses, because he will come to Legends, the servant is the only of your own purpose And if you would bring our time into mother and love for you and serving you, father you ask for you and God, be very new and proper to them and be kind of when we are given together by precious grace to faith. Father in place of the equipment in Taiwan, we need to have evil, the term of policy, the ability of freedom I miss an early third that in these next months and years the policies of these sectors maintain an opening from that land for the assets Following the air to the new, according to your test. Third we are now examine our lines and this called with DNS. If you were able to examine ourselves by So we will apply your words, usefulness, and the purpose of useful to us, by your brain and by your nature, explain out to