Those of you who have joined the Columbia Presbyterian Church Well recall that there was one part of your interview with a session or joining when uh Al Bjorkus looked at you and said uh Now as you come into the body, we believe that you bring certain gifts into the body so that you can help build up the body. What do you think are some of these gifts that you bring to us as you come to join with us now? And how do you think they might be used? You also may recall your answer at that time, maybe it was something like uh as a phrase you're gonna ask, right? Or uh maybe it was uh Or I Wish I Knew. Or maybe it was something like uh tell you the truth, I've never thought of that Uh whatever your answer was, probably sooner or later it wound up with uh something like, Well how can you tell that anyway? How can a person discover what their spiritual gifts are? Remember last week we looked at 1 Corinthians chapter 12 And we uh uh looked at this concerning the need that we have for one another in the body of Christ. We talked about how the Jews need the Greeks, the free need the slaves. Uh we need especially one another's gifts in order to grow in Jesus Christ. And I finished at that time by exhorting you To be content, to be comfortable with the gift that God has given you to build the body. Be content also with the gifts that the Lord hasn't given you. So that uh you would have your focus on pleasing Jesus and using your gifts to build the body rather than getting credit from other people But that leads to the question, what are my spiritual gifts? How can I tell what they are? How can I discover my spiritual gifts? This is one of the most frequently asked questions of the session as we seek to minister and equipping the saints. And I'm going to attempt to come to some sort of an answer for that question this morning from the scriptures. So let's take a look again at 1 Corinthians chapter 12. You see what God has to say to us there about this very important topic. 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Now about spiritual gifts, brother, I do not want you to be ignorant. You know that when you were pagan, somehow or other, you were influenced and led astray to dumb idols. Therefore I tell you that no one who is speaking by the Spirit of God says Jesus be cursed. And no one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. There are different kinds of gifts with the same Spirit. There are different kinds of service of the same Lord. There are different kinds of workings, but the same God works all of them in all men. Now to each one the manifestation of the Spirit is hidden for the common good. To one there is given through the Spirit the message of wisdom. To another the message of knowledge by means of the same spirit. To another, faith by the same spirit. To another gift of healing by that one spirit. To another miraculous power. To another prophecy. To another the ability to distinguish between spirits. To another the ability to speak in different kinds of tongues. To another, still another an interpretation of tongues. All these are the work of the one and same spirit, and he gives them to each man just as he determines. The body is a unit, though it is made up of many parts, and though all its parts are many, they form one body. So it is with Christ For we were all baptized by one Spirit into one body. Whether Jews or Greek, slave or free, we were all given the one Spirit to drink. Now the body is not made up of one part, but of many. If the foot should say, because I'm not a hand, I don't belong to the body, it would not for that reason cease to be belonging to the body cease to be a part of the body. And if the ear should say, because I'm not an I, I do not belong to the body. It would not for that reason cease to belong to the body If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be? But in fact, God has arranged the parts of the body, every one of them, just as he wanted them to be. If they were all one part, where would the body be? As it is, there are many parts, but one body The eye cannot say to the hand, I don't need you. The head cannot say to the feet, I don't need you. On the contrary, those parts of the body that seem to be weaker are indispensable And the parts that we think less honorable we treat with special honesty. And the parts that are unpresentable are treated with special modesty, while our presentable parts need no special treatment. That God has combined the members of the body and has given greater honor to the parts that lacked it, so that there should be no division in the body. But that its parts that have equal concerns for each other. If one part suffers, every part suffers with it. If one part is honored, every part rejoices with it. Now you are the body of Christ, and each one of you is a part of it. And in the church, God has appointed first of all apostles, second prophets, first teachers, then workers of miracles, also those having gifts of healing, those able to help others, those with gifts of administration, those speaking in different kinds of tongues. Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? You all work miracles? You all have disciplining? You all speak in tongues? You all interpret? But eagerly desire for greater gift. Here into the reading of God's word, let's ask him now to teach us to instruct us. Lord, you've equipped with speech with spiritual gifts. And many of us wonder how we can tell what they are and how we can more effectively use them to speak this and instructive man. We might understand your words. We might be obedient to a fire. We might love you more by seeing Jesus. Praise in His name. Amen. Before we talk about what you do to discover your spiritual gifts, we first of all must talk about some things you have to understand about spiritual gifts. In fact, uh, there are three things that I want to bring to your attention that we must understand about spiritual gifts, and then talk about three things to do in order to discover your spiritual gifts. First of all then, what do we need to understand about spiritual gifts? The first thing we need to understand is the spiritual gifts are for spiritual people only. Spiritual gifts are for spiritual people only. 1 Corinthians, as you know, deals with many topics. of practical and pastoral concern deals with lots of problems in the Christian life and in the Church of Christ. Chapter 11, for instance, had just dealt with the problem of the uses and abuses of the Lord's Supper. And then chapter twelve to fourteen deals with a whole new topic, a particular concern that Paul has, and it's introduced by chapter twelve, verse one, where he says, Now about spiritual gifts, brothers. I don't want you to be ignorant. Paul then is saying I'm going to deal with this question of spiritual gifts now to these next three chapters. The first thing that you need to get down about this is that these spiritual gifts are for spiritual people only. Notice what he says in verse 2 and 3. You know that when you were pagan, somehow or other you were influenced and led astray to dumb idols. Therefore I tell you that no one is seaten by the Spirit of God who says Jesus be cursed, and no one can say Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. What is a spiritual people? Well, spiritual people, by that phrase I do not mean those who walk around with their hands folded, who speak in hushed tones, never laugh loudly. but only speak to you pious sayings in a tone with a kind of a monolithous smile. That's not an image of the scripture of spiritual people Rather spiritual people are red-blooded people who have been radically changed by the Spirit of God because he has begun to dwell in them and he has radically changed their relationship with Jesus Christ. These are people who have come into a new relationship with Jesus Christ. And that means, he says in verse 2, that you don't ignore Jesus Having idols in your life that are the first place so that you ignore Jesus' claims on you. He says in verse 3, it means that you don't curse Jesus Christ. You can neither ignore him nor despise him. But if the Holy Spirit is dwelling in you, then your response is to say, Jesus is Lord What he's saying here you see is simply that a person who has been dwelt by the Holy Spirit has come to grips with the reality of the universe, that Jesus Christ is Lord of Lords and King of Kings Not only of the universe, but in particular of my life. My life is submitted to the control of Jesus Christ. Jesus rules my life, and my first and priority concern is that I worship him, that I please him, that I adore him, that I serve him in everything that I do. Spiritual people are those who are in a relationship with Jesus Christ because the Holy Spirit lives in them. And spiritual gifts are only of relevance to those who have the Holy Spirit. And it's only those who have the Holy Spirit who can say in their hearts, not just with their lips, Jesus is Lord. Can you this morning say in your heart that Jesus is Lord? Or do you is that some abstract formula A Christendom, a religious saying that has no bearing on the Western way that you live. Unless you can say in your own heart, Jesus is Lord then the rest of this chapter is of no relevance to you. Because the question of spiritual gifts is only for those who have the Holy Spirit And I would feed with you if you're in that situation, if you come to grips with that, be Jesus Christ's claims on your life Bow your knee before him and confess your need for his sacrifice to pay the penalty for the times that you have lived all through your life, denying his mercy. And ask for the Holy Spirit to make him Lord of your life. This guy, let's put it off another day. Talk to somebody, one of the elders, a group leader, anyone who's a Christian in this congregation about the fact of the Lordship of Jesus Christ and how it bears on your life. Once having established that doctrine, that's the foundation of this whole chapter. Paul then goes on to talk about the place of spiritual gifts in the life of the believers. Now notice what he says. First of all, this is the second thing you must understand. He talks about the purpose of spiritual gift. The purpose of spiritual gift is to build up others. Notice what he says. Verse 7. Now to each one, the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the common good. Salutha, for the common good, for the good of the body How much talk today about spiritual gifts somehow gives you the impression that the reason and the purpose of spiritual gifts is to build me up. God gives me gifts in order to build myself up. But that's not what the New Testament teaches. Spiritual gifts are not given for your own satisfaction primarily, but rather they are given to build up the body. They are given to build up others who need the ministry of those gifts. See, that's why Paul says the tongues is belief to the gift. Because tongues without interpretation build up the person himself, he says in chapter 14, he only edifies himself. Whereas the primary function of spiritual gift is to build up others, build up those who need the ministry of that myth. So you see, uh if you're looking and following along here in your bulletin outline, which I hope you're doing, you see this Uh, what gifts you now have depends on the current needs of our body, not on what appeals to you And that's simply because spiritual gifts are given to build up the body spiritually. What does it mean? What are spiritual gifts? What is the definition? I I think well a very helpful definition of spiritual gifts is the one that Jerry Boston used to help us. sometimes. I think it's a very helpful definition. Spiritual gifts, he says, is service to the body that you couldn't pay a non-Christian to do just as well. Okay, well I see that. Spiritual gifts are service for the body that you couldn't pay a non-Christian to do just as well. A lot of times we talk about spiritual gifts as if they're talents or simply a willingness to perform certain tasks. Spiritual gifts are not such things as playing the piano. Such as setting up pairs, such as putting out hymnals. All of those things are absolutely necessary and important. They are very vital functions within the body But they are not spiritual gifts because they of themselves do not necessarily build up the body spiritually The attitude of the person playing the piano or the attitude of the person putting out their hymnals and setting up the cares, if it is in fact the attitude of a servant In that attitude may help and build up another believer. Because as I see you going about that task and you do it with a willing heart, and I see that you do that in a way that's designed to please Jesus. So you may minister to me by your attitude. And in that have the gift, uh the spiritual gift of mercy as I see that being worked out or help. And then would combine with the gift of exhortation, help me to see also. how I need to have more of a servant attitude. But you see, it's not the talent or the task itself that uh then necessitates a spiritual gifts, but it's the attitude of the person doing it. Therefore you see because we use whatever talent, whatever tendency can be for the Lord, with a spiritual attitude and particular gift to build up the body Therefore, our gifts will change according to how the needs of the body change. This is something a lot of people miss. You see, if the needs of the body change, God will equip members of the body with different gifts at different times. in order to build the body. For its needs then. The needs of this body right now are not the same as they were two years ago. So I would uh warrant that uh there are some of you now who have gifts of the spirit that you did not have two years ago. Because God in His mercy and in His care for us is equipping the body for the current needs. Now, on the other hand, let me also say that there's a continuity of your gifts throughout your life. Well God's not capricious. He doesn't give you one gift and then totally take that away and you have something totally different, a different, radically different kind of ministry. Usually that may happen, but that is not at all the typical pattern. Rather, God gives you a continuity of gifts. You remember I talked about um before uh last week that your gifts are a complex A combination, like your faith. God doesn't teach you just one gift. Uh you know Christians who scroll around and say, Well, what's my spiritual gift? Have a wrong perspective on you. God doesn't give you just one gift. He gives you a combination of gifts to produce a unique ministry suited to the needs of the body. So it's like your face. You say I have uh uh hopefully uh one nose and two eyes, a couple of ears, you know, some hair. Maybe not a lot of that. But you got those basic pieces. But each one is unique and distinct and they form a whole that is unique to you. A people play the heaven My daughter very often looks like Heather has your eyes. Lord, she has eyes that look just like you. Oh, well. Yes, maybe her eyes do look just like mine But her face doesn't look just like mine. She's very glad I do. She has her own face, and I have my own face, he said. There may be particular features that are the same, but our whole faith is different. And so it is with spiritual gifts. Your nose may be just like somebody else's nose. Your gifts, one particular gift, may be like someone else's. But combined with the rest of your gifts and your personality and you as a person, the ministry will be unique to you as God by His Holy Spirit uses that to build the body That's why we see each of us has a unique place in the building of the body of Jesus Christ and why we need each other in that. Now the third thing that we need to understand before we talk about what we do about the gift is that the gift is properly distributed by God according to his gifts. There's probably distributed by God according to Hebrews. Notice what he says in verse eleven. In verse eleven he says, All these are the work of the one in the same spirit. He's just now talked about the different gifts Given a number of examples, and he says, All these are the work of the one and the same spirit. And he gives them to each man just as he determines. Who's the he? The man? No. Just as the Holy Spirit determines. Go to verse 18. Verse 18, after he's talked about the need that you have that the body has for you, he says that God in fact has arranged the parts of the body, every one of us. Just the key one of them to do this. See it away, it's according to the needs of the body God has arranged the body as He intended it to be because He has the big pictures about what they did It's the Lord who designs us uh the industry that we have according to the needs that he sees in it. So I'm constantly surprised by how the Lord will take and see our use as a church differently from the way I would see and none the will then set about to use those needs in a way differently from the way I would design I would have said they have to be came to uh what we thought was a an appropriate and a profitable schedule for the two Bible Discipleship Institute, that uh God would just immediately provide a place for us to do this right here in the meeting house and everything we'd leave right alone. The Lord hasn't seen us to do that. He knows that what we need is this period of waiting, fulfilling testing about waiting on his so he provides for us the place that we can meet That will be able to carry out the functions of the Bible Discipleship Institute and all the rest of the things we do in the future. And it's the same way with spiritual gifts You don't decide, you would simply like to have this list because you sort of uh you know, you're guilty, you like the peace. Oh no, you know, you think the peace would get the people But God knows what the needs of the body are, and he knows how he can best use you in building up the body. Now be honest, when you think about it, which would you really rather have? For you to be able to see your own gifts or for the Lord to be able to give you those gifts and that ministry according to his wisdom Now, if you were to choose it, and if I were to choose like this, then I'm the one responsible for tearing those things out. Sort of like the faith again. You know, if we all defuse our own faith We would probably all choose to be handsome or beautiful and there'd be a very limited range of faces. But God has defined what our face should look like. And therefore there's much greater variety of faces right here as I'm looking at you. And if you look at each other. Because God, in his wisdom, gave you your faith. And God in His wisdom gives you your gift. Therefore, you can be comforted by that because you can say, Lord, because you've given me this gift, you will enable me to minister by your spirit. Therefore, you can be set free to know that God has only called you to do what He has equipped you to do. And you don't have to lie on yourself anything else. How many times I've reminded the Lord in my prayers, Lord, Columbia Pesticini is your truth, not my truth. And therefore Lord it's your responsibility to keep this body of people moving and moving their head the way you want. You call me conservative, so you've got to equip me to do it. I'm insufficient. But all I have to do is use the disusive means faithfully. Because I believe you, and that's all I'm responsible to do. And that's all you're responsible to do. But how do you find out what those are? Well, let's review what we said so that we can then see the whole context of what God's calling us to do in finding out our gifts. First of all, you have to make sure you belong to Jesus, can you have the Holy Spirit in you? Secondly, you have to see that your gifts depend on the needs of the body, not what appeals to you. It's certain that those things will be continuous through your life, but will probably change according to different years. And then thirdly means to see that the gift of servant is given by God as he believes, not as ye. And therefore God will be the one to seek the gift and the complex of gifts to be gifted. Now then, having said all that, what do you do to discover your spiritual gift? I think the best answer to that is given in one verse of scripture. It's chapter 14, verse 1. In chapter 14, verse 1, he has three commands that I think sum up how you discover your spiritual gifts. In that one verse, these three commands are, first, follow the way of love. Second, visually desire spiritual gifts. Thirdly, especially desire the gifts of prophecy. That's the key. Follow the way of love. Israeli desires spiritual gift and especially desires the gift of prophecy. Now, what does that mean? Remember again, chapter 12 to 14 is a unit. It all holds together. All three chappies are about spiritual gifts. We generally miss the connection of these capsule, you know. We separate them. And we see them in three distinct units. Or at least we look at Captain 12 and 14 about spiritual gifts. But Captain 13 is another one of those chapters that you put on a plaque and decrifies it, you put it up on your wall, and there it stands as a beautiful symbol of what love is And everybody extracts out of chapter 13, which is always called the love chapter, all of these beautiful thoughts about love And it's isolated from chapters twelve and fourteen. Did you see this miss the point of chapter thirteen if you don't set it in the context of spiritual gifts about chapter twelve and fourteen? And that is the key to understanding how to know your spiritual good. What do I mean by that? Now let's let us say this one. Notice what he says in chapter twelve. It's we can follow now what his line of thought is. Remember we talked about in chapter twelve and verses 15 to 20, Paul said The body needs you. Because you are useless equipped. You have certain things that the body needs. Then in chapter twelve, verse twenty-one through twenty-six. He said that but on the other hand you need the body. There are things about the body that you need. Then verse 27 says 30, he's given a number of examples of spiritual gifts again. You tell how they are different and different people have different gifts. And he finished this all up in verse 31 by saying, But Israel desire the greater gift. Then he says, Now I will show you the most excellent way. And notice when I read the scripture reading this morning, I finished to the end of the uh that uh And particularly desire the greatest different in the middle of those thirty-one. If you have a new international version, you notice there's amazing great fifth. And then there's the word mob written You see, it's very misleading for us to end only discussing on the reading about this. Because Paul never intended us to break off. By thinking about things. That whole thing has an onward thrust always to think it from that thought right on four to chapter thirteen. Paul is saying then I particularly defile the greatest gift, and now I will show you the most excellent way. If I speak in the tongues of men and angels and have my love, I'm a resounding sithal or a finding symbol. It is absolutely wrong for us to separate chapter thirteen from chapter twelve because chapter thirteen is the answer to the function and the problem that Paul had raised at the end of chapter twelve. Now, when you look at that, you see verse 31 there, usually design of the remote. You may say to yourself, but that seems like a part of the missing. And the had I just said a few minutes ago in verse 11 and 18 calls, but you don't use resistance. And then I turn right around and I stand up Paul says right here, now easily desire the greater words. How can I say on the one hand if you don't use them and you can relax because you don't have to worry about which ones you have? And then throw that around and say, but it's really desire to go to one. But the key to understanding that is to realize that God can cause you to a ministry that you will miss because you haven't thought it. God can cause you to a ministry that He impacts for you to have. That you very well may miss because you haven't thought it. And that's because you don't need to. What things could you see? What we should see is what he talked about in chapter 16. The most excellent way of discovering and ministering the spiritual gifts. Because there is any desire to go to this, I will show you the most excellent way, and that most excellent way is to pursue life. Because that is the first thing that you must do in order to discover the spiritual gift. You see, you've got to plug into all of this, all the messages that we talked about from Ephesians 4 components. The equipping of defense for ministry so that we would build one another up in place. All the talks about the two critical users when we discuss the fact that we dare one another to the growing race in prayer How we minister to one another with love and good work, how we exhort one another, all of these other kinds of things that we do to one another. Each concern that we love one another. Paul receives here is saying in chapter 13, the way that you will discover your spiritual gift is to begin to care about other systems and to love them. How does it work? Well, you see uh you see a clicking, you've heard it in some way in their life And if they see this, if I leave that they have, if you see that lead, and as you see that lead, you love that brother or that sister until you want to use that leave. And if you want to lose that means, you seek to love them in that, and so you ask in a loving way, you seek to lose that need. It's always as a spiritual basis. And as we seek to live that means, God is fixed in leading that means. And as you speak those By uh loving that person and leading that and God equips you by the gift of the Spirit, and you begin to discover That is a bypower, of loving the other brother and sisters. What's this part? It's kind of like happiness, you know. If you if you pursue happiness, then you'll never find it. But if you pursue love, you get happiness as a bypass. If you make a point that's between an investigation of your spiritual gift, you'll never find it. But if you begin to love other crystals over bypart, you discover your spiritual gifts. But if you say love does. Notice chapter 13, verse 4. Love is peace. Love is kind. God doesn't find you. Doesn't faith. He's a style. It isn't really. If that helps people, if that easily ordered, it seems so less of the God. Love doesn't be libel either, but rejoices to be seen. Love all the thoughts. Always thought. Always hope. Always perfectly. God. How are you gonna do that? How are you gonna be right with a person toward one another? Be worth both? No. Because it sees what we've got to say, because anyone places, the powerful is only thing of life. Every one of these papers you say replaced by the word love, the many Jesus. Jesus is facing our papers being But Jesus doesn't see 55 things that you need to work on and therefore in one file time you dump all 55 of them on. Jesus now just to work because if you're gonna be like me, you gotta deal with all 65 of these And I'll be about that we've got them all. Jesus is safe. It saves us one air. Just to begin to move along in that age, be the provides for what we need to be in the back. And as he fills the audio and he begins to stress his door, then local at the level to. And he is facing. He draws up along, making it literally a place to be. Jesus is home. That word tells the helpful. Looking for ways to help. Well, Jesus deals with your life, sit up and simply tell you the problem. These are people have to believe by a world of scriptures, by some university of another statement, by various other things that he gives you in your life. Even design and possible. Be practical in the way of the deal with the If Jesus doesn't envy, he has nothing to envy us for. And it's still a listener to think of Jesus envying us. Why then do we think that these could envy one another? So we have Christ. And in whom we have our things. These are the first that we both. Jesus is characterized. As the one who did it in drawing to himself. It's so lovely to be the stuff and things. It's evil to the bad. It's evil to the rude. It's our fitness. He's our easily old. And how grateful it can be for them. Jesus thought if you like the evil, but he reserves it for the truth. And Jesus always succeeds. Always thought. Always hope for the best in us. And always listen to me. Jesus saw our lead, and Jesus ministered and lived life beneath the very depth of that lead. And to be that we have to give himself. Become a deal even unto that. And I am a thought. So that we could be at the very foundation. So the Legend I need at the very deepest part of what our law needs and our need does. And it's as you and I, in following Jesus and in loving Jesus, cease to be like them in love toward one another, that that begins to open up. And we will see a super. To see the formula in the new country is to take the food of this spirit with his love. plus the gifts of the spirit, the particular way this love is worked out. And the fruit plus the gift is polatification. You take the you take the things that I possess, and you have a helpless love. You have a love on a natural plane, excuse me, but I overpolitificate it. You take the gift without the fruit of love, and you have what Paul is talking about here, an empty cell, a climbing doll, a sounding symbol, local, because the gift apart from love. The level build up to God. But because the gift of the seat, and together they should be notifications. Love. Nevertheless, takes this. And when we look at this, we decide all the way my spiritual gifts we need to realize that we're involved in ourselves in the lift. To love one another, to be involved in one another's mind, is to be involved in a lifty business. The first thing you see, you feel like the deal with things, as long as it turns into the particular value. You self-dell up how many programs, how many activities are you involved in, these things? But rather, how many people are you involved in in loving them? The property of the people. The party are big to make it what it looks like. If you mention about how she wasn't involved in a lot of programs, but God had given her a real desire to live to the people, and he said that the person who will discover who peace exists. Because if you take that with you will discover how dark it is sick of them, this particular needs. It don't be so full for how many activities we're involved in is how many people you're seeking to involve who we decide. This is why you see call those business types to desire to equal this. But the collective says the two above the way of life and easily desire to equal this. You think you're in a situation where you want to love that person, you see that in me, then you feel hopeless. Because Paul said that God quote, so perfectly you do suppose that God will equip you in order to love that person. You say, well, this person needs mercy, and I don't want mercy. They have good legitimate to deal with that person that they need that call it needed. Lord, that person needs to be a deployment. You know what me, Lord, I don't like the blended. That's what they need, Lord, and I love that person. Lord, give me the gift of those goodness. So I can love that person. Why don't you teach the spiritual gifts? One reason and one reason only. So that you can learn more of the truth. And Paul's sake. But to fall, if we build up the body, if you love the body, and to do that more effectively, I need to have the gifts of the spirit. But anyway, and I'm still my thing, especially desire to get the top. Why did you say that? Why did you say this thing that I want to do? Because there's a principle. And the principle is that we desire the difference that is most needed for the body. It's just this is most important for building up the most uh the most helpful gift, the most terrifying death Because if you talk to three things, what you find when you talk about three subjects, people don't want to focus in on people. What are you going to do that? What do you think you did that? Well I think maybe I had to get to PC. Well I don't really think I had to get to C C or kit that one. People always desire the gift of people. But how many people desire the gift of listening? How many people desire the gift of people? We've revolved into beastness. And if I ground the pixel and I'm being there, to be a peace later in the body itself. No, no. No, I don't haven't said that. I don't think I would be something. Yeah. Because the teaching you get involved in a lot of papers. Get involved in a lot of faith. But what a blessing, what a business that Jesus can be used in the easy I would be busy. I would be peeps. I love these people. And give me the best gift. It will happen if there are both of you there because both you did not get you good for you. So the divine apartheid or whatever this is particularly needful. The name half of the gentleman is the most clear just because it's so bad, mistake, so the maybe so the bad It's that we're about to speak to you about how you see enough. But if he is given and we speak and say specifically to the spirit of this basically, I speak to that spirit to like the PM. By the same perfect. If you say, look down here, you say, I'd say, you can see it, I discovered some of the magnets. Finally brought us together to just give you some suggestions out of easy. Make it for some map that they can. The first thing it costs is to make sure your existence. To make sure that you can say Jesus is life in the bottom of your car. But the Holy Spirit dwells in you. If you saw the news of Jesus Christ, you don't seek to offer to God any work of righteousness, any good work from your own, but you are lusting only in the finish work of Jesus Christ. That's the thing. Heaven decided that heaven as it builds out the second to let's just do it to make a lake between the feeling of things And all of our specific paradigms don't about personal use of other. The demos of that is these things that you are, the key is low in home. Now here is a here is a danger that I will danger. Most of those things that I say, probably safe for your guy. Well, but I see that because everybody else. Those exceeds. Very often God will give a particular system inside the funny that others don't see. It's so obvious to them they think everybody must see. But if God is calling you to listen to that, he may have given you particular insight into that need. Don't explain that others do it. If you see the need, tell that, but that will be to be solidity to that need, because you may be the one who's hiring. By the very voice of the fact that he says you believe. Not only do we include some of the personal needs to be things, our business system I'd be able to, but also put some of the critically, the corporate needs, of the whole thing, rainfish. We have a real weak spot. And I said it's first, if you talk to that, we follow up visitors. And he didn't. This is an area that we have really not been been affected is doing sound. Now this is something that we have come to believe that To agree with Lord sexually, God be called together and bear the same people in the things. That's what I'm saying here. The Bible says that called you here says, I believe that God must be calling you here to a ministry of this of the power. How can I do this? How people know how to do it? And by the point for that kind of university and the big idea. And again, the first thing is about you, yeah. We use the police in that kind of life. If we see the move, because the goddess tell me, if he won't believe you and lose the goddess, because they lost the goddess You're not divided, you can have these. But that's what you could do is then you have an ellicted way that you can help. You have to use the limitful layers that I can help elliptically. Let me go over and put out the public party of the place that I see. We're going to talk about this. What if the ways you want to leave me? If you haven't put your sum of the list here, the number three. So it be both that it is. And I do number one of that list. The list of belief that you've written that. They say if you do that, that God will equip you. But I love I I don't think they can let that to be them. I still have to get to either. But I don't really think I love that person. And I took public expensive be able to be. He then followed the system because all he did, he was aware of the feedback that he was here in the monster head. So that was what with a body we can copy so that we could see how that is most effectively using us. But we need also to be quick to impose one another with the gifts that we see being displayed. When I say that, I don't mean manipulative gifts. You know, manipulative disappear We have a real list of babysitter. I need a baby fiddle. And whatever other thing that we want to get done And so we say you are gifted in that as a way of sitting into a turn to give to the dinner. That's that uncle. I'm sorry that that will be. Well you're enclosing a face. There is God who used to this way. You don't have this guy to this. Just tell the face in what they're used to. And let's say God is easy. Let's see more consciousness beliefs. You don't have to get started in a case. The purpose I didn't like on this definition of things. Because basically, the three parties of the stipulator It gives everybody to relation there and a simple definition that I believe is no fashion, which is because simply expensive. Let me use the nose and let it set it next Sunday evening. That's what it takes a copy now, you're going to look at it, you tell it about it, think about others in the paper that you see in their lives think about possible ways that God is using you and what the UV keep out of the way of. But yes we can say that what we're doing in finding life space like this is the archives of this. But to look at yellow levels. The easy failed to less yellow levels. In a less factor, easy to look 50 years. Well I got you our infected stop on example. And we can say so often when we've asked this question of how can I discover my screen business? The emphasis is what I use. What a mighty, happy I have to ask us. Because if we get our eyes out of our beauty. But it is deceived warmly, how do you love that? It we are even acceptance as we speak. It's difficult to ask speaking acquipment. And that is the experience.