We um we greet you. Right. Tom had uh Romans sixteen um Look at all those saints and the many, the many nameless that have come before us in the faith as well. So greetings to you as well. And may the Lord be glorified through this preaching as well. Amen. You may have had an opportunity to uh to look at the scripture that was chosen for today and realize that Titus uh that uh Malachi 3 is uh the uh quit essential tithing passage. And maybe you're coupling that with the knowledge that I am the only ordained Southern Baptist minister on staff. And you're also aware that in our middle hour this morning we had our treasurer's report. And you're probably, if you are thinking about all those things together, wondering if the nursery needs any help down. stairs and how you could ease your way out the back door to get there. Let me attempt to allay any of your fears. Right up front, so that you and I both can have ears to hear what God would have us to hear from His Word. And that is that I think that Malachi 3, this passage that we're going to read in a second, If seen in its proper context, can give to us the perspective that God wants us to have on tithing Obedience and everything to do with the Christian life. And I trust that he will do that Through me, as his word becomes clear to us. When we see the truth of what is being said here in this passage, God can, and I believe will, draw us who have ears to hear, to Him through Christ, and enable us to Not give out of some cold obligation or required duty, but to give of ourselves, of our talents, of our time, of our tithe uh as uh a response, a loving response to the love that he's already demonstrated for us on the cross. And so that's why I have chosen to preach from this passage today. We already teach that tithing is worship. You see it in your bulletin. I asked Eric if he would to print both worship and giving and first fruits. in the bulletin purposefully because that's how we teach. There's a subtle way to teach. Tithing is worship. And you get that every week and we call the ushers forward and we worship in giving. But there is a risk of the subtle teaching that you might become confused or it not be as clear as it should be. Let me illustrate this point. We have a two-year-old at home, and her name is Kala. And Kala has an older sister, Emma, an older sister, Leah, an older sister, Anna. And a mom named Dana. And Kala has learned through subtle teaching that everyone has an uh at the name at the end of their name. And she's named her older brother Kevin Budiah, because he's Buddy. And we have a little ten-month-old named Babia. I'm her father, Daddyah, and she has learned to tell us when she needs to go, Paddy So you see, there is a risk of confusion in subtle teaching. And so we take the risk before you today to present a passage on tithing from a former Baptist. And we trust God with it. Amen. Let me read the scripture from Malachi 3, starting at verse 6. Listen. For I the Lord do not change. And therefore, O children of Jacob, sons of Jacob, descendants of Jacob, you are not consumed. From the days of your fathers you have turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. But you say, How shall we return? Will a man rob God, and yet you are robbing me. But you say, How have we robbed you? In your tithes and your contributions You are cursed with a curse, for you are robbing me, the whole nation, of you. Bring the full tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and thereby put me to the test. Says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need. I will rebuke the devourer for you, for your sake, and so that it will not destroy the fruits of your soil, and your vine in the field shall not fail to bear, says the Lord of hosts. Then all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a land of delight. Listen, says the Lord of hosts. It's not even one of your sermon points, but just to point out, the title that God gives to Himself Lord of hosts, constantly throughout this passage, is Almighty God, Yahweh, all powerful. Wanting you and me to take away from this that what God sets His holy mind to do, God will accomplish. Amen. The Lord of hosts says this to you today. Malachi is Maybe a guy's name, maybe just the Hebrew phrase that means messenger of God. But regardless, maybe a parent named their son Malachi because They wanted them to be a messenger of God. We have Malachi before us. And the main theme of Malachi That it's important for us to see today is covenant. Covenant The messenger of God brings to you and to me the idea that God deals with his people in covenant This is, remember, the same people that God promised to Abraham would be a Huge nation, many nations, through Isaac and through Jacob This is the same people that God delivered his law through Moses to, the same people that stood with Joshua on the banks of the promised land. After deliverance from bondage, when put the question, choose this day whom you will serve. This is the people that said, We will serve the Lord. This is the same people that Malachi and Ezra and Nehemiah reveal were in exile. Because of their disobedience. And this is the same people that Paul tells you and me through the letter to the church in southern Galatia in chapter 4, is you, believers. Joint heirs with Christ, descendants of Abraham, and heirs according to that promise long delivered, long ago. That's us. God deals with his people in covenant. And the basic lesson of Malachi's covenant teaching is You see it there in your outline. God is faithful. We are not. If you've got that much, you've got it God is the faithful one. In fact, that's how he starts the passage. I the Lord do not change. O children of Jacob. He's reminding them of his covenant faithfulness and his unchangeable nature. When he makes a promise, he keeps that promise. But Malachi points us to a couple of things that we need to see. God is faithful, we are not. And in Malachi 2 He details how we have broken the covenant responsibility of our marriages. You see, when the covenant was delivered And the people of God say, We enter into this with you. God gives his law as the covenant responsibilities The law is given to do a couple of things, and that is to reveal God who He is, to reveal His nature, and to reveal to us that we are lawbreakers. And the law then points us to Christ, who kept the law on our behalf. And so Malachi, with covenant in view, says, You profane the marriage covenant. You agreed not to marry outside the seed, and yet you've done so, and you treat your spouse with harshness. And I hate divorce. You people have brought this on, Malachi says Where my faithfulness to my bride, to my people, to my church is sully. Why? Because of your disobedience. Right? And then in Malachi 4, we have another Scary passage. God says, I will return the hearts, I will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers. Now, why would God need to do that if That wasn't already being done. Fathers caught up in their self-centered ways Selfishly pursuing whatever meets their need. And children disobedient, disrespectful. Disloyal to their responsibilities, to honor their mothers and their fathers. So Malachi points us to the fact that God is faithful and we are not And then maybe the most important one. All throughout the book, so I've just highlighted Malachi 1, 6 and following. We don't worship God the way He calls us to worship Him. And here's just a little glimpse of that here. The tithe was a part of worship. I've given you, like I normally get critiqued after I preached, about three sermons here, and I apologize. If you were late for Sunday school because the doors were still closed. It's my fault probably. But look at all those passages on tithing and see the beauty that tithing is worship. Read Deuteronomy 26 sometime. Preferably not now. To note that when God delivered the people from bondage, he called them to the tithe as a response. Why? Simply to continue to promulgate the goodness of God. Give it to the Levite. Bring your first fruits. Bring a tenth. and bring it to the Levites so that they can take care of what needs to be taken care of. And in the third year, the Levites will take that and they will feed the widows and they will feed the orphans. And they will take care of the community of faith. And that's why we give. That continues right to this very day. Paul wrote to the Corinthian church. On the first day, as it is your practice, gather that offering. I'm getting ready, Paul says, to go on mission That needs to be there for the mission to take place. And so continue to practice that. And so we get that lesson here today. But Malachi and God in turn wants us to see that it's the idea of covenant Highlights who God is and sadly who we are as failures to keep the covenant In fact, if you look in your Trinity hymnal on page 852 at the Westminster Confession of Faith, section 7, first, chapter 7, 1st section The confession highlights this for us as well, because of the great distance between God and the creature. If anything is to happen, this is my paraphrase, if anything is to happen to bring those two together, then it has to be on God. And the confession states It would never come except by some voluntary condescension on God's part. Which he hath been pleased to express by way of covenant. And so God makes a covenant and God keeps the covenant. Amen. And that's what he says here. Section 2, the Faithful One, sons of Jacob. He wants to remind them of chapter 1 in Malachi. Jacob I loved. Even before these twins were born, Jacob I loved. And so he calls us sons of Jacob, children of Jacob. In that title, he's reminding us of his covenant faithfulness, and we rejoice in that. We delight in promises kept, don't we? We are hurt by promises broken. Now, Steve started this trend and there's pressure on Alan wherever he is. For next week, I've got a Lord of the Rings illustration here. The power of a promise kept. If you can think back, and I apologize if you've not, you know, Gotten all immersed and memorized every line from these films, but you think back to the first film, The Fellowship, and Sam Wise Gamgee, the hero And quite frankly, my favorite, the chubby hobbit. When he loses Proda, when they first start out on this quest Loses Proto in the cornfield, Mr. Frodo, right? And Frodo comes back and Sam says, I'm made a promise. Don't you lose him, Samwise Gamji. Right? And I don't mean to. And then we see the power of this prime. Our hearts delight in that. Oh my word, look at this And we see in the end of the movie the boat and Frodo's taking off for Mordor alone. Right? Go back, Sam. I'm going to Mordor alone. I know you are, and I'm coming with you. You can't swim, Sam. You know? And he walks right into he doesn't care Because that's the power of a promise kept. It's driving him. And our hearts delight in that. And Frodo pulls him up, soaking wet. I made a promise, Mr. Frodo. A promise Don't you leave him, Samwise Gamji. And I don't mean to. I don't mean to. And our hearts are thrilled by that. I got hair standing up on the back of my neck right now. I'm trembling. And then, boy, you follow the quest, and you may not be able to carry this burden, Sam says. I may not be able to carry it for you, but I can carry you. And he picks Frodo up and he uh exhausted makes his way up Mount Dune. And our hearts delight. Why? Because to see a promise kept is a wonderful, amazing thing because we don't keep them. I don't even return your phone calls Sadly. We make commitments to one another all the time, and we're frail, and we can't keep them. And so when we see that in view, our hearts delight but not like they do when we see the covenant making, covenant-keeping God in Christ. Requiring of us perfection and righteousness, and then graciously providing that righteousness in Christ And our hearts thrill and our hearts delight and we are drawn to Him. The power of a promise kept. You know, years ago the Promise Keepers movement. And Why did everybody flock to that? Because can is this something that will help me keep my promises No, there's only one promise keeper, and he's done it for us. Amen. And so we see that, and God says to his people who are promise breakers and lawbreakers, he says, return to me. Return to me and I will return to you. We hear this in the New Testament. Draw close to me and I will draw close to thee. And we understand that. And we hear Jesus coming and speaking in parables. And he gives this parable of a father with two sons. And we see, yes, ourselves in the prodigal, or yes, ourselves in that self-righteous one that stayed behind and did all the things that the Father required. But we need to see God in the Father. Return to me, and I will return to you. God calls us to repent of the covenant breaking And to see him as sufficient. To see him as the loving Heavenly Father, awaiting our return even this week. Are you sick and tired of the smell of trying to run your own life? I hope so. I wish I would get there more often than I do. And return to him. There's also a comparative analysis here. I encourage you to do that on your own this week. To see God and who He is, powerful. The Lord of hosts, the faithful one, the one that does not change, to see ourselves in light of that. Created, ever-changing, whimsically changing. Needy, frail, desperate. And then I think also it's appropriate for us being called children of Jacob singing a song where we ask God, because of this love that you've lavished on us, you've given us this opportunity to be called the children of God and we worship. With these terminologies, to see ourselves as children, and to see ourselves in Malachi as the people of God, talk back. Chapter 1 Chapter 2 and Chapter 3. They're noted there in your outline. Here's a perfect example. Return to me and I will return to you. But you say, um, from where do we need to return? How shall we return? What where's the distance You've robbed me. Hey, how have we robbed you? Very clearly laid out. God pointing out our sin Tweaking our hearts, piercing our souls, and we say, but no, not me. We distract ourselves Reluctant to use this, but another perfect illustration from my two-year-old Kala that relates to Padia. Kala, something you need to tell us? No? About Padia? When it's very clear to us that something has happened. She can't even smell the stench. Analogous, I think. The stench of us trying to be spouses apart from Christ. The stench of us trying to be fathers, mothers apart from Christ and his Resting in his finished work, trusting his love flowing through us. Right? The stench of our own agendas coming before Him in worship. And so God deals with us as children. And I believe God gives us a challenge, children. It's a challenge based on God's character. Try me in this. Test me. Prove me. And see if I will not open up the windows of heaven and pour forth my grace. And what we need to understand about this passage is it's a type. The Old Testament does point forward to Christ. It does also point forward to our relationship to Christ. And I believe that God is calling you and me to step out and trust. That's why a message on tithing that just stops with money and giving is a puny message A message on tithing should be expanded to include the fact that it is a response of me, all of me, to God. Steve was correct to point out last week that being stewards of what God has given to us involves our talents and our time and our zeal as well as our tithe and our offering. Right? And so he issues the challenge. And we're reminded of the story where a similar challenge went forth to a peop people who uh did not realize that they could give. When Elijah came on the widow, who had a son, very little flour, very little oil. It's there in uh your in your uh outline In 1 Kings 17, and Elijah comes to this woman and makes a bold request. One that we would probably look at and say, How dare you? And yet Elijah knows who God is. Woman, will you give me a cake? And she says, I I don't even have any cake together because I have very little flour, very little oil. I'm going to make cake for myself and my son. We're going to eat it and then die. And she's basically saying, this is it. We're at the end of everything. I have nothing to give to you, man of God. And he says to her in 1 Kings 17, 13, with the boldness that God gives to him based on the character of God. Elijah says, Do not fear, but go and do as you have said. Do make a cake, but make a small cake from it for me first. Listen to the order. Elijah says, make a small part of that cake for me first, and bring it to me, and then afterward make some for yourself and some for your son. For thus says the Lord of Israel. The bin of flour shall not be used up, and that jar of oil will not run dry until the day that the Lord sends rain upon the earth. And the woman went. Read it. And she made the cake, and she brought the first one to Elijah, and that bin of flour did not ever run out. And that jar of oil was never run dry. But if you continue to read that story, you'll see in the very next verse, that widow's son died. And that somehow Sometimes, what happens to us? God says, try me in this. Step out. Trust me. And give of yourself. And then something worse happens. And God says, trust me. I too was over overjoyed this week when I got that little email that said leave the house had been headache-free for 24 hours. I don't know what God is doing with my sister, Lisa, but I know if we're to deal with God on God's terms, God says, you need to trust And he doesn't leave it there. He says, if you trust, you will see. Remember the other reference in the Old Testament where the windows of heaven are opened up? It's Genesis 7, where the windows of heaven are opened up and the rains deluge the earth. That's the image I think that Malachi is trying to present. Trust me in this, God says. Prove me in this. And do and see if I will not be pleased to open up the windows of heaven and pour out my grace upon you. To pour out my grace in your marriage, to pour out my grace in your family, to pour out my grace in your patience. And your anger and your lack of love to pour out my grace and your worship and your work in my kingdom. And I believe that's what God is calling us to. But we're like children, right? You're gonna have to show me God. We're all from Missouri I was talking with a mom recently, and it could have been any of you, about how our kids, they don't believe us when we tell them that that pocket knife is sharp They don't believe us when we say that stove is hot. And those are the negative examples, right? They don't believe us in the positive. Don't worry. You're going to get some good stuff for Christmas, right? We just don't trust. And God says, trust me. And we find our trust solidly planted in this word. The negative and the positive. Do not and do, right? And then we see the outcome Hmm. God says, if you will return to me, I will return to you. Trust me in this. Prove me in this. And I will pour out my grace. And then God says I will rebuke the devourer. Now, in view in this passage is the crops, the tithe, plants. Harvest produce. And God says, if you do this, if you bring your tithes into the storehouse I will stand and I will rebuke the devourer and he will not have a hold. And I will bring to completion your crops, and your vine will produce fruit. And we look forward to the New Testament and we see the cross and we see ourselves From grace to grace and glory to glory, and God says to you and me, surrender yourself to me. Try me in this. Pour yourself out to me and see if I will not. Complete what I've begun in you. A trophy of grace, where your marriage and your family and this church will represent to the world that watches God and Jesus Christ. And they'll be drawn to give praise to Him because they'll see our good deeds and they'll be left with nothing else to do except glorify our Father which is in heaven. That's the call. Trophies of grace perfectly placed in the sun And we're reminded of the prophet Isaiah. I encourage you to take this outline. There's seven points, I think, or maybe six, six or seven, and the next six days. Maybe take one point a day, because I'm sure I'm confused in this whole outline for you, and meditate on it. One point per day. God, show me your faithfulness. God, show me my need. God, show me this outcome. Show me the outcome. You will no longer be called desolate, but you'll be called beautiful. You'll no longer be called baron, but you'll be called bride. Right? Trophies of his grace And then read Ezra 8, read Nehemiah 10, and see what the people did when the law was read, when the law was produced was was proclaimed, when Malachi, about the same time period, probably is is really closely related to Ezra and Nehemiah. And see the response of the people. They wept, young and old alike, wept and they cried out and they repented and they came to God. They return to God. That's what I want for us. That's what I'd pray for us. Alan challenged us as a session to think of something. That if it's going to happen this year, God must do it. We're not talented enough to do it, we're not skilled enough or eloquent enough to do it. If this thing that we're thinking about is to happen, then God has to do it. And I had already been praying in our day of prayer on that Tuesday, Malachi 4 and verse 6. God, turn the hearts of the fathers to their children and turn the hearts of all you children to their fathers so that we can see God And bring him gory. Why don't we return? Let me leave you with a theory on that. We don't return, we refuse to return, or our tendency is Because it takes the focus off of us. Does that challenge you here today? I hope. So is it a challenge for me to utter that? Because I think that's my heart. Why don't I return to God? Because I'm no longer the center of all things. I refuse God because He makes me not the center. It's what He does And for him to be center in our church and him to be center in my heart is the very best. He calls us to love the way he loves, giving generously, giving sacrificially, giving cheerfully of himself. And so my call to you is to return to him. Let me pray for us in that regard. Father, please work your word in our hearts and um draw us close to you. Cause us, Lord To return to you now. We pray your spirit's power that you would grant to us hearts of repentance and faith So that we could shine forth the light that you have been gracious to grant to us in Christ. We pray it all in his name. Amen.