Uh I think it's kind of fitting that we end our series on parenting uh on Father's Day. We began it on Mother's Day to the kids, and now we bring it to a conclusion. And let me remind you also that next week, which is our one open week in between classes which ended today, and the summer schedule, which begins w in uh two weeks, July the first, when the First hour will begin at nine o'clock, and the second hour will begin at what time? Nine o'clock, huh? No. First hour is nine o'clock. Second hour is 10 45, so you gotta get here fifteen minutes earlier. Now we thought maybe we wouldn't tell the folks in the first hour and then we'd all be able to begin on time, but you know we've got to tell you guys because it's fifteen minutes earlier. But anyway, next week After a very brief uh congregational meeting to fill a vacancy on the trustees with a nominee who's very capable and we're excited about We're going to give the rest of that time for anybody who wants to ask questions from Ephesians 5 about marriage or Ephesians 6 about parenting or the marriage by grace conference. Uh and we'll have some discussion on that. And you don't have to be married or appeared to come to that. We just hope to have a helpful discussion on the gospel. So um that will be next week. We will give priority to questions we get ahead of time and see in your bulletin how to do that. Now, remember the context of what Paul's saying here in Ephesians chapter 6. Remember that in chapter 2 he told you that without Jesus Christ, you are dead in your sins. You're unable to do good, you're unable to please God. God raised you up. If you have trusted Jesus Christ as Savior and Lord, He's raised you up and seated you with Christ. You have a new life. And that life, which is a resurrected life, means that you now live each day by learning how to cash the checks of faith for your daily needs against the infinite riches of his grace in Christ. So he says in chapters 4, 5, and 6, here's how to live out of that. Here's how to live by that grace in your new life. And in chapter five, specifically it says, Be filled with the Spirit. So that you might learn how to live with a servant mentality as wife, husband, child H parent, and then beginning next week looking into employee and employer. But you see these roles he gives are roles which are lived in that new resurrected life, the new life you have in Christ. by the power of the Spirit. So we've been looking at verse 4 for a couple of weeks. See that on the overhead here now. On the overhead 64, thank you. This is a verse we've been looking at, fathers. Remember we saw that that includes mothers. Why it says fathers, and yet it also includes mothers, dealt with that before. Do not exasperate your children. That is, do not provoke them to anger or embitter them so that they're discouraged. That's the negative. Positive, instead Bring them up in the training and the instruction of the Lord. So we started by looking at the negative. Do not exasperate your children. Do not uh uh do not embitter them, do not provoke them. And we saw that uh whereas we would like to think that that doesn't include us, you know, we're not exasperating parents. That's for those parents that don't know how to raise kids. That's not us. Well as I went through twelve ways that we exasperate our kids, it was kind of to wear you down and you're all your defenses to so we'd all be able to say, Yes, okay, we admit it. We're all exasperating parents. Now I I remind you that when I say all, I mean all. Uh that means that the parents who have five kids on the mission field And the parents who do not have kids who are following Christ are all exasperating parents. I'm not say all e all equally exasperating, but We're all exasperating. We tend to look at the parents that got the five kids on the mission field and say, Ah, somehow they mastered the art of parenting. They must have done it right, you see Because look at the kids. I read someone who made a very wise observation about parenting. They said, if your kids are following the Lord, don't take too much credit If your kids are not following the Lord, don't take too much blame. We tend to look at ourselves as having the final control. And what we're saying is, no, the Spirit of God Jesus Christ is the one who changes the hearts of our kids. We exasperate them when out of fear we need to gain control. You see, and that's So it is it is pres it is uh precisely at the point of our thinking, I have got to do it perfect that we become the most exasperating. And so the gospel calls us to live out of faith, knowing that Jesus Christ has already given by his record of righteousness. The perfect parent certificate. God has said, He accounts you, he credits you, who are parents, as a perfect parent in Jesus Christ. The pressure's off. So now you can learn how to live out of the gospel what it means to become the parent that God has already credited you with becoming. How do you do that? The positive side? Instead? Bring them up in the training and instruction of the Lord. The word bring them up, talked about, means particularly means to nourish them, literally, means to feed them Same word in chapter 5, verse 29, of the husband who feeds his body. So we feed, we nourish our children, and how do we do it? In the training and the instruction of the Lord. The word training has particular reference to the action of discipline. Instruction has to do with the words of our teaching. And last week we focused on the discipline side of it. I was really encouraged this week to receive a phone call from someone who said that they hadn't believed. in corporal punishment and that over the last couple of weeks, uh because of uh what God says here and seeing that Uh they began to try it and were greatly encouraged. Really changed some things around the house, you know, and that uh God really knows what he's talking about. When he tells us that uh this is an effective way if you do it in a controlled, gracious manner. We talked about that before, not going to go over that again. Uh uh the only thing I will say is that I heard this week that the manager over at Sears was wondering why they haven't sold any more paint, but they're suddenly out of paint sticks. So uh, you know, just kidding. You go check that out in last week's tape. We talk about how that conviction about discipline rests on five biblical convictions about human nature. And that those race basically uh center on the fact that our children just like us have the hearts described in chapter two that are dead in sin and therefore We appeal to their hearts, not just to their behavior. And that uh while we are showing them Proverbs for causing them to walk in the way of right. These are the standards of our home. This is what God says. that as they do that, we're also instructing them that you cannot do this with in your heart. You cannot love your brother or sister. You can't be kind to them. in your own strength, your own heart. You need Jesus to be able to do that. So the instruction is of the gospel ultimately. It's to show them not only what God requires, but what God provides in his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So now we get into that second part, the instruction part of it. And remember that these three parts to this verse Really sum up everything that's ever been written that's worthwhile in any parenting manual. Three things. Number one Clear, uh solid, consistent discipline. Secondly, clear verbal instruction. Thirdly, All wrapped up in nourishing tenderness, solid, consistent discipline, second, clear verbal instruction Thirdly, all wrapped up in nourishing tenderness. Let me ask you, this Father's Day, how you doing on that, Dad? That's a searching question, isn't it? How are you doing, mom? You moms are included in this too. I've got to confess to you that I had a real struggle putting these things, these sermons together because when I look at myself honestly, I look at myself as a fairly mediocre parent I really mean that. In fact, one of the struggles I had was that I look at many of you as far surpassing me in your parenting Um accomplishing those three things. Uh I did not, nor did Kathy, come from a Christian background where we had models of biblical discipline, instruction, wrapped in nourishing tenderness. There were some strong things about our families, but there were also some things that were not real helpful. And as I look at my own behavior as a dad, I realized I was far too controlling. I realized that uh there were times that I did not nurture. Nearly as much as I was concerned to main control, maintain control out of fear rather than faith. that um when I my kids got to be teenagers I pushed them too quickly toward independence Not because I was so much concerned that they be independent, um responsible people that consciously was in my mind, but In looking at my heart, I have to realize often it was out of a selfish laziness. It was simply easier. So when I think about my behavior, I realize many things I have not done well. And maybe you're aware of that too, when you look honestly at your behavior as a parent. And maybe you think if um they were going to give out awards for worst parent in the room here today, that I'd be a pretty good candidate for getting that award But you know, feeling lousy about our parenting is very different from repenting of our failures A lot of times we feel as parents like, uh, you know, I really haven't done such a great job and you know, I'm just uh sort of feeling my way along and we can minimize The heart things that have contributed to why we have exasperated our kids rather than to nourish them in the training and instruction of the Lord. We can blame shift because of my background and I didn't ever get a good model and on and on and on. But what God calls for us to do is as we look honestly at ourselves to repent of those things that are the heart attitudes that have kept us from biblical discipline and instruction. So you see there in your bulletin outline that repenting of our failures is to see our hearts as they really are. Not comparing ourselves with other people, but with God's standard, and where we fall short, That biblical repentance moves us to run to Jesus Christ To see the forgiveness that He has accomplished on the cross that we have received in the past and to rest in that. And then to understand that He has raised us from the dead, He has given to us His Spirit, so that we are not locked into those patterns. We are Freed by the new life and the Spirit to begin to learn how to live out of the gospel in nourishing our children with a discipline and instruction that is of the Lord, and then to have the hope that in the future there will come a day when I will no longer sin ever again. And out of that hope, I am moving toward the kind of person that God wants me to be, which my kids reveal in the shortcomings. Nothing my kids do reveal it, right? And then as I repent of those sins to see God grow me as His person. So what are some of the examples of the things that we look at, if you're really honest this morning? Well, for instance, there is the problem of abdicating our responsibility. Abdicating our responsibility as parents. It's it's the old Someday soon, I'm going to be the dad I really need to be. I just can't do it right now. Right now, there's things I have to do at work. There are projects I have to get done. There's extra travel that I've got to be involved in. There are these things that I've got to do right now. But soon, that's going to change. Soon, we're going to spend some more time together. We're going to do stuff together. We're going to go fishing. We're going to do some exploring. We're going to spend time soon Or maybe it's not so much the work that keeps us, it's our toys. Spending time on the computer. Not right now, son, daughter. Daddy's busy. Let me just finish this. Or mommy's got this, she's got to finish, and there'll be some time soon. Much more afraid for our dads, for us as dads, abdicating our responsibility. You know, I've become very aware recently that the span of time between holding my daughter in my arms And holding my daughter's son in my arms seems to me as quick as a cable-connected download. It just goes like that. David was a man who was a godly leader, strong leader, but he abdicated his responsibility as a dad. He ignored even the one who seemed to be his favorite son, Absalom. somehow never seemed to connect with him. You read in some scriptures that seem to indicate the relationship was very thin And uh you remember that on one occasion his other son, another one of his sons, Annun, who had not Learned how to follow the Lord, to discipline his urges and passions, raped his half-sister, Absalom's sister. And David didn't even discipline him, just let it go, didn't know how to deal with it, probably partly because of his own compromised conscience with Bathsheba. And Absalom was furious. And he waited and he waited. David still didn't take action. And finally Absalom took his own revenge and he killed his brother Amnon. And still David didn't act. And Absalom was a refugee, took off into a foreign place, finally was called back to Jerusalem. And David seems out of embarrassment, still didn't know how to handle Absalom. Kind of loved him, wanted a relationship, but wouldn't even call him into his presence. And Absalom came to finally despise his father. Try to take his kingdom from him, even have his father killed. Total breakdown of the relationships of the family because while he was strong at work He totally abdicated his responsibility at home. How many men do we have that in the office they're in charge? They can make the decisions. They know what to do. As soon as they go home, feel overwhelmed. Don't know how to handle this. Don't know how to handle my kids, the frustration. I don't know how to handle them, particularly as they become teenagers. And so they abdicate responsibility. If you find yourself in that position, you need to run to Christ, to be forgiven of that, to see yourself as a new creature in Christ who's able to learn how to take that responsibility. Well maybe you're one who delegates the responsibility too freely. That's the second thing. You say, yeah, I know it's my responsibility. Boy, I'm sure glad that God has provided these resources, you know. There's the Christian school that we send our kids to. Boy, thank God for them. Boy, I hope they can handle them. Hope they can get them in line somehow. Christian school's a good thing, but it's not a replacement. Or, you know, some parents put their kids on sports teams. And the reason is partly at least, it seems, because they hope that somehow the coach is going to be able to whip their kids into shape. Uh you know, boy, I'm really thankful for that coach. He doesn't take anything off these kids. Boy, he really can get 'em, you know. That's that's really good. Wish I could do that Or maybe it's to drop them off at youth group, drop them off at brigade, pioneer girls. And just say, boy, I hope those people can do something. You know that's their job. They'll return my kids washed and polished and loving Jesus and wanting to follow him Sure glad we have a good church for that. Good strong youth ministry. That's great. Thank God for Tim's team. Tim, Lord be with you. Get those kids in shape, you know. And that kind of thinking, well, we may not put it that way, but in practice, because we're encouraged more and more in our culture to separate ourselves from our kids, just drop them off, let other people do this. This is the whole point of our ministry, which is that our youth ministry is to assist you in your primary discipling of your son and daughter. You have far more of a relationship with them. You are far more the primary influence in their lives than anything that we could possibly do to assist that work. And so we have as uh the beginning of our brigade ministry, the tree climbers, where dads are involved with their sons. Where with the youth ministry, Tim is beginning a new part of that, which is called Partners in Prayer. Beginning in late August, where quarterly kids and those who are working with the youth ministry and parents get together and all pray together for God's work in the lives of the kids. Thank God for those that are going to Bulgaria. But you see, we're praying with you kids. We're praying for you. This is a team effort. This is not just kind of like, well Go with Dick, you know, and you know, and the rest of you guys out there going, you know, may God do something, bring it back on fire for him, you know. That's what we want to see. Now, unless we're involved with you, unless you sense that sense of partnership and team. then it's uh it's a poor substitute and God won't bless it. Uh there's two things that he calls family forms One in the fall, one in the spring, September twenty-two, real Christianity, R E E L Christianity on the media, thinking as a Christian about the media. And then in the spring Pursuing purity in a sex saturated world. These are where you kids and your parents come together For these events to work through some of these issues. We're committed to that as a church, that the family is in covenantal relationship, and we're here to assist you To fulfill the responsibility God has given to you. Or then, maybe thirdly, it's idolizing your kids that's the problem. You know, this was the problem of Eli. Eli was a godly man, 1 Samuel. But He idolized his kids, and they became, as adults, Hafni and Phineas, two wild characters who despise the things of the Lord. Even though they grew up in a godly home, despised the things of the Lord and and uh were an utter shame to him so that God cut them off Why? God says, You honored your sons over me Now, don't get me wrong, I really enjoy and encourage, and probably if they were popular in my day, would have used them. These little bumper stickers, you know, that say things like My daughter is a straight A student in preschool. You know, I mean you know, gotta encourage these kids that they they're all their efforts are really valued, you know And then there's the ones, you know, for the kids who aren't academic that says my C student can beat up your honor student. Whatever it is, we just need to, you know, get that self-esteem going. You know, sometimes I wonder when we see all these things that just say how great our kids are, whether there's not something in us that's saying, they're my kids, so they're a cut above. They're my kids. And so they're not like other kids. And we can indulge them and spoil them And uh Tim was telling me this week of a fellow that he knew, he said, uh had good earthy wisdom, said, I adore my kids, but I don't worship them. There's a fine line, isn't there? Idolizing our kids is idolatry. Spoiling them, so that as Eli, God says, he did not restrain them from evil Recognizing that our kids have sinful hearts just like you and I have. And that that must be restrained. They must be pointed to Christ. And we can never be sentimental or romantic about our kids and their natures. Having said all that, let me give you a few positive suggestions in instructing our kids. A few positive suggestions on this. Number one Your example in daily living out of the gospel. Now, I uh had some time with my with one daughter uh this week who is following the Lord and I was asking her a couple of uh things about her input. And I didn't mention the points I had here, but I just asked her, what are any things that you saw that were helpful or not helpful in our instruction of you kids as we raised you and uh a couple of her comments. One that that really got my attention was this idea of the the example. And uh we had a lot lacking in our example in our home. I could go into detail about that, but I won't either bore you or titillate you, I'm not sure which. But anyway, she said one thing that really stuck with me, probably more than anything else Was how on most mornings when I'd be coming down to get ready for school, you and mom were praying together in the living room And she said, that that told me that you didn't just say you relied on Jesus. You really did. That whatever and then particularly when there was a problem, we would go together as a family and we the first thing was to pray. She said, You're praying with mom. Said more to me than anything you could have taught about praying. Now you see I have here spiritual relics to leave after you're gone. What are these spiritual relics? example, your will. I was reading about a girl who was having real struggles with her faith in college, and her dad came across some writings of his mom, her grandmother About her coming to Christ and what Christ had meant in her life, some jottings. It was kind of like a journal. And she said, reading that and realizing the transformation that Christ made in my grandmother's life, how that was passed on to my parents and that passed on to me, all of a sudden got it out of the realm of religious and theoretical into something that was very real. And she said, that was a turning point in my doubts about my faith. What are things that you will leave for your kids to read or see that was really important to you in your life? The reason I mentioned the will there is, did you ever think about the fact that when you die, your last words to your kids Will be your will? Now hopefully you all have a will. But if you ever think about it's not just that the will is to dispose of your goods so that they all squabble and scrap and fight and all that You know, but the first thing you do in the will is to address them. Have you ever thought about at that very important moment what they will hear from you As you are now with Jesus Christ and they are still here, have you ever thought about what you would want to say at that moment to instruct them? It's worth thinking about. And then secondly, there is the discussion of Christian points of view at every opportunity. My daughter mentioned, she said, one thing that was clear to me from the very earliest memories I ever had was that we live in a created world. Everything we explored, every time we took a walk When we would go to Cape Cod and you would hold a fiddler crab in your hand, you say, God made that fiddler crab. And whenever I see a fiddler crab, I think, God made that fiddler crab. When I was two years old, God made that fiddler crab. And she says it stuck with me. The wonder of God's creation. He made those things. And she said it was a whole way of looking at the world. It was just kind of caught through our times together as a kid. We talk about the right to life movement, the sanctity of human life, and she said It made a deep impression on me that when you went to the March for Life down in D. C. , you took me along, took me out of school to go with you. And I saw that, and she said, I've had always a deep reverence for the sanctity of human life that has stayed with me because of those experiences we had. Or thirdly, getting them to read Christian literature. You know, we just have a tremendous resource in the library that we have over here. And I don't know if you parents, some of you have explored it, but there is a big hunk of that library that's just for kids. Devotional material, and particularly Christian biographies. Man, if you haven't done it yet, or you kids haven't explored it yet, there is a treasure in Christian biographies, the exciting stories that there are of people who walk with Jesus at other times and other places, don't miss out on that. Introduce your kids to Christian biography, Christian literature at an early age. Or fourthly, the daily time and scriptures and prayer. Now this was boy this was a controversial area for us, I'll tell you. You know, I do not look at myself as the example of family devotion. And it's not because I didn't work at it. And I really worked at it. uh you know any material, anything possible, I would work, you know, if you put on my tomb, he tried to have family devotions, you know. Uh kids would say, yeah, that's right. Yeah, boy he sure did try. Boy w boy was it trying. Yeah now my wife probably did better on this uh when she would go through little visits with God with the kids. If you if you've never used that, how many people have ever used little visits with God? That's a great little book. It's over there in the library if you want to check that out and look. It's probably practically worn out by now. That's a great little book. My wife said she used to get more out of that than the kids did, but it was just a tremendous little devotional to go through the kids. I would also strongly encourage catechetical instruction. In fact, if I was doing the outline now, I think I'd I'd make that a separate point. That is so important. My wife did that with each of our kids memorizing the children's catechism just to help them to get systematically basic gospel truth in their minds Or if you're up to teenage years, you know you're going to see this later in the service, using just the regular shorter catechism in modern English to be able to understand the gospel and basics about the Christian life, very, very helpful. It's just basic systematic instruction and you can just use it. You know, the thing that Tim talked about, that book, um on um what was the name of the book? I didn't forget What it's training hearts. Training hearts. Um you know the number of you ordered tremendous resource for using that in family devotions, personal instruction. My daughter said when you do it, here's a couple things that I learned. It was absolutely without question she was going to have family devotions for her son All the struggles. I thought it was really funny. She said, no, you know, we're gonna do it. But she said, you know, particularly as we got to be teenagers, it'll never work without the relationships If there's tension, if we feel like it's a control issue, power play, and I said, yeah, it was it was too much of a power play. And it was too much of a power play, particularly for me, because As a preacher, I'm used to when I talk that people have to listen. And she said, We were your kids. You weren't going to get away with that with us. So it became a kind of a power play with us. And she said that that that deteriorated. But she said also keep it short. Don't force it if the discussion's not going anywhere. It's just okay, that you know, it's a night, it's not gonna take off. You know, I'd try to make every night a revival meeting. You know, um be clear on the goals so we're all working together. on it. Um, rather than these are my goals and you're gonna do it, but rather, kids, do you see why we need to be in the word and pray together? She said, We never really bought into that like we I think you wanted us to. And to be flexible, she said Um, I thought we did this, but she said we could have done it more, picking up on the issues from the conversation and using that rather than some prescribed program. Is this what we're going through But what are you struggling with today? How does God speak to that and just go through that? Also, if you've been through the Discovering CPC class, there's a paper in there on family devotions that you might find helpful. Some ideas. So number five, the fifth thing, take advantage of every CPC youth opportunity for cultivating Christian friends. Now on the one hand I talked about not wrongly delegating that's just their job to do, but on the other hand, don't miss the opportunity of the rich resource that we have in Tim and his team and for your kids to have Christian friends to be able to participate in the activities. If you kids aren't involved in that, boy, you're really missing out. There is some exciting, tremendous stuff going on in our middle school and high school for pioneer girls, for brigade, for all the different ministries we had, the Shine Ministry for middle schoolers. A lot of great stuff, the small groups. This can be a make a big difference for you kids to have Christian friends as your closest friends and do the things that we're doing here. Take advantage of that. And then finally, that your home atmosphere would be a safe, joyful place, place of love and joy. Uh Kathy and I, uh, as I said, did not come from Christian backgrounds, and I look back and realize our home was too often a home where there was tension. And yet, my daughter said this week, she said, the one thing that I will always be thankful for is that we knew that you and mom would never divorce. We knew you were committed to each other. And she says, I'm amazed how few of my friends still have parents that are together. Uh I don't know what that says about her friends, but she just says the world is full of brokenness and homes. But she said As we would see that, we would wonder with our friends, she said, it was always good to know we don't have to worry. Even if there's tension, we don't have to worry. Mom and dad are gonna split. And she said that gave me a security that she said made a big difference in my life. Now I know some of you are divorced, you are separated, there is a brokenness and a pain when I even mentioned that. And I don't say that to hurt you. God can bring healing and wholeness But I am saying for those of you who are married who may sometimes think, I'm just not sure it's worth it, look at the insert in today's bulletin that talks about the effect of divorce on kids. And know that the security of a home where mom and dad will make that commitment and learn how to love, even though it's a difficult thing to do. is worth it. Well what's the goal? The goal is we do this of the Lord. It's His discipline, His instruction that you're seeking to model and pass on. And so as we look before at Hebrews chapter twelve, you remember that he says there that the goal of that is in verse eleven that you would That you would have the harvest of peace that would come out of that discipline. A harvest of righteousness and peace. A righteousness which is Christ's righteousness passively received, and that your kids see you modeling daily that you depend on Jesus. You're depending on Him for your righteousness. You need Jesus Christ as the only one who can help you in your family and in your life. It is not the principles, it is the person of Jesus Christ. And I can't urge that too strongly on you. Whatever The need that you're feeling this morning, come to Jesus Christ as the one who is able to take that burden, that inability, that guilt, that pain. He is able to forgive you and to be with you and to transform you. I believe that in our home there was too much of an emphasis on obedience and its consequences rather than on grace and freedom. And I believe that as our kids, the temptation for us as parents is to want to have perfect kids who make us look good. rather than kids who are learning how to repent and to believe and have a passion for Jesus, even as they struggle as we do. with all kinds of things that will embarrass us. But they did learn, secondly, the righteousness that's an active righteousness, not just the received righteousness of Jesus, but also the righteousness which he says is a sharing in his holiness. My daughter said to me this week, one of the things that you taught that I didn't believe early on, I had to prove it. And I've come back to see how very true it is, God's ways are always better than our ways. And she says, I've come to believe that. I've come to see how profoundly true that is. Listen, kids, this is from my daughter, not from me, saying to you, I have seen in my own life God's ways are always better than my ways. And that's the grace of God changing a kid's heart. I'll tell you, there is nothing to teach us about faith rather than fear, like how we parent. Let's pray. Lord our God, you are the one, the perfect parent, who teaches us to live out of faith and not out of fear. And so, Lord, we ask you to Show us in our own lives, as parents, those ways that we live out of fear and selfishness and control, that we might Learn how to instruct our kids in the gospel that we are learning about ourselves and to love the Lord Jesus that we love Lord, for all of us here, might you, Lord Jesus, meet us in our weakness and brokenness, that we would see your forgiveness That we would see the resurrected life we have in you and the power of the Spirit with the hope that there will be that day when we will never sin again. Because you are sufficient. Lord Jesus, meet us in all of our need. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.