Over the period of time that we have been focusing on the gospel as a way to live a number of times, both in the messages that I preach, in the classes that I teach, in the counseling that I do, a repeated question keeps coming up, and that question is What does it mean for me to live the gospel? How does that truth apply to this part of my life? And today we're going to look at a passage where Paul unpacks that for us. As we begin, though, I want to draw your attention to Galatians chapter 3, verses 1 through 5. The first verse isn't showing up here because of the screen. But let me read the passage for you, and if you could please look at the screen. Because I'm going to read from the New American Standard, and I want you to see the structure as it's visually displayed here on the screen. You foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you before whose eyes Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified This is the only thing I want to find out from you. Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain. Thus he then who provides you with the Spirit and works miracles among you, do it by the works of the law, or by hearing with faith. Let's go to prayer. Lord Jesus, we need you to open our eyes and to open our hearts and to open our minds. You have saved us. You are sanctifying us. You will bring us home to glory Lord Jesus, we need you. We need your grace. But we need you. Be with us this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to draw your attention to some things structurally in the passage that if you just look at your Bible won't be there because it's in a paragraph form. I want you to see that there are some repeating phrases. In verse 2 In red is the focus on the Spirit. In verse 3, again, the Spirit. In verse 5, again, the Spirit and working miracles among you. In verse 2, there's the phrase Have you received the Spirit by works of Allah or by hearing with faith? In verse 5, does he then who provides you with the Spirit and works miracle among you, do it by the works of Allah, or by hearing with faith? So there's actually complete in the Greek a repeated phrase in verse 2 and verse 5 that boxes in the focus that Paul has, and it really sets off that passage in verse 3 that is the focus for Paul. Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? That's at the heart of this passage. That's at the heart of the gospel. That's what we're going to unpack as we look at what Paul is saying to the Galatians. So I'm going to leave this up, and I want you to be able to look at it and reflect on it as we go back and forth in the study. But this is the heart of the gospel. I want you to look at the fact that the Galatians had gotten off track, were not living the gospel, and Paul writes them to set them back on track. He uses the term you foolish Galatians. This is a unique term. It doesn't mean that they're idiots. Paul has not said, you idiots, how could you do this? Thinking that they could do no other. This term Has the sense you can understand, but you don't. You need to understand, but you're not It's much like you feel as a parent when you have a child tell you that they can't do something. Last night one of my, or no, two nights ago, one of my kids was having cramps. And he was in agony. He was really hurting. And I knew some things that would help him to get beyond the pain. And so I said, you need to move and you need to you need to you need to get into this other position and you need to do some other things. And he said, I can't. Well, I knew for a fact he could. I knew for a fact it would hurt if he did, but that would be the beginning of the end of his hurt. And it's so frustrating when you know you have a solution and the other can't participate in it. Paul's saying that to the Galatians here. You foolish Galatians! Come on, get it straight. Your heart wants them to understand. Your heart wants them to get better And there's a battle. But in this case, clearly, the Galatians could understand. You see, these people were believers. They had the Holy Spirit. In chapter 2, you see, did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by hearing with faith? In verse 5 Does he who gives you the Spirit and works miracles among you do it by the works of the law or by hearing with faith? They had the Spirit. Folks, these are believers. They are justified by God. They're not people where Paul is trying to talk about how you get into the kingdom. They are people where Paul is trying to help them come back to the truth. They have wandered away. How had they wandered? Where had they gone? The Galatians were working slavishly to be righteous. That's where they went off. They had decided that now that they had come into the kingdom, they needed to live up to the kingdom. They needed to be righteous. They needed to obey the law. Turn with me to chapter 5 of Galatians. In chapter five, verse one, Paul writes, It was for freedom that Christ set us free. Therefore, keep standing firm and do not be subject again to a yoke of slavery. Behold. All right, Paul, tell you that if you receive circumcision, Christ will be of no benefit to you. I testify again to every man who receives circumcision that he is under obligation to keep the whole law. You have been severed from Christ. You who are seeking to be justified by the law, you have fallen from grace. In the NIV, it says, you who are trying to be justified by law have been alienated from Christ. You've fallen away from grace. The Galatians were way off face. But let me ask you a question. Have you joined them? Do you ever get way off base? Do you begin to think that you need to keep the law to be justified? Or even more importantly, brothers and sisters, do you need to keep the law to be sanctified? What did you write? What does God want most from you as a believer? If you wrote down that God's primary calling to you is holiness, you're with the Galatians. If you wrote down that what God's primary concern for you is, is to be righteous, you're with the Galatians. If you wrote down that what God's primary concern for you is, is that you obey Him, you're with the Galatians. You're off base. Back when I had recently graduated from college, I could have written a book to teach the Galatians about being where they were. I had grown up in a fairly moralistic setting and I had gotten involved in a very good, strong, but obedience-focused parachurch ministry when I was in college. As a result, there was a sin that I was struggling with big time. And I know that none of you guys are in that place today. I had come to the point where I was so confused in my understanding of God that I knew, foundational bedrock truth knew, that if I could overcome my sin, God would give me the blessings that I long for. And they were very particular and very clear, and I was praying furiously that God would answer my prayer. And give me this thing that I felt was essential for my well-being. And I knew for a fact that if I could overcome my sin between this point and that point, God would reward me with what I had asked Him to give me. And I also knew for Bedrock Foundational Truth that if I failed to overcome my sin, he would not. Have you ever been there? Do you barter with God? Where is your safety? Are you safe because you had enough quiet times? Are you safe because you have shared the gospel enough times to feel good? Are you safe because you have prayed? Maybe even prostrated yourself, and maybe even fasted, but you're okay because of what you've done. Are you bartering with God? Where do you look to be safe? What is the source What do you believe down in your heart of hearts is your source of safety? Where do you trust? What did God owe you? Not what's the book answer. Not what's the right answer. What do you in your heart of hearts believe? If God doesn't give you what you would like, are you frustrated because you believe that you've earned it? Let me ask another question. When you come to that point where you see most clearly your sin, And I'm not talking about that you can cognitively acknowledge it. I'm not talking that you can name it. Even beyond categorical into particular instances, and you can see that that really is you. I'm talking about when you feel the weight of your sin. When you see the destruction that it causes, you, those you love, and the Lord Jesus, when you feel that reality of your sin and its weight, and you hate it. What's Jesus think? Is he there? Is he with you in that? Or has he walked away? If he is there with you, is he looking at you or has he turned his gaze from you? And if he's looking at you, what kind of expression does he have? When you see the depth, the ugliness The hideousness of your sins, and you feel its weight, and you hate it. Are you closer to God or are you further away? I want you to leave today knowing that you are near to God Not because you are righteous. You're not close to God because you have measured up. You are near to God because He has brought you. Into his presence, chosen you as his precious possession, for no other reason than because he has. He loves you. And you have not earned it. You do not earn the privilege of keeping it. We have been given the Holy Spirit. We too, like the Galatians, have received the Spirit. God has provided the Spirit to us, and it's not something that we can take, it's not something that we can grasp, it's not something that we can hold. It is a gift We know from Ephesians chapter 1 that the gift of the Spirit is the seal of His possession of us. It is a mark of our entrance into the family of God. Brothers and sisters, the answer to the question in chapter 3, verse 3, most clearly is: no, you're not being perfected by your flesh. You're not being accepted by God on the basis of your works. He does not keep you because you're good enough. He will not cast you off because you're not. One of the best places I think you can look to find out whether you're living in the Galatian heresy or whether you're living in the reality of the gospel. is in how you deal with your sin. How I deal with mine, how we deal with ours. I want you to take a moment and I want you to think of that sin with which you most fiercely struggle. I want it to be clear in your mind. I want you to feel the weight of it. How does the gospel? How does the gospel deal with your sin? I think there are a number of things that the Bible teaches us about that. The first of which is that we confess. 1 John 1 9, that if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just and will forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But confession can simply be from the Greek term to speak the same, to agree verbally with God. Yes, I did that. I can very easily and very unemotionally speak about my sin. As a matter of fact, I much prefer to speak cognitively about my sin than I do to live the reality of it, to face the shame of it, and to recognize that it's a sin of specifics It's not an issue of pride. It's an issue of when I callously said a hurtful comment in my arrogance to my wife. That leads to the second step sorrow Sorrow for your sin. See the destruction it wreaks on you, on those you love, and on Jesus. Embrace the pain. Face the reality of your sin. But we come to the next step. And for myself, this is where I've most often and longest periods blown it. Because what I usually take for the third step is when I see the hideousness of my sin and I see the pain that it causes, I have an emotional knee-jerk reaction which says, never again! This can't be me. I can't do this again. I've got to stop. Are any of you there? And my focus becomes being better. And my plea becomes, God, change me. Make me righteous. Give me an experience of holiness. Overcome my sin. And I become desperate for that. And it becomes the focus of my life. And I'm fully and deeply engaged in idolatry. Do you have idols? Look at your outline I want to read the verse Jeremiah 2. 13. But before I do, I want to give you the historical context. Jeremiah is a prophet in the southern kingdom, the remaining two tribes. And he's a prophet in the time when Babylon takes the southern kingdom into exile. Historically, what's happening is the northern kingdom has been taken away by Assyria about 190 years before. The Southern Kingdom has been spared, because God still had work to do among them The rulers in Judah understand the political situation at the time, and they recognize that they cannot stand against the Empire of Babylon. And so they make a decision. And the decision that they make is to create an alliance with Egypt. Now, God gives a commentary on that in Jeremiah chapter 2. In verse 12, immediately preceding the verse I'm going to read, God calls heaven and earth as witnesses of what he's about to say. And then he goes on to say this. My people have committed two sins. They have forsaken me, the spring of living water. And they have dug their own cisterns, broken cisterns that cannot hold water. Palestine is a desert. We live in a very lush geographical region where there are rivers, there are streams, there are lakes. We live in a time where you can go in your house and turn on a faucet and water will flow. We do not have an emotional connection with the significance of water Any Jewish reader reading Jeremiah would understand intuitively the idea of a living spring. A source of water that flowed. And a cistern. You may not even know what a cistern is, but a cistern is a tank. It's a receptacle. It's a place to hold the water that you need for life. In Palestine, there are a series of cisterns, both above and below ground. There are huge tanks where they channel the rainwater into buckets and then into the cisterns. Cisterns were also filled by those who were menial laborers and would carry the water from whatever source was nearby to fill the tank. Because if you had water in your cistern, you knew you would not die of thirst. Brothers and sisters Are you trusting in the living spring of righteousness that is God? Or are you trusting in the cisterns that you're digging of your own righteousness? To have enough merit, enough goodness, enough confidence in your life to be able to face God. God's comment is your sisters are broken, they leak, they cannot hold righteousness. I want you to write down three passages. I'd like you to look at them this week. Ezekiel 47. And Ezekiel 47 is a description of the temple, where Ezekiel, the prophet, functioning much at the same time as Jeremiah. speaks of the altar and of the temple of God, and he says that there was a trickle of water coming from the south side of the temple, and it flowed to the east. And it flowed out the east gate of the city. And there was a messenger of God with Ezekiel as he was seeing this trickle. And the messenger took Ezekiel to the east gate, and he measured the water. And it was ankle deep. And he went out a thousand cubits, and it was knee deep. And he went out another thousand cubits, and it was chest deep. And another thousand cubits, it was so deep that Ezekiel could not walk across the river, for the trickle had now become a river. And the messenger tells Ezekiel that this river flows so far east that it goes into the Dead Sea. And the effect of this river flowing from the temple of God was that the Dead Sea became fresh. And abounded with life. John chapter 4, Jesus is speaking to the Samaritan woman. He's at a well. The woman says, if you don't let me give you a drink, you cannot drink. Jesus' response to her is this. Everyone who drinks of this water, your water, will thirst again. But whoever drinks the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. The water that I shall give him shall become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. John chapter 7. Jesus is there in the temple at the altar, on the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles. And on the last day of the Feast of Tabernacles, one of the celebrations of the Feast of Tabernacles was that the priests would bring water and would pour it on the altar. I believe in marking the prophecy that Ezekiel gives us in chapter 47. Jesus stands there at the altar and says, If any man is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. He who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being shall flow rivers of living water. Brothers and sisters, are you digging cisterns? Or are you trusting in that fountain of living water that leads to eternal life? If when you face the reality of your sin, your first and primary concern is that God would give you victory. If your first and primary concern when you face your sin is that it would go away and you would be righteous. You need to examine whether you're digging a cistern and longing for righteousness more than for God If your righteousness is your hope, is your place of safety, is your source of confidence, you're in the midst of the Galatian heresy So what does the gospel call us to do instead? How do I deal with my sin in light of the gospel? You cling to God Isaiah chapter 30, verse 15 is the time of another historical crisis. This time it's the southern kingdom being threatened by Assyria. This is when the northern kingdom had been taken, and the southern kingdom looks like it will be taken. You recall a while back we looked at 2 Kings chapter 18, where Sennacherib sent an army to Jerusalem and surrounded them. He'd sent 185,000 soldiers who'd never been defeated in battle and said to the people in Jerusalem, You're going to die. No God has ever defeated me. No city has ever withstood my army. No army has ever been able to defend itself against my men. And I'm here. All you have left to do is die. And King Hezekiah meets with the prophet Isaiah. Well, earlier Earlier, Israel's again trying to decide what to do. They understand the political setting. And Sennacherib has been attacking the northern kingdom, but he's not yet attacked them. And so Israel decides, what shall we do? Where is our hope? What is our strength? And once again, Israel, the southern kingdom, decides that they'll make a treaty. And they're going to trust the armies of Egypt. God says to them For thus the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel, has said, In repentance and rest you shall be saved. In quietness and trust is your strength. The verse continues, and he says, But you were not willing You have made a treaty with Egypt. What you should have done is come to me. You should have prayed. You should have trusted my power and rested in me. Brothers and sisters, we daily face that same question. Who or what will you trust? Where is your hope? Is it in yourself Is it in the strength of your character? Is it in the material possessions you've been able to accrue? Is it in this church? Is it in your friends? When God puts you to the test, where do you look? How are you doing at living the gospel? Having begun with the Spirit, are you now being made perfect by the flesh? I want to make one one other point grammatically here. You'll see that it says having begun by the Spirit and draw the contrast with being perfected. The Greek term there is finishing. What it's really saying here is having begun with the Spirit, are you finishing with the flesh? Or are you going to trust God and finish with the Spirit? Are you really willing to see your sin? When I asked you to come up with that particular sin that is most pernicious and difficult for you to battle, did you draw a blank? Could you look at it? Could you see its details? Could you remember the last time you committed it? Could you feel the pain of those you wanted? Or did you run from it When you can't avoid forming face to face with your sin, do you focus on changing and becoming righteous? Do you flee the impact of your sin by deciding that it has to stop? Does your life become meaningful and satisfying only if you have victory over this sin? I want you to think back to what you wrote down as we began the message. What is it that God wants from you as a believer? The answer is, biblically, he wants you. He wants your heart. He wants your soul. He wants all of you. He wants intimacy with you. He wants relationship. For you see, God created us for exactly that. God created us to be with him forever. To love him and to receive his love. And in Isaiah chapter 30, he says, in repentance, seeing and dealing with your sin, and in rest, in my completed work. Is your salvation. If you want to know how the gospel applies to you when you find yourself in sin, rest in Him. Give yourself to him. Let him bear the weight of that sin, and finish with the Spirit. John Piper has a sermon on exactly this passage, and he makes a comment in it that I want to quote Where he says, I hope that you can see that the essential mark of a Christian is not how far you have progressed in sanctification. But on what you're relying on to get there. Are you striving for sanctification by works? Or are you striving for sanctification by faith? Having begun with a spirit. Are you finishing with the spirit? Let's pray. Well Jesus, we depend upon you for our next breath. And we depend upon you for our growth, for our security, for our hope, for our well-being. You have promised us heaven. You've promised us relationship with you. You've promised us your love. Lord Jesus, you who have begun a good work in us, please bring it to completion. We pray this in your most precious name, our Lord Jesus. Amen.