Those of you who have been with us since uh December of nineteen seventy-nine Know that since that time I have been going each Christmas, verse by verse, through the Christmas story, as told by Luke's Gospel beginning at chapter 1, verse 1. We've been doing a few verses each year, and this year are up to verses 23 to 25. And I will combine those verses with verses 36 and 37. So we determine doing your Bible to Luke chapter 1. We'll read. I will read and you follow along as we read together Luke chapter 1, beginning with verse 5. Through verse twenty five. Let's re now then God's holy word. In the time of Herod, the king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah. He belonged to the priestly division of Abijah. His wife Elizabeth was also a descendant of Aaron. Both of them were upright in the sight of God, observing all the Lord's commandments and regulations blamelessly. But they had no children Because Elizabeth was barren, and they were both well along in years. Once, when Zachariah's division was on reading and he was serving as priest before God, he was chosen by Lot according to the custom of the priesthood. To go into the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And when the time of the burning of incense came, all the assembled worshippers were praying outside. And then an angel of the Lord appeared to him, standing at the right side of the altar of incense. Then Zachariah saw him, was startled and was dripped with fear. But the angel said to him, Get out, be afraid, Zachariah. The earth and earth. Your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son. And you were to give him the name John. He will be a joy and a delight to you. And many will rejoice because of his birth, for he will be great in the sight of the Lord. He is never to take wine or other fermented drink. He will be filled with the Holy Spirit even from birth. Many of the people of Israel will he bring back to the Lord, their God. And he will go on before the Lord in the spirit and power of Elijah, to turn the hearts of the fathers to their children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the righteous, to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Zachariat asked the angel, How can I be sure of this? And a little old man and my wife has run around in years. The angel answered, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I have been sent to speak to you and to tell you this good news. Now you will be silent and not able to speak until the day this happens, because you did not believe my words, which will come true at their proper time. Meanwhile, the people were waiting for Zachariah and wondering why he stained so long in the temple. And when it came out, he could not speak to them. And they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple, for he kept making the signs to them, but remained unable to speak. When his time of service was completed, he returned home. After this, his wife Elizabeth became pregnant and for five months remained in seclusion. The Lord has done this for me, she said. In these days he has shown his favor and has taken away my disgrace among the people. Then you recall the story of how the angel came to a virgin, Mary, in Nazareth. And he told Mary how she was to bear a son. That son was to take the throne of his father David and to be the Messiah. You remember how Mary said, Well, how can this be since I'm a virgin? And the angel answered her in verse thirty-five, The Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, the relative, is going to have a child in her old age. And she who is said to be barren is in her sixth month, for nothing is impossible with God. So far God's word. Let's give our attention to it. Nothing is impossible with God. Do you really believe that? You say, well of course I believe it. You know, the Bible says it, and of course God can do everything. We know that. Do you really believe that nothing is impossible with God? Really? Whether you really believe that or not is related to whether you believe this story actually happened. Do you believe this story really occurred in history? But the danger of the Christmas story is that it's such a beautiful story that what the secular world does with it is to make it into a dreamy fairy tale. And so we have a kind of Christmas card view of the history of Christmas. And that becomes very closely blended with fairy tales and legends that we've heard, and so it becomes to us a beautiful story, but not necessarily something that happened in the rough and tumble of time-space history. And so we look at this and we see about Elizabeth, who is barren and who is beyond menopause, and we say, Isn't it nice what God did? But the angel then says, because nothing is impossible with God. Do you really believe that nothing is impossible with God? That he could do that with Elizabeth? And that he's able to do anything that he pleases consistent with his own nature in your life. That's why Luke began this whole story in chapter 1 and verse 2 and 4, telling us that these were things that were seen by our witnesses. And in verse 4, that these were things that Are certainly to be believed as having happened. So that you'll know that in your own life, whatever physical problem or circumstance that you're under this morning, It's not beyond God to heal. But whatever the psychological need that you have this morning, whatever this It hurts off those insecurities that you're feeling now. Scars from the past. It's not impossible for God to heal that. Whatever the spiritual need is that you have this morning, for forgiveness of sins and the power of the Spirit of God in your life, it is not impossible for God. To show us fullness in your life. Do you believe that? You really believe that? If you believe this story, you can believe that. If you believe this really happened, if you don't, Then you'll dichotomize all the stories of scripture as if those stories are in another realm that doesn't bear on the reality of them. What I want us to do then in this story is I want to look at those three areas: the physical, the psychological and the spiritual in Elizabeth's experience and see how God's power was demonstrated to her to prove that nothing is impossible with God. First of all, let's look at the physical. Notice what Elizabeth's physical problem was. She had two problems. First of all, we read in verse 7 that they, Zachariah and Elizabeth, had no children because Elizabeth was barren. They were both well along in years. See, there's two problems mentioned here. First of all, she's barren. Why? We don't know. All we know is that she couldn't have any children. She'd seen what doctors she could, and they had said, we don't understand why, but you just don't seem to be able to bear children. Even today, with the dramatic advances in medicine, all of the high technology, many women go. The doctor simply says we don't understand that. We're not really sure. But it doesn't seem that you'll be able to have children. We don't understand that. And there are some of you who have heard that and have heard found that difficult to accept. But baroness is a fact of life. We don't understand it. But it was something that Elizabeth had to endure. But beyond that notice, there was a second problem. And that is that she was beyond menopause. She was well alone in years. Now, there are some barrel people, so-called, who have children You have, I'm sure, friends who can attest to that. We have people in our own congregation who can attest to the fact that they were declared barren. And now have born a number of children. And so we all know that barrenness is not an absolute. But I'll tell you, I have never in my own life ever heard of a woman beyond menopause having a child. I had a professor in seminary once who at the age of 73 decided it was time to retire, settle down, and get married. And so he married a woman who was 45. And they raised a family. He had one child, a son, and he lived to see that son grow up to ten or so. But that woman at 45 still was having a period. She had not gone beyond metaphys. I have never heard of, I know of no case in medical history documented personally. where a woman who has beyond menopause has had a child. Don't miss that. It wasn't simply that Elizabeth was barren She was an old woman. I think of Elizabeth. As as wrinkled and twinkled Elizabeth. I think of her as a person who is a godly woman. And there's a woman who, while she was rising and wrinkled, an old Jewish woman there back in first century Palestine, was a woman with a twinkle in her eye. Maybe you take an old woman like that, and you take one of the greatest continual grippings on a rainy day can be an old bitter woman And yet some of the most pleasant people possible in the world to know are old godly women with a twinkle in their eye. And I see Elizabeth as that kind of a person. And after Zechariah had heard the message from the angel, he and Elizabeth went back And walked this crowd of Jerusalem to the quiet hills of Judea where they lived. And there Elizabeth became pregnant. Oh wrinkled Elizabeth. And for five months, no, she didn't have the uh EPC and all the rest of that to confirm it. So it took a while that she became that she was sure she was really pregnant And when she was, then she said, this is what the Lord's done for me. In these days he's shown his favor and taken away my disgrace from among the people. And I could just picture her with a twinkle in her eye, just shouting God's praise as an old woman, just smiling and laughing, and enjoying with Zechariah, God's favor upon her. God had done the impossible. God had taken a woman who was beyond metaphors and declared barren, and he had given to her a son. So the angel says in verse 36 and 37, even Elizabeth, you know, even old Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age. Who is said to be barren. And she is said to be barren is in her sixth month, for nothing is impossible with God. And so in verses 57 and 58 we read, It was time for Elizabeth to have her baby And she gave birth to a son, and her neighbors and her relatives heard that the Lord had shown her great mercy, and they shared her joy. Because nothing is impossible with God Now listen, let's bring this on. A couple of months ago, the doctors heard the doctors say your baby has high drops. And that baby medically has no chance of survival. And this week that baby is died. Did that baby die because it was inevitable? We don't believe that as Christians, do we? We don't believe that there was no possible way that that baby could have survived. Otherwise, we couldn't have prayed for those two months. God, with you, nothing is impossible. Only what you declare in your sovereign will is that what you'll be. Be good on yourself and deliver that baby if you want. And the fact that God chose not to, but to work in the normal course of events. Dare not say to you and to me, that was because it was inevitable. It was not possible. But it was because God in his sovereign and loving control chose to act that way. Let's not ever think that that which seems normal is inevitable. When God works in the way that He desires. That helps us to know that God was in control of that. Dan and Donna and I talked about that. We discussed this passage together last night. See that it was God who was in control of that to do that. Because he chose to work that way. It wasn't inevitable. If you believe that, if you believe that God could give Elizabeth a son, Then you can believe that any physical situation, any circumstance you're in is not beyond God to work in. But secondly, notice the psychological problem. There's no psychological problem that's too great for him. Read again what she says in verse 25. The Lord has done this for me, she said. In the days in these days he has shown his favor to take away my disgrace from among the people What pain and hurt there must have been behind those words. What recollection of the intimidations, of the superior condescensions. Of other women. We talked about poor Elizabeth, who was barren. But in that culture, such barrenness was seen as a disgrace, as a curse from God. It's clear that in the ancient cultures, childlessness was considered a curse. And if you think about it for a moment, you'll know why. Back in those days, children were not a financial liability, they were an asset. Back in those days, children were needed, particularly if you had a farm or if you had a herd of animals to take care of. Kids were a big help And then as you got older, you didn't have Medicaid and Social Security and all the rest of that. You had a family. That's what took care of you. And so if you didn't have any kids, you weren't looking to create security as you became older. So kids clearly, from any standpoint in those days, were a blessing. And therefore, if you didn't have children, you were considered cursed. You were considered somebody who was under great misfortune. That must have certainly by the Jews been buttressed by certain passages in Scripture that they would have used to confirm that. For instance, in Deuteronomy chapter 28. For God speaks of blessing and cursing. He says, You will in verse chapter twenty-eight, verse three, you will be blessed in the city and blessed in the country. The fruit of your womb will be blessed. And the crops of your land, and the well of your livestock. The first God says in Psalm 113, verse 9, He settles the barren woman in her home as a happy mother of children. And certainly they would have used this in Isaiah fifty-four that speaks of cursed Israel as a barren woman without children, whom God will bless and become a husband to her and grant to her children. They would have looked at the story in Genesis chapter 16 and seen Hagar, who despised Sarah because she had no children. As a kind of confirmation of this. But it raises a question to you and to me: is that disgrace of God, or is it only of people? Is it really a curse for a woman to be barren? Is it some indication of God's disfavor or chastening or discipline? Or is it rather wrongfully interpreted by these people in Scripture? So that in fact it was simply a matter of their misinterpretation. They were simply adding guilt and disgrace to misfortune. That God never intended to be a disgrace, or that God never intended as a curse or as judgment were to be interpreted that way. Well when you look at Deuteronomy you wonder. If you look at Hagar, you wonder. If you look at Genesis chapter 30 and you see that Rachel had no children and she finally cries out to Jacob in Genesis chapter 30 and verse 1. She says, give me children or I die. Jacob became angry with her and said, Am I in a place where God has kept me from having children? With all kinds of tension. He said, I've got to have children, or I'll die. You look at 1 Samuel chapter 1 and you think of Hannah. Poor Hannah, who was disgraced in front of Panina, because Panina had all kinds of children, and Hannah had none. Then you look a little closer and you see what God is saying. You see that God in no way ever condones Hagar's attitude towards Sarah. And Hagar, in fact, is cast out. You see that Rachel's not having children at first was never a sign of cursing to her, but that rather it was a special blessing to Leah, who was not loved. The rather God later on gives Rachel Joseph as a sign of special freedom. And you see that Anna, who had no children, was in fact the godly woman. While Felina, who had many children, was in fact the woman who was without God's favor. She was the sign of the secular success, not God's favor. Hannah was being saved for Samuel. And so you see in many cases that the Bible says that it's the woman without the children who has the special thing. Sarah to have Isa. Rachel to have Joseph. Hannah To have Samuel. Samson was born by a woman, his mother who had not had any children throughout their marriage, a long time until that time. And Elizabeth. to have John. Even Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight, if you'll notice, does not say That the blessing of God is children, and the curse is lack of children. But the parallel cursing is not that they will not have children. It's a parallel passage, and it begins. Blessed will be the fruit of your womb, but the curse is that your children will be taken into captivity. Not that you won't have children. In each case it's children. It's what happens to the children that's the blessing or the curse. In conclusion, then, there is nothing in the scripture that ever indicates that barrenness is a sign of the disfavor of God. There's only one possible case that's ever alluded to as saying that, and that's where Michael, David's wife, is cursed, you remember, by having no children because of her mocking David. And her blaspheming God and doing that. The Bible says because of that, God said she would have no children. But to conclude from that That barrenness is a sign of God's disfavor in general is like concluding from the man who is blind in John 9 that all blindness is a sign of God's disfavor. And Jesus explicitly said that that was a wrong conclusion. Well, like concluding that Job's misfortune and his boils and lack of a family was a sign of God's disfavor to him. What the Bible explicitly denounces that attitude. So it is with Varius. We can never, ever dare conclude that God is showing disfavor by such a situation. Spent a few minutes on that because I think it's something that we need to be absolutely clear on. in our day as we see the story of Elizabeth and see what God is saying and what God is not saying. This is not the disfavor of God, it is the wrong disgrace of that culture. It was people who are adding guilt. and adding burdens to a woman who already was sorrowful because of a lack of children. Let's be careful that we don't do the same thing But the disgrace was real. That doesn't take away the reality of that hurt. She says it's taken away my disgrace, a real pain and disgrace. What is your disgrace this morning? Do you look back over your life? What scars do you see in your life this morning? But are a result of a broken past, a result of the way that you were treated or raised or circumstances that you passed through, experiences that you've had. What insecurities do you find yourself fighting with this morning because of certain things that you've had in the past? What hurts do you endure? What emotional scars? The tendency is to think I'll always be like this. I'm stuck with it This is the way I am, an insecure, hung-up person. And I'm disgraced by that. And we miss the fact that Elizabeth says God has removed my disgrace. And God can remove your disgrace and my disgrace. One of the greatest blessings to me as a counselor. And as a pastor, I'm getting old enough now to see the pilgrimage of people's lives. And to see somebody who I had talked to or counseled five, ten, fifteen years ago. Who is in deep emotional turmoil, deep scars in their life, seeing a situation where they thought they would never be able to live normally, happily, joyfully, free, the bondage of that earth. To see them now walking with Jesus. Christ enjoy a normal and satisfying marriage, to see God's victory emotionally, psychologically, over the stars of the past. Let me say to you from Scripture this morning, brothers and sisters, you are not trapped in your psychological condition. If you walk with Jesus Christ and follow his ways and follow his principles, over a period of time I will guarantee he will remove the scrace of the scars of your life. There will be that growing fullness and fullness of the power of the Spirit as you see God healing you. That's the blessing of the fact that there is nothing impossible with God. And finally we see here that there's no spiritual problem too great. No spiritual problem too great for the Lord. Verse 45, notice the words Elizabeth uses. She says, In these days he has shown his favor. And taken away my disgrace from all the people. Literally in the Greek it simply says that God has looked upon him. He has looked upon him. In that word, the phrase to look upon in the Greek is a phrase that's associated with visiting. These two ideas often go together in the scripture. God looks on his people, God visits his people. In fact, we notice down in verse 28. The angel uses that. The angel went to Mary and he said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. The Lord has visited you. Jews forget in verse 30 Where he says, the angel says, do not be afraid, Barry, for you have found favor with God. God has visited you You see, it's the idea that we have all the way back from Exodus 3, where God in Exodus 3 said in verse 7, I have indeed seen the misery of my people in Egypt, and I've heard the cry, and I'm concerned about their suffering. So I have come down to rescue them from the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of the land into a good and spacious land flowing with milk and honey God says, I see my people, I see their hurt, I see their need, and I visit them to deliver them. And so this is redemptive language that we have here. It's the language that Zechariah used when John was born. When John was born, Zechariah said in chapter one, let's move down to verse 68: Praise be to the Lord the God of Israel, because he has come. And he has redeemed his people. He has literally visited his people and redeemed them. And he has raised up a horn of salvation in the house of David his servant. And so he says in verse 78 that this is the one, the rising sun, who will visit us from heaven. What's I referring to? But of course that's the word become flesh who visited us, God with us, for Emmanuel, to come and to visit us. What's it say? Don't instance. Your deepest need and my deepest need is not a physical need or a psychological need. It's a spiritual need. Your deepest need and my deepest need is that we are barren spiritually before God. Barren of the fruit of the Spirit before a just and a holy God who judges our lives. That you and I are in disgrace spiritually before God because of our sin. Because of our violating this law, because of our going our own way, and not caring what he said about how we ought to live. Spiritually, we're barren. Spiritually, we're in disgrace. And that is a problem which outweighs all of us. The impossibility of any physical or psychological problem. That's a problem that God Himself had to give up his own son to save. And so here's old Wrinkled Twinkled Elizabeth saying, Praise God, He's given to me a And that was just the beginning of what God was about to do for us. That was nothing in comparison with the fact that God was through that raising up a messenger to say that God Himself gave up. His own son. So that Elizabeth's deepest need could be solved. And your deepest need, and my deepest need, to make us reconnect. spiritually, to remove our disgrace by the forgiveness of our sins. Because Jesus came and he died And he took that sin on himself. And he became the barren one. He became the cursed one. He became the one who bore the disgrace of our sin. Jesus took it, so you and I don't have it. That's the deepest deep. The spiritual one that's referred to here. So In conclusion, I want to ask you again, do you believe that this really happened? Do you believe this really happened in history? Do you believe this really occurred that there was a woman back? Around 5 or 7 BC, who had never had a child who was declared barren and beyond metaphors, who had a little baby son who they called John. Do you believe that that son grew up to declare the Messiah to come? Do you believe that was history? If you do then you'll be convinced today that nothing is impossible in your own life. Whatever that deepest need that you feel this morning, that you feel trapped in it, that deepest need that you say, but this is impossible. It's inevitable. I'm trapped in this. And you'll have hope. Because nothing is impossible with God if He's done that. Then finally I want to ask you, do you see all of your other needs related to your spiritual need? Do you see your physical needs related to your spiritual need? Do you see your psychological needs ultimately related to your spiritual need. Well you like a neighbor of mine who said to me once, you know, I agree with you. It's good you're a pastor, you know. It's good to have religion. Give your comfort and peace in the things that you're doing. There's no concept of the application of that to any other area of his life except a sense of private peace and comfort that he pulls out of his pocket occasionally when he's feeling a little bad. But he doesn't see those physical circumstances, those psychological circumstances, those realms of his life related to his need for Jesus Christ. You've got to integrate those needs so that as you see your physical needs and your psychological needs, you come to Jesus Christ with those needs. And you ask him for the healing. And you say, Lord, it's not somebody, no expert, no group. Nobody can solve this ultimately save you and nothing. Is impossible with you because you sent your son Jesus and he died at the cross and he rose again to solve that deepest need. Problem is Many of us are not willing to remain in impossible situations to see God's power out. The temptation of our day is that we're being told time and again that we are Did we have a right to immediate gratification? Elizabeth remained for years there. And that must have endured, there must have been a lot of pain, pain that some of you know, in not having any children of her own to bear. But she remained faithful to God in that situation, faithful and content and trusting. And many of us, I believe, do not know God working in impossible situations because We believe it's God's will for us to escape them. Sometimes I believe God wants us in impossible situations simply so he can show us his power. Simply so he can use us as an example to the world that nothing is impossible with God. Nothing if you and I are the living sacrifices that will say, God, I am willing to remain, if you want me to, in this impossible situation, so you can show your power through me. That's very difficult, isn't it? In fact, it's impossible without the Lord Jesus But with him, all things are possible. This week I received a note from someone who I hadn't seen for maybe 10, 12 years. A fellow that I had worked with in university as a student at the University of Maryland. And he sent me a note that was one of the most encouraging things that I've received, certainly I think the most encouraging thing I've received in Christmas mail this year, it was written on the envelope. I hadn't heard from this guy for over ten years. In fact, he sent our card to New York. That gives you an idea how much in touch we are. On the back of the card, it simply said, quote, if What help you when you go through bad times? Answer. Well Mary, Al Harris taught me to believe in a big God. Thank you. How big is your God? Is he big enough that when you go through rough times you can say, nothing is impossible with my God? Let's pray. Oh Lord, how we tend to reduce you. How we tend to reduce you to the God of probabilities. The God who, when something is said to be certain, we simply rule out your power. And there we can tend so easily to look at the situation with the weapons and say, yeah, that just confirms to me that you go by the probabilities. And we forget all about Elizabeth. We forget all about old Wrinkled Elizabeth with a twinkle in her eye. Saying, oh, how God has shown his favor to wrinkled old me and has given to me a son when it was impossible. And that sign was the sign, the sign that you were to give, at the cost of emptying heaven. For us. Lord, help us to see our needs related to Jesus and to bring him to you And to believe the story, and to believe that nothing, nothing, is impossible with you. Whatever circumstances or physical situations we find ourselves in, whatever scars and insecurities and disgraces we find ourselves bearing emotionally. And ultimately are indeed for forgiveness and salvation in Jesus Christ. You have provided Help us to see the connections, Lord, and to bring these needs to you. And to let you honor yourself through us, through Jesus Christ.