Turn to Proverbs chapter 3, one last time. We come to the end of this nine-week series on Proverbs chapter 3, verses 5 to 10 this morning. To consider the topic of money. I think of all the books, all the articles, all the newsletters that are published on financial investing today. And they're all published to ensure prosperity. It's a multimillion dollar business. And yet, here in Proverbs 3:9, you have in thirteen words a method. Which guarantees under normal circumstances overflowing prosperity. You're told here who to invest with You're told when to invest, and you're told the minimum amount to invest. What else do you need to know? All that's left after you understand this is the question: will you believe it? And will you follow it? Let us read then this infallible advice that God has given to us. And let's remember as we read it that it is not simply advice. But it is the word of the living God to be believed and obeyed. Proverbs chapter 3, verses 9 and 10 Honor the Lord with your wealth, with the first fruits of all your crops. Then your barns will be filled to overflowing. And your vats will brim over with new wine. In verse 9, you have the command. In verse 10, you have the consequence. But first you need to look at the context. And those are the three points. The context, the command, and the consequence. Why the context first? Well, because I believe that verse 9 and 10 is the concrete and the foundational application of the principles that have been laid down in verses 5 to 8. So we need to look at verses 5 to 8 and see how they're connected to verse 9 and 10. Let's look then at verses 5 to 8. God says, trust in the Lord with all your heart, and lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your path straight. Do not be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and shun evil. This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones. Now, verses 5 and 6 in particular lay down the principles which begin to be applied in verses 7 and 8, and then become very specific in verses 9 and 10. The first principle, then, you see, remember in verse 5 that we looked at, the one we looked at at greatest length was the word trust. That's the first word there under A The first principle then is to trust. Trust the Lord. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. You see the connection? Deciding to tithe, to give away 10% or more of my income, whether it is my allowance Or an executive salary is a matter of trusting the Lord with all your heart. If you want to be aware of where your security is, whether it is in fact in the Lord or whether it is in money and your wealth Then ask yourself how you respond to this suggestion. I challenge you to increase your giving to the Lord by one full percent of your growth in 1989 and see what happens. Now do you find that as I make that little suggestion that your response in your heart is, no way, I can't afford to do that. No way, I can barely do what I'm doing now Or is your response, well, give me some good kingdom reasons why I should do that, and I'm certainly willing to pray and consider it. No reason why I couldn't do that if the Lord calls me to do that. See, which way do you respond? That's an indication of where your security is. If as soon as you are challenged to give more to the Lord, your response is, I can't afford to do it. You're trusting your means. The Lord says to trust him. And the only way that you or I are ever going to give away over 10% of our income is if we in fact trust the Lord to provide all of our needs. That's the only way. Do you remember what chapter 11, verse 28 said? We looked at this concerning things. That word trust, remember, Proverbs 11:28, whoever trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will thrive like a green leaf. Well, 1 Timothy 6, verse 17. To remember, uh Paul tells us there, command those who are rich In this present world, and that's all of us, no matter how poor we may feel in comparison to those around us, in connection with the rest of the world and history, we are among the rich. Command those who are rich in this present world not to be arrogant nor to put their hope in wealth, their trust in it, their security in it, which is so uncertain. But to put their hope in God, who richly provides us with everything for our enjoyment. You see, verse 9 and 10 is simply a very specific application to what he has said in verse 5. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Find your security in him. Show that you can do that by giving to him that tenth which belongs to him. The second principle that's applied in these verses is the one at the end of verse 5: to lean not. On your own understanding. Two words there to put in that blank. Lean not. Lean not. Then in verse seven, do not be wise in your own eyes. Of course To tithe, that is to give 10% or more of your income to the Lord before you pay any of your own expenses. And see if you have enough to do it at the end of the month or the end of whatever your pay period is. To give first to him before you pay any of your own bills. To give in a way that you will not receive any tangible return on that investment that you can see. You know, I invested here and so I get that back. It's giving away within those strings attached and no expectation of a tangible return, of course, makes no sense in this world's thinking. Makes no sense at all. Why in the world am I going to give before I take care of my obligations? Why in the world am I going to give away to something that I'm not going to ever get anything back for? That's why you see, the Lord says, lean not on your own understanding. If you lean on your own understanding, if I leaned on my own understanding, man, I wouldn't give away a dollar. I'd be hoarding it and investing it and devoting it all to me. But he calls us to lean not on our own understanding. Jesus Christ was the wisest man who ever lived. And he says: the best thing you can do is to trust me, not lean on your own understanding. Honor the Lord. With the first fruits, the first off the top of your income, and let me take care of you. Watch how I provide for you. Leaning on your own understanding won't give you the kind of confidence to do that. I can recall times when Kathy and I not only did not seem like we were able to pay our bills. Now we were in a kind of a situation where we didn't even know when the next check was coming. It might be a week later or it might be a couple of weeks. And the bills were due. And there were times when I'll be honest with you, I did not feel like tithing. It wasn't some great joy to me. I'd like to sound very spiritual. You know, I gave it and I said, Lord, I'll just trust you with all my You know, I was doing it surely out of obedience. Saying, God, you said, do it, you will take care of us. Frankly, I will feel too guilty not to do it. You know? And then if you take care of me, boy, am I gonna feel rotten, you know. And if you don't take care of me, I'll know why you didn't. So I would do it. And I can tell you that in those tremendously lean years, never once did we lack for anything. Never once were we late on a bill so that we were penalized. Never did God not take care of us. But I think sometimes we have this false notion that it's something we ought to feel like doing. He simply says, don't lean on your own understanding, don't lean on your feelings. Trust me with all your heart and watch me provide. And then there's the third principle that he laid down there to acknowledge Him. That's the third blank. Acknowledge him. In verse 6. In all your ways, acknowledge him. And he will make your paths straight. He will direct you into those smooth, pleasant paths. He'll take care of you. You notice it says, in all your ways. Do you ever think of the fact that you and I have basically two commodities in life? Time and money. Really everything else pretty much flows from that. You got time and you got money. We all have the same time, we don't all have the same amount of money But we are all given two basic principles in managing our time and our money from God that are so simple that any child here can understand them. And yet they're so basic and foundational that God says you take care of these two management principles with the two basic commodities that I have given to you, and I guarantee you relieve from stress and pressure and want. In time, he says, simply make it your first principle to set aside one day in seven as a holy rest to me. Give it to me. Give me one day of seven for worship, rest, for your reflecting on the past and thinking about the future, and just devoting that as an act of faith in rest. as a basic principle of stewardship of time. And then in terms of money, he says, give me one dollar out of every ten. Give me 10 out of every hundred. Very simple. All you do is move the decimal point. A child can do it, you see. Not very complicated. He says, give me one out of ten. And that is the beginning and the foundational basis in every one of our lives for acknowledging Him in all of our ways. Stop to think about that? You do that. You show me a Christian who sets aside one day and seven for the Lord and one dollar out of every ten for him. And I'll show you a person who's got their priorities in line. Other things will flow from that, you see. They don't have to take management courses and stress reduction, relief, and all the rest, and the time investment uh for money and all. Those things may help. But they will not be under the stress that comes from grabbing on to every day and minute and hour And grabbing on to every dollar that comes from the idea that I cannot trust God with my time and my money Those are the two basic statements of faith that you and I make in giving our time and giving our money that says we trust Him and we acknowledge Him in all of our ways. Now for some of you this morning to do that might be a giant step of faith. But I want you to see the connection. God is giving us very practical, concrete advice in living a stress-free life here. Directing us into smooth and pleasant paths. Give me your time, give me your money. Acknowledge me in all your ways. Honor me with all your wealth, with the first fruits. Now, having said that, then Let's look at the command, the specific command that he gives to us in verse 9. Exactly what is the command? Well, basically, what he's telling you is how to give your money away. And he tells you three things about it in this verse. First of all, he tells you how much to give. How much? At least 10%. At least 10%. See, verse 9 says, Honor the Lord with your wealth, with the first fruits of all of your crops. Now we need to culturally translate these two verses, of course, because we don't give away crops and we don't have barns, most of us, and bats, you know, brimming with new wine and all that. So we have to translate this into our understanding of income. But the first fruits was very much spoken of in the Bible. And what the first fruits were, what was given of those first fruits, was very clear. It was 10% of the whole. For instance, in Leviticus chapter 27 in verse 30, Moses says, a tithe, 10% Of everything from the land, whether grain from the soil or fruit from the trees, belongs to the Lord. It is holy to the Lord. Very clear. Second Corinthians chapter 8 and 9. In the New Testament, Paul says, well, basically he says you're not under law, but that means that as you understand the gratitude that comes from the redemption, the freedom in Jesus Christ. You give according to your ability. And so he's saying that now there is a new law of the gospel, you see, an internal compulsion that makes us more generous. And so it's not say well now I don't have to give anything because I'm not under the law, I'm under grace. You see, the idea there is that now, as you see kingdom opportunities and and the needs of your brothers and sisters, God frees you up. So that he that sows richly reaps richly. He that sows sparingly reaps sparingly. And so very clearly here the scripture gives to us a baseline saying 10% And then as God gives to you greater faith and gratitude in Jesus Christ, you may increase that. That's how He will lead you by His Spirit. But it's very clear where you're to begin. And I would suggest that that means 10%, and here I could get into trouble with Samipa, I will defend that it's 10% before taxes. Because I believe the taxes are part of what we have to spend out of what we get. Now I know you said, Man, you just doubled what I gave, you know, because taxes take so much out of it That's easier for me in a sense because you see I'm one of those that has to estimate my taxes and so I have to take it out of my total that I that I have. You say it's harder when you don't even see what's taken out from your taxes. That's between you and the Lord, but I do believe it means out of the total that we get. But again, if you're saying that is such a giant step of faith How could I do that? You know, you just spoiled my day and my week and my month. You know, I came in here as sort of happy, and I'm going out and I'm gnashing my teeth at you and all the rest of that. And I'd say, if that's the way you're feeling, look, just go back to verse five and six. You see, verse five and six lays the foundation for it. It's not saying, Now honor the Lord with your wealth and boy he wants to grab everything he can get from you and he wants to watch you having to go down to uh, you know, the salvation army for your clothes and, you know, he wants to really put it to you as hard as he can. He's saying, Trust me. With all your heart. Don't lean on your own understanding. Acknowledge me. You see, the person telling you this It's not Alan Harris up here because he's trying to lay something on you. It's Jesus Christ who's calling you to an opportunity of faith and obedience in him. Jesus, who is the one who died for you, the one who gave his life, so that you would have freedom. You'd have a new life and forgiveness in him. Says now, my child, come, trust me in this area. Let me take care of your needs. And as you go back to him, see what he says and respond to him, not to me. He gives us the when here. In this command. And the when is also very clear. Before you spend any on yourself. Before you spend any on yourself. You see what it says in verse 9? Honor the Lord with your wealth, with the first fruits of all your crops. And that word first fruits is a word used again and again, both in the Old Testament and the New. In the Old Testament, it speaks of the fact that before you harvested any of your crops, you were to bring that first of the crops, the very first bit that you harvested, and that was to come to the Lord off the top. Why was it? I think many of us don't understand that. The basic reason for it was not only that you were giving it out of the gratitude and the trust, but you were also in that redeeming it. It was given with a sacrifice. Why would you give blood with your first fruits? Well, because you see, what you were acknowledging is, Lord, I am a selfish person. And Lord, I've been selfish with my things. And as I've been selfish with those things, I need the blood of the provision you are going to send, Messiah. To forgive me of my selfishness. And so you give the first fruits with a sacrifice so that that is redeemed. God then pronounces his forgiveness for your selfishness in all the things that you've tried to keep to yourself. And then he says, now go free and enjoy the rest of what you have. Don't mean enjoy it apart for me. It just means that now I have forgiven you your selfishness. You have a clear conscience You see, until you and I come to the place where we're able to say, the reason I give my first fruits is because I love the Lord Jesus who has forgiven me my selfishness. I have a selfish heart. I have a worried heart. I'm anxious about my money. You're anxious about your money. There's times when When you and I have an unexpected bill comes in and we groan and we complain and we say, How am I ever going to pay this thing? And I don't have enough and I You know, I want to see my accounts build up and I see them getting depleted, or there's not enough I'm able to put into savings, and I can't invest anything. And I start to get irritable and my wife says to me something about the money and we you know we'll grouch at her and you don't understand whoever's money manager in your house you know they're the one always grouches at the other one because they don't understand you know you know how the whole thing goes and there's tension why Because we have selfish, unbelieving hearts. And the Lord Jesus has come. The Bible says he's the first fruits of the new humanity. Jesus has come, you see, to give his life blood. He came and he died for your forgiveness, to forgive you, and to forgive me of our selfishness. And Jesus is the first fruits of the resurrection. Paul says he's the one, the first fruits of a new humanity that is risen up, a new people who are freed from the bondage of their worry and their selfishness. And you and I now do not bring a blood offering. But when you come to give the offering this morning, think of it this way. Lord, I am giving to you now as the offerings pass the first fruits. Because of gratitude in Jesus Christ, there is no blood offering I need to make now. You see, Jesus has made it. I'm forgiven of my selfishness. I'm forgiven of my worry. And I can offer this now to you freely, trusting that you have given me what I have to enjoy. See, remember 1 Timothy 6. 17? God who has given us all things richly to enjoy. Acknowledge Him and enjoy it. God wants you to enjoy the things that you have. But you and I can only enjoy them when we're out from under the bondage of having to accumulate for ourselves as much as we can get because of our grasping and our insecurity. That's the point of the gospel. Honor the Lord with your wealth and with the first fruits of your crops. And watch what He will do in taking care of you. And then the third thing that you're told here is to whom you're to give it? Who do you give it to? The Lord. Now that's important to understand because you see, we don't have the sense of giving it to the Lord very often because uh, you know, you don't sort of throw it up into heaven and it doesn't come down, you know, and you say, Well, I just gave it to the Lord, you see. I threw it up and it kept on going and he took it How do we give it to the Lord? Well, the only way you and I can give it to the Lord is to give it to his body, which is his church. And so we give it and you see a budget, you know, and you see that budget uh which we uh act on uh each year and you say, I'm giving it to our local ministries here, and I'm giving it to our um missions, foreign missions that we support, and I'm giving it for our facility that we're constructing, and I'm giving it for our diaconal needs and all these things. And it's very easy for you and I to get the sense that we're giving to a budget. We're giving to Columbia Presbyterian Church to pay our expenses. And while we've uh passed over a $350,000 budget and there are a lot of expenses to be paid, what you and I need primarily to see. Is that our giving is to the Lord? It's to him as a person through his body. Just as you show your love for Jesus by serving other people So you show your love for him in your resources by giving to his body. And you give to him personally. And you're told that by giving to him, uh we I believe we show four ways that we're giving to him, the reason that we uh give directly to him. And the first is that because it shows your gratitude. When you give your first fruits, you're saying, Lord, I acknowledge that you have given me the ability to earn what I've gotten And I'm saying thank you by returning a portion which is precious to me. I could have bought something with this, Lord, something I'd enjoy. But I'm giving it to you because I love you and I'm grateful to you for providing it for me It's to him, you see. Conscious sense. This is an offering to you of gratitude. Secondly, it's an offering to you to show my priorities. It's a first fruit because you're saying out of respect, Lord, I'm giving it to you before I enjoy any of it myself. You first, Lord. See, just respect You first. I've told a number of you in the past that when we have our vegetable garden each uh spring and the radishes and the lettuce come up Now we make it a habit out of you know when those first tender leaves of lettuce come and you want to grab them, take them inside, and it's not that they taste any better than any other thing. But they are the first ones, you know, and they're so tender and you can't wait to get your chompers on them and get 'em into that you know, and it's just a tiny little salad. I mean, really nothing very m you know, you everybody in the family gets a little leaf, you know, about that big, but it's the first salad, you know. But we don't. We say, we're going to cut that off and we're going to give it to the Lord. Now what do we do? I mean the birds eat it, the squirrels eat it, I guess. We lay it out, you know, somewhere in the backyard. We say, Lord, we're just remembering that you've given to us this garden and the ability to grow it. Now nothing in the law the Bible says to do it, purely a Harris custom. But what it does to me is it says to me, I would have liked to have had that because it was the first one. But to remember that God has given to us the ability to grow and to earn, I want to simply show my respect and love for Him And when we deny ourselves the first to give to him, there is a communication and a bonding of our hearts in love to him in that process. Thirdly, it shows your trust. We talked about that. The only way you'll do it is if you trust him, as I said before, times when you're anxious, times when you feel like you'd rather Depend on what you have and what you can see, and you're very anxious. To give it to the Lord becomes a statement of trust We're so like uh this uh one little kid that's in our congregation. Nothing in the world would get me to reveal his name. But there was a little kid once who was up in the office when we used to be over at Stonehouse and he was visiting over there And there was a whole pile of MMs that were out on the table. And uh this little kid was playing there and he didn't even notice that the MMs were there. He's just playing along now. And so I went over to him and I asked him, because they were sitting beside him, would he give me an M and M? And what I intended to do was to take it and then give it back to him. Said, Well that's fine, thank you very much, but here it is, you know. You know what he did? I thought, boy, this is just like me. He wasn't even noticing those MMs before. As soon as I asked for an MM, he grabbed the whole pile and stuffed them in his mouth I saw that and I thought, man, isn't that like me? You know. I didn't even know. I wasn't worried about it before. But as soon as I thought I might have to get rid of this, you know, somebody else wants it Now there's not enough MMs on that table, man. The world's not big enough for you and me and these MMs. And they're in my mouth before you're gonna get your paws on 'em. How like that child I am. So afraid there's not enough MMs in God's kingdom that He's going to provide me. And so I've got to take them, I've got to grab them. And to say, Lord, here it is, I'll give to you. The top 10% is to say, I trust you, Lord. You're a loving father. You're not going to let me down. And then the fourth way that it honors him in doing this is that it honors him by showing my stewardship. It shows my stewardship. It shows that I can trust him with all that I have. And that he will take care of me. That the other ninety percent or eighty percent or eighty-five percent, whatever is left That I'm acknowledging that I see that differently because it really all belongs to him. So I honor him with my wealth. You see, that's the first statement. Honor him with your wealth. You see, you do that by the first fruits of your crops. But all the wealth is his. And so you're honoring him with that. To see what he'll do. I've shared with you in the past how a couple of summers ago Heather was working for a clothes store and she didn't have enough money for clothes and You know, it was a matter of, okay, you tithe, but then how are you going to get enough? And she was saying, you know, there was just no way she's going to get it. And then uh we said, look, let's trust the Lord. We're not going to cut back, but trust the Lord that He'll provide for you. He knows that very week that the manager of the clothes store said, it's going to reduce everything for the employees here by half. Anything you want to buy in the store, you can buy at half price. God can take care of us when we trust him. And you know, what's so precious about that is when you trust him consciously with your heart, and then he provides for you in a personal way. There is such a precious sense of his own caring for you. It's worth so much more than what you got or the bill that was paid, because it was a sense that the Father was handing it down to you. And saying, I love you. I'm going to take care of you. That's so precious. Don't miss out on that. What is the consequence that he promises? The consequences are in verse 10. It says, then your barns will be filled to overflowing and your vats will brim over with new wine. In a word, he's saying you're going to have plenty. He's not saying here necessarily you're going to be rich. I don't believe that's what it's saying. It's saying you will have all that you need. It's a way simply of stating that God is not going to be stinting in providing what you need. It's saying in the strongest possible language, you will lack nothing. This I believe is true individually and true corporately. It's true of us individually. It's also true of a body of believers. Where there is a corporate body that practices tithing and giving to the Lord first. God is going to be able to provide to accomplish all the ministry that He's calling for us as a body to do. There's plenty to be done of kingdom work in this area. The more resources we have, the more we're able to do. And God says that He will provide for us as a body that we will have sufficient and plenty for our diaconal ministries. for the various missions, for the various home ministries that we have. But he also means this individually, that we ourselves will not lack. You'll lack nothing. Now, I believe that that means normally that God will provide all that you need. That doesn't mean that Christians will be exempt from famines and recessions and depressions and all the rest of that. I believe that it's simply saying that as a principle God will take care of us. But I don't believe that this is the prosperity gospel. I believe that it's definitely very different from what you hear today as the prosperity gospel for this reason. I believe that verses 11 to 18 are directly connected to verse 9 and 10. And that you misunderstand verse nine and ten if you don't connect them with the verses that follow. Because believe that after he says, Honor the Lord with your wealth, with the first fruits of all your crops, then your barns will be Filled to overflowing, your vats will brim over with new wine, you have a Father who cares for you, who will take care of all your needs and provide all that you need. Then he says, Now, my son, don't despise the Lord's discipline. Don't resent his rebuke, because the Lord disciplines those he loves, as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. He's saying there's going to be times when you will not have all that you think you need. You may not have it in your health. You may not have it in your means. You may not have it financially. You may not have it in a number of ways. God is going to get our attention various times by taking away those things that we have our hearts set on. And he says he's going to do it because he loves you. Now, what's he going to give in place? Will you see what he says after that? See, because the father disciplines those he loves, as a father, the son he delights in. What's he going to give you? Verse 13. Blessed is the man then who finds wisdom, the man who gains understanding. I didn't have what I wanted. It drove me to Jesus Christ. In driving me to the Father, I gained something I wouldn't have had otherwise. Wisdom. And what's he say about that? Notice the connection with finances, verse 14, for she is more profitable than silver. And her yields and she yields better returns. Investment language, you see. She yields better returns than gold. You say, hey man, gold's pretty good returns. I'd like to have some. But do you believe that to gain wisdom in Jesus Christ is to gain better returns than gold? How can that be? Well continue to follow his line of thought. Because she's more precious than rubies. Nothing you desire can compare with her. Why? What she had that's so great Long life is in her right hand. In her left hand are riches and honor. Her ways are pleasant ways. You see, back to the pleasant straight past. And all her paths are peace. She's a tree of life to those who embrace her. Those who lay hold of her will be blessed. You see the key. Is for you and I to see that kingdom riches, which are the riches that are promised here, eternal kingdom riches, are not fantasy riches, they are ultimately the real riches. Because the riches that are tangible in this earth have two problems with them. One, they are very, very transient. They last such a short time. Francis Schaefer, when he was a young man, used to live behind a junkyard. And in order to get out of where he lived to a place that he wanted to go, he used to have to travel across the city dump. He said that made an indelible impression on my mind Because he saw, he said, I saw that most of what people spend their money for was what I walked through that stunk and rusted and was worthless. The second problem with it is, of course, that it cannot guarantee happiness. You can have all the accumulation and still be miserable. But the kingdom riches are real because they're eternal, and with them there is the guarantee of the enjoyment of them. And so what he's saying here is, honor the Lord. I'll take care of you. I'll give you all you need. And if you don't seem to have what you need, come to me. Gain wisdom from that. Understand that I'm weaning you from these tinsel riches to a greater riches that is eternal and has a satisfaction that you would not trade for anything. Does that change the way that you and I look at money and giving? Let me encourage you to make some notes to yourself before you forget what God is saying this afternoon. Let's pray. Hear us, Lord. Hear us as we sing to you now, and as we turn our hearts to you. That your spirit would teach us and move in us to respond to this, your message. In Jesus' name. Amen.