Good morning. It's still morning, even though our clocks change somehow. It is uh a joy and a privilege I've been given um responsibility to fill the pulpit today and Lord willing next week and the and the week following. to celebrate the Lord's Supper with you also next Sunday afternoon. And um and I uh I trust that God will uh use these uh times together to uh speak to us to grow us individually and in turn then grow us as a congregation Let me uh pray for us because uh if you've seen the title of the text, uh the uh sermon, uh you may be uh a bit concerned, humiliation. precedes salvation. Let me pray for us. Father, we ask that you would visit us now in this preaching event, that you, Lord Jesus, would be Exalted, high, and lifted up, that you would draw all. Draw us, Lord, to yourself. And we pray that you would equip us now with your word. Lord, I ask for your blessing on this time in Jesus' name. Amen. What is the um what is the most important quality for Christians to develop? What's the most important virtue, the most important quality that we should be pursuing in the Christian life? Is it integrity? With a string of corruptions that we've heard about privately, publicly. Um Uncovering sin. Is it uh patience? Anybody try to get children ready for church this morning? Should we talk about patience as that quality most needed in the Christian's life? How about faithfulness? In a world, sometimes in a church littered with broken promises, right? Those pie crust promises of Mary Poppins, easily made, easily broken. Is faithfulness the thing that we need to focus our energy on? How about joy? Many struggle with depression, despondency. Dejection. And the Word of God has something to say about joy. Should we invest time in that? What about love? There's a deficiency of love. We see Paul to the Romans say, oh no one except the debt of love. And we could well benefit from an investigation of how we might be more loving, respond to his love. I want to suggest to you that in this letter that Paul wrote from a prison cell in Rome, To the church in Philippi, a church he dearly loved. In fact, there's no strong rebuke for this church. There's some encouragement, there's some instruction, there's a warning against false teachers, there's all manner of things. And Paul wants them to see something about the Christian life. Something that I think we often probably miss because there's something at work to make us miss it. I want to suggest to you that one of the themes that we can trace through this letter to the Philippians is that of humility. And the need for the believer, the follower of Christ, to be taken through that valley of humiliation. As we see in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress, the Christian was taken through the valley of humiliation. Because it's there that we see rightly Christ. We see rightly in that valley ourselves. And the two make sense at that point. And so I want to offer to you a message today and next week, and Lord willing the following week on humiliation. That's why we didn't print the title in the bulletin last week. For fear that you'd read a title on humiliation and avoid the church. We want to avoid the topic of humiliation. We don't want to be humiliated. Humiliation brings with it the idea of exposing our weakness. And exposing our weaknesses means that we're vulnerable. And if we're vulnerable, we've learned all too hard a lesson in this life. If we're vulnerable, we will get hurt. And if the possibility of hurt exists, then truly and surely the potential for pain is there. And nobody likes pain. I don't like pain. Do you like pain? But not so, the follower of Christ. We can enter into instruction on humiliation. We can take this topic And see what God would have us to hear from His Word, because there's safety in Christ. There's safety in this trustworthy word. There's safety in exposing our weakness to the word of God. And so we embark on a study of humility. Better hit something here. Internally, I must tell you there's still this voice that's raging in my head. Tim, you arrogant cuss! What gives you the right to preach on humility? Truth be told, you're the expert in pride. How come that's not your topic? Well, we'll get there. Because when you look at humility, you must look at its counterpart. It's it's opposition, the pride of our heart If I were to stand here and preach from my expertise on humility, interview my family members and give you manyfold example of my humbleness around house and church. I should quit before I start. Because pride is natural to me, and humility is a supernatural gift. From God. So I don't stand here as an expert in humility. I stand here as one given an awesome responsibility and privilege to preach to you the Word of God, wherein we see humility. In its perfect state. Last several weeks I have um discovered More about my prideful heart as I go along. I was going through a cranky period. Cranky spell You know, we look we like those those terms that help us, crankiness and stuff like that, stressed out. It helps us to avoid the more biblically accurate terms like unrighteous anger. Hatefulness, arrogance, pride, self-centeredness. That's my cranky period And uh Dana, as is most often than not the one who helped me with this. sees this expression of crankiness flowing out into everything. Tim, you've you gotta get a handle on something. You've got to go away and do something. And as I take that sound advice from my spouse who knows me better than I know myself and investigate, Lord, why am I so cranky? What's going on in here? Because I always start with the exercise of what's going on out there. And that's what happened. You start with that exercise, God says, look where you're cranky. And look how you respond cranky. Again, I'm just using that term because it makes me feel better. And I noticed something about those cranky times. I was either in meetings or just finished meetings or getting ready for meetings or get-togethers with people. That I disagreed with or disagreed with me. Can you imagine The unmitigated temerity of those to disagree with me. See the arrogance in that? Not in them. Not in them, beloved, in here. The arrogance of my heart that says, to disagree with me is to make you an enemy. Right? Because what's being challenged there? What's being challenged there is my ripeness. My ripeness. In several of those events, I still firmly believe that the position I was holding to was the right one. But to approach that with that anger and all the other things that were associated with it is sin. And the sin at the root of all those other things, my lack of faithfulness, my lack of patience, my lack of love, my lack of integrity. Is the bitter root of pride that comes by my way naturally It was pride that first set itself up in Lucifer against our Creator. Pride that Ezekiel 14 alludes to, that that, that He sprung up and wanted to make himself a high and lofty place, and he was cast down. It was pride that entered into temptation when Satan came tempting Adam and Eve. Has God surely said Aren't you the authority in your life? Can't you decide what's best for you? You see pride in all of that, and the fruit is taken, and the fruit is eaten, because pride Loves to be in charge and be right. And so these cranky times, I must confess, are times when pride is rearing its ugly head. And I need this lesson in humility. So I want to look uh three things today Lord Willing, chapter two today, some commentary about Philippians in general, chapter one, maybe alluded to, chapter three next week, a portion of that, and then Lord Willing, chapter four. On the 12th of November. What is humility? Why should we pursue humility? And How do we, knowing who we are, how do we pursue humility? I want to start You know that that sermon discussion class, Alan, is very helpful. He told me it was like, man, you'll get some good stuff. And the one point I want to emphasize, even as you see that outline Is that there is no time in this life when you and I can say, oh good, I've arrived. I've got humility. I'm done with that. Move on to next. And that's why in this outline of constructed it this way, to pursue humility, to make it our diligent effort to To seek God to work this virtue out in us. That's what Paul was talking about here. In the first couple of verses, he's speaking to the followers of Christ. Come on, let each of you look not only to his own interest, but also to the interest of others. Do nothing from rivalry or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. And it's as if the Philippians reading that might utter that objection or question out loud. How are we to do that? We know who we are. And Paul says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus our Lord. Who though he was equal with God, very God of God, the agent of creation, Christ spoke and all things were brought into existence. The word of God. Fully God, though he was equal with God, did not consider that equality something to be grasped something to be held tightly to, something to hold on to, but he willingly, he freely gave that up. laid that down and became obedient, obedient to the Father. And though he was the form of God is Greek word here means the form that you need to be that nature. Though he was in the form of God, he took on the form of the servant. He took on flesh. He sweat. He got hungry. He got tired. Son of God, son of man. He sang it so many times this morning. Son of God, Son of Man. And so he left his father's throne. Took on the form of a servant and humbled himself and became obedient to death. Even death on a cross. See that Death on the cross. For the Lord of glory, death on a cross Paul wants to show that humiliation of Christ, the condescending of Christ, that Epitome of humility. He who was equal with God did not grasp that tightly but gave it up. Why? Because his sins needed to be atoned for? No. Beloved, never. Because our sins needed an atoning sacrifice. Our sins needed a perfect, righteous record to be offered to a holy God. John read it from Hebrews chapter 2 that he has become the propitiation for us. He has appeased the wrath of an angry God who is angry at sinners every day. He took that on for you and for me, took on flesh for you and for me, became obedient, obedient to the will of the Father, obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross, and then Paul says, therefore For God hath highly exalted him, highly exalted him, Jesus And has bestowed on him the name that is above every name. You've heard this. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Amen. You see, when when when Paul's letter arrives in Philippians, he says, don't do anything out of any selfish-centered motive, don't do anything out of any vain conceit. Don't Don't consider yourselves more highly than the other, but consider them more highly and interact like that. And they say, how? How? See Christ. See Christ. So what is humility? Humility in Christ Is an incredible demonstration of the length to which God has gone to rescue sinners from their destruction and to restore us to Himself. In Christ, that's the definition of humility. In Christ, it's the demonstration of this incredible act of condescension. For Christ to die in your place and in my place for my sin and for your sin. It's incredible. Amazing grace. How sweet the sound saved a wretch like me. A wretch, you say? Yeah, because humility in us is that supernatural work of God. Supernaturally given, the work of God that is produced in us as Christ's completed work has its saving effect in our hearts, in our minds, in our lives. For his glory and for our good Who would choose humiliation to get the blessings of God? And yet that's exactly what Paul is, I believe, trying to develop throughout this entire letter. To the followers of Christ, he says this, listen, in keeping with the design and the wisdom of God. from all eternity that would give the righteous Son of God in your sinful place, in keeping with that design. It is through the pathway of humiliation that we receive our salvation. First and foremost, his humiliation. But second, and in response to our humiliation. And so I would suggest to you this definition. It's a compilation of many And uh it's what I want to use for the next three weeks, Lord willing. Humility is produced in us when we acknowledge and agree with the reality of our condition in light of God's holiness and our sinfulness. Humility is produced in us when we acknowledge and agree with the reality of our condition in light of God's holiness and our sinfulness. It's in rightly seeing God in all of his glory. And it's in rightly seeing ourselves as unrighteous and un ill-deserving of his grace, that humility is produced in our hearts. And Christ in turn is glorified in our lives. This is salt and light. The series is not finished. It's Christ producing that work in us which astounds the watching world. The world does not act in humility. Amy Carmichael, that missionary to the people of India. Said, those who think too much of themselves don't think enough. Those who think too much of themselves don't think enough. And I gotta ask the question that's raging still inside me might be unsettling to you But if you're reacting to a sermon that confronts your pride and says you have it, what does that say about where you're at? What does that say about your heart? The question is not if pride exists in us. It's where and how it manifests itself. Pride comes natural to a child of Adam. Humility, a supernatural work of God's grace in us. And so we embark together if you will, on this pursuit of humility. The pursuit of humility. Why should we pursue humility? Why? Well, let me answer it three ways quickly. The first is the scriptures commanded. Period And yet I feel compelled to put this as a part of this structure of this sermon. Why should we pursue humility? I feel like I need to argue that case. Well, why? Because my pride rears up, your pride rears up. I don't need to pursue humility. The scriptures command it. Knowing what's best for us, God gives the command. Look at the church, the church fathers, the pillars of the first century church. Peter tells us in 1 Peter 5, clothe yourself. with humility toward one another. Humble yourself under the mighty hand of God, that in due time God will lift you up. Paul implored the Christians in Ephesus to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which they had been called with humility and with gentleness. James admonished his readers to humble themselves in the sight of the Lord. He will exalt them. You see Peter and Paul and James, the pillars of the church, were simply echoing the words and the thoughts of their Lord. And Jesus in Matthew 23 says that the greatest among you Shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself shall be humbled, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Why pursue humility? Because the scriptures command it. The scriptures go on with those commands to instruct us about the dangerous, deceptive power of pride in our heart. The dangerous, destructive, deceptive power of pride within us, within us all. Scriptures give stern warnings about the danger of pride in the heart of man. Proverbs 16, one example. Says that everyone with a proud heart is an abomination to the Lord. He will not go unpunished. Those are scary, terrifying words. Proverbs 18, 12, we've probably used this maybe too often with our kids. I know it was used with me. I opened up uh Comcast uh homepage a couple of weeks ago, and um, you know, a little fan comes up and you can watch these videos from the news. Chicago Marathon winner. Anybody seen that story? Chicago Marathon winner as he's coming in To the finish line. He's in front of everybody. Raises his arms in victory. About three feet in front of the little tape thing that you break. I've never been in a race, so I don't know what that is And as he raises his hands, he slips on the pavement, does a mow and a curly straight back onto his skull. And as he's getting up, dazed and confused, asks his uh coach, what happened? Did I win? And to me, it was the he was okay, maybe a slight concussion, but to me it was the picture of Proverbs 18. Pride goeth before a fall. Before destruction, the heart of a man is haughty. It was just that quick little slip. And I give him his due. He won the race and all that. But it was a just a great picture of what we're into. Challenge you to name one ministry leader, one nationally recognized ministry person whose ministry has fallen because they were steeped in humility. You can't do it. But name many, uh name all, and you could probably trace back to where pride took over. They kept those who could reach in at arm's length. From them. They were not accountable to anyone. Touch not the Lord's anointed, they some may have used. How about us? Is there someone in our life that speaks to that heart place? I hope so. Pride must be rooted out. The scriptures command it to pursue humility. The scriptures talk about the dangers of pride. The scriptures also teach that pride brings If you need it anymore, here it is. The pride brings the active opposition of the Lord. But humility enables the heart to receive God's grace. Need we any other argumentation to pursue humility as a congregation, as individuals, as the people of God? God opposes the proud, but he gives his grace in abundance to the humble. What's wrong with that old phrase, that old adage? God helps those who help themselves. What's wrong with that? It's not biblical. It's not true. God does not help those who help themselves, who sometimes who feel as if they can We'll come forty percent of the way, Lord, you make us a sixty percent, we'll do seventy-thirty, I'll find a fifty-five. God is not into that. It brings him no glory If you can save yourself from the destruction of sin. Rather, God helps those Who humble themselves. That's what James and Peter teach when they say God opposes the proud. So why should we pursue humility? It's where we need to be. Which is you? God helps those who help themselves, or God helps those who humble themselves. There's a book on humility written by C. J. Mahaney, and I want to pull a quote from him And maybe refer to it. This quote got me. I highlighted, I penciled it, I wrote notes in the margin, I put a little sticky thing on the page He says that the essence of pride is contending for supremacy with God and lifting up our hearts against him. The essence of pride in you and in me is this contending for supremacy with God, not willing to do things God's way. And especially in light of salvation. The end goal of all pride is self-glorification. I sometimes teach the high school over here in the Potter's House basement. So great time. You should go visit there if you get a chance. And we're studying reformed theology right now. I think they talked about movies this morning. See how that fits together? Good. Then you're tracking. But one of the little helpful hints I hope can be for them I've given them is whenever you look at an ideology or a theology, or something that presents truth about God, truth about man, and anthropology. If you can remember this little quiz to take I think it will help you out. Does this thought before me, this thought being presented, does it exalt God or does it exalt man? If this theology exalts God, then I probably should give it more thought, pursue it further. If this theology, this ideology exalts man to a high level, high state, I think agreeing with Christ's words, I probably need to be suspect. Of this thought John Stott, the uh British theologian, pastor, author, says at every stage of our Christian development And in every sphere of our Christian discipleship, pride is the greatest enemy, and humility our greatest friend. Hear that? Pride is our greatest enemy. It keeps us from fellowship with God. It brings his active opposition. It stands in the way of us serving one another in love. Moving forward in ministry, whatever goal you have that's Christ-centered, you cannot achieve if pride is at the forefront. So pride, our greatest enemy, humility, our greatest friend. Okay, Tim How, knowing who we are, do we pursue humility? How do we pursue humility, knowing what we're capable of? I think we have to go to Paul. In verse 12, he has just presented this picture of Christ crucified for sinners. And he says, therefore, in light of this, therefore, my beloved. Therefore, as you have already obeyed, so now not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence. Remember, he's writing from prison. He can't be with them in person, and he says, Listen The thing to do is this. And we wait. Open ears, we wait. What do we do? How do we pursue humility? Because that's where he starts chapter 2. He presents the example of Christ and then he says, therefore now work out your salvation. With fear and with trembling. And if he stops there, we're doomed. If he stopped with that thought and moved on to another concept, we're hopeless. We're lost. We can't do that. And so in light of God's sovereign activity, recognizing the sovereign activity of God, it's a call to action. A call to our part as well. Resting in Jesus is not relaxing. Resting in Jesus is working In the finished work, resting in the finished work that Christ has accomplished. And so Paul says, work out your salvation with fear and with trembling, because do you not know? That it is God who works in you, both to will and to work, for his good pleasure. In the first chapter, Paul says, my beloved Philippians, I long to be with you there, but I cannot be with you there. I'm encouraged when I hear of your growth in the in the Lord. In fact, I give thanksgiving to God when I hear of your love that it may abound more and more in knowledge and depth of insight. Because God who is faithful is completing you. He who has begun a good work in you will be faithful to complete that work in the day of Christ Jesus. And so he's encouraging us in turn with that. Recognizing God's sovereign activity. We pursue humility. How do we do it? We gaze intently at the cross of Jesus Christ Take in the wonder of what it means for a holy God to take on flesh, to suffer and to bleed and to die for you. Take in the wonder of what it means for you with a vile black heart that would be prone to wander and leave the God you love to be adopted as his child. To be cared for until the day of completion, ever winnowing away those things that don't bring God glory John Owen said, fill your affections with the cross of Christ that there be no room for sin left in it. Martin Lloyd Jones said, There's only one thing I know of that crushes me to the ground and humiliates me to the dust, and that is to look at the Son of God and to especially contemplate the cross. Nothing else can do it. When I see that I am a sinner, nothing but the Son of God on the cross can save me. When I see that, I'm humbled to the dust. Nothing but the cross can give us the spirit of humility when I survey the wondrous cross On which the Prince of Glory died, my riches gain, I count but loss, I pour contempt on all my pride. Gaze at the cross. Go to the cross. We follow the same pattern. We see this pattern We go to the cross where humiliation takes place in our hearts. You can't stand on your own record there at the foot of the cross. I talked earlier about how I was cranky. One of the uh meetings that I was scheduled for was a meeting with a couple of couples. Dane and I were involved. And um I didn't want to go to that meeting. I was cranky. And it wasn't just cranky. I was really upset. And what was happening to my heart was my rightness, yeah, had been challenged And we were going to hear how a person was confessing that an accusation they had made was not valid, not right. And yet I still couldn't go because that wasn't enough. It's like, uh, I'm just gonna be found right. Why am I still upset? I worked through the different layers of this thing, and at the core, at the bottom, what I realized I was doing was, you know what's going to be in view in that meeting? You know what's going to be in view in that meeting is the sins that I have committed. What's going to be potentially discussed is why this person, why the accusation was so hurtful. And my precious wife was going to be sitting next to me, and she's the one that's been most grossly affected by those sins. And you know, I just didn't want to go there. Why? Because condemnation was coming my way. And I want to turn this if I can. I know it's, you know, the end of the message and all this stuff. But in that condemnation, pride was so very evident. Why? Because it was still all about me. It wasn't just my good works in view, it was also that it was about me and that this condemnation. I didn't want to go there, I didn't want to be disturbed by the the thoughts of the sins of my past. And you know, there is no other answer except going to the cross of Jesus Christ. Dana again in that Saturday evening before that meeting took place. You've got to do why are you so angry? What's going on? And as I processed that, I saw Christ again Why was I to fear condemnation in that meeting? Why was I to fear not being right in that meeting? There is no fear. Perfect love drives out fear. I can go to that meeting now because Christ is my righteousness and Christ. is my forgiveness. And so I go to that meeting, and the confession comes from this other. And forgiveness is extended through me You believe that? Forgiveness, grace, mercy, it all flowed from me to this other. Amazingly so. It didn't require effort on my part. I wasn't mustering up a kind attitude or uh just the right concise statement to make them feel better about what they had done. It was God at work and through me. To his glory. Let me tell you, to his glory. Because what comes natural to me is not what that was. But what comes supernatural to me as I look upon the cross Is what occurred that day, and what occurs as we give God the room to work in our hearts. He opposes the pride that would stand and say, I need not you. But humility is produced in us when we acknowledge and agree with our condition In light of God's holiness and our sinfulness. And He meets us there. I want to leave you with those three thoughts there in the bulletin outline. What in your life could be hindering you from acknowledging and agreeing with the reality of who you are? Do you have someone in your life who is in your life that points you to the cross on a consistent basis? You need that. I need that. I desperately need to surround myself with people who have been to the cross themselves and are pursuing humility with me. How would confessing your sin as contending for the supremacy of God, how does that change the way you view sin? Let me pray for us, because we need his spirit. Father, please work in us. We want, we need, we must have you at work in us. And I pray, God, that you would root out pride. We trust you, Lord. You're a gracious Heavenly Father. You're merciful. You meet us right where we need to be met. We trust you, Father, to do the work particularly in each one of us that needs to be done. Cause us to be a beacon on a hill, a light. to the community, not puffed up in what we've done or could accomplish, but Lord, shining forth the light of Christ. As you produce humility in us, we pray for this in Jesus' name. Amen.