Thank you. What a what a beautiful uh What a beautiful presentation of God's activity. Powerful stuff. God's activity. It's uh it's mysterious stuff, God's activity It's glorious stuff. God's activity to work in us I want to uh to read uh from Philippians four, our text, some of our text for today. Paul the Apostle to the beloved church in Philippi says this Therefore, my brothers, whom I love and long for, my joy and my crown, stand firm thus in the Lord, my beloved. I entreat Yodia and I entreat Sinticae to agree in the Lord. Yes, I ask you, true companion, help these women Who have labored side by side with me in the gospel, together with Clement and the rest of my fellow workers whose names are in the book of life. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say: rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely. Whatever is commendable. If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. We come to this Third in the series of three messages on humility, the humiliation series We want humility, but we're reluctant to go through the process that God has ordained whereby He produces humility in us through the valley of humiliation. Those times of humbling, they uh they they show up when you least expect them. Massive times that draw your attention intently to them, or slight times, but all times of humbling One showed up last night as I was putting the kids to bed. I brought it on myself Hey guys, tell me what daddy's been preaching on last couple weeks. First response, did you preach last week? Yeah. Humility, Daddy And then that person was telling I was I thought you meant w did you have you led worship recently. I said that's okay But those times come, don't they? Times that that hit our pride head on And if it's about me, that's devastating. If it's about my record of rightness, a comment like that will devastate you. If it's about Christ, then you can laugh with your family and tuck them into bed It's those times of humbling that we have trouble with It's those times of humbling where God gets our attention. We trust It's those times of humbling where in response to the mystery of this life, the hardship of this life, we cry out the only question that probably won't have a complete answer until glory. Why? Why me? Why now? Why this When we see this beauty of Christ The wisdom of God displayed in this valley of humiliation. Thank you, ladies, for that reminder. Though this humbling wouldn't be my decision, but it's there your glory shines so bright. So let me learn that the cross precedes the crown. To be low is to be high, that the valleys where you make me more like Christ That's what I want. I want to be like Christ. Problem is we we want it now without the pathway that God has ordained. I have a little I have a little magic wand in my office. It's a little plastic, about eight, ten inches long. It's got a pink frilly heart at the end of it. It's to remind me of a couple of things. One, that I have a bunch of girly girls. My girls are all girl, my boys are all boy, and uh Cala. I just wanted to see if she was paying attention. Humbling. A cala will play with the wand while she's here, but it's always a reminder Gotta stick the wand back inside the empty Coke bottle. Because it's a reminder for Daddy when he meets with people that there is no magic wand. It's a piece of plastic. And that the way that God produces in us the likeness of Christ is through sometimes very difficult times, trials of life, suffering with Him. And Paul knows that. There's no magic wand. Humiliation, however, Paul says, precedes true rejoicing. And so if we're to leave this series with just the idea of humiliation, that just the idea of despondency, just the idea that floating around, that all these things that are bad leave us there. Paul wants to correct that thinking. And he closes this letter to his beloved church in Philippi with a rejoicing and a call to rejoicing. Calls you and I to rejoice. Let me ask you a question before we even think about this topic of joy. What brings you joy? What brings you joy? Is it an event? Vacation? Is it a place? That lakefront that you enjoy? Is it a person? What brings you joy? I believe it's okay for us to acknowledge that we have this deep longing within for joy. You and I know countless stories, too many to mention, of friends and loved ones, maybe we are a picture of this. Those who would pursue that longing for joy with the world. Ever searching, ever seeking for something to fill that void. C. S. Lewis said that if I find in myself a desire which no experience in this world can satisfy, the most probable explanation is That I was made for another world. We are made for another world. And this pilgrimage that seems so torturously long sometimes is but a blink of an eye in light of eternity. I want to suggest to you that if your joy, if my joy is derived primarily from something other than the person and the work of Jesus Christ, then that joy is not true joy, and it is temporary joy, and in fact we're wrong to even assign the word joy to it. About a month ago, I wrote these words in my little notebook. My circumstances can never serve as the source of my joy. but rather my circumstances can and should serve to drive me back To the source of my joy, the true source of my joy. And Paul realized that fact. In fact, in this little letter He mentions the word joy, some form or expression of that word, sixteen times. In just this brief letter, he delights in the work of God in the Philippians. They've made his joy complete. He prays that their love may abound more and more and increase his joy. He even gets joy from the fact that the enemies of the cross preach Christ To make it bad for Paul's situation. And Paul says, I receive joy from that. Why? Because Christ is proclaimed in their malicious way. So joy saturates this letter. This letter where he calls us as followers of Christ through the valley of humiliation. Joy And humiliation. So I ask Myself, I ask you, is your life marked by joy? That's what Paul wants to draw our attention to here. Is your life marked by joy when others see Jesus in you and say, I want that? Please give me a reason for the hope that you have within that encounters the difficulties of this life and responds with joy. If our lives are not marked by joy, then maybe we're not acknowledging the pride that's in our heart. Think about it. And that's what I think Paul wants to call the Philippians' attention to. He wants to call our attention to that very thought. Is my life marked by joy? If not, then am I truly acknowledging the pride of my own heart, the self- Glorification of my own heart, the self-absorption of my sinful condition. So Paul gives this command Before we get to the command in verse 4, I just want to show Paul's train of thought. Remember, last week we talked about humiliation precedes reconciliation, and Paul entreats these two women. These two precious saints whose names are written in the book of life. And he tells them. Look, also notice, he doesn't just lump them in together. He says, I entreat Yodia. And I entreat Synticae, to agree in the Lord. At some point in time, these two were at loggerheads. At some point, they were not reconciled. They were at war with one another. Who knows what the situation was. But Paul says, listen, in view of Christ and what Christ has done, I entreat you, Iodia, and I entreat you, Syntica. Agree with one another in the Lord Reconcile yourself. Time is short. Life is fleeting. Why do you hold the grudge Reconcile. And then Paul says, From the prison cell in Rome, Paul says, Rejoice. Rejoice. In the Lord rejoice. And again, I'll say it again. Rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord always. You see there, I realized last night that this outline contains about four messages, so I apologize for that, but this is one of them. This is a sermon in and of itself. Paul says that there is a command resting on you to rejoice. It's in the imperative. It's a command, and what are we to do with that command? Wait, that's a fruit of the spirit. It's not a command. How can it be a command? It's the fruit. I can't produce that fruit? That's The wisdom of God. Every commandment of God that rests on you and me to be perfectly obedient to causes us to see our inability to obey the commands of God. And drives us to the knowledge that we are lawbreakers, drives us to the glory that Christ is the law keeper and that because of his life lived. And his death died, we have the righteousness of God available to us through faith. And because of that death where he paid the price And justice smiles and asks no more. We have rejoicing available to us The command to rejoice. It's a command to rejoice. You see those little boxes that Mrs. Mitzel laid out for you. To rejoice in the Lord. This is not a giddy, circumstantial happiness that comes and goes like the wind. This is substantial rejoicing that grounded and founded in Jesus Christ, his person, his work, his promises, his faithfulness. This is rejoicing in the Lord. And Paul says, rejoice in the Lord always. There is an enemy that prowls about, Peter tells us, like a roaring lion seeking that which he can devour, always on duty. Wanting to rob you of your joy in the Lord. Knowing full well that the joy of the Lord is your strength. It's your wherewithal to resist temptation to serve one another in humility. The devil is constantly on duty, Paul says, to rejoice in the Lord always. in all circumstance, in all manner of trial that present itself, whether small or great And then it's as if Paul is anticipating the Philippian response. Maybe you're in my response as well. What did he say? Can he possibly be any more out of it? And Paul says, you heard me right Again, I will say it. I will emphasize this to the day I die. Rejoice. You see that? One message down, six to go. Paul then goes on to describe the pride in our hearts. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and in due time he will lift you up. Paul says, listen. The humility that God is producing you in producing in you as you view the cross of Christ, as you allow God's work to have its full reign in your heart. Paul says, let this reasonableness be known to everyone, because the Lord is at hand. That word reasonableness in the Greek is a difficult word to find, just one word to translate. It it carries with it this idea of a humble submission, a willingness to lay down oneself, one's rights for the sake of another. It's got all that packed meaning in that one Greek word. And Paul says, listen, as God works in you And produce humility in you as you see your sin and you see it paid for on the cross, let that reasonableness be known to everyone. Wherever you find yourself, serve in Christ. Rejoice in the Lord. Why? What what's the motive, Paul? And Paul says, because the Lord is at hand, he's constantly keeping our attention fixed on the fact that this life That we get so caught up in and so wrapped up in that this life is but a blink of an eye in eternity. Paul says, let your reasonableness be known to all. You can release that right to be right. You can give up that control because the Lord is at hand. Now that means that he is present, he is near, but I believe also in light of the context from the end of Philippians 3, Paul is saying There is a time and it is imminent, it is coming soon, when we eagerly await the Savior from heaven who will At one point in time in history, transform our lowly bodies into a glorious body like his own, a body fit for eternity, and we will dwell with him forever. The trumpet shall sound. The Lord shall descend. Praise the Lord. Oh my soul. It is well That trumpet may not sound this afternoon for the world, but possibly for one of us. I don't know. In light of that, do you want to hold the grudge? Do you want to stay at odds with your brethren? That's Paul's point That's Paul's point. And then he says, look, let me show you again the pride of your heart. He says, an anxious heart is really a proud heart. An anxious heart is all caught up in self-glorification, is all caught up in what is good for me, what affects me, and Paul says a dependent heart. A humble heart is a praying heart. An anxious heart is not a rejoicing heart. The two are mutually exclusive. Please don't make the mistake that what some slap on for joy when they get out of their car in the parking lot and throw on the religiously generated smile and enter the enter the congregation and they're asked the question and they answer fine and they keep on going and they muddle through Sunday school. Just So as they can make it back to their car. It's not joy. It's not a rejoicing. And it's not what we're called to. Do you remember Jesus' words in Matthew in John 15? He said, These things I speak to you, these teachings I leave with you. My joy is complete. That's a statement of fact. Jesus says, I have full and complete joy. For the joy set before him, he endured the cross for your sake and mine. He says, My joy is complete. I do these things so that your joy, my joy be in you, and your joy be complete, be full, be mature. Unbelief, see there, John Piper quote there. Unbelief is really a turning away from God and his son in order to seek satisfaction in other things. Pride is a turning away from God specifically to take satisfaction in self. And this could be a really nasty looking satisfaction if we're always the one in view. Even in the worst of victimization, then that's pride. And that's a tough thought. That's a tough pill to swallow Paul says the anxious heart is a proud heart, because the humble heart is a dependent heart. He says, look at the look at the posture of humility in this verse. The posture of humility. Dependence on him in prayer. Psalm 50 and verse 15, you see this. Here's another little mini sermon for you. The psalmist says, and call up this is the this is the voice of God speaking. Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me. You see, our part is dependence Our part in the equation is abject dependence on God. Crying out to Him. His part, deliverance. Our part, dependence, his part, deliverance. And then we get to glorify God in a way that exalts him. And recognizes our condition. Remember our definition: humility is produced in us when we acknowledge and agree with Our condition in light of God's holiness and in light of our sinfulness. And Paul says a praying heart is a humble heart. See the promise there? The promise contained in this posture of dependence is that Jesus will guard your heart and your mind. He'll protect you from those anxious thoughts. He'll drive them from you, and he'll meet you at the point of your greatest need. Later on in the letter in verse 19, Paul says, I have received. These things. And then he says, And my God will supply every need of yours according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus. To our God and Father be glory forever. Amen. You see that? Reminded of the hymn. Oh, what a friend we have in Jesus. All our sins and griefs to bear. What a privilege to carry everything to God in prayer. Oh, what peace we often forfeit. Oh, what needless pain we bear, all because we do not carry Everything to God in prayer. Rejoicing in the Lord, allowing that healthy humbling to take place in my heart releases me from. Avoiding desperate situations. It's in the desperate situations that Christ wants us to move into. It's there the people need to know the hope of Christ. Releases me to go ahead and approach desperation, desperate situations. See this most noted probably when I sit down with a remote control. You flip past channels of starving children and pleas for help and de devastation and destruction on the news and I'll scroll quickly past them to find someone who's doing stand-up comedy. Or somebody remodeling their kitchen. But we can go to the desperate situation. Two things happen when we engage with desperate situations. Two options become available: despair or prayer. And sometimes, more often than not in my life, despair leads me to prayer So it's not that the despair is wrong, it's that I become very quickly reminded that I cannot do anything about this situation. It is totally beyond my control And he drives me again to that humble posture of a dependent child crying out with thanksgiving for what he has done, presenting my request to him. And the promise is that he'll guard my heart, guard my mind in Christ Jesus. A renewed mind, Paul says, makes this rejoicing possible. See there, very quickly He says, brothers, the peace that you have as a result of this posture of humility is that which surpasses the the understanding of humans. We don't understand how people can have that peace in the midst of pain and trial. And Paul says, a renewed mind affords the heart this kind of rejoicing. Brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is lovely, pure, commendable. If there's anything excellent, anything praiseworthy, think on these things and encourage one another to think on these things. That's how our minds are renewed. Why are we confused when we're all despondent and despairing when we've not availed ourselves to the truth of God's Word, to the promises of Christ? We should not be surprised at our hearts' reaction if we've not allowed God's truth to penetrate our minds and to renew them. Sometimes that's just as simple as being able to identify the difference between an inconvenience and a true trial. We overreact way too often, I think. Maybe you're familiar with the old saying. That a lump in the oatmeal and a lump in the breast are not the same kind of lump How many of us elevate the inconveniences of this life way beyond proportion Because we're caught up in earthly things. We're caught up in an earthly mindset that must have it right here, right now, or we won't be happy And Paul says, fix your mind on the things of heaven. That's the end of chapter 3. That's what he's teaching them. Paul concludes this thought, if you will. I'll I'll conclude this sermon anyway. With the idea that this kind of contentment in Christ, this resting in his finished work, this fixing my gaze on heavenly things, Appreciating and acknowledging my citizenship is in heaven, purchased for me by another. Paul says that contentment in Christ is that which releases my heart to rejoice. I want to close with a picture of self-absorption. A discouraging picture of self-absorption. But a picture None the less of God's powerful work to redeem. A couple of uh weeks ago, I guess it's been now maybe a month I was at a house and this house is s really great. It's uh well decorated. There's uh healthy income that has purchased this house and furnished this house and uh the gracious host of this house had uh me and others in for um uh meeting And so the house was nice. The setting was great. And then in the midst of this meeting, there was another who was there who was sharing about an opportunity that was coming on the horizon for them. Great opportunity, wonderful uh potential to to make a lot of money, to be happy doing what they want to do and have longed to do for years. And I was caught up in this. Rejoicing with them, the blessings of God in view. And I left the meeting, left the time at this home, and I got into my nineteen ninety-four Nissan Sentra. That my mother-in-law, a grandmother, gave to me. Squeaky brakes, leaking oil, transmission fluid I drove home in my uh aquamarine, whatever sea foam blue it is, pulled into the driveway, saw the flat on the red van that needed fixing Walked into the house, saw the sheetrock, ceiling in the dining room that still needs to be done. I sat down at the table. Dana was working on something for her homeschool the next day. And she said something to me. And I sat there And she said the same thing again. Tim, what is wrong with you? Because I didn't hear her the first time. Because I was so caught up in myself. And my sighing that I could not hear her the first time around. And as I started to relate what I thought was wrong, I realized. What's wrong is my circumstances were serving as the source of my joy I had written that little sentence in my notebook that morning. The irony was not lost on me. My circumstances, your circumstances can never serve as the source of our joy. But rather, our circumstances can and should drive us back to the source of true joy. Go ahead and enter into desperate situations because it's in them that we Know for real that Jesus is our only hope. Amen. Let me pray for us. Father, we ask that you would work this truth in us. There are so many wonderful truths to be found. In your word, we pray that you would penetrate our hearts and our minds, Lord Jesus. We thank you for the promise as we cry out in dependence on you to answer. To cause us to be humbled. Lord, that you would be high and lifted up in our lives, in this church, in this community, because we want it to be all about you. Father, work this out. We pray it in the powerful, matchless name of Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.