Amazing when you think that if the Lord gave us life, no matter how much of it, if it was not forever, He gave us millions of years, we trusted him. And we'd always lived that million years thinking, but now I only got nine hundred thousand left, you know. And if you're like me, a lot of people I talk to as you get older, you find the years go quicker. And you find, boy, where did this Christmas season go? Where did nineteen eighty four go? The time's going so quickly. Seems like it accelerates through the years, doesn't it? Imagine what it would be like after a couple thousand years or a few hundred thousand. It'd just be going like that, you know, before there is another decade, just like that, you know. No matter how much life The Lord gave us, if it was limited, we would be robbed of our joy, always thinking of the answer. And He's given us eternal life. But with that eternal life, if His mercy was somehow limited, we'd always be afraid that we'd outlive His mercy. But the gospel gives us the promise that both life and his mercy endure for us. Amazing. To say that This last year was a year of disaster for your friend. Let's see, this that would be the volume. To say that this last year has been a disaster for your friend. would be to put it mildly. First of all, he lost his job. Then after that, a short time later he lost his home. And then he lost all the savings. And then in a tragic accident all of his children were killed. And now just recently he's learned that he has cancer and he only has a few years to live. And here it is, New Year's, 1985. What are you going to say to your friends? You yourself have been impressed with the brevity of your own life as you can think of just a year ago, seems so recently that you were reading articles about nineteen eighty four is upon us and that infamous year of George Orwell. And you think of all the things that were prophesied about nineteen eighty four and you think how that year was just beginning and forward. That was past it. Forward to going into nineteen eighty five. I just pulled out recently just this week in fact that uh an article from the New Republic. And the article is entitled, We Might Make It Through the Seventies, written at the end of nineteen sixty nine. At a time when that kind of a statement It was taken very seriously. We might make it through the 70s. And here it is already, middle of 1980s. Time goes so quickly. And your friend is lamenting both the brevity of his Life and he's thinking of all the tragedy that has hit him in this last year. What is it that you're going to have to offer? What can you say to him in all of his grief? You visited him recently, and he asserts that he's done nothing to deserve all of this misfortune that's come over me this last year. What has he done if God would treat him so harshly? And that's made you a little uneasy. Because you've just read a collection of stories and essays on suffering. And if there's one thing that came through loud and clear in this book that you are reading, it's that we basically reap what we sow. That basically our lives are the outworking of the things that we ourselves produce the karma principle. Everything works out in the end, and you reap what you yourself have sown. And so if your friend keeps protesting his innocence in his suffering, your uneasiness turns to anger. And finally, because you can't stand his arrogance anymore in protesting that all of this has come upon him in a way that doesn't seem fair, you finally let him have it. And that's basically the scene of Job VIII. So now turn him, Job VIII. And with that background I want you to understand what's going on in that story. Because Job is your friend and you will build that. And so I want you to see what the Lord has to say to Job in this situation. Job chapter 8. Read the first ten verses of that chapter. Let's hear God's own word. Then Bildad the Shuhite replied, How long will you say such things? Your words are a blustering wind. Does God pervert justice? Does the Almighty pervert justice? what is right. When your children sinned against him, he gave them over to the penalty of their sin. But if you will look to God and plead with the Almighty, if you are pure and upright, even now he will rouse himself. On your behalf and restore you to your rightful place. Your beginnings will seem humble, so prosperous will your future be. Ask the former generations and find out what their father is. And know nothing, and our days on earth are but a shadow. Will they not instruct you and tell you? Will they not? bring forth words from their understanding. And Bildad goes on to talk about what he's read recently and the writings that he's been looking over. But I want you to see what's going on here. Gilbad, after having heard Job again and again protest his innocence in all the suffering that he's undergoing, finally says in verse 2: in the way that we would put it in our vernaculars, Job, you're a win-back. You're nothing but a bunch of hot ass. I can't stand listening to you anymore. Now this is remember, after Bilbat has come and visited and listened to Job for seven straight days in silence. So he's not an unsympathetic friend who has just barged in the door to drop His wisdom on Job. He's listened for seven days. I don't know how much you've ever listened to a friend in grief or suffering, but I can never remember listening to somebody for seven days before I offered my first piece of advice. So Bill Dad put Why did it then fought into this? And after listening for one solemn speech, his first outburst is, Guilt, you're a bunch of hot air. Guilt, you're accusing God of injustice because you say you're suffering unrighteously. Don't you know, Job, it must be because your children sinned that God punished them. That's what he says in verse 4. It's because of your children's own sin. Unless God's unjust. And Job, even you now, if you'll turn Turn from your evil. God will be just to hear you and to restore you, so he says in verses five, six, and seven. And then notice what he pulls out as his authority for this observation. He said, ask the former generations. This is particularly appropriate to notice at the beginning of a new year, towards the end of an old year. Ask the former generations, Joe, find out what their fathers learned. Why? Because you and I were only born yesterday. We don't know anything. Our days are just a shadow. If you want to find anything out, you've got to ask history. You've got to look at the accumulation of man's wisdom in order to learn anything. Because we live so short. And we can't be so arrogant as to say, I've learned from my own experience that this is the principle of life. That's absolute foolishness. You think you know it all, Joe. And from these observations, I would like to suggest that there are two very valuable lessons for you and for me to learn at the end of the year and then thinking about the beginning of 1980. First of all, we see in this book a wrong and a right view of history, a wrong and right attitude toward history. And then secondly, I want us to observe a wrong and a right attitude toward suffering. What is first of all then a wrong and a right attitude toward history illustrated here? You see, first of all, the wrong attitude toward history. That's illustrated in this text. The first is what the Bill has a Using Job of. He's saying, Job, you have a wrong attitude about history. You're arrogant. You think you know it all. You don't think you need to ask anyone else. Now, few people would be so arrogant as to think that they know, you know. that there's no one else they need to consult, that they don't need to read something that someone else has written in a former time. But the second error, the second accusation I think is much more popular. And that is that you think that at least you and your contemporaries know all there is that's worth knowing. That nothing written in history is worth looking at. Nothing that was written before 1900 on the subject of suffering or on the subject of anything else that concerns your own values and your priorities in life really is worth looking at. But all you have to do is read the things that are being written now. And Gildad's saying, look to the former generations, literally in the Hebrew, that is the ancient generations. Those who were of old time. Ask the ones of long ago if you want to really find out wisdom. I think of a preface that C. S. Lewis wrote to a book written by a fourth. century Christian Athanasius from the Incarnation. And in his preface recommending this book, C. S. Lewis has a number of things to say about our attitude toward history and historical writings, or writings of People from former times. First of all, he starts out with what he considers a rather curious notion that we have today that only professionals should read books of old times. He says we have this notion that if you're a professional professional or you're an expert, then you can read something ancient, Plato or somebody like that. You might want to read Calvin or this and that. But if you're a layperson, you'll stick with the modern stuff and you'll let the experts read the old stuff. And he says that's really very foolish because generally the ancient writers were much clearer in helping you to understand what they meant than somebody who's analyzing them from today's perspective. He says, uh if you if you look at people discussing things, what do you find them discussing? But when's the last time you heard something discussing Athanasius, for instance. You know, interesting discussion about what does he say about the incarnation? What were his views about Christmas? When's the last time you heard people discussing discussing what Augustine has written? Or what John Calvin in the Institute, which was one of the major influences on Western civilization, were the writings of Martin Luther. How many of us in this room have read any of those things? You go for a book today and generally what people look for in our church library writing. other library is something from Chuck Swindle, from uh Robert Schuller, from James Dobson, from Billy Graham. Those who we see who have some right to offer us who are our own contemporaries. And in many cases these writings are very worth reading. But here's where Lewis makes his most telling point. He says the only safety for a Christian is to have a standard of plain central Christianity, mere Christianity, as Baxter called it, which which puts the controversies of the moment in their proper perspective. Such a standard can be acquired only from the old books. It is a good rule after reading a new book never to allow yourself another new one till you've read an Old ones in between. If that's too much for you, at least read one old one for every three minutes, he says. Every age has its own outlook. It's especially good at seeing certain truths and especially liable to make certain mistakes. We all therefore need the books that will correct the characteristic mistakes of our own period. And that means the old books. All contemporary writers should be a very good idea. Nothing strikes me more than when I read the controversies of past ages than the fact that both sides were usually assuming without question a good deal. Which we would now absolutely deny. But in their time, of course, they took it without question, that that was true. Now we've called the whole thing into question. They thought that that they were as completely opposed as two sides could be, but In fact, they were all the time secretly united, united with each other against earlier and later ages and outlets by a great mass of common assumptions. We may be sure. That the characteristic blindness of the twentieth century, the blindness about which posterity will ask, but how could they have ever thought that? Life where we have least suspected it. And concerns something. about which there is untroubled agreement between those most opposed on any issue today. None of us can fully escape this blindness, but we shall certainly increase If we do not read anything but modern books. And so I would suggest to you that Dildad has a point for us here. He says, You gotta realize, Thomas, Well in shadow. We were only born yesterday, and we know nothing. Our perspective is so limited. And so, Bildad, please, ask the former generations. Find out what their fathers learned. Find out. Let them instruct you on the things that they have seen. Don't be so blind as to think that the only thing worth reading is your own contemporaries, for you are fallen to the mistakes of this age. But then there's a prophecy. Well, let me give you one other example of this. I just reading an article uh in Christianity today a little while back about a uh a new evangelist uh by the name of uh uh Terry Cole Whitaker. Now, how many of you here have ever heard of Terry Cole Whittier? Some of you already have. He's come out from the West Coast, began a church there of about 60 people, and his best uh very quickly mushroomed into a television. ministry, the set ministry and all kinds of things. She's written a book with the title How to Have More in a Have Not World. She's very affluence-oriented. Income is estimated at $20,000 per month plus expenses. Terry Witak on Whitaker claims that Jesus is her Savior. She says that she is his disciple and his presence saved her life. She says that she prays to Jesus and she says, I always ask, Lord, what am I supposed to do? Teach. And I always get the message: keep doing what you're doing. It's working. Terry Cole Whitaker claims to be a Christian. She claims to preach the gospel. In fact, if you know anything about history, you understand that her message. of the gospel is mixed in with the ancient heresy Gnosticism. And you understand that she's perverted the gospel vastly. But because her gospel is a mixture of the gospel with pop psychology, And contemporary self-esteem thinking and possibility and positivity thinking, along with this Gnosticism, many Christians today would never notice that she's totally perverted the gospel. Because the distortion. Are the characteristic beliefs of our age. You need to ask the former generations. You need to look back to get a perspective in order to detect the truth and the false. But there's an opposite error. danger, of course, is that we will look to history too much. That's the third point. But we will see history or man's wisdom as a sufficient deposit of knowledge. Now that the point there where it says biblical and the parentheses should say go back. This is Bilbad's point, not the biblical point, in verse 8 and 10. You see, Bilbad's problem was not that he looked to history, but that he depended entirely upon history. Bilbad said, Job, your problem is that you need to be able to do that. You need to ask the former generations and find out their theory about suffering. And if you do, you will find out that simply put, you reap what you sow. That's what experience teaches us. And so, Job, you're wrong to declare your innocence. can't be innocent because history and historical writers have told us that you reap what you sell. Of course God answers this in chapter thirty eight in verse one and he pushes it back a little further and he says, Buildab, you think you've read the ancients. Where were you when I created the world? You see, what God's trying to show us is there's nothing that Bildad could have read that could have given him the answer to this unless he had read Job 1 and 2. Because Job 1 and 2 gives us the inside information. of God's perspective on Job's situation. Because it's God's own word. And anything outside of that will be so limited in its value that unless tested with this word, it will be of no value ultimately. You see, the problem is that all these ancients who lived were also people who were only shadows, who lived but yesterday and knew nothing. And so if you sum up a bunch of zeros in terms of what they've gained, and you add them all up, Gildad says the accumulation of all these zeros gives you something. That's poor mathematics. But the accumulation of an infinite number of zeros still gives you zero. You still can know nothing absolutely No matter how many people's experiences you put together. Because anything that you learn by experience is subject to future correction. But you can't state it absolutely. Only when God speaks, only when some Who speaks, who knows everything about everything, says something about something, can we trust what he says? And so God speaks, and then we can trust that. And so not James Bob. As good as he is. Not any of the contemporary writers, not any of the ancient writers, Calvin, Luther, any others included, can give you absolute truth. Only this word. Only this word in nineteen eighty-five is going to help you. human to me to live our lives in the way that God says. Only reading that and depending on that is going to give us absolute trustworthy guidance. And so there's a balance here. The balance is that On the one hand, we don't ignore history. But on the other hand, we don't depend on books written by people, modern or historical, because the accumulation of all their experience still adds up to nothing, absolutely sure. And in addition to that, their own judgment is distorted by the fall. Their distorted judgment is distorted because it's sinful. It's in rebellion against the Lord, even as it's being redeemed by Jesus Christ. And so we need to have that right attitude. It says that I will take history, but I will measure it by God's word. The attitude of the psalmist in Psalm 119, verses 99 and 100, David said, I have more insight than all my teachers. Why? Because I meditate on your statutes. I have more understanding than the elders, because I obey your precepts. See as Lewis has said At least for every modern book, at least for every three modern books you read, read one ancient book. But maybe some of us would need to start by saying, for every two or three books that I read, written by man. I'll read one book of the Bible. I will read something from God's word to balance the things that I'm getting. And so I'm pleading for a balanced perspective in 1985. That as you and I seek to grow in our understanding of God, his ways and the world, that we balance reading his word with reading other writings, that we read other writings, but that those writings are all just from our contemporaries, that they're balanced, modern and ancient. so that we might grow in our understanding of God. When God made his covenant at Sinai, he did it in history. And he made that covenant with his people to establish them with certain principles. And you read those in Exodus. But then if you read in the book of Samuel and Kings, you see how those things worked out in dispute. And so you find out what happens when a man disobeys those things. And you read the life of Saul, and you see the tragedy of it. And then you read the life of David, and you see what happens when a man is not a good thing. man seeks after God and obeys him, and you see the blessing from that. And then you see some of his mistakes. And you see how their lives vindicate God's truth. Paul says the whole Old Testament was written in 1 Corinthians 10 6 for our instruction. Let me suggest that we read history, particularly church history, since the New Testament for the same reason. To see God's principles vindicated in history, to be encouraged as we see the Bible is really true because you You can see what people follow it, the blessing that comes. You can see when you go away from it, the things that happen. Christian biography and autobiography. The history of missions. All these things will help us to understand and to grow in our faith. as we see God's truth is indicated. I think of an example that uh Dan Iverson's dad, Bill Iverson here I asked him if I could share this, he said it was okay. As an example of this in his own life. He said that when he was twenty four he started a church. It's just a very small church. But in that church a a good number of those on the session were close. And he began to he was had been reading of the life of John Calvin. John Calvin was in a very similar kind of a situation, if you know anything, of his life, in Geneva. Uh the church was full of drunks and people that called themselves libertines. And Calvin decided that he could not profane the Lord's table by allowing these people to come and simply take the Lord's supper in their condition. And he restricted them in a very, very bold way. Because they came on with their swords to take the Lord's Supper, particularly headed by one very influential and powerful man, Berthelian. And they came expecting that they were going to wrench the Lord's Supper, which was their right, and Calvin withstood, and he said, No, you will not do this. Take that over my dead's body. And they backed off. Gretellier never showed up to the table. And the rest of them were ultimately defeated. Well here, what's a guy twenty four years old gonna do about church discipline? But he had read Calvin. And it and encouraged by how God had used that situation in history. He had read the former generations. He had been encouraged by what he saw of a man following Christ. He did the same thing to a session. You know the result of that? They threw him out of the church, that's the way. No, that's not what they did. Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't, no. No. God did a similar kind of thing. And none of the people on that session were converted. Because they backed down and they honored God's word. But he was encouraged by reading history and seeing that God uses his word in people's lives today, the same way that he did in the Old and the New Testament. So let me encourage you to read. church history. To read Christian biography in nineteen eighty five. Pick one thing at least to start and to be encouraged in it. In uh our curriculum you'll see in the newsletter, we have church history as one of our subjects. Maybe You should have held this message until we started that class. It's in fall 1986, so I wasn't about to wait for that. But I hope you can't wait and say, I would really love to take that course to learn more about God's ways. But briefly let me touch on the second error here. The second thing that God wants us to learn from this incident is that is a wrong and a right attitude towards suffering. Mugad had a wrong attitude toward history. He had some insight, he saw its value, but he overestimated its value. If he had in fact had a correct view, he would have also had, in his perspective, a right attitude towards suffering. And he missed it because of that. A wrong attitude towards suffering, you see, as I state there in the outline. to like Bill Dad think that I know enough about suffering to be able to judge why this person is suffering. Either I've lived long enough or I've read enough about it that I can tell you that person should live like me. And the reason they're in trouble is because they haven't done what I would do or followed my advice or lived like me, and that's why they're in trouble. You see, that's the very irony of building, isn't it? That here's a man who's saying, Job, you're arrogant because you're saying that you are questioning what's going on here and that you know that you're innocent. I know that you're not because I read a book, Bildad says, it says you're not innocent. And it was Bildad who was wrong in his assertion. He's calling Job arrogant and He's the one who's further from the Lord. It reminds me of this incident in John chapter nine. Do you remember Jesus' disciples were following with him and one day they saw a fellow who was blind? But they remember all the speculations in the writings of their contemporaries about why people suffer like that. And so as they go along, they thought, well here's a good opportunity to get the Lord's opinion on this. Find out what he has to say. In John chapter 9 verse 1 we read that as he went along, he saw a man blind from his birth. And the disciples asked him, Rabbi, who sinned? This man or his parents, that he was born blind. See, it's the same thing as Bill does. Somebody has had the sin. You reap what you saw. Even though they'd read Joseph, they had been more influenced by their contemporaries than by the scriptures. And so they were still wrong in their attitude towards suffering. And so they say, well, who is it? Was it that? This person being blind. Is it his own sin or is it his parents' sin? Now notice what Jesus says in verse 3. Jesus says, Neither this man sinned nor his parents sinned. But this happened. So that the work of God might be displayed in this man's life. So Jesus says, neither was the answer. Rather, verse 4, as long as it is dead, We must do the work of him who sent me. Night is coming when no man can work. You see, Jesus is saying, if you have God's perspective about something, You don't sit around speculating and simply why the person suffers. What you do is you respond in mercy to the suffering, knowing that your life is a shadow. You remember two years ago, we looked at that word shadow in 1 Chronicles 29. We saw how a shadow is so brief, it's so fleeting. It begins to come up in the morning and you're distracted and you do a little bit of work and all of a sudden you notice it's high moon and the shadow is very short and precise. And then you turn your attention to something else in mid-afternoon and you see the shadows ball again. And now it's beginning to fade and very soon the shadows going to disappear. And you're amazed. Boy, it seemed like that shadow has just started. Have you ever done that? You have an office window or you have a window at home and you happen to look out over a period of a day when you see the shadows move, you are aware of how quickly the day passes. Jesus is saying, tonight, so soon coming. There's no time to sit around and to simply speculate upon why people suffer. We need to understand the real problem, yes. But Jesus says the response is mercy. And so he says in verse 5, while I am in the world, I And the light of the world. You see, Jesus knew why you and I suffer. He knew it perfectly. He didn't need to speculate on it. Jesus didn't need to read anything to help him to understand why you and I are in the trouble that we're in. Why you and I get out ourselves in the messes that we get ourselves in. While you and I suffer the guilt and the distorted relationships and the brokenness and all the things that mess up our lives. Jesus understood that perfectly. But what he did about it was to show mercy. He didn't blame us. He came to live, to suffer, and to die for us. He came to take that sin that you and I have in our lives that is the corruption of our lives, that is the guilt before which we stand before God. the the guilt which will condemn us to eternal hell. And Jesus took that guilt. He took that sin. And so in his mercy, Jesus came to save us. And he said, I'm the light. We must work now. Because the night's coming, when no man can work. And Jesus did his work perfectly. So you and I have forgiveness in his name. If it never comes To Jesus Christ and enjoyed that release, that forgiveness, that restoration, I invite you in the name of Jesus Christ this morning that you take seriously those promises and that you give your life to them. If in fact In fact, you've given your life to it. But you need to understand more about suffering. It's not simply through reading contemporary books or ancient books, but look at how God in Jesus Christ responded to suffering. He took it upon himself. And that's the most amazing thing of all. Jesus suffered for us. And by his suffering, we're healing. By his suffering, you and I become released from suffering. And so at the beginning of this year, let me encourage us to pray three things. You see them on the back of your eye. Let's pray first. Lord, give me a humble thing. To learn for hist from history, because I myself have lived such a short time. Read books like The Light and The Glory, a history of uh the founding of our country and the generation. Following that, I find it one of the most insightful books, though I reject its major premise, and I've spoken on that before, won't go into it now. Nevertheless, the historical accounts of that book are both intriguing, accurate, and very perceptive. Of the Gospel of America. These are books that are in our library, so I mentioned those. But any Christian biography or autobiography, get a wider perspective on God's word to understand his ways. Secondly, the way we pray, Lord, help me to judge all my experience. And all the teachings, by the only infallible and reliable absolute, your word. Like the bereaves, we will test whatever we see by the word of God. And we will mix our reading of other writings with the word of God. of God and not always say, Well, I can read the Bible anytime. But this book really is interesting enough. And wind up always putting on the study of scripture for our own work and education. And then finally, we would pray at the beginning of this year, Well Help me to use every opportunity to minister to mercy the suffering I see. Because my own opportunity to do that will be so quickly over. Give me humility. in the light of my gratitude, that I might be used by you, even as I am grateful for you, Lord, who had such mercy on me. Such grace. our God. Finally recognize that we are a people in such great need of this. Lord, if you had looked at our suffering and known that it was really ultimately because of our own sin and our own fall. You could have turned away in disgust and let us perish. But Lord, you didn't do that. You came, you came as we've considered in these last weeks From your own infinite glory, your riches of your fellowship with the Father from all eternity, without the limitations of a body, and became into this rotten world. You took upon yourself the body. And you lived and you suffered. And you died for us in order to release us. And you born us, Lord. The night's coming. The night's coming so quickly. Lord, give us a right attitude toward suffering and a right attitude toward history. We might be a people who are merciful. That we might be a people who are humble. And the Lord, you might be a people who are usable by you this year. Because we're broader in our perspective and more humble in our judgments. Use this, Lord, in that. We pray in Jesus' name.