Good morning. It's um a delight and uh honor to uh to be back here in this position. to preach to you, to bring the word uh before you today. Um I was thinking while we were singing, um How our our book of church order is is so right on when it says, you know, do not and do not uh forget the stately chorale where parts could be sung. I was just enjoying that, us singing, Lord, we worship you. You've been um uh very gracious to me this week. It's been enjoyable. Um I've heard from several, maybe just short of many of you And uh the way that the Lord is um working in our lives in the midst of us here in this congregation, causing humbling, this healthy humbling to take place I've had uh several conversations at the back door uh and then throughout the week emails and phone calls and notes and helpful passages to refer to and poems and and songs and all manner of support and I really appreciate that. And I um pray with you as we join together in this pursuit of humility that God would continue to be gracious to us. as a congregation and produce in us that which freely acknowledges and freely agrees with the work of his spirit in us. Because we are a proud race. Are we not? Not white, not black, not Hispanic, humanity The human race, we are prideful. We operate in pride the way To borrow an image, we operate in pride the way some artists operate in oils or clay or watercolors. We move very smoothly in prideful things. If you don't believe me, take a look at our bumper stickers. Although my bumper sticker says John Vandenhoobel. Of whom I'm very proud and will be praying for this week. Other bumper stickers talk about Our middle school students, our honor students in high school, our honored honorable homeschool students, John Barnes and I were together this week and a guy backed in almost backed into us we were standing on the curb and he was proud of his German Shepherd and his bumper sticker proudly read that his German Shepherd was smarter than my honor student. We are a proud people. We're proud of our soldiers and as well we should be. The work that they're doing I'm proud of my children I get a thrill when I see a baseball hit that hard, or a ballet danced that gracefully, or a song sung that beautifully. We're proud. And so we kind of have this word that has many usages. You'll hear my voice pealing louder than any over the crowd on the 4th of July, proud to be an American, where at least I know I'm free. The men that died to win that right. You know, so so in this society, in this culture where we are immersed in this idea of uh polishing up our pride, protecting our pride, making sure that that our pride doesn't get knocked. It's important for us to take a look at God's view of pride, to contrast our view of pride with God's view of pride. Because the pride we're discussing in these meetings, in these preaching events, and these sermons Is that pride which sets itself up as an independent agent against a holy God? That heart that will not allow the humbling work of the Spirit to take place. I've said this many times, I'll say it here, and that is there are only two types of hearts that walk the planet. Not white heart, black heart, Hispanic heart, African heart, Chilean heart, but proud hearts and humble hearts Because man looks on the outward appearance, but God looks on the heart. And he preaches to us, to me, to you, through his word, to our heart. Remember the definition from last week, the essence of pride, is contending for the supremacy of God. This definition from C. J. Mahaney, and lifting up our hearts against him. The end goal of a proud heart is self. Glorification, not Christ glorification, self-glorification. Contrast our view of pride with God's view of pride. He hates Pride. He hates the arrogance one. I've listed some verses there. I won't take this time now to elaborate on those. C. S. Lewis in his book, Mere Christianity, I'm sure many have worked through that material, maybe more than once. Says this, there is one vice of which no man in the world is free, which everyone in the world loathes when he sees it in someone else, and which hardly any people except Christians. ever imagine that they are guilty of themselves. There is no fault that makes a man more unpopular, no fault with which we are more conscious of in ourselves. And the more we have it in ourselves, the more we dislike it in others. According to the Christian teachers, the essential vice, the utmost evil is pride. Pride leads to every other vice. Pride is a completely anti-God state of mind. Now that's the pride that we're talking about here today. That's the pride that rears its ugly, disgusting head when you least expect it. Expect it. You see the text before you there, Philippians 3, 1 through 16. Not two weeks ago, in one of those green chairs over there, at this exact time, I sat in one of those chairs as our teacher, our pastor, Alan Harris, expanded on Jesus' teaching from Matthew 5 and Jesus' words. Unless your righteousness exceeds that of the Pharisees and the teachers of the law, you will not inherit the kingdom of heaven. Powerful message, powerful words from Christ delivered through Alan. And then Alan Harris, led by the Spirit of God, I have no doubt, went to Philippians 3. Four through seven to show how Paul used his record of righteousness And said that he considered it rubbish compared to the surpassing knowledge of Jesus Christ as Lord. And do you know what my heart did over there in that green chair two weeks ago to this day? Rejoiced. Oh, thank God. Alan's preaching the same text I'm going to expand on in two weeks. I'm so happy that the people of God did get to hear the word of God in the same way. So close, so back to back. No, no, no. Man, it's like a sickness of the soul. I sat in one of those green chairs and I thought, oh, why is he doing that? I want to be the one to bring that Philippians 3 passage out. I want to do that. You hear that? Pathetic cry for a record to be touted? It's like, you know, we were when we were in third grade, you know, and teacher asks a question, and we're ready to lift our hand. And then Bobby raises his hand first. Teacher calls on him. Annapolis is the capital of Maryland. I knew that. I wanted to receive the glory for that right answer. That's our heart. That's my heart. I suggest to you respectfully, that's your heart. That's the enemy of God at work in you. And Paul calls his beloved church in Philippi to see that. Calls you and me to see that. Don't, don't succumb to that, that vicious enemy That ruthless, destructive force within, that subtle deceiver that convinces us that we don't have it, but they do. Reminder that Christianity is total dependence on God for all things. That is such a foreign concept to us. Total dependence on another. I think of that concept that R. C. Sprohl talks about when we Get to heaven. We want somehow when we get there to feel like we are there because we deserve it. We don't want to enter in enter in on some kind of a heavenly welfare system. But that's exactly what grace is. It's a gift that we don't deserve, that we could not earn, that we cannot, cannot achieve. You don't believe me, take a look at the life of Jesus Christ. The life of Jesus Christ, the perfect man who walked the planet in a perfect way. In John chapter 5, Jesus reveals to us what perfect humanity looks like. What does perfect humanity talk like? And Jesus said in John 5, 19, Truly, truly I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing. Complete Dependence on another. I can do nothing on my own, verse 30. As I hear, I judge, and my judgment is just Because I seek not my own will, but the will of him who sent me. Humanity in its perfect state is Jesus Christ in the flesh. And Jesus Christ in the flesh says that humanity in the perfect state is total dependence on God for all things. And so we don't have to recoil from the word humiliation or a title like humiliation precedes reconciliation. We don't have to recoil from that, but we do have to understand what it is that we're talking about. I I I've just been so um crying out to God so that I can be clear from this uh lectern, from this pulpit. Even the word usage, humiliation, has caused many uh to to stop and and and think and and and try to put in some category. how and why that word is being used. And and quite frankly, it was a uh it was an exercise for me to work through too. But look at the look at the word humiliation. To humiliate. Right? The construct there. To produce or to provide for a humbling process. To produce humility. We all love humility. We're drawn to people who are humble. We want to be with them. We want to interact with them. Those who are proud. We want to kind of not be in cell group with them or whatever. Humility we're drawn to, but the this concept of humiliation we're repulsed by. It's disgusting to think of. We won't use the term. And yet I do believe that from the very beginning of this letter, and especially the text we looked at last week, where Paul presents the humiliation of Jesus Christ. I believe that we've got something there to tag on to. That the humiliation of Christ provides for us salvation in Him, in Him alone. And so his humiliation precedes our salvation, our humiliation in recognizing our condition before a holy God and a sinful heart. That humiliation of recognition precedes our salvation. We can't be entered into the kingdom unless we first confess that we don't deserve to be there. And so today I preach that humiliation precedes, comes before, is a prerequisite of reconciliation. Reconciliation This word humiliation is a good word to rest in We can go there because of Christ. I want to read an excerpt from uh you've heard us talk about the Valley of Vision, these collection of Puritan prayers and poems. I'd like to read just that very first one. It's entitled The Valley of Vision. trying to support this concept of humiliation preceding our salvation, preceding our reconciliation, preceding true rejoicing in Christ. The the Puritan praise, let me learn by paradox that the way up, that the way down is the way up. That to be low is to be high, that the broken heart is the healed heart, that the contrite spirit is the rejoicing spirit. That the repenting soul is the victorious soul, that to have nothing is to possess all, that to bear the cross is to wear the crown. That to give is to receive, and that the valley is the place of vision where I see Christ most clearly. And therein receive life, receive peace, receive joy, receive Christ. And so that's why I've chosen the word humiliation. Humiliation precedes reconciliation. This idea of reconciliation, Paul wants to expand on to his beloved church in Philippi. He recalls That uh that time where he went to Philippi and there was a lady named Lydia, seller of purple, prominent in society, and she came to listen. to the teachings of Christ. And she gave her life to Christ. She surrendered herself to Christ. Paul remembers that time when they were in jail and there was a man who worked in the jail. Philippian jailer, and he saw the humiliation of these ones who had been in prison singing hymns to the Lord. And all manner of trust of God. And he was drawn to the beauty of Christ. And his whole household was brought into the covenant so that they could be nurtured and admonished in the faith. Paul remembers this precious church that he had opportunity to establish by God's grace, and he writes to them to protect them from enemies of the cross, enemies of the gospel. Those who would rob them of the joy of their salvation. He wants them to see the gospel again. He wants us to see the gospel again. God give us hearts to submit to the gospel. So he says Finally, or in continuance, or furthermore, or therefore I bring before you these thoughts. It's a rejoice In the Lord kind of concept. And we're going to talk about joy next week because this letter is full of the joy of the Lord. And Paul uses it right here. I write to you the same things to you. It's no trouble to me, and it's safe for you. Let me remind you of the gospel. First, with a warning. Look out for the dogs. Look out for the evildoers. Look out for those who mutilate the flesh. Lest anyone Be deceived that this is somehow there was knife slashers or something going around. What Paul is referring to here are those people who practiced uh what also took place in the church in Galatia. These Judaizers who would come and raise up the standard of the Mosaic Law, especially circumcision, As a way to externally obey God's law and therefore please God and earn righteousness and righteous standing with God. And Paul confronted that in Galatia, he confronts that in Philippi, and he confronts it here, and he uses the strongest terms for these men. who would oppose the gospel, the pure gospel of Jesus Christ and Christ alone. He calls them dogs. He calls them evildoers. He calls them those who would mutilate the flesh. referencing, quick reference for the reader, those who would call you to circumcision. And then he says, Here's a reminder for you. For we are the real circumcision. We who have had our hearts circumcised by the Spirit of God. We who have had that old removed and that new come to stay. And he preaches a little sermon right there in verse 3, three-point sermon. For we are the real circumcision. What is a real circumcision, Paul? Those who worship By the Spirit of God. They worship God because God alone is worthy of praise. Because God alone has rescued from the condition of sinfulness. He says we worship by the Spirit of God. We glory in Jesus Christ and all that Christ entails. We glory in the cross of crucifixion where the Son of God And son of man was lifted up to die. We glory in that. This is what the true circumcision group does. We glory in Christ Jesus. And then Paul says, and we put no confidence in the flesh. And then he expands on that third point. He put no confidence in the flesh. I have nothing that merits the favor of God in and of me apart from Christ. And that's what Paul expands on here. And it's as if Paul says. With a I I believe you know sanctified imagination, whatever it is, uh it's not it's not contained in Scripture. He doesn't say I sigh as I write this, but I can imagine Paul with a heavy sigh. Saying, do you want to match records? Come on. Do you want to do this? Match your pathetic record with my pathetic record? To somehow see who's got the position of prominence here when the standard is the perfect righteousness of God. I don't think this passage is read like this, with suspenders thumbed. You want to boast? I'll give you something to boast about. I don't think that's the case at all. I think Paul, because of his conclusion, heavy sigh on his heart as he says, Come on, you don't want to match records. Don't do that. Don't be caught up in a in a system of thought that says, let's see what you've done, because I've done this And then Paul goes in. He says, because I myself have reason for confidence in the flesh. If anyone thinks he has reason for confidence in the flesh, I have more. Want to match records? Okay, here it goes. I was born of the people of Israel. I was circumcised on the eighth day, the way the law Directs a child of Israel to be circumcised. I was born as a tribe member of the tribe of Benjamin, the beloved tribe. And then he lists three categories. And listen, as to the law, I was a Pharisee. Perfect. Student of the law. I knew the law inside and out. As to zeal, you want to know what zeal looks like? I persecuted anything that would come against the law of God, this fledgling movement called Christianity. As to law of Pharisee, as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to my outward display of righteousness under the law, I was blameless. Paul says, listen, do you want to match records? We can go there, but then he says, why? How about us? Uh something hit me. I was driving around with my son and uh something hit me about this passage and I just blurted out Um, well that's what Paul was saying. And Kevin was trying to figure out who Paul was Do you see these two categories, the two major categories? Paul says, listen, you want to boast, you want to put confidence in something? What are you guys doing? Here's a couple of things, three things in fact, that were outside my control. How could Paul ever direct what tribe he was born to? How could an eight-year-old baby ever say, by the way, according to the law I need to be circumcised today before sundown? Couldn't do it. Outside of his control that Paul was born in Israel, an Israelite. Those things outside Paul's control, Paul says, listen, I had nothing to do with them. You had nothing to do with the way Two sets of genes came together and produced your body type, your hair color, your eye color, the place where you were born, the house that you were raised in. The upbringing that you had, you had no control over that. So why put confidence in that? Why tout that above someone else? Paul says, don't do that. And then Paul says Possibly you're thinking, okay, outside my control, what about what I do control? And Paul says, I got three categories for you. As to the law, I was a Pharisee. I diligently studied God's word. I held God's word in such high esteem that I gave myself to a life time devotion study of God's Word. I pulled myself up by my bootstraps. I studied hard. I became a Pharisee of Pharisees. That was within Paul's control. Under his control, his discipline. He produced that. He worked that out Are you placing confidence? Am I placing confidence in something that I've worked out? You see how those two categories kind of just bring it home? To bear on us. There is nothing, nothing that we can boast in, neither that which is outside of our control, nor that which we control, in quotation marks Because Paul says, listen, as I consider these things, as it compares to the righteousness of God, as it compares to the fulfillment of God's justice in Christ, I consider all these things a loss. Indeed, I count everything a loss. Everything that I could ever hope to put my confidence in. I count it a loss. I consider them rubbish. In order that I might gain Christ. See, Paul throughout this, and I think that's what we're called to, one another, you and I, to point each other to Jesus. And not just not my record versus your record, or somehow we got to the look what they church doing. How's this church doing it? It's about Christ because therein lies that cry of Isaiah. When I see Jesus lifted up in his perfection, I'm undone. My sinfulness is in view. And I glory in the cross where those two things, God's holiness and my sinfulness, were perfectly meted out. So Paul reminds us that comparisons always fall short. And he exhorts his beloved church in Philippi and us in turn. To rest in the finished work of Jesus Christ. It's that simple. It really is that simple. Paul says, I want to be found in Him. I want to be found in him, not having a right standing that comes from the law, that comes from my keeping of the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ. Seeing Jesus crucified for me, his life for my sin, his blood shed to cover my filthiness. A righteousness that comes through faith in Christ. The righteousness from God that depends on faith, that I might know him and the power of his resurrection I may share in his suffering somehow, becoming like him. And that by any means possible, with all diligence, I might attain the resurrection from the dead. This is what Paul concluded in chapter two. He concluded that thought about the humiliation of Christ. Therefore, work out your salvation with fear and trembling, for God who is at work in you to do and to will his good pleasure. He is at work. He is doing that work and so work at what God is doing. I know that's confusing. It's counterintuitive. You say it's all of grace, and yet you call me to work. Because the difference is it's not about relaxing in the finished work of Christ. It's about actively resting in the finished work of Christ. It's about when I'm not reconciled to one of you or one of my family, humiliation still precedes reconciliation. Because in order to be reconciled, I have to first see where I am. Forgiving one another as God in Christ has forgiven you, Paul reminds the Ephesians. And that, beloved, does not come to us naturally, nor does it come through some complicated means It comes through the cross of Jesus Christ. You see that chart there in your um in your outline Paul gets us to the point where he says, Listen If you come to Christ, it's a fellowship in his sufferings. As you identify with Jesus, it's going to be hard. As you go about trying to live in a church full of people that wrestle with pride, you're going to encounter Pride. You've probably encountered it with me. I've encountered some of that with you. Paul says, when you place yourself out there in Christ. It's gonna have suffering. And that's why we have to see the cross again. Because if not, then we'll just stay in this kind of humiliation mode or whatever it is. And God never calls us to that. He calls us to recognize, acknowledge, and agree with our condition in light of his holiness and our sinfulness, but what he calls us to is to seek Jesus Christ Crucified, dead and buried, therefore, highly exalted. That at the name of Jesus every tongue will confess, every knee will bow, that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's through that valley that you and I are lifted up to the heavenlies. Lift it up to have that joy, that peace that sustains us in the time of suffering, in the time of trial. And that's what the cross does for you and for me. I know I referred you to that chart. Good. Take a look at it That's a picture of our lives. It's a kind of a perfect picture, if you will, because the straight lines and the cross meets both points and all that. And you know, there's wavy stuff in our reality, but the concept is there. See, the concept is that as I view Christ or as I view my sin or whatever that is, There's an ever-increasing, as my life goes on, an ever-increasing understanding of the greatness of God, which produces an ever-increasing understanding of the depth of my sin. Which, if I don't gaze at the cross, I'm hopeless. I'm helpless. I'm lost. I'm doomed to wallow in something, defeat. More than likely. And so Paul comes to the end of this thought and he says, the most humbling thought, the most humbling sentence I think I've come across in recent days, I'm um I'm having my performance evaluated by the session. They put the uh staff, the teaching elders through this, and my turn is this fall. And um what an ironic uh state uh state to be in uh as you preach on humility, right? To get your performance reviewed. And um it's been good. uh a time for me, time of healthy humbling. And uh and Paul says this statement here, and I really Really need Christ to work in my heart. He says, not that I've already obtained it. But see, the Judaizers would come on the scene and say, look, you can be perfect. You can have it now. You can have a record of righteousness. You can feel good about what you do. Paul says, look, I've not already obtained this. This thing that I've just talked about, the fellowshipping with him and his sufferings, the power of his resurrection. I'm growing in an ever-increasing awareness of that. And he says, I've not already obtained this, nor am I already perfect. But I press on to make it my own. I diligently gently strive to place myself around people who have tasted God's grace and it will point me to the cross and not their own record. And they won't polish my record for me. I want people who will do that because Christ Jesus has made me his own. I press on to make it my own because Christ has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own, but one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind I strain forward to what lies ahead, to press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. The most humbling statement made there is that Paul says, I've not yet attained it Went through this performance review and very encouragement, very encouraging uh words from the elders and their written reports and then working with the committee And I tell you, um just this past Wednesday I had my final of three meetings with the committee and senior elder on the committee, wanting to affirm me, to encourage me, said these words. Tim, you've shown great improvement since we first met you. You've really grown. You've really matured. Now listen, I should be doing backflips. Praising God. I've grown. I've matured. I'm different than I was? Praise God. Do you know what my heart did? No no no no no no no please please Come on, I I was like mature when I got here, remember? And this is just a different nuance of maturity. And it and I because we don't want to recognize that this walk with Christ is a process And none of us have obtained it. And so when we feel as if someone has obtained it, we feel condemned, we feel demeaned. Allow that to drive us back to the cross. You see that there Paul goes through that In his own life, as he discovers in the early part of his writing, he's the least of the apostles, then the least of all the saints, and then in one of his later letters to Timothy, he says, one the chief of sinners. The more I see Jesus, the more I just know I need him desperately. Let me conclude with this lyric from a poem, from a song. What wisdom? What wisdom once devised the plan? Where all our sin and pride was placed upon the perfect Lamb who suffered, bled, died. The wisdom of a sovereign God whose greatness will be shown when those who crucified your Son rejoice around your throne. What righteousness was there revealed that sets the guilty free, that justifies ungodly men, and calls the filthy clean? A righteousness that proved to all your justice has been met, and holy wrath is satisfied through one atoning death. Oh, the glory of the cross, that you would send your son for us. I gladly count my life as loss that I might come to know. that I might come to know the glory of the cross of Jesus Christ. Let me pray for us. Father, please work that in us. Work it in me, my brothers, my sisters. Lord, convince us of our need of you and help us to grow in ever-increasing knowledge. Of your grace and your love in Christ. Amen.