We want for your spirit to teach us. Because Lord, you have given your word, which is infallible and speaks to all of our needs. But I'm very fallible and I can interfere with that work that you want to do in making your word plain to your people. And Lord I my thoughts are still a bit of a jumble of things that have uh come uh just uh since yesterday just lots of different thoughts things that uh I pray that you will help me to be clear and that you'll help us each be able to understand what you have for From this passage that your Spirit has given to meet our needs right now. And so we come to you looking for that blessing because we believe that you wanted. You want to teach us your shepherd who is very careful to feed your sheep. And so we looked to be said now in Jesus. Amen. Luke chapter 1. I will begin reading verse 26. Luke chapter 1, beginning in verse 26. In the sixth month, God sent the angel Gabriel to Nazareth, a town in Galilee, to a bird. pledged to be married to a man named Joseph, a descendant of David. Virgin's name was Mary. The angel went to her and said, Greetings, you who are highly favored. The Lord is with you. Harry was greatly troubled at his words and wondered what kind of greeting this might be. But the angel said to her, Do not be afraid, Mary. You have found favor with God. You will be with Child and will give birth to a son, and you were to give him the name Jesus. He will be great. He will be called the Son of the Most High. The Lord God will give him the throne of his father David. He will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom will never end. How will this be, Mary? asked the angel, since I'm a virgin. The angel answered, The Holy Spirit will come upon you. And the power of the Most High will overshadow you. So the Holy One to be born will be called the Son of God. Even Elizabeth, your relative, is going to have a child in her old age, and she who is said to be barren is in her sixth month, but nothing is impossible with God. I am the Lord's servant, Harry answered. May it be to me as you have said. And then the angel left him. Have you ever thought very much about Mary's response there at the end of that message? Verse 38. I am the Lord's servant. May it be to me, as you've said. And the angel. Perhaps you thought about it as you contrasted it with Zachariah's response. You remember when the angel came to him and you had there back in verse eighteen that Zachariah said to the angel, Well now how can I be sure of this? I'm an old man and my life's well along in years, you know. Sort of reminds me of probably what I'd do if an angel came talking to me and I said, Well, let me understand. What are you really talking about here? You know, begin to analyze it and question it. But Mary's response is in stark contrast to that. She simply says, I'm the Lord's servant. May it be to me just as you said. A very humble response. Almost almost so that we could write it off as simply a polite, humble response. All I'm your servants. Until we realize that the word that's used here is the word And that's a word that doesn't simply mean I'm your servant. It's a word which means slave. You remember back in Mark 10, verse 45, when Jesus said, if any of you would be great, let him be a servant. But then he said, if any of you wants to be first, let him be a slave. And the slave was the ultimate. He was the lowest position. And that word for slave is the same word that we have here, dudas. It means essentially someone who doesn't belong to himself, someone who belongs to someone else. And therefore his will is not his own. He's not at liberty to choose what he does, because he doesn't belong to himself. He's an owned person. He belongs to someone else. His will must always be in subordination to his master's. Because he's a slave. He's a servant. He has no status. He has no rights. He's simply a slave. Mary is using that word when she says, I'm the Lord's slave. I don't have any rights in this matter. It's not my choice. I'm overwhelmed by what you said, but Lord, what? Whatever you say, that's what I'll do. I'm the Lord's sleeve. It's a word that is significant to Mary. She uses it three times in this chapter. Then she sings her song when she goes to Elizabeth. You notice in verse forty eight. She says, beginning there on verse 46, my soul glorifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. For he has been mindful of the humble state of his servant, slaves. Dulas. But in verse 54, describing Israel, she says, he's helped his servant, his doulas, his slave, the one that he owns, possesses, Israel, remembering to be merciful. And so it's not a word that Mary uses off-handedly. It's an important word to her. Did you ever start to think what that word meant for Mary to use that? What it meant for her to simply respond to this summons myself. saying, Lord, I'm your slave. Whatever you said, may it be to me just as you've said. May quite a bit. And in order to get a picture of that, we need to remember all Israel was longing, looking for the coming of the Messiah. He was the very center of all history. He was the culmination, the climax of all their hopes and dreams and speculation, day by day in their prayers in the evening. And so Israel was looking for this coming of Messiah. And the angel of Gabriel comes to Mary and he says, You're going to be Messiah's mother. But, you know, can you imagine as a teenage girl what that must have meant for her? It's interesting to me that she doesn't respond by something that indicates she was thinking, Well, Lord, you sure know how to pick 'em I mean I'm I'm glad that you realize that uh I will really care for this kid. I mean you talk about your Jewish mothers, boy, where do you see how this kid's taking care of? Uh but there's no sense of that with me. There's just simply the sense of being overwhelmed and saying, I'm your servant. Lord, if you've chosen me, I am. I'm the one if you've Fit, may it be to me as you said. She simply receives what the Lord has said in that. And she says in verse 48, He has been mindful of the humble state of his servant. From now on, all generations will Call me blessed. But you know Mary wasn't blessed in a lot of obvious ways by submitting to be a being a servant. By saying, Okay, Lord, I'm your servant, go ahead and do what you want. It meant that she had to go tell Joseph, Joseph, I have some news for you. I'm pregnant. And then you can imagine Joseph's response. Pregnant? How did you do this? By whom? He says, You're not going to believe this, Joseph. It's by the Holy Spirit. He says, Yeah, and I'm the angel Gabriel too. Can you imagine the hurt, the shame, The sense of helplessness that she must have felt to think, I know he's never going to believe this And she has no assurance at this point that God is going to vindicate her. And so she's probably thinking, I'll probably lose Joseph. The man that I love. And the scripture tells us that Joseph in fact did have in mind to divorce her. If that was merciful, he could have called on her to be stoned. She didn't know that God was going to speak to Joseph in a dream. And so there was that that tension, that anxiety through those days, and she's thinking, this is God's blessing to me. But I'm the Lord's servant. And so I don't have a choice in this matter. He's chosen me. It's up to him to take care of them. And of course we see how the Lord did in fact speak to Joseph. And Joseph's fears were allayed, and so he took Mary. She must have been glad with Joseph to leave Nazareth as she got larger. And people began to talk about this betrothed but unmarried couple who had not yet come to live together. And so she with Joseph, as she is very pregnant, walks eighty miles To go to Bethlehem. Eighty miles from Nazareth down to Bethlehem. And she's large and she's uncomfortable, and they probably didn't have the donkey that you see in all the Christmas cards. They didn't, they weren't that rich. And they wrote that eighty miles. They get to the place where God's Messiah is going to be born. You know how the story, how there wasn't even room for them in the inn in Bethlehem. And the Son of God was born to marry her first child in a cattle stall. In a smelly bank cave. And this is the blessing of God's calling to him. But Mary says, I'm the Lord's servant. I don't have a choice in this matter. God's pointing what he's wanted. for me. And I submit to that. Because I'm a do law. I'm a servant. And the shepherds come, and you remember how we read we read each Christmas time how in chapter two and verse twenty, when the shepherds return, excuse me, verse nineteen When they came to praise the Lord Jesus, Mary treasured all these things up and she pondered them in her heart and she wondered, what is the significance of all this? What is God's Messiah? What is all this going to mean? And she watched him grow. He must have been a confusing child to raise. Hey, can you imagine raising a sinless child? None of us have had that delight. But I I venture to say it probably wasn't all that positive in the sense that, you know, whatever one of them was wrong, guess who would was, you know. A and yet she was the mother. And yet here she goes raising him and you know the story and about when he was twelve years old and they forget about him and marry his back in the temple and there must have been a lot of confusing times like that. She watches him grow until he's 30 and then he goes off to his ministry. And and she's still trying to figure what is he doing. And she sees him getting busier and busier until Matt III says it comes to the place where they can't even sit down and eat. They don't have any time for themselves and this is her son and she's watching him and it seems to her like he's destroying himself, like he's a man obsessed. And Mark III says that she with her brother, with his brothers, go and they try to stop him. Apparently she's not cooperating in this and she's confused and why is my son doing this? He seems like he's uh just not able to enjoy anything. He's just always at the mercy of others. But she says, I'm a doula. I'm a servant. And he's got his hand on my son in a way that I don't understand. And Mary submits to that. She watches the mounting opposition from the Pharisees. She watches all of the conflict between her son and the religious leaders of her own church. And that must have put her in a lot of turmoil. Until finally there comes that Passover time when Jesus is put on trial. And she must have watched with such intense interest as she stood in the courtroom So we know that she was there. And she watched her son sentenced to be crucified. What must it have been like for Mary to watch her son at the age of 33 nailed? to a Roman cross, the spear, the uh spikes hammered into his hands and his feet, and she watches him suffering and agonizing torment, her own son, Upon the cross. Luke chapter 1, verse 3. The Bible, Luke says that he wrote these things by careful investigation. Luke's a careful historical. I've sometimes pictured Luke interviewing Mary for his gospel in later years. Can you imagine Luke as he respectfully sits there with Mary? And he says, Mary, what was it like to be the Son of our Lord. And she reflects back to that time when the angel Gabriel said, You're going to bear a son who's going to be Messiah. And Hermedi's response is, I'm the Lord's certain. Do whatever you want, Lord. I don't have any rights to this. You do what you want through me. And trace this through the years and reminisce this to the place where he was crucified, and watched her own son die. And remembers that he was raised from the dead. And she must have looked back, like imagine her with a twinkle in her eye, St. Louis. Some of them have been hard years, didn't you? But it was worth it. God knew what he was doing all along. And it's always worth it to be his servant because he knows what he's doing. He's my Lord now. He died for my sin. And he's conquered God. Yeah. It was hard, but it was working. But when we think of Mary as a servant, what is that compared to the fact that this same word is used again and again? Jesus himself. What did it mean for Jesus to be the Lord's servant? You know, this is one of the most popular designations for Jesus, particularly in the book of Isaiah. In Isaiah, there are are four stars of messianic prophecies. There are four passages that speak with particular clarity. Some of the clearest passages in the whole Old Testament speaking of the work and the person of Jesus Christ to God. come of the Messiah. And those four passages have been called by a scholar since that time the Ebed Yahweh passages. Ebed Jahre is Hebrew for the servant of the Lord. Because the one word that appears more than any other to describe the Messiah to come is the word servant. Isaiah chapter 32, verse 1. Here is my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen one, in whom I delight. Isaiah 45 and verse 4. For the sake of Jacob, my servant, of Israel, my chosen, I summon you by name and bestow on you the title of honor, though you do not acknowledge me. This is speaking of Israel, not acknowledging, and God sending Jacob, his servant, for their redemption. In Isaiah 49, verse 3, he said to me, You are my servant, speaking of Messiah. Israel, and you I will display thy splendor. In verse 5. And now the Lord says, He who filled me in the womb, to be his servant, to bring Jacob back to him, gather Israel to him. Himself, for I am honored in the eyes of the Lord, and the God and my God has been my strength. He says, It's too small a thing for you to be my servant, to restore the tribes of Jacob, and to bring back those of Israel that I have kept. I will also make you a life. For the Gentiles, that you may bring my salvation to the ends of the earth. This is what the Lord says, the Redeemer and Holy One of Israel, to him who is despised and abhorred by the nation, to the servant of rulers. Then the passage that we all know, Isaiah fifty three, that speaks of that work of Jesus Christ on our behalf. Do you remember how that passage begins in chapter fifty two? It begins in chapter fifty two. Verse 13 saying, See, my servant will act wisely. And he will be raised and lifted up and highly exalted, just as there were many who were appalled at him. His appearance was so too. figured beyond that of any man and is full of war behind beyond human likeness. Why? Because he says in chapter fifty three and verse four, he took up our infirmities. He carried our sorrow And yet we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him, and afflicted. We were so stupid we thought that it was because of his own sin that God was smiting him. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. You can put your name in there. Jesus was pierced for Alan Harris's transgression. He was crushed for Alan Harris's iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him and by his word. los I and heal. Every one of us, like sheep, have gone astray. And the Lord has laid upon him, his servant, The iniquity of us all. And so Philippians chapter 2, when it pictures the fulfillment of this, does it in terms of Jesus as the servant? Philippians 2 says that Jesus Christ was in the very nature of God, yet he did not consider equality with God something to be grasped, but made himself nothing, taking the very nature of a Dumas, a serpent. Being made in human likeness, and being found in the purest as a man, he humbled himself, and as a servant he became obedient, even to death. And so the one who was Creator, who in his word and commands, the very universe came into being, is abaste to obey the commands of others. John tells us that not only did Jesus obey the law perfectly, he did obey the law. John tells us at least five times in his gospel that Jesus only spoke what the Father commanded him. And Jesus said on a number of occasions, I don't speak my own words. I'm a servant. I speak. my father's words. I submit my will. I am owned by him. I am possessed by him. And the very Son of God does not belong to himself. But he belongs to the Father who sent it. Stagger at the realization of that. The Creator has become a servant. And he's abased. And he's humble and he's obedient even to death. And he says that he is even fitted to body. Bondage, bondage of the curse for sin, your sin and my sin. Why? Because in the words of Psalm 2, you and I said, Let us cast his feathers from us. Let us break away his cord. Let's Live our own lives. We refuse to be servants of the Most High God who's made us. And so because you and I have refused to be servants, because we have determined that the best way to live is to live our own lives the way we want. God is Said that you must die for that arrogance against my father. Jesus has said that. And so He has taken our punishment that we have so richly deserved as the servant that we We refuse to do. Mary says, I'm the Lord's servant. Jesus went to death because he was the Lord's servant. And whenever God does a work in a person to bring him to Jesus Christ, Christ. He makes him a servant. And if God has brought you to Jesus Christ this morning and you call him your Lord and your master, then you are his servant. And with Mary, you and I must say Lord, whatever you want me to do, I'm your servant. What does that mean for us? It means, for instance, in the words of Philippians chapter two, just before he talks about what Jesus did, it means that verse three, we did nothing. Nothing out of selfish ambition, or vain conceit, but in humility we're to consider others better than ourselves. And each of us should run look not only to our own interest, but also to the interest of others. And our attitude should be that of Jesus, who is a servant. That's hard, isn't it? I mean, the whole spirit of our age is against that kind of thinking. But don't be misled and think that it's It's only the spirit of our age. The spirit of our age is no more set against that than the spirit of the age of the New Testament. You know, the word dulas is a word servant that we have taken and exalted to the New Testament. But that word, in fact, wasn't The spies word in that day. The Greeks had a very high value on independence and self determination. Freedom was a very high value to the Greeks. And the word doos was a word That was used with contempt and revulsion. It had no virtue to it. Before the New Testament, the word dulos was a despised word and was not at all associated with virtue. It was a word that was used with despite Thus to think that you would belong to another and that you couldn't determine your own destiny, but somebody else told you what to do was something that the Greeks held in very low esteem. And so it is today, isn't it? Same kind of thing. I've got to be mean. I've got to find myself. I've got to satisfy myself. I've got to begin to think about me more. And everything we read in magazines and books tells us this is what we have to do. And it's the utter contrast to what it means to be a doulas. Kay Kessler writes in Christianity Today about teenagers today. He says, I really feel bad for kids in the sense that all of our culture screams so far against what it means to be a servant. As we grow up, we find that the only thing that matters is quality. That's the big thing to them, you know. I mean thirds and Chevy's are scorned, you know, it's got a BFW or to be worth considering. Uh clothes from Kmart are next to getting them out of the trash, you know. They've got to have labels on them. Of the food that you buy, you know, I mean, you can't just go for an ice cream cone. It's gotta be Hagen Doz, you know or something like that. And quality is the big thing today. Quality because I'm worth it. You know, and I can't believe you see this poster that kids think is really great. You ever see it's a girl that's really decked out, you know, with diamonds and everything. She's sitting on a And underneath it says, Poverty sucks. You could say, That's a great poster, man. I really identify with that. I'm not just talking about non Christian youth. You know, and the whole idea today is me first. I heard a story just this week, Tyson's Corner, that really uh drove this home. You know, the big thing, the premium, when you're in the Christmas season, is to get a parking space. You know, the parking space and the cash register. Those are the two big Down at Tyson's corner this past week. The fellow pulled out of a parking space that was a choice one. On the one side of him was a Toyota, on the other side of him was a Cadillac. This is a true story. The two of them were poised because this guy pulled out of the spot. The Toyota beat the Cadillac into the spot. As he pulled into the spot, he rolled down on his wind and yelled out, Smith to be fast! At that point, the woman in the Cadillac backed up, put it in drive, drove straight into the back of the Toyota. jumped out of the car, screamed profanities at her, and said, What'd you do that for? She pulled down, pushed her little button, rolled down her window, and yelled at him, nice to be rich, and drove off. And I captured from a so much of the way we think, you know, I will get what I want. If I can't get it politely, I will get it the way I need to get it. And Jake Kester in his article raises the question, have we as Christians simply become polite materialists? And we can become people who have imbibed that spirit, but we simply make it polite rather than tacky. We think the whole point of Christmas was Jesus. Coming as a servant. And Mary, when she heard of his coming, said, I am the Lord's servant. Do to me as you want. And if we are to follow Jesus, we follow Jesus as those who are his servants. And that means that I belong to myself. I belong to him. I'm not my own to decide what I do. I belong to my master. And that means that when I look at his word and he gives me commands there, that those commands are not negotiable. Those commands are what I follow because I belong to him. And so when I read that Jesus says, you forgive, not just once or seven times, but seventy times seven times. I don't say, I don't feel like that, Lord. And so I'm going to do what I can. feel like doing because it'd be hypocritical for me to do that if I don't feel like it. The Lord says, Hey wait a minute. Do you remember what Mary said? That wasn't easy for Mary. If you're going to be my servant You need to trust me. And you need to bend your will to mine. And then see what I do with you. If you think of our education today, now education is so often seen as something to serve me. I will do it so I can get ahead and so I will get the positions that I want for my advancement. But the spirit of a doomas says, How can I use my education to please him? I belong to him. And so if my education can't be seen by me in some way that I can serve the Lord through my career. And that doesn't just simply mean some Christian occupation. It means that I have the consciousness of serving the Lord with my career. Then I better rethink the direction I'm headed. And if I'm finding that by going to school and what I'm doing, I'm too busy to even have a quiet time, then maybe I better cut back on some things. Because whatever I'm pursuing has to be consistent with God's priorities for me. his servant. Or if I have said that in my career through I have excluded the mission field because it doesn't fit with my goals, then I better rethink whether I am a dualist. Whether I'm a servant, as Mary was a servant. Is the mission field for super saints only? Or is it for anyone who is a servant? I have to be willing to go wherever. The Lord wants me to go. In the words of uh Bon Esteene St. Van Igerson, if I'm unwilling to go, I'm unqualified to stay. Because only servants. are useful for the kingdom. What about my work? Am I identified in my work as a dumas of Jesus, a servant of him? What do I mean by that? I mean the people identify me with Jesus, those that know me. You know, the nature of the doulas in the New Testament was that he was always identified with his master. That's Dulas. That's Judas, the Dulas, the servant of someone who owned him. He always thought of the servant in terms of the person who owned him. him. At work, do people say, well, don't ask him or her to falsify the report or to pad the expense account or to do this or that to bend things because his master won't let him do it. Is your reputation such That people know what your master will allow and what he won't allow. Because you draw the line there, because it's not negotiable. I am a do-as, I'm a servant. And as a servant, my will is not my own. It's in submission to my master. My involvement with people. Do I have the attitude of a doulas? A doulas whose concern to influence people for Jesus and to help them, to serve them, to use my gifts in building the body in that way. way. Now I uh find it uh kind of humorous when I hear that we have here uh a number of opportunities to serve and and one of the most basic is being part of the setup group. A part of the ushers. Now that's a real test of doulas, isn't it? It's a real test to say, well now, you're not gonna hold out a recognition. I mean, who how many of us know who set up the chairs here this morning? Not very many of us. But somebody had to come here at eight. eight thirty and had a do that. Somebody had a bang on my door and say, Can we get the key to get in? Because uh gonna when the door's not unlocked yet. We've got to get in there and get those chairs set up. But you see a do lot says, I'll do that. Because I'm a servant. And so I don't have to get recognition for serving the Lord. But to do it simply because I'm his servant. And I'm ready to serve the body in that. I've heard of people that have said about setting up chairs, that's not my gift. That reminds me of what my wife says, you know, you need to take out the garbage and I say, That's not my gift. Yeah. There are some things that are uniquely fitted for gifts, there are other things that are simply a matter of character. Am I willing to be a servant. And it's so it's so inconsistent for me to seek a gift class and say, now what are my gifts? You know, we as as Americans can become so self-centered that even finding our gifts becomes a matter of self- fulfillment rather than as a detestant say the gifts were for the common good. Say fine for the common good, what can I do for the body? Well go ahead and set up some chairs, you know. And this isn't supposed to be a pitch for setting up chairs. All it's saying is, I wonder, somebody raised this question this We Well, one of the reasons that God is not yet giving us a facility is because He wants to work some character in us as a congregation that only being in a place like this is going to do. I mean, you know, this place requires servants to keep the people. Keep it going. And if God is going to work in us character development, He's really chosen a good place to do it, hasn't he? And maybe the Lord wants to develop those characteristics of a doulas of a servant. going to free us up and provide a place where we won't have to set up chairs. Where we won't have to be dependable because we know people are counting on us. And as a servant I don't look for the recognition I am simply dependable because as a servant that's what my my master wants. And so we need to begin at the very bottom. Am I willing to serve the body? Am I willing to serve the Lord Jesus Christ by what I do? with other people. A Welsh miner by the name of Reese Howells became well known in the revivals because God used him idly. What many people don't know Is that these hells served the Lord in many ways that nobody knew about. And that God began to find him a usable vessel because he had a servant's attitude. He worked twelve hours a day in the mines. After twelve hours of working, every night he would go walk two miles for a Bible study that he would lead. And one night after coming back for a downpour through the rain, soaked to the skin. Walking back two miles after 12 hours in the mines and then leading this Bible study, his father said, I wouldn't have walked that for 20 pounds. And Reese Howell said, Neither would I, for 20 pounds. The reason that you and I are servants is because we've got a vision of the King who became the servant for us. And we're so in love with Jesus. We're so interdirected by him that we don't need people to lay give on us. make us be servants. You simply say, I believe it's what the Lord would have me to do. And I love him. And I'm his servant. And that's all there is to it. Let's pray. Oh Lord, how this convicts me. And I think of so many ways that I would even like recognition for the things that I do. Or I would like to get out of serving when it's inconvenient. Lord, uh being a servant doesn't come naturally to us. Lord we know it didn't come naturally to Mary. That was the work of grace that you had done in her life that made her obedient. Lord Jesus. We stand amazed when we think that you, who brought the very universe into being by the simple word of your mouth and knew nothing of serving, came to serve us by being obedient even unto them. death on a cross. You who became the servant so that we might become your sons. Lord, we pray that you would help us to not simply think of servant As some romantic ideal, but that we would see the nitty-gritty of what it means to be willing, without recognition, to be treated like a servant, that we might be dependable. That we might be eager, that we might be faithful. Lord, whether it's setting up chairs, whether it's leading Bible studies, whether it's leading people to Christ. Make us faithful. Not because of what people will think. But because you've burned into our hearts that deep, loving sense that we are your servants. Help us each to see what that means for us. In the next step of obedience, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.