Bonjour. Try that with power. Bonjour. I heard the problem of coming back to America. My European size board doesn't fit where you put American sized paper, so I'm gonna have to adjust. This is part of re-entry, I'm afraid, we're gonna have to deal with in the coming year I wanted to speak a little bit out of Second Timothy four because if if I'm not being too presumptuous I think some of the things Paul went through in writing this letter is what we have been doing in the last half year. Paul writes a letter. From where? From prison. Nothing new about that. Paul had been in prison before. If you read the end of chapter uh ch chapter twenty-eight in Acts, Paul's in prison. Actually he's in house arrest. People are coming going. He does Bible studies. It's a nice place of ministry, there's there's uh evangelism going on among the Praetorian guard. This is not sixty two sixty three AD, this is sixty six, sixty seven. Under Nero, he's thrown in a dungeon. He's locked away somewhere in Rome. You get the feel for that. Onesimerus, it's set up in uh chapter one Uh he often refreshed me, was not ashamed of my change. On the contrary, when he was in Rome, he searched hard for me until he found me. So Paul was locked away some dark, dismal corner And it was hard for Christians even to find him in this situation. And not many people seemed to be very interested in being associated with Paul. And Paul writes to Timothy in Ephesus. Knowing that he is passing on something to Timothy that he's not going to come back and work in. He's not going to be back and personally work here again. And so there's this for me this loaded verse one in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who was judged Who will judge the living and the dead, and in view of his appearing and his kingdom, I give you this charge. Now, if you were Italian, you would say, Mi raccomando, mi raccomando. Which is just like you're saying, uh I'm think of me as a registered letter. This doesn't get passed off until the next person signs it. This is very important. It's not something you throw in a box and maybe someone comes by and collects it. I'm putting myself, my whole ministry into your hands, and you keep that until you sign it off to someone else. It's yours now and it's not mine And in this context he underlines again certain things. It's like the things you tell your kids before you leave them with the babysitter, you know. Now remember this and this and this and this. These are you you underline the most important things. He's been actually doing that. Chapter 113, what you've heard from me, keep as a pattern of sound teaching. You've seen the model. Do it. This is how you need to keep going. Guard the good deposit entrusted to you. There's something here of value you keep. And you pass on, chapter 2, verse 2, and 2 Timothy. The things you've heard from me in the presence of many witnesses, in trust, in trust to reliable men who are going to pass them on again. Chapter 3 verse 14. But as for you, continue in what you've learned and have become convinced of, and he talks about the scripture. This famous verses about all scripture is God breathed, that it's divinely exhaled, it comes from God as its source. It's not man's writing and God zaps it As the movies would do today. No, it's from God through means of men as a means of communication. Scriptures that are really good, they're useful. Verse 16 of chapter 3. Teaching Let's let's get the content right, the understanding. Well, if you don't get it right, there's correcting. Some now somebody's thinking wrong, you make a correction in what they're thinking. It's good for training and righteousness, how you live your life, not just what you know in your mind, but how you put that into practice. And if somebody's life is not Following the scripture, it involves rebuking. Wait, wait a minute. That's not quite right. Let's make a change here. So Paul says, I give you this charge before God, before men. Preach the word, the living word we know through the written word. It's a message we get out, that's what we're all about. We're gospel people. When do you do this? All the time. Be prepared in season and out of season when you're scheduled to speak. When you're not scheduled but the opportunity comes up on an airplane ride or on a bus or on a train with a friend. Those correct, yeah, rebuke, encourage. And Timothy do this with great patience and careful instruction. This is not some little thing. This is very, very critical. Paul's saying, You're the man. I'm not coming back. In fact, the last verses here, verse six and chapter four. I'm being poured out like a drink offering, Old Testament image. You don't collect it back up. You know, once it's poured out, it's gone. The time has come for my departure. I have fought the good five. I've finished the race I've kept the faith. Timothy, I give you this charge. It's yours to carry on. I'm not picking it back up When we went to Italy twenty-two years ago, we found a fairly discouraged student movement, university sister movement Had had a 30-year history at that point. It had gone over the top of the roller coaster. It was down at the bottom of the first big hill and it was stopped. There was only one active group in the country. There were no staff working with students. There was a tired committee of friends, of alumni, who were trying to carry things on And by God's providence, we walked into that situation. It was a group that was even a little timid of what we might do. Our initial invitation was only to work in English with international students in Florence. Kind of a protected put us off to the side. Foreigners have tried and have crashed and burned in Italy. Let's not try that route again. But we thought, Nancy and I thought, what would we really like to see here if we had any chance to influence it? We would like to see a thriving, self-producing, reproducing, Italian-led student movement. So she's a mathematician, I'm an engineer. How do we get there? You want an Italian-led self-reproducing movement? Well you need Italian leadership. You need a national board, you need staff. People who know the work will train up others and reproduce themselves. How do you get that? Well you need student leaders coming up with experience in groups Who know what it's all about, have the vision, and want to carry that on. How are you gonna have student leaders? Well, you need groups that are training people and producing people in leadership roles so they have the experience. So how do you get groups? You start with nothing. Well we brought in we found and brought in some experienced staff from other countries with a willingness to learn Italian to relate cross-culturally to help jumpstart it. And in that cycle, there's a story of one particular who's really important, one person named Marcello Bozzi. It's not Marcello, it's Marcello. This is Italian, not Spanish. And I just wanted to relate a little bit because this is kind of my experience of passing the role on to someone else. Marticello, when we went to Italy, was in middle school Just coming to faith. So we didn't know him. He lived in another part of the country. God is a long range planner. You go and be faithful where he puts you and God's doing his other things and at the right time he brings the thing together. And and that's what it means to walk by faith. So Marcello when he got to university, he's in Turin, University of Torino. And we had a young American staff from Pittsburgh area who was working with us, and he said, I get these first year students, and they don't have any picture of what it's like. They've grown up in a country where Protestants, everybody, every kind of Protestant left together doesn't make up one percent of the country. Kind of a timid defensive group who who has very low expectations. If you hang on till Christ comes, then we've done we've done it. How do you give them a bigger picture? We took them off to Britain, the UCCF, the Universities and College Christian Fellowship And took him to Cambridge, he took them to Oxford, four hundred students in a room, four hundred Christians in one room. Couldn't find four hundred Christian believers in all of Italy. First year student gets up and gives her testimony in front of 400 people. Who has the courage to do something like that? Marcellos Worldview was shattered. He started he in in the next day he was saying to these other Italian students, we need more staff in Italy. We need more staff. A day or two later, ta-da, there's this breakthrough. We need Italian staff in Italy. Yeah, that would be good. By the end of the week he was saying, you know, some of us ought to think about becoming GBU staff in the future. What a paradigm shift. What a worldview transformation. In one week, suddenly things that were impossible had become possible. Marcello got involved with the GBU in Turin, but he was not just interested. This is a great Bible study, it's really warm, fuzzy, we're really good along. No. He was interested in reaching the university. Not just what was good for him or good for other Christians, but how to reach the non-Christians there. In fact, he had developed an interest in what was happening in other cities where there was no witness at all He had a mind that reached beyond his own situation and asked, why can't something happen out there? He became the student representative on the national board of the GBU because he so well represented the views and had an interest that went beyond it what would serve him personally. So in this context we became friends. I was the national leader of the student work, the general secretary as it's called in Europe. And when I would go to turn, we would get together. Because if I had maybe I was working on legal problems for the GPU, is there a way we can actually have official recognition before the government? Which is not like in America. It's very hard to do. If you're not a Catholic institution, if you're something else, there's nothing designed for you. And Marcella would sit down with me and work on the problems He was someone who would actively want to get involved, want to make a difference. So it went from a teeness to a friendship working together. Now and Marcello this year said, you know, he he says, Tom, you mentored me. Now we never labeled it mentoring, but over the years we've had this relationship where we did things together and anytime I could I would include him and influence him. When Marcello graduated about eight years ago, it was on this dream of having him come on GB staff. In fact, in my mind, I'd said this even before to myself, he's the best shot as an Italian who would take over the movement and really know how to lead it forward. Not just in one corner, but really have vision and be able to strategize and reach out beyond himself. But there was no money to support him. Financial support in Italy is a whole nother s problem. And and I remember being here six years ago and at that point, well he had taken a job and he was getting married and it looks like he was gonna move to France and Al Hera saying, well what are you gonna do now? And I remember all I could say was, I don't know, I guess we start over. You know, all the time invested up to that point looked like we were gonna lose. So what do we do? You try again. God turned things around. The marriage which at first was taken on the France, not to Lee's wife was French. and she was gonna go there uh to finish an education degree and so on. Uh God turned it around uh in a in a markers way that she found out she really didn't want to be a high school teacher. She was interested in university students and really in the GPU. And that brought him back into Italy. Marcello had a part time uh full-time job as a programmer, which God step by step used to move him First from Turin, full time in an office, to working for a Milan company from Turin, home office, kind of work which is is extremely rare, it's like chicken's teeth. You never get that even if you ask for it, but somehow he got it. Which allowed him to move to Florence where we were and the national office was. To another time when we asked the same company, well could we work part-time? And nobody gets to work part-time. And yet this company was so so in need of programmers that they agreed to anything, and so he worked part-time. He got a raise. Uh they were giving all their programmers a raise so even though he cut his time in half, he was almost making the same money to be able to work for the GBU And they gave him an extremely flexible schedule. Sure, if you need to go off two weeks to America for a conference, that's fine, and then just work full time another two weeks and so on. And this was wonderful and it came right up to a day uh when suddenly out of the blue the same company called up Martell and said, Doesn't work. We don't like part-time, we don't like you working from Florence, we want you to move to Milan. Come inside and work full time. Or if not, would you please find another job? Now we were in our our point of Of weak faith is saying, well may may this was November. May even January we'll get to the point. Well ask start asking the question when could they come full time? They were starting to raise support. When would be the safe time to jump? We're kind of standing right by a door and never walking through it. And this non-Christian company came up from behind and just pushed us right through. In Italy, if you leave a job, typically you have to stay as an engineer, you have to stay another two months. You can't just quit and go. You have an obligation to finish out. This company said, please leave. We'll give you three months salary and you can leave at the end of the week. Where did this come from? Only from God. And so at the end of those three months, we were in January when we thought we'd get ready to maybe think about deciding, and God had already put us there. So Marcella came on staff. Now the only problem was everyone kept thinking of us as the national leaders, 22 years. Nobody knows the debut without Nancy and Tom in charge I mean they've all grown they were all in middle school or most high school when we came to Italy, they don't remember anything else. All the student groups I visited, the people know us, and then they know Marcello as coming along later. How do you get people to start looking at him in a new way? And we thought about and we and I provoked a crisis for the national board because they they were intimidated about making any real clear move. So we came up with a very, very conservative two-year plan. For New Year we would just continue on. And Marcello was made the Assistant General Secretary. Not even assistant to the general, but the assistant general secretary. So he worked alongside of me in everything I did, anything that was planned, any decisions was made, he was there. And at the end of that year, he became the general secretary, and I became the assistant. So we continued on a second year. This time I kind of took a step to the side and one step back. So he had to say, all right, we need to do this, and I was there to work with them, and if there were balls dropped, I picked them up So that he had the experience of the same thing now, except he had to be the one saying, here's where we move, here's where we're going, we're gonna do A and we're not gonna do B And then how's that? Yeah, no, that's good. Let's keep going. We were getting towards the end of the second year, and several things were happening. People were saying, Okay, Tom, what do you want to do with your life? It was like a kid. You don't want to be a fireman when you grow up or a policeman or uh uh because it was always you did what would needed to be done. Now we're suddenly at the place where If Martiller became the general secretary and then I could let go of that, what would I do? Well, I had a long list of things over the years that I thought should have been done, needed to be invented, developed, and there was never time or people to do it. So I started working through my short list. More mission trips like Albania, we had connections with Cameroon. Maybe we take Italian students there, bring them to America, work with alumni. But as I put it down on paper and kind of thrashed it around, I was like, well, okay, it's three three and a half months out of the year. What do I do the rest of the time? It really didn't fill up my schedule. Second problem was happening. Everybody kept coming to me still. There's a problem. That's a good problem. I have some ideas. Paul Marcello. He's making the call on it. He's the general secretary. People kept coming to me when they should have been going to him. I was leaving a big shadow, as Marcello would say. He felt like he was in a shadow. Everything we tried to do to eliminate that for the other people That's just how it was. In Italy, there's one Pope, and when he dies, there's a new Pope. It doesn't matter if it's a Protestant church or the public school or the communist political party, there's one person in charge Until he either dies or is pushed out, no one else ever becomes the leader. People don't expect someone else to be a leader if I'm still there So I was studying what I wanted to do. When I kept coming back to what I really wanted to do was work with students and staff But if I did either of those, I really got in the way of Marcello fulfilling the role of the national leader. And so in March it suddenly became clear if I really love Marcello But dear friend, if I really loved the G BU and wanted the best that would take it forward, if I really loved Italy and wanted the universities reached, the best thing I could do was to leave Get out of the way. Let the new people we developed were in the National Board staff take it forward. We had to get out of the way. There was no way to not cast a shadow and have everybody think, okay, he's doing all the dog work with Tom's the authority. It's just the way the culture Makes people predisposed to think of things. Until you get out of the picture, they don't respect the new person as being the leader. They don't look to that person to lead This was quite a shock because it was like in a less than a week and a half that suddenly out of the blue this hit us. We weren't this wasn't in our long-range plan at all. Just boom. And there it was. And it was a shock. It was hard. We felt a lot of pain. I mean twenty-two years of our life in a church, living in a house, the longest place we stayed in our married life, all our friends, that meant cutting cutting all that off. Not because we wanted to, but because for the sake of the ministry there, to go forward, we needed to get out of the picture. Very painful and exactly the right choice. So as of April, Marcello was the general secretary, I was no longer the assistant general secretary We are looking for a future. Now we've gone through a number of uh ideas and thoughts. Actually Through the summer we've been able to finalize something, which I can finally say I haven't written in a prayer letter because it hasn't been clear. We're gonna come back to the States with university and work in graduate faculty ministry. and part-time with international student ministry. Now this is exciting to me because this uh uh these are areas of the overall ministry of university that are less developed There it's a chance to influence the influencers, the people who are teaching the students in our universities and colleges. The graduate students do the lot of teaching, the professors, to have a Christian witness at that level that reaches out to those people, the people who have an influence on how people think, how they're form being formed in our country The international students, do you know that twenty-five percent, according to the State Department, twenty-five percent of the future leaders of the world study today in the United States? Twenty-five percent Think of the opportunity to influence them with the gospel, to see people come to Christ, to see others who don't come to Christ, but gain a respect for the Christian faith and for the presence of Christians. So as we're having missionaries who are trying to get permission to put up a church building in Japan encounter an official who from his contact with Christians in the United States said, yeah, that's a good thing for our country who who are writing laws about visas We still have trouble getting people they have visas that come and work in Italy or foreigners. People who are going to be influencers who are going to put the lid on the advancement of the gospel. These are the kind of people to influence Now where? We're going to go to the Rocky Mountain region. As it turns out, the Rocky Mountains will be everything. Montana, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, Arizona, New Mexico. That section of the United States, outreach among grad students, faculty, and international students is almost non existent. compared to say New York City, Boston were it very, very well developed Chicago around there What does this mean? It means it needs to be pioneered. What do we know? We know pioneering. I mean, that's what we've been doing. We helped rebuild a student movement from practically zero to something that will carry on. So we're offering to go into an area where you'd lead the staff team if there was one, but you've got to find the people, develop the people, develop the resources, develop the community networking behind it. So maybe in the next 10 years there will be a thriving centers of graduate faculty outreach and international student outreach. There's one person working part-time with graduate students in the Rocky Mountain region. There's one person working with international students and that's it. It's a whole thing to be developed. So I find that exciting. You might find it frightening, but I kind of find it exciting to come back, take the kind of experience we've had in a whole nother culture. and be able to plug it in in America, in the university world, where where it's needed, to have some faith and vision and and try new ideas and oh it looks impossible. Fine. Plan A doesn't work, it never worked in Italy. Plan B doesn't work. once it worked in Italy. We'll go to plan C, plan D, whatever it takes until we get it done and find the people who will be able to do it. So that's what we're coming back to and we find that r a really stimulating idea. Coming back this next January. So I come back. I'm dropping this now in the hands of Marcello. I give you this charge. Preach the word Be prepared in season and out of season. Marcello, it's you from now on. Whatever it takes. Correct, encourage, rebuke. Patience, man. Pazienza, as the Italians say. Careful instruction. It's going to take time. It took time to get where we are. It's going to take time to go beyond. And and Paul explains verse 3 for why there's all these people. They don't like sound doctrine, they're going off here and there, they like to have their ears tickled, doesn't make any sense. So he comes back and he gives very practical advice. Verse five. This is another. But you, Marcella, listen up, and this is what I'm going to say to him. That the Lord gave me when I went to Italy. I've never been a person who always had the life verse, but this verse just jumped out at me when I went to Italy. And it's what I would leave with him. He says, But you, keep your head in all situations. If there's a verse to describe getting ahead in Italy, that's it. You have a 90% failure rate of missionaries who go to Italy. That is, within five years, they leave. There's something spiritual, spiritual battle, difficulties of inserting yourself in the country and so on That undoes people with every good intention of going there and staying for a lifetime. Keep your head in all situations. Figure out what's the right battle to fight. Skip the ones that aren't ours Just ignore 'em, keep your hand in all situations. Endure hardship. Yeah, it's part of the job Uh if if you're not willing for that, you're in the wrong job. You should have some kind of bureaucratic job where you you get paid whether you never work and you get a retirement. No. You're in the GBU work. Endure hardship. Do the work of an evangelist. I read once that ninety percent of all the people involved in missions around the world, the whole worldwide organization, ninety percent aren't doing evangelism. It's all the support networks, it's the schools for kids, it's the financial department. It's a very kind of thin layer at the top by comparison that's saying our job is to talk to people. It's it's easy when you're in uh you know, we've been doing running all the books, staff training, recruiting, conferences, you're doing all these things and you're good and other things To not also have people you're sitting down with and saying, What do you think of Jesus Christ? Bring that issue to the front. I don't care if you're leading the national movement, you're a general secretary. Evangelism has to be part of your life. Now when we went to Italy, the mindset of the GVU, Gruppi Biblici Universitari, University Bible Groups, and that was kind of the tradition. Get nice safe Bible study off in the corner, nobody knows where it is. It's really good for us, but doesn't impact the university. And so we came up with a with a motto for the GPU to say that's not it. And we had evangelization and motivo per cui esistiamo. Evangelism is why we exist. Yeah, we do Bible studies, we need to grow, we need to train up new Christians. But it's evangelism what we're all about Well Marcello has changed that. He's changed it for good reason. He said, condividere Jesù da studente a studente, sharing Christ From student to student. Because there's still some people who say, yes, we're all about evangelism, but it's the other guys. So just underline one more time. No. Sharing Jesus one student to another. It's everybody involved. Do the work of an evangelist. And then the final word, discharge all the duties of your ministry. Marcello, there's going to be a whole lot of different things you're going to be drawn into here and there. Fine. Cover them all. Get the most important things done. Or shall I give you this charge? Amen. Thank you.