Jesus' earthly ministry as Messiah began with hunger, a forty-day fast, before he confronted Satan. His life ended with a raging thirst as he died on the cross in his final battle with the evil one for your soul. Of all the physical agonies that Jesus endured in his trial and on the cross The only pain that he expressed was thirst. We read that in God's Word in John chapter 19. If you haven't already turned to it, please do so. If you have your Bible. John chapter nineteen. To set the scene, let me begin John chapter nineteen in verse one. Let's hear God's word. Then Pilate took Jesus and had him flogged. The soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head. They clothed him in a purple robe and went up to him again and again, saying, Hail, king of the Jews! And they struck him in the face. Once more, Pilate came out and said to the Jews, Look, I am bringing him out to you to let you know that I find no basis of a charge put against him. When Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe, Pilate said to them, Here is the man! As soon as the chief priests and their officials saw him, they shouted, Crucify! Crucify! The Pilate answered, You take him and crucify him. As for me, I find no basis for a charge against him. The Jews insisted, We have a law, and according to that law he must die, because he claimed to be the Son of God. When Pilate heard this, he was even more afraid. And he went back inside the palace. Where do you come from? He asked Jesus. But Jesus gave him no answer. Do you refuse to speak to me? Pilate said. Don't you realize I have power either to free you or to crucify you? Jesus answered, You would have no power over me if it were not given to you from above. Therefore the one who handed me over to you is guilty of a greater sin. From then on, Pilate tried to set Jesus free. But the Jews kept shouting: If you let this man go, you are no friend of Caesar, and anyone who claims to be a king opposes Caesar. When Pilate heard this, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judge's seat at a place known as the stone pavement, which in Aramaic is Gabbatha. It was the day of preparation, of Passover week, about the sixth hour. Here is your king, Pilate said to the Jews. But they shouted, Take him away, take him away, crucify him. Shall I crucify your king? Pilate asked. We have no king but Caesar, the chief priest answered. Finally, Pilate handed him over to them to be crucified. And so the soldiers took charge of Jesus. Carrying his own cross, he went out to the place of the skull, which in Aramaic is called Golgotha. And here they crucified him, and with him two others, one on each side, and Jesus in the middle. Then six hours later, skip down to verse 28. Later knowing that all was now completed, so that the scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said. I am thirsty. A jar of wine vinegar was there, so they soaked a sponge in it, put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant, and lifted it to Jesus' lips. When he had received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished. And with that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. What a thirst he must have felt. In eighteen hours Since he had had his last drink with the disciples in the upper room, sharing the Passover cup with them. Sometime later that evening he was arrested. And roughly pushed and taken to Annas, the high priest, for a mock trial with false witnesses. Then after a few hours, in the early dawn, he was taken again for a brief sentencing, and then taken away to Pilate. And from pilot to hurry, and from hurod back to pilot, in an exhausting ordeal Which before the high priest he was beaten and spit upon. And then he is scourged. The scourging involved thirty-nine lashes, with a whip that involved several thongs. In each was embedded lead balls and sharp bits of bone and metal. Thirty nine times he comes down upon his back with all the force that the Roman soldier can deliver, until his back is one raw, open, shredded mass of flesh and muscle. As he goes into shock, his body craves for water. When you go into shock, you become extremely thirsty, they tell me. Some men died of scourging. Jesus continued on. They take him back and they take the crown of thorns and they pound it down upon his head so that he has a searing headache. He continues to become more thirsty from the loss of blood. Then they take him out. They make him bear his own cross. A hot Palestinian sun is high in the sky now. And he carries that cross out of the city to Golgotha in the heat of the day. And he's thirstier. They come to Golgotha and they lay him down on that rough cross, his raw, open, bleeding back up against the rough wood. And the Roman soldier feels for that place in his wrist, below the bone, making sure that he doesn't sever an artery or vein so he doesn't bleed to death too quickly, and he takes a spike and hammers it right through his flesh. And then takes both feet, one on top of the other, and hammers another spike through the feet into the cross. Fiery pain shoots through Jesus, exploding into his brain. They take the cross then and they lift it up. They have a hole set there that's been dug. They take the cross and they drop it into that hole. And if there's anything that he feels at that point, it's just Any movement produces an excruciating pain. And then to be dropped into that hole Makes it feel as if all of his bones have been wrenched out of joint. And the pain seems unbearable, but one of the diabolical things about crucifixion is that it doesn't produce unconsciousness and he remains aware. Of the pain. Lightning bolts of pain shoot up from his wrists, up his arms, and from his feet, up his legs. And he's so thirsty. Every time he tries to breathe, the way that crucifixion works is That to take a breath the the victim must lift himself on his own flesh upon the nails to enable the diaphragm to draw in some of the air into his lungs Quick, short, shallow, gasps, breaths, dreading that next breath When he will have to draw himself up in his open back against the rough wood, his hands and feet against the nails in order to breathe And yet, of all the excruciating torment of crucifixion, the thirst was probably the worst. The loss of blood, the body in shock, the exhaustion The hanging in that hot Palestinian sun causes the body to continue to dehydrate until water becomes an obsession. A thousand years before, Psalm 22 amazingly presented a vivid description of the torments of crucifixion. What's amazing, particularly, is the prominence given to thirst. Verse 14, I am poured out like water. Psalm 22, as my body is dehydrated, all my bones are out of joint. My heart has turned to wax. It has melted away within me. My strength is dried up like a potchard. And my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth. You lay me in the dust of death. The pot sherd was simply broken trashed pieces of pottery, dry and brittle, his tongue sticking to the roof of his mouth, laid in dust. Have you ever had a cold that caused you to have to breathe through your mouth all night? And you wake up in the morning. And your tongue is literally stuck to the roof of your mouth and your mouth is swollen and it's it just feels like cotton and the first thing that you think as soon as you're awake is How that is so just uncomfortable and you've got to rush out of bed to the bathroom to get a drink to open up your mouth Imagine if you couldn't take a drink. Jesus' mouth was swollen shut with the dehydration of his body. And he couldn't take a drink. Next time you're thirsty, really thirsty, and you can't get a drink. Pause to thank the Lord for that reminder, that mere glimpse Of what your Savior endured for you in the thirst that he's suffering. But you see the irony of this? Don't miss the irony. Here's the one hanging on the cross who had called the seven seas into existence, who's thirsty. He's the one who provided the water from the rock when Israel was in the desert to quench their thirst. And he's thirsty. This is the one who watched the high priest on the day of the Feast of Tabernacles as he poured out the ceremonial water. And then stood and called the crowd to himself and said, Is any one here thirsty? Let him come to me and drink For whoever believes in me, out of his being shall flow rivers of living water. I am the fountain of life of living waters. And he's thirsty. He's endured a maddening thirst. He who is the living waters croaks on the cross. I am thirsty, enduring a thirst that you and I will never have to endure. So that he, the Good Shepherd, can lead you beside the quiet pools of water and restore your soul And I think of this moment of Jesus' agony on the cross, in which he said, I am thirsty. It reminds me of times in my own life when I have thought in my own pain, in my own disappointment, in things I'm struggling through, how I'm tempted to say, God, you can't understand. It's easy for you to say, be patient, trust me, I work all things together for good. What do you know of deprivation? By God, the very nature of your being, it's impossible for you to be deprived. If there's anything you ever want, you simply think it into existence. How can God suffer deprivation? It violates the basic rules of the universe. And yet you see in this account that God was pleased to suffer thirst. To deprive himself on the cross, turning away at that moment of crucifixion from the narcotic wine that was offered to him That bit of liquid he could have had, in order that he might suffer to the full So to all the legions of hell who could try to accuse and say, But you didn't suffer fully for the people the sins of your people. And he could say, I suffered every bit. The payment is made in full. I suffered hell for you For you see, hell ultimately is thirst, isn't it? Hell ultimately is thirst that is never quenched. Do you remember when Jesus told the parable of Lazarus and the rich man in Luke chapter 16? He told the story of these two, this rich man who was self-satisfied in his riches, and Lazarus, the poor blind beggar, who was a believer. According to that parable, they both died. The rich man went to hell. Lazarus, the believer, went to heaven. And how does Jesus describe hell in that parable? Luke chapter 16, verse 23. In hell Where he was in torment, he looked up and saw Abraham far away with Lazarus by his side And so he called to them, Father Abraham, have pity on me, and send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue. Because I am in agony in this fire. Hell is that soul thirst that is never quenched We speak of thirst as an image to communicate longing, don't we? If I say to you, My soul's thirsted for your presence, you know exactly what I mean. It speaks of longing. Psalm 63 speaks of the soul thirsting for God. A thirst is a longing. And I believe that when the Bible speaks of hell in terms of the thirst of that unquenchable fire, how much of it is physical, I don't know. But I do know that that sense of thirst is a description of the unquenchable thirst, of the deepest longings. So deep that every maddening thirst and longing that you have in your life on this earth is but a flickering foretaste. Of the unquenchable thirst that you will experience in hell if Jesus is not your Savior and your Lord Hell is an unquenchable thirst. Longings that will never be satisfied Jesus tasted hell for you. He tasted that hell Of the thirst of his soul and of his body in your place for your sin, if you're trusting him as Savior. In contrast to that, heaven is no thirst ever unsatisfied. The very essence of heaven is no unsatisfied thirst. Look again at John nineteen, verse twenty-eight. Later, knowing that all was now completed, so that the scripture would be fulfilled, Jesus said, I'm thirsty. You notice it introduces it by saying, so that the Scripture would be fulfilled. Now what's that referring to? Well, commentators are fairly agreed that that's referring to Psalm 69, verse 21. Verse 20 uh verse 21. Psalm 69, like Psalm 22, is a description, picture of an innocent man that's being ravaged by sadistic evil enemies. In verse 3 of Psalm 69, you have the psalmist crying out and saying, My throat is parched. In verse 10, he speaks in verse 4 he speaks of being hated without any reason. Verse 19 speaks of being disgraced and shamed. And then verse 20, he says, Scorn has broken my heart and has left me helpless. I looked for sympathy, but there was none. For comforters, but I found none. They put gall in my food and gave me vinegar for my thirst. That's the psalm and the verse. That is being fulfilled in Jesus' statement. I am thirsty, and then in what they did. Notice then verse 29. A jar of vinegar, wine vinegar, sour wine. Was there, and so they soaked, it's a jar of Posca, just a sour cheap wine. They soaked a sponge in it, and they put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant and lifted it to Jesus' lips. They gave me vinegar for my thirst. You notice one little detail there? John makes a point of observing that they put the sponge on a stalk of the hyssop plant and lifted it to Jesus' lips. Now, why does John take the trouble to telling to tell you that he drank the wine on a stalk of hyssop? Why that detail? Well, surely it emphasizes the fact that Jesus couldn't take the jar and drink. His arms by his wrist are pinioned against the cross. He's utterly helpless as man sees it. But far more significant, I think, is the fact that in Exodus chapter 12, the hyssop is used in the Passover. For what purpose? It's the hyssoplant, the leaves of the hyssop that are dipped in the blood of the lamb And was used to sprinkle that blood on the doorposts of the Israelites the night that the angel of death came through Their area. It was the blood sprinkled by the hyssop that covered the sins of the Israelites and delivered them from judgment. That's why you see John says that it was the hyssop, reminding us of what is happening here. Here you see the blood of the Lamb perfectly satisfying for your sin and for my sin. In the sprinkling of his blood upon your life, so that God Himself holds nothing against you if you are in Christ. And so verse 30 continues that when he lifted that to Jesus' lips, when he had received the drink, Jesus said, It is finished. And with that he bowed his head and gave up his spirit. His last words. And in that he is declaring: I have perfectly now satisfied. With my suffering and my thirst and the shedding of my blood, all that is required for the punishment of your sin and of my sin. Jesus has finished the satisfaction of the punishment you deserved in your place, in my place, if you're trusting Him. And that's why Jesus can cry out in the words of Isaiah chapter 55, verse 1 and 2, Come all you who are thirsty. Come to the waters, and you who have no money, come buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money and without cost Why spend your money on what is not bread and your labor on what does not satisfy? Saying you thirst. When you're spending money to buy things, when you thirst, you go shopping, and you hope that what you can acquire will satisfy the thirst. You're accumulating things and experiences in order to satisfy a thirst in your soul. You're looking for a person to love you the way you want to be loved, and then that thirst will be satisfied. Listen, listen to me and eat what is good, and your soul will delight in the richest affair. You see, it's John who particularly speaks of water and salvation. You know, when we speak of our salvation, what's the symbol of it? The baptism, which is water. And John to John it's very important that we see this symbolism of water. That's why in John, John alone has Jesus speaking to the thirsty Samaritan woman who has been divorced five times. And still looking for some love in this relationship she has with the guy she's living with. And Jesus says to her, if you knew who it was who's speaking to you, you'd ask him and he'd give you the water of life And he says, whoever drinks from this well is going to thirst again, but if you drink from me, you will never thirst again. It's John alone of the four Gospels that gives that incident on the day of tabernacles when Jesus comes and stands before the crowds and he says, Is anyone here thirsty? Not talking about a physical thirst. Is anyone here thirsty? In that deep soul longing for a clear conscience, a new life, someone to love you, care for you, know why you're here? The purpose and meaning for everything. And come, he says, come to me. For whoever believes on me. Out of his being shall flow rivers of waters. Not just enough to satisfy you, but to flow from your life to others. Rivers of waters. Because I thirst for you. Is John alone who records that word on the cross, I thirst. Do you know that? Because it's John's purpose to highlight for us that Jesus thirsted so that he could be the living water for you and for me. Now let me speak as plainly and directly as I can. Some of you have come to Christ years ago. And you came when you originally came to Christ out of a thirst, a desire to have your sin forgiven, and to come to God for a new relationship. And your soul was satisfied in those days. But in recent months or years, you have found that you're increasingly thirsty. You hear the gospel and it doesn't have that same satisfying sense of the satisfying of the thirst of your soul and heart. And you're disappointed. And you're wondering why is it that when you speak these things, I find myself still thirsting? You're telling me that Jesus satisfies the thirst. Why then am I, who have been following him for so long, so thirsty? Let me suggest That you examine yourself to see if it's perhaps the subtlety of your pride. You see, when you came to Jesus originally, what did you offer to him? Nothing. Right? Just your sin. Lord, I I I am bankrupt. I can't handle life. I can't handle this. I am guilty. I have messed up, Lord. Please forgive me. I offer to you nothing but my sin. But we're very competent people, aren't we? Many of us overachievers And when we come to Jesus now, we don't come to him on quite the same basis, do we? We come to him, Lord, I remember that Your death for me is what's sufficient, but I also come as the grounds for my thirst to be assuaged. The sins that I've forsaken. The temptations I've resisted. I'm not as bad as I could be. I'm not as bad as I used to be, and I'm not as bad as this other guy or that other woman. And the efforts that I have made to please you. Now hear me and satisfy my thirst. And you see what you were doing? It's the same thing I do all the time. We're muddying the waters of the fountain. By treading in it our own works and self-righteousness. You see, when Jesus said at that day of tabernacles, whoever believes in me, That's what the one thing he spoke of. And we think believing is easy. You think, yeah, I I believed. I believe. I believe that Jesus died on the cross for my sins. I believe that. No big deal. Then why am I still thirsty? I'll tell you, believing is not easy. Believing is extremely difficult. Because all biblical believing leaves behind every shred of my own offerings of self-righteousness and the things that I can bring to God in order for my thirst. To be quenched. Biblical believing says I offer today The same basis and ground for my thirst to be quenched as I did the very first day that I spoke to Jesus Christ. My sin and my need. Period. Nothing else. And I see Jesus on the cross saying, I am thirsty, and I say, Lord Jesus, I am thirsty. And there is nothing That I offer to you, but my thirst and my sin and my need. And at that point, brother and sister Jesus will meet you. And he will quench that thirst. Because it is needy sinners that he meets. Not those of us who come mixing our need with our competence and our efforts. And in that day when Jesus comes to take us to be with him. How does John, remember, John wrote the book of Revelation. How does John describe what Jesus will do When he takes us to be with himself in heaven. One glimpse in Revelation chapter seven, in verse sixteen and seventeen. Never again will they hunger. Never again will they thirst. The sun will not beat upon them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lamb at the center of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will lead them to springs of living water. And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. Let me ask you Are you thirsty this morning? Are you thirsty with such a deep, deep thirst of your soul that nothing on this earth can quench? And come to Jesus now. Come to Him now and drink. And drink deeply. Let's pray. But I believe you're speaking to some of us We're recognizing now why it is that we're thirsty. And here all along we have thought maybe you failed. Maybe the gospel really isn't as good news as we thought. And you're showing us now in our own hearts how we have muddied the fountain of living waters. With our own competency, our own offerings of what we have done or not done. And we have thought that you owed us something to quench that thirst. And being disappointed, we've turned to other things. Human relationships, acquiring of things. Something else that we could find in this world. Things that are good. Things that are satisfying and intended for us to enjoy. But can never satisfy that deep heart-soul thirst that we're so aware of Lord, we bring that thirst to you now. And we want to offer to you now nothing but our need and our sin. And our thirst for you to forgive us and for you to satisfy. Thank you, Lord Jesus, that you intend to do that. That you've been using all this all along simply to draw us back to yourself. Or for any here this morning who've never come to you to show us that you are the only person. Who will ultimately satisfy? Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen.