If you have a copy of the scripture, I invite you to turn to Luke, Gospel of Luke, chapter 18. Last week you may recall we were in Luke chapter 19. In just a moment, we're going to read from verse 35 to the end of that chapter. So keep a placeholder there. Many of you know that in the Flora household we have uh eight individuals. Six of them are under the age of twenty. One of them is me. One of the ape. And as you can maybe imagine, we accumulate a lot of trash. There's a lot of garbage that goes into the kitchen can. There's a lot of recycle as well And you can also know that we live in Howard County, where they provide this wonderful trash collection service once a week. But you may be putting two and two together now and see that on uh Wednesday night When the uh household trash is to be out to the curb so that Thursday morning when those guys who wake up at must be three AM come around, our trash is waiting for them. And so there's always that intensity Wednesday night because if and it has happened, if we don't get the uh garbage cans out there on uh Wednesday night. Then Thursday morning comes and sometimes goes and sometimes I've run out there in my slippers and whatever else I can throw on. So I can try to get those cans to the curb. The intensity that the garbage truck is passing by and if this stuff has to wait a week With all the other stuff that we're going to stick on top of that, it's not going to be pretty. And we don't have any more diapers in our house, so it's a little less heinous than it has been in the past. But we have a cat, we have a litter box, and we got all manner of messed up stuff that needs to go away. In a very similar way, but even more intense is the text before us. And the drive of one of the main characters that Luke records for us, this personal encounter with Jesus. This is near the end of Jesus' earthly ministry. He is on his way to Jerusalem. He is to offer himself as a substitute for sinners. to take on God's wrath. This is the reason for which he was born. A baby born to die, we celebrate at Christmas time, and it's getting close in this time in Jesus' ministry. He was truly a man with a mission. Single-minded, with his jaw set like flint to Jerusalem, he was heading to that purpose for which God the Father had sent God the Son into the world. And on the way, he encountered several people, and we learn more about the character of God in these encounters. I want to read from Luke chapter 18. The parallel passage is found in Mark 10, beginning in verse 46, but we're going to read from Luke, and I'll make probably some reference to that Mark instance as well. God's word for us. And as he drew near to Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging. And hearing a crowd going by, he inquired what this meant. And they told him, Jesus of Nazareth is passing by. And he cried out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And those were who were in front of him rebuked him, telling him to be silent But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. And Jesus stopped and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked him, What do you want me to do for you? And he said, Lord, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Recover your sight. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God. God's word for us. This encounter is one of those vivid portrayals of God in the flesh interacting with people just like you and me. People who are fallen, people who are suffering the effects of the fall, people who are weak and wounded sinners, lost, left to die. And you remember that last week we saw in Zacchaeus' story Jesus even in this purposeful mission, this route to Jerusalem Heading to Calvary to die in the place of sinners has not just spare time But he has purposeful time to spend with these people. Didn't matter if it was blind Bartimaeus. Mark records the name for us, who was beggedly poor. On the street every day crying out for assistance, or filthy rich Zacchaeus. With pockets stuffed full of other people's money, both men were empty. Both men were in need. And Jesus stopped for both men. Last week we saw this powerful picture of repentance in Zacchaeus. After the fellowship of forgiveness with Christ in Zacchaeus' own home, he came out And he said, behold, to the crowd, to Christ, he announced, this is now what my life is about. I will give half Of what I have to the poor. Notice the order. We didn't look at this last week, but I saw it again this week as I was reading this gospel account. Zacchaeus says, I'll give half what I have to the poor, and then he says And from the half that I still have, it's there, I'll give four times to anybody that I've defrauded. That's the fruit of repentance. We see repentance. This is a life changed. And in today's account, we see faith. Saving faith, powerful faith, faith in action. These two presented by Luke back to back to show you and me that faith and repentance go hand in hand. You can't have faith in Jesus Christ as Savior if your life does not reflect a life of repentance and Jesus as Lord. Philip Riken, the former pastor at Tenth Presbyterian, now the president, I believe, at Wheaton College, says repentance means turning away from sin. But how can you truly repent without trusting that God will forgive you in Christ. Reichen goes on to quote John Murray. Who has a similar take? The faith that is unto salvation is a penitent faith, and the repentance that is unto life is a believing repentance They're intertwined for you and for me as we walk our walk with Christ as well. See the interconnection. In this passage, as we look at faith in action through this blind beggar, Bartimaeus. The first thing I want us to see is that the blind man was desperate for something. Desperate for something. Anything. He went out that morning looking for something, just like he did every morning, probably. Anything. Maybe it's not hard to put yourself in his place. One day, same as the next day, same as the day after that. Searching, longing, hoping for something, crying out day after day through your actions or inaction for some type of assistance Maybe feeling as he probably did all alone in the world, fending for himself, begging for others Hoping for the next bit of food, the next meager money that might drop by where he was seated, hoping that somehow something that came his way I think we're supposed to read the scriptures like this. It's interesting to note, like I said, that Luke puts this man who is destitute poor. begging for his next bite of food, juxtaposed to t to to Zacchaeus. Please don't lose sight of that, because both men, despite their outward Were empty inside. Do you ever wonder what the beggar cried out? Doesn't tell us. We speculate at this point. We don't read into the scripture. We're just speculating using our sanctified imaginations. Maybe we said, any help for a blind man? Can you help someone out here? Alms for the poor? I don't know. Was he a Dickensian blind man? I don't know. But maybe every day he cried out, Would someone have mercy on me? Maybe. Because that's what he sought, mercy And may be that when things would fall his way, he was temporarily happy with them Maybe. But they didn't satisfy because the next day he has to return to the beggared state. I want to suggest to you that substitute saviors will never satisfy. Substitute saviors will never satisfy your soul And would that we could peel back our hearts for just a bit with one another and peer across the aisle and two rows forward or three rows back and see. That truth bared out in many lives, even in this room, that have been devastated by running after and worshiping substitute saviors. We're all longing for something, identity, purpose, the reason we're born. And all of us who believe in Jesus Listen, all who believe in Jesus with fear and with trembling, we're working through the reality of what faith is in this world. What does it mean to believe God? What does it mean to believe God when relationships that we wanted to be one way are not that way? What does it mean to believe God when the checkbook that we want to be this big is this big? What does it mean to believe God? To find the reality of our faith, that all our longings find their fulfillment in Christ and in Christ alone. That's really what the Christian walk is about. As opposed to slapping on a happy grin and pretending we've got it all together, let's be honest. Jesus is the only one that's got it all together, and my hope is in him. Nothing else will satisfy. I think the quote is attributed to St. Augustine. Our hearts are restless until they find their rest in thee, O Lord. Our hearts were built for worship. I don't know what substitute Savior is demanding your heart's worship as you get ready for your day of life. I just read again, uh John Piper in fact used it this time. People love to go back to old Bob Dylan, that song he wrote. You're gonna have to serve somebody. It may be the devil or it may be the Lord, but you're gonna have to serve somebody, right? Either you will love the one master and hate the other, or you will love the one and hate the other, but you cannot serve two masters. That's why our hearts are so frustrated because we're attempting to do that. So the scriptures don't tell us what this beggar cried out. When he used to beg, but they do tell us what the beggar cried out when he heard the commotion He heard this crowd in front of him and he inquired of the crowd. I'm surprised they gave him an answer. He was a beggar, after all. Don't deserve an answer. Beggar, shut up. What's the crowd? What's the noise in front of me? I can't what's going on? Jesus of Nazareth passing by. Probably to get him to be quiet. Don't don't beg. We don't want him to think Jericho's full of beggars. Who knows? I don't know. And he cries out, Son of David. And he cry out Jesus of Nazareth, he cried out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Which brings us to the next point. Next point is that the blind man desired his sight. He desires something, and he realizes this is the one that they've talked about. Jesus of Nazareth. Maybe Bartimaeus had heard that this was the same Jesus who had stood in the synagogue a couple of years earlier and read from Isaiah's prophecy. That Rick opened our worship service with. But Luke 4 records Jesus standing, taking the scroll of Isaiah, and reading out loud: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to proclaim. Good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captive and recovery of sight to the blind. To set at liberty those who are oppressed and to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And Luke records that he he rolled up the scroll, he laid it to the side, and he said, Today. This prophecy, this scripture is fulfilled in your presence. I am the year of the Lord's favor. I am the one who will do these things. And the crowd rebuked him. An important man like Jesus doesn't have time for the likes of you. Who knows what their motivation was? But he was not to be deterred. He desired something. He desired his sight. And so he cries out all the louder. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. You do you feel the intensity? I wonder if all time seemed to stop for Bartimaeus. I wonder if he felt as if the world began to rotate slower on its axis. And everything was culminating his entire life into that one moment. Jesus was passing by. He would never get another opportunity. The desire of his heart was so great that the crowd could not deter him. And he cried out all the louder, Jesus Son of David, have mercy on me. He saw Jesus as his only hope. The crowd could have thrown whatever money down, whatever food down, whatever housing down that they wanted to. But he was going to cry out all the louder because Jesus was his only hope. How do we know that? Because Jesus recognized it when he said later on that your faith has made you whole. He recognized the Son of David, the Messiah, the promised one. And he perceived this day to be his last chance. This day was his last chance. Don't leave here today without getting this point. It's for you, it's for me, it's for my family, for my friends, for people that I've never met. Jesus Christ is passing by. The delivery of the gospel through a sermon, the gathering of God's people in corporate worship The Spirit of the Living God speaking to your heart. Aren't you tired yet of a substitute Savior? The compassionate shepherd cares for you, for me, in our lowly estate. He came to offer his life as a ransom for sinners. And he has time for you. There was a pastor that I used to uh fellowship with. He's moved back down to Georgia, South Georgia. And my mom, as a church secretary, worked for him for thirteen or fourteen years, and she told me, I never heard him say this directly, but she told me that when he would answer the phone And the people would ask, Are you busy, Pastor? He'd say, Yes, but never too busy for you. That's the heart of the Savior. Jesus is not worried with our hectic schedule He is here inviting you to believe him, the only true Savior, the only hope that your heart and my heart has for wholeness, for peace. for security, for salvation, for eternity. See what Jesus does? He ignored the crowd, maybe even in spite of the crowd. Luke records that Jesus commanded that the man be brought to him. Who does that? Probably the crowd. Because the blind man who was unnoticed by all at this point now has become the center of the focus Not in a spectacle kind of a way, but in a way that is salvific. In this saving way, Jesus says, Have him come to me. And Mark records that he is Springs up. He sprang up. He threw off his cloak. He sprang up and he came to Christ. Luke records that he was the crowd was commanded to bring him to him. And Jesus brought him to him and listened to the question. What do you want me to do for you? Are you picturing this? Do you get this? This is a man who is blind, dependent on all others for everything that comes his way, and that society, they didn't have the ADA and all the things that we have uh appreciated about our modern times. Blind man. He hears the noise. He asks what it's about. He hears that it's about Jesus and that Jesus is passing by. He lays it all on the line and with his final hope cries out for mercy. And the one who hears our cries for mercy says, What do you want me to do for you? What do you want me to do for you? What shall I do for you in this moment? My heart over the years has tracked with Psalm 28. The cries for mercy. To you, O Lord, I call. My rock, be not deaf to me, lest if you be silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit. Hear the voice of my pleas for mercy. When I cry to you for help. Blessed be the Lord. Blessed be the Lord, for he has heard the voice of my pleas for mercy. The Lord is my strength and my shield. In him my heart trusts and I am helped. My heart exalts, and my song I will give thanks to him. This is the same Jesus Christ yesterday, today, and forevermore, who hears the cries for mercy. And his question comes to your heart, what would you have me to do for you? I can do all things. What is it that you ask of me? How would you answer that question? I thought about it this week. How would I answer that question? You know, it's what it's kinda like, but it's not like the genie in the bottle. It's not really that. Because that doesn't really get to the core of the creator asking the creature, What can I do for you? How would you answer? The blind man asked for his sight. We might ask for a restored marriage. We might ask for our children to be saved. We might ask for health. But let me refer you and myself because this is where I ended up. In Matthew chapter 6, Jesus said Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these other things shall be added unto you in God's way. According to God's will in his perfect timing. So the blind man asked for his sight, and he was delivered From his slavery. Jesus says, recover your sight. Your faith has made you well. It's a familiar faith phrase we see in Luke earlier. Jesus says, Your faith has made you well to a woman who had been years with hemorrhaging of blood, an issue of blood. And in her mind she realizes if I can just work through the crowd and touch the uh cloak that he's wearing, I know that I'll be whole again. And Jesus feels the healing power leave him. He stops everything. And he addresses the woman. He addresses the disciple. Who's touched me? And there's this woman who Luke records immediately the blood dried up. Immediately the issue that she had gone to doctor after doctor to no avail was completely healed. And Jesus said, Your faith has made you whole. Do you see what's being taught in this gospel account and the one before us today? Is that faith believes God is, and that He can do all things I suggest respectfully to you that your biggest need, my biggest need, is to be saved from the wrath of God to come. And the way Jesus has seen fit to rescue us from God's wrath is that he has taken that wrath on himself. All have sinned, fall short of the glory of God, all deserve death. But Jesus Christ has taken that on behalf of sinners. The Bible uses physical conditions, the diseases of the day, to point us to our disease. Oh shit. So we see the blind man crying out, and we see his faith My faith has found a resting place. From guilt my soul is freed. I trust the ever-living one, his wounds for me, shall plead. I need no other argument. I need no other plea. It is enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. Jesus, I am resting, resting in the joy of what you are. I am finding out the greatness of your loving heart. You see, our faith finds its rest in Christ. It's not faith for faith's sake. It's like the illustration of someone going to the hospital in need of a blood transfusion and being hooked to the IV, and there's a plastic tube And rejoicing that the plastic tube is there and hooked in. But they still need blood. Because blood is what brings the life. Not the plastic tubing. The plastic tube is our faith. That's the means by which we lay hold of life in Christ. You see that? It's not faith for faith's sake. It's faith in a real and living Savior. We've got an enemy that wants to blind us to this fact. Paul mentions that in 2 Corinthians 4. He says the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ has been veiled to unbelievers. Let me suggest one thing as we try to conclude this sermon. We need to pray for one another with the same intensity that mothers and fathers who have sons and daughters in active military service and are in harm's way pray for their children. With the bullets flying, with the terrorist at the door of the tent. We need to pray with that kind of intensity for one another that the enemy would not veil our eyes to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And not have us run after, substitute, saviors. Which drives me to the final point The blind man was delivered from his slavery and delighted in his Savior. See, he got up and immediately at this sight restored, he followed Jesus, glorifying God, and all the people when they saw it, they gave praise to God. This was an infectious Fever that took place in the life of this man now. Can you imagine having sight restored? Can you imagine freedom from the bondage of sin? So how do we follow and glorify our Savior? Simply by believing God. Trust and obey. There's no other way to find true peace and happiness in Jesus. Our lives then are one of humble dependence, childlike faith, believing his word is true, that his ways are right, his timing is perfect. And the place that he has prepared for his people is far and away, more magnificent than anything this world has to offer us. He alone has the answers to all your questions. He alone has the power to rescue you from whatever binds you He alone has the initiating, pursuing, self-sacrificing, redeeming love that your heart and my heart longs for. He alone. The blind man cried for mercy. He was desperate. He was not to be deterred. There wasn't going to be a second chance. We have heard uh already this morning about the devastation in Japan It is simply by God's grace that the east coast of the United States wasn't hit with an earthquake of 8. 9 magnitude. Why would it be on that side of the planet and not this side? It's not because of us. And today, as you hear the grace of the Savior offered to you, do not hear the grace of God in vain. Paul said to the Corinthian church. Today is the day of salvation. Jesus stands and asks, What do you want me to do for you? How will you answer? Weak and wounded sinner? Lost, left to die? Raise your hand. Because love is passing by. Let me pray for us. Dear Heavenly Father, we ask that you by your Spirit that you'd be in work at work in us. Lord, wherever we are in our walk of faith, That you would strengthen our understanding of who you are, what you've accomplished, that our desire for you would supersede all other desires. Lord, for the people that are here that have not yet come to see their need for forgiveness, haven't seen their sin for what it is and what it deserves, I pray that you would open their eyes to that. And that you would make us a people now after this benediction in a bit, that we would fellowship around the gospel of Jesus Christ. Our conversations would be saturated with the joy and wonder of a Saviour who would Would give himself in our place. Amazing grace, how sweet the sound. In the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.