Each November, thousands of churches observe what is called Annual Persecuted Church Sunday. And we do that because millions of our brothers and sisters who share our faith in Jesus Christ undergo daily persecution that is hard for us to relate to. It's foreign to our experience. And I like to observe this time for two reasons, two purposes that I have in our observing Persecuted Church Sunday. One is for us to remember and pray for our brothers and sisters who suffer for their faith throughout the world. And As we pray for them, perhaps God will bring to mind other ways that we can assist them. But to um Yeah, I don't know uh how you felt when you heard Tim talk about uh others that uh don't come to a brightly lit building but kinda sneak into a basement and you think, well Is that really going on? And uh for us to be reminded how very true that that is going on not just with a few, but many, many of our brothers and sisters. And then secondly to remember that we should expect to suffer for the gospel. This is not just something that is for other cultures and other countries. It's a universal principle. And the United States is not friendly to the gospel. There are many examples I could cite to demonstrate that. Let me just pull from this week's Time magazine. They have a new section called Punchlines and uh some of those are cartoons. Uh let me just share with you two cartoons and uh you know I'm thinking about now maybe I should have had this put up on the screen so you can see it but I'll just uh describe it. The first cartoon uh shows this big fat guy and he's petting this dog that's got W on his collar. He's kind of wagging his tail and slobbery And then there's a leg that's inside the door, and uh on the leg it says Alito, and the fat guy is saying, that's a good boy, you dragged home the right one this time and printed on the fat guy's rear says far right. Well, the fact is that whatever we may think about politics, uh the perception of the culture is far right equals evangelicals. So that's kind of the the take on folks like you and me in pub popular perception. The second cartoon shows Bush uh at a podium he's saying uh he's got the avian flu plan and he says uh we're in trouble if this virus mutates Now in front of him there is this guy who's really pretty sinister. He's even fatter than the other guy. He's got a Bible under his hand. And he he's The the face on him is the kind of face you'd make a monster. You know, it's just really sinister and grotesque. And he says, mutates? You mean like evolves? And then one of Bush's aides is back of the curtain there, he says, oh man, he just lost his base again. You know, again, uh that's the picture. You know, we're a bunch of people that always looking to push our agenda to grab somebody, you know, just uh The the the as you look at the cartoons, it's not a question of what do you agree or disagree on the issue But it's the sinister depiction of those that are carry Bibles called far right, those kind of things. There is also a latest magazine this week, this month's issue of By Faith This is published by the Presbyterian Church in America and the author of this particular article says that uh there is a a question that he likes to ask people. So he goes around just talking to people and he here's this question. He says, I like to ask If you converted to Christianity today, do you think your life would be larger, fuller, richer, more attractive, creative, more involved with people, circumstances, art and culture around you Or do you think that your life would be smaller, narrower, more withdrawn, judgmental, negative, less winsome and creative, less involved with people, art, circumstances, and the culture around you His observation, not once have I received the answer that I would hope for. The perception is that Christianity narrows people, makes them judgmental. And uh as long as that's the perception, it's no wonder that uh popular culture uh does not particularly have a good impression of Christians. In fact I remember witnessing to a fellow uh just uh not too long ago, who said after I had uh shared the gospel with him, he said, You're the first person I've ever talked to who would call himself an evangelical that I didn't consider a mindless redneck. And that's the perception. Now, churches, in fact, this article goes on it. It has a picture there of a bumper sticker, and Jesus is in large letters. And then it says, Jesus, save me from your followers. You know, again, that's the perception. Now, churches uh And Christians seem to be reacting to this kind of thing, this perception, in two opposite directions The first is to kind of hunker down and get ready for the fight. You know, we're going to take on those secular humanists, who they think they are, they're not going to push us around, and so we uh we're we're kind of up to the fight. This past Wednesday at the Howard County Library had a wonderful time. Jaime had gotten this video on intelligent design. And uh we showed that um there were probably eighty or so people there, and um one of those was uh again uh was uh a large man carrying a bible and one of the unbelievers there that was attacking intelligent design, he began to attack the fella. In fact it was uh more of a personal attack than it was an argument. And uh I thought, you know, there's a there's an example of somebody who I'm sure thinks he's being faithful to the Lord. I'm gonna take this guy on, he's not gonna push us around, and then he stomped out. You know. Well The other way that Christians react is, well, you know, if we just love people, they won't hate us. You know, just be kind. You know, don't Don't go out there and be obnoxious. Just be loving. You know, win them by love. In fact, the one popular preacher in a book that he's written says, learn to speak God's favor over every area of your life. And he talks about how God will bring peace if you do that. You don't need to be in conflict. Well, I think it's instructive When we think not only of what's going on around the world with our brothers and sisters, but what we experience here, to go back to the words of the Lord Jesus and to see what he had to say about this. Now, the context, you remember, of the passage that Tim just read to you from John 15, is that these are Jesus' last words to his disciples the night that he was betrayed. And what's particularly instructive here is that Jesus' main burden is to comfort his disciples. He wants to encourage them because of what is coming on ahead, and he wants to lift their spirits and strengthen their resolve. It's in that context that he nevertheless has some very difficult things to say to them. He tells them that the world is going to hate them. Strong words, not the kind of words we want to hear. But we have to face the reality that Jesus is pointing us to. And the basic principle That Jesus is articulating here is that the world loves only its own. Those are the first three blanks. The world loves only its own. You see, in verses 18 and 19, if the world hates you, Keep in mind that it hated me first. Now that's something, you know, you could meditate on that for some time. Lord, when I feel like I don't fit in this world It's really helpful to realize that's the way you felt. If the world hates you, keep in mind that it hated me first. I believe he said that in a gentle tone. If you belong to the world, it would love you as its own. As it is, you do not belong to the world. But I have chosen you out of the world. That's why the world hates you. See, the world just loves its own. You see in the uh up on the screen there. Uh if you remind them of Jesus, then they're gonna hate you You can't be neutral on this. You can't be both a Christian and at home in the world. That's uh difficult for some of us to face. Again on uh Wednesday evening at the library Uh Jaime chose wisely the library, so we're on the world's turf. It's not here at Columbia Presbyterian's turf, but we're the out there. We show the video on intelligent design and it was there was a clear division after that presentation. Opened it up for discussion. Discussion went on for about an hour. Just unsolicited, comment after comment. But it was very clear You could line up those that um were very critical of this because they didn't believe there was an intelligent designer and they thought that uh this was going down a blind alley, it was unhelpful, we you ought to Try and restrict this kind of thinking. And others who were thinking, this is just wonderful, uh I see the evidence of the designer, this is uh something that we should celebrate and um there should be freedom to talk about this. And you could have lined up people on two sides of the room. You know. Nobody was neutral. Nobody was saying, well, you know, that's kind of nice on the one hand, but on the other hand, I don't really want to take sides. You know. Everybody took sides And if you were there, which side would you be on? If you're in a discussion in Jesus Christ Is being discussed, but you know that that's making people uncomfortable. Were you willing to stand on the side with Jesus Christ Sometimes that's made more difficult for us if the person representing Christ is being a little obnoxious, but are we willing to stand on the side of Christ? I still remember a story that I had heard about 30 years ago. In Russia, when it cost quite a bit to be a Christian in Russia, and they met just as Tim was talking about in secret places. And in burst five soldiers with guns to this place where they were meeting. And the soldiers said, If you are a follower of Jesus Christ, stand up against that wall. Now what would you do? You notice he didn't say everybody stand up against the wall. He said, if you're a follower of Jesus Christ, stand up against that wall. So some people stood up against the wall, and other people didn't. He said, and the soldier said, All those that have not, leave. And they left. And then they put down their guns and they said, we too are Christians, brothers. We just wanted to get rid of those who we knew weren't because they wouldn't pay the price. You see, being a Christian costs. It has to cost. This world is not friendly to you. Jesus said the world's going to hate you. It hated me. And it's easy to say that you're a Christian, that every one of us is put from time to time in positions where it's going to cost to identify with Jesus Christ. Some of us have been around here long enough to remember back in 1984 when we were in the meeting house and We were unceremoniously expelled from the meeting house because we believed that Jesus Christ was the only way to get to God. And people disliked us. I remember Some of the phone calls that I got and the messages that I was getting at that time. That was a hard time. That was not that was not pleasant But there was a sense that the Lord Jesus was with us because we were standing with him. Now, he goes on notice to say why it is that the world hates you. He at least gives two comments on this. Notice he says first of all in verse 19, it's simply because you don't belong. If you belong to the world, it would love you. As it is, you don't belong, because I've chosen you out of the world, that's why the world hates you. You don't belong here See the the green up there. You do not belong. The world likes conformity and it it presses against What's different, and that's not just in Japan and Asia, that's more or less subtle and obvious in every culture. Now uh Probably most of you own an umbrella and don't find it a big deal to carry an umbrella when it's raining. You know the guy who invented the umbrella, invented it in England, and the first time he took an umbrella out. To demonstrate it walking on the street, people pelted him with dirt and stones because it didn't fit. It was different. It was it was uh repulsive to them. Socrates was executed because he didn't fit. But time has a way of changing. Things that are first rejected because they don't fit. In nineteen eighteen a printer goofed and printed some stamps with this new invention, an airplane on it, and He printed a hundred of them with the plane mistakenly upside down. Uh excuse me, he uh printed thousands of them of the plane upside down, but they caught most of them. They caught all but a hundred of them before they were put into circulation. A hundred made it into circulation And uh those were bought up and back last month, October the nineteenth, a little uh sheet of four of those Stamps sold for a record two point seven million dollars because that which at the time was considered an offense You know, these dumb things are upside down. Let's grab them back and get rid of them. Set an all-time record for value among stamps. And I believe that that's the way it is with our being different too. It's very uncomfortable to be different. You kids, when you're with your playmates and They're using dirty language or they're doing stuff that you know is not right or they go into a store and they want to shoplift and come on and let's do it and And you take a stand and you say, I'm not going to do it, very uncomfortable. Doesn't look very valuable. But there'll be a day when we'll stand before Jesus Christ and he'll place his value on our being different. And we'll say, My God, I wish I had done it more often. If I knew it meant that much to you, if I knew it was worth that much. To be different costs, but to be different is valuable. Jesus says you don't fit. It's going to be uncomfortable. Then he says the second thing. He says that the servant can't be expected to get better treatment than his or her master. You see that in verse 20. Remember the words I spoke to you. No servants greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they'll persecute you also. If they obeyed my teaching, they'll obey yours also. Don't expect to get better treatment than than me. I mean just think about it. Jesus endured far more rejection than you ever have or will. And Jesus healed people, Jesus did miracles, Jesus raised the dead. You expect you're going to get better treatment than somebody that did that? You see, Jesus is saying, you can't expect that you'll get better treatment than me. Don't be surprised when non-Christians turn on you. They turned on Jesus. If the world hates you, remember it hated me first. That doesn't mean we go out and pick a fight or justify being obnoxious. We try to be have our words seasoned with grace. To be loving, to be gentle. But no matter how much you try, if you're faithful, you will be misunderstood. My wife Kathy and Lorna Sharp have a Bible study in our neighborhood just about every year. It's become a an annual event and uh A couple of years ago when they had uh one of their women's studies, they found out that one of the neighbors up the street from us was circulating around to the other women in the neighborhood. Oh, that group that meets down at the Harrises, they just meet there so that the wives can Grouch and criticize their husbands behind their back. And they circulated this rumor around the neighbors. There's not a shred of truth in it. It hurts. It hurts to be misunderstood and vilified and have people say, well, you know, just a group of people that want to complain about your husbands and run them down. You're trying to talk about the Prince of Life and how to love your husbands better. We will be misunderstood. You can't keep that from happening. We some of us think, you know, if I just do it right. Then I can fit. You won't. You gotta make the decision. I gotta make the decision. I remember still when I was an inner varsity, this just popped into my mind now. I remember this kid that I was talking to who was, you know, kind of tepid for the Lord. And one day I came in and he was real bouncy and he was had a smile and I said, you know, what's happened to you? He said, I just had this revelation this last week I realized that all my life I've been or all my Christian life, which was a couple of years, he said I've been trying to fit in with the Christians and also fit in with my unChristian friends, you know, to kind of belong in both. And he said, I finally decided I can't do that, so I'm gonna be a Christian, whatever, and let the chips fall where they may. Boy, he said that was really freeing. You know, it's difficult, but it's freeing when you come to that decision. Well, notice secondly that Jesus goes on to why the world hates him. They hate us because we we remind them of him, but why is it that they hate him? Two reasons. First of all, because of their ignorance And their hatred of the true God. Verse 21, they'll treat you this way because of my name, for they do not know the one who sent me. They don't know him. And they don't love him. Verse 23. He who hates me hates my father as well. So they don't know him, but they hate him. Well, of course. If you know him, you love him, right? But you don't know him and you hate him because his authority and his sovereign control is an offense to you. You want to live your life the way you want to live it, and a God who is in control. A God before whom you must bow and obey is a God that you hate if your heart hasn't been changed. They rage against him. And the second reason is he says because he exposes their sin is without excuse. It's without excuse. Again, see, if they had, if I had not, verse 22, if I had not come and spoken to them. They would not be guilty of sin. Now, however, they have no excuse for their sin. His words have exposed them. And then verse twenty four, his works have exposed them. If I had not done among them what no one else did, they would not be guilty of sin. But now they have seen these miracles, and yet they've hated both me and my father. So they've heard my words and they have seen that my actions have not only backed up my words, but the power of my actions has demonstrated that I speak with authority. And they don't like what I say, so they want to get rid of me. Harry Ironside, a famous preacher of the early part of the last century. Used to give an illustration about a missionary in Africa, and he said in this particular place that this missionary lived, there was a woman who was the wife of a chief, and she came to visit him one day And he had a mirror hanging on a branch of a tree outside of his hut. And she saw that mirror for the first time. And she looked at herself. She had never seen her face before She had never seen the grotesque paintings that they did and the hardness of her life lived without Christ. And she looked and Backed off in horror and said to missionary, Who's that horrible woman staring at me from out of that tree? He said, There's no woman in that tree. That's a glass that's reflecting your face. And she said, Will you sell it to me? And he said, Well, it's really not for sale. She says, I must have it. I want to buy it. And he said, Well, you know, I really you know, no and she insisted and because she was the wife of a chief, he thought he'd probably better sell it to her rather than get into trouble, it wouldn't be worth it, so he sold it to her, and immediately she took it off the tree and she smashed it. And said, I will not have that ugly woman looking at me anymore. You know, Jesus held a mirror up to our hearts. And we don't like what we see. He shows us our greed, our selfishness. He shows us what we're really like And then he offers forgiveness. He offers to heal us. But we must admit that the problem is not in the mirror, the problem is in me. And when I admit that, Jesus comes to rescue. But if I don't admit it, I will hate him, and I will hate his followers who remind me of him. That's the dynamic Jesus is. giving to us. And so finally he says, there is a judgment. They have done this, verse 25, to fulfill what was written in their law. They hated me without reason. Now he's quoting there from Psalm 69, verse 4, where the psalmist is being persecuted, and he says, They hated me without a reason. Jesus is applying that to himself because he is saying, I'm the ultimate example of that, of someone who is hated for absolutely no reason, no justifiable reason. But what's interesting is that Psalm goes on, where the psalmist prays against those who have tormented him, and in verses 22 to 28, you see God pouring out his fierce wrath upon the tormentors. It says that he will blot them out of his book of life. And so you see again, whether it's Old Testament or New Testament, whether it's Bible times or today, we're in a cosmic conflict. Where there are people who hate us without reason. Now, there's people that dislike us for good reasons. You know, we all have people that we irritate and people that we hurt. But there's also beyond that people that will dislike you and dislike me for no justifiable reason because we remind them of Jesus Christ. I don't like to hear that. You don't like to hear it, but Jesus says, remember, if the world hates you, keep in mind it hated me first. The servant can't be above his master. And so uh the more you remind people of Jesus in general, the more they're going to not like what you represent to them. Not always true. Sometimes the spirit softens hearts and attracts people to himself. That's certainly true. It's not universal. But without the spirit working, there will be that rejection And so again, I ask you, which side are you on? You can't be neutral in this. You can't just say you're a Christian. But when you're in a situation where you need to identify with Jesus Christ, and it's going to cost you. Say, I'm not willing to pay that cost and still call yourself a Christian. Which side are you on? Then you conclude with a final word. You see, Jesus continues on, but he ends just before the whole discourse ends at the end of chapter 16. Where Jesus sums it up and says in chapter 16, verse 33. I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble. But take heart. I have overcome the world. See the outworking of this principle through history. Both the trouble And his power are demonstrated through history and in your life and in my life, the fact that the world is in conflict, but that Jesus is the comfort And if you don't know either the kind of trouble, and that trouble that he's talking about, he says you will have trouble. That's not talking just about flu and toothaches and tumors. It's talking about persecution. It's talking about being disliked, being hated even, because you remind people of Jesus. If you don't remind them of Jesus, they're not going to hate you. Is that worth it to you? You can't be neutral. Eleven of the twelve disciples were martyred, and the twelfth one spent his last days exiled on an island. Tertullian in 197 A. D. is the one who coined the statement. The blood of the church is the blood of the martyrs, it's the seed of the church. It's the persecution that causes the church to grow. G. K. Chesterton once wrote that Jesus promised his disciples three things: that they would be completely fearless, they would be absurdly happy, and they'd be in constant trouble. Thousands have died for their faith through the centuries. Far more in the 20th century than all the previous centuries combined. But the gospel continues to grow in hostile areas in unprecedented ways. Let me give you a couple of examples. Mongolia, one of the most closed nations in the world to the gospel. In 1989, there were only four known Christians in the entire country. Today there are over 20,000 Christians in Mongolia in hundreds of churches. In Nepal, the first church ever to be planted in Nepal was in 1959. There were 29 Christians. Now in Nepal there are over a half a million Christians in over 5,000 congregations. China. 1949 when the communists took over. It's estimated there were 1. 2 million Christians in China at that time. Since China has been closed and China has experienced some of the greatest persecution of Christians of any nation, there are now between 90 and 100 million. Christians in China. You know what that means? You know 90 to a million Christians in China means that that's about twice as many Christians as in all North America. The largest church in the world of any country is in China. Not the United States by a far shot. In fact, recently I was reading that Christianity is becoming a third world religion. We no longer dominate. It's where there's persecution that the church is growing the fastest. And that continues just this week in the Washington Post. There was an article about a pastor, a prominent pastor, who just this week in China was sentenced to three years in prison for printing Bibles and tracts. It's not clear how many he printed, hundreds of thousands. The government claims millions. They accused him of selling them. It was claimed that he gave them. But three years in prison For printing and distributing Bibles. President Bush is going to be in mainland China in just over a week. And the State Department's making an issue of this. Pray that he'll have the courage to bring that up and say that is unacceptable violation of human rights. And pray for that pastor who's now in prison. His wife's also in prison. And another relative. Interesting, his sister-in-law got off because she cooperated with the police. The tensions that persecution produces And so we see it today. Christians continue to suffer. In November 21, 2002, a woman by the name of Bonnie Weatherall was a nurse in a clinic in Lebanon. Early in the morning she was having her coffee and there was a knock at the door before opening hours, and so she opened the door and was immediately shot to death because she was a Christian. Often these things don't get into the news, we don't hear about them. But it's estimated by the best sources That in the year 2003, a hundred and sixty thousand Christians died for their faith. In one year. They ask us not to pray for the persecution to end. Isn't that interesting? They say, don't pray for the persecution to end because our suffering in that persecution is an opportunity for the gospel. And if that's what it takes, we're willing to bear it. Are you and I? Things get if you if you knew that for the gospel to really flourish in the United States, you and I would need to suffer? Would we say, okay, Lord, that's what it takes Let me quote to you from a woman writing on this and interviewing a number of people in persecuted countries. She said after she had heard some of these stories, she said, I began to cry. The fellow that was talking to her said, Don't cry for them. They view themselves as victors, privileged to die for God, not victims. Samuel Lam, pastor of the largest house church in China, states emphatically: persecution is good for the church More persecution, more growth. Lamb tells how his church tended to grow more when he was in prison than when he was free. Send me back if it means more growth for the church. Author Tim Stafford tells of meeting Lalani of Sri Lanka. Her husband had been martyred. And she had personally faced death threats. Kim described her as not only strong, but also happy, deeply, unconditionally happy. God became very close to me, Lalani said. And I would tell him everything. I said, if you want me to die, I'm ready, but I prefer not because I have work to do here. But if I die, I want to write on the wall with my blood, Jesus is alive. When I thought of those believers, martyrs who in past centuries kissed the stake on which they were burned, I realized that today's martyrs are made of the same stuff as the ones recorded in Fox's Book of Martyrs. There are many things that we can do to support and encourage them, but the main thing they want is our prayers that they finish well. May ask that your cell, your small group, your family, that this week you take some time to pray for our brothers and sisters in other countries. That they finish well. And I challenge you as I challenge myself this week, stand for Jesus Christ, whatever the circumstance, be conscious of the conflict. And be ready to stand and say, Lord Jesus, if the world hates me, I remember it hated you first, but you endured that. You went to the cross, even though there was no reason to hate you. To die for my sin, to rescue me from this world, to serve you with all my heart. In this world you will have trouble. But take earth. I've overcome the world. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we do have trouble. We want to escape trouble. We want our lives to be comfortable. I want my life to be comfortable. But Lord Jesus, you haven't called us to comfort. You've called us to an adventure. You've called us to the exhilaration of seeing you strengthen weak people like us. A weak person like me who wants to vacillate and wants to mutter and mumble rather than speak clearly about the Jesus who I know that people despise. The Christianity that is caricatured because I want to fit in Lord, give us a love for you because you died for us and you've risen again Because of our love for you, because you are worth it, that this week we'll be willing to stand and identify boldly, clearly for you. We do pray for our brothers and sisters in all parts of the world. We pray for that pastor, Lord. We pray for President Bush as he goes to China, that he'd be willing to bring that issue up. To bring up the hypocrisy of the Chinese government that claims to print Bibles and then imprisons a pastor because he printed them, to expose those things. And Lord, we pray for our brothers and sisters, strengthen them, that they would finish well, and strengthen us too, to partner with them. Lord, we ask you for that because we are weak and you are strong. You have overcome the world, and we need you. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen.