Tom and Nancy Balma helped to start Columbia Presbyterian Church back in the mid-seventies. They have not been here for three years. How many of you have not seen them or heard them because you've started coming since June nineteen ninety seven. Let's just see your hands. You see a big pretty good proposal. A third or more of the congregation there. I first met Tom and Nancy back in 1970 when uh I was on Innervarsity staff working with students here in Maryland, D. C. Tom and Nancy, uh Tom was an engineer at that point in Baltimore and uh they helped me raise support. And um because uh it's a bit of Tom's pilgrimage uh about what happened then, I won't try to do that this time. I'll let him tell it. Uh but through various circumstances, pushing, nudging, God led them to Italy in nineteen eighty-one. They'll have been there twenty years next year. And that's a long time, particularly in a place like Italy. It can be a very discouraging work. And uh they have persevered and persevered as a team. Two things that have really impressed me and It's been a real encouragement and challenge to me is how you guys have worked as a team so thoroughly and how you have persevered in a difficult time. In Italy, uh we think you know the Pope lives there, it must be pretty churched. Uh not true? Only four out of a hundred people go to church on any particular Sunday in Italy. Four out of a hundred, four percent. And uh only eight percent claim to go to church once a year And so it's not an easy place to work, particularly among students, where there's really not much of any campuses, a lot of students, but Uh it was just exciting to hear in the middle hour how uh through a number of uh long times of ups and downs and discouragement How God answered powerfully just recently some prayers we've been praying for for a long time and just exciting. I mean we just were moved to applaud the Lord and to just stop and praise him for what he had done. Sorry you won't be able to hear that. Teach you to come to the middle hour if you missed it. Next week come and you'll hear another good story about how God has raised up a camp right within our own presbytery from nothing just a few years ago. And uh you'll see um pictures of it and be able to know what is going on uh right here. So don't miss those mill hours. That'll be the last one next week So I want to commend to you now, our brother, to hear God's word from him as he brings it to us from his heart and his experiences and God's word to your heart, to our hearts together. Tom, come on. Yeah, you know an Italian word you can say hello and you can say goodbye to all your friends. No, it doesn't get you any food. Sorry. Uh I just want to say thanks. Thank you that your partners with us. Uh It's easy to think of missions as as budgets and committees and and and information, but missions is teams of people. Some who are still here, and some who've moved somewhere else, who must all fulfill their part of that commitment. Your prayers, your words of encouragement, occasional email, letters, your support. are all part of what makes things happen somewhere else. In our case, among university students in Italy. In the case of other missionaries you support, it's a teamwork It's not what was the old hymn, so send I you to kinda labor unrewarded or something like that. Sent you out goodbye. Oh, are you still out? No. It's a team work together. And if we've survived 19 years, uh we collectively have survived nineteen years. It is not something that somehow we have done on our own. We've done through the Lord, through your teamwork with us. I want to talk about images and names of God, not all the images and all the names. It's not a 20-week series. It's it's one sermon And Al beat me to some of them, but I'll pick up some others. But these are some particularly that I found useful in understanding a missionary call, or for that matter, any kind of ministry call. Following that call, then there's that need to day by day put feet on your prayers, put it into practice, make it real. This is something that came out of a Bible study I did with part of the GBU staff team in Italy. So you're getting some direct benefit from uh uh some of the work we do over do over there. The first image is that of God. The Bible describes some aspects of God as an eagle. Deuteronomy Fifth book of Moses, if you don't know where Deuteronomy is in the Old Testament, fifth book of the Bible. Deo Teronomio in Italian, so it doesn't get any easier in Italian. In fact, there's two more syllables in the word. Deuteronomy 32, verse eleven, where it says, like an eagle stirs up its nest, And hovers over its young that spreads its wings to catch them and carries them on its pinions. Now some of you kids probably wonder where the eagles keeps its pinions. We'll get to that. The context of this is important. Uh it goes back, kind of a sweep up how these people got under the care of Dawd as an eagle. Where it says, remember in verse 7, the days of old. Consider the generations long past. We have a long, long time God. We sing in the gospel chorus. Uh and that is black gospel music in Italy. Most of the people are Italians who don't speak English. It's a very interesting thing. But one of the songs is He's an On Time God. He may not get there when you need him, but he gets there right on time. He's always right on time. You may think it's wrong time, but it's always right on time. Which started a long time ago. Remember the days of old. Consider the generations long past. Think back. Remember what God has done. Verse 9 and 10 it says, For God's portion is his people, God's special care and interest for his covenant people, his family. Talks about from the point of view of Israel, Jacob his allotted inheritance. So not only looking past, but inheritance speaks of that future plan he has for his people. But in a desert land he found him, in a barren and hollowing waste. You can think of the wind blowing you know through the the harsh rocky land. In that kind of situation he picks him up, picks up God's people. He sealed him and cared for him. Special care. He guards him and says, as the apple of his eye. Strange expression, but it's really like like the most special part of your eye, the pupil. God holds you in a special place, has special care and protection over you. And then there's this nest, the scene of the nest. Nest is that place of security. The young, the eggs hatch there, they grow up there, they're fed, they're cared for. You grow under shelter. But the nest is not the end goal. The nest is just a step along the way. That's very important. Suburban Columbia, nicely established CPC church. I hope it's not your nest. Or you're just thinking of staying, being cared for, oh the food's hot. It's kinda cozy, everyone else worrying about the things. No. It's just the opposite. It's a step along the way. So the eagle stirs up its nest. Makes that tranquil situation untranquil. Stirs it up. There's that point where the eagle parents start moving around and agitating so the little eaglets who are not big don't get the idea they can just sit there forever. Stirs it up, disturbs their tranquility, their peaceful, fat existence there, everything's done for 'em. Hovers over its young, it just kind of it's right there. in your in basketball terms we say in your face, you know, kind of that kind of defensive posturing going on now in the NBA finals. You can't ignore it. This image of God is an ego, but it's very active God in our lives. But it's an activity that can seem unpleasant. It is unpleasant. Time to get out of the nest. What does he do? Stirs up the nest, hovers over his young, and spreads its wings to catch them and carry them on his fingers. Now the pinions, as I understand it, In the bony structure of an eagle's wings, it's kind of where the bones end and from there on it's just feathers. It's the part that's still like your shoulders or strength. Eagles learn to fly by being kicked out, and those nests are way up high. And they do so well and they're not going to make it. And the parents fly down underneath and catch them on their back. And lift them back up. And then let them go again. And they try again. And they swoop down and they catch them and take them back up. He stirs up the nest, he hovers over the young, he spreads his wings to catch them and carries them on his pinions. The end goal is not to stay stay safely in the net in the nest. It's the move on. There's a time for the nest, time of maturing, being discipled, and then there's that next step you need to take. If the eaglet won't move on its own, then God pushes it lovingly out of the nest. Now it's not a kick it out of the nest. It's that flying down with and catching and bringing up until it has learned to fly and to move on. So I hope you're not in the nest. In a sense, you're clinging to the edge of the nest. This is where you're going to stay. It's nice and cozy here. This is my endpoint. No, it's not the end point. It's a step along the way. Our own call in the ministry. Ages goes back to when we were students, but when we were working here, I was an engineer, Nancy's a math teacher. Out of that role, into doing that, but also doing volunteer staff work for the university. And then that was taking up all our spare time and then moving into doing full-time work with students, leaving those careers behind. It took us out of living in a nice house in Columbia than moving to Frederick. Why? Because of the need to better serve students in other parts of Maryland and develop student groups and universities and colleges that didn't have them. See people here that I worked with were back then. And then that comfortableness of working on university staff. In Maryland. Got shaken up again. No. Why don't you invest that somewhere else, another country, another language, another culture? Another context. It was another nest that we had to leave and learn to fly to. And we landed and we were told to work in English with international students. I wish there were lots in Florence. And that's where we began. And did a little language study on the side. And then in two years we said, why don't you start a Bible study in Italian? Oh And we we didn't feel ready. It was another nest. Move on. And then going from working with a Bible study in our home. Two. While you're at it, there's some other short-term mission people. Why don't you guide these other people along the way to moving in to be national director of a student? To developing national structures. Writing legal documents in Italian. You just have to move on Here at PC CPC, what areas the ministry are involved in? Is that your end goal forever? Perhaps it's a staging point to train you. Moving on. When I worked at Westinghouse One of the things we did on the side, saw a friend become a Christian, one of the other engineers, and he was a young Christian, so we started reading the Bible with him, and he immediately started inviting non-Christians along, much better than I could have. And we had a home Bible study. Experience I had leading those Bible studies among engineers with Nancy and other couples, who would I use and invested In student work in Maryland. So got me out of being a very fairly intimidated and clothed kind of person to opening up. The experience I had in developing new university groups in Maryland and training people came on Novarsity staff is what I invested in students in Italy, in foreign students and Italian students. to become staff workers. So you pick up gifts, skills along the way, that are useful, shall we say, in the next nest But you gotta fly. You gotta let go. Gone as this eagle stirs up your nest. If he's stirring up your nest, is there a certain uncomfortable edge about where you are? Or is this all just nice and cozy? You know the food gets dropped in your lap spiritually. What gifts is he giving you now that need to be invested elsewhere? Other people, your next door neighbor, someone in your family. Other aspects of the ministry here are CPC. God moves us on in obedience. He's discipling us today, but it's for the future, often in other places, new experiences. How about some names ago? We read Isaiah, or as we learn in Britain, Isaiah 9. 6. Interesting verse, for we think of it mainly at Christmas. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders. He will be called wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. That's a coincidence. Today is Father's Day. Today is the day when there are more collect calls in America than any other day of the year. What does that tell us about ourselves, son? But this one name here, Everlasting Father, one of the struggles in America, growing up America is the divided families. How do I be a a parent to my kids if I've gone through divorce? That connection. And here we have God, who's not just father for today, he's an everlasting father. What good are God's guarantees for our future? They're only good if He's there. If He's the everlasting Father who's going to be with us on out. Governments are making promises. Political candidates make promises. Your own parents make promises or made promises. Your friends can promise you all kinds of things. But after they're gone, what are the guarantees? It's the fact that we have an everlasting Father. That's why I think this name of God is so close to me He's flying you out of that nest of somewhere else, but he's already there. He's an everlasting father See, we can depend on God for the future. It doesn't matter how far off that is. He doesn't always tell us all the details of the future. It's like driving down a road you've never been down. You know at night your your headlights only show you so much of the time. There's a curve, slow down. Oh, there's rocks in the road. Better go around it. Here it's a little rough. Take it easy here You see what's necessary the hand of the next part. But the road does go on. God knows the whole road your life is going to follow. He gives it to you kind of piece at a time with a range of your headlights. Maybe sometimes your headlights get brighter and you can see more. But it's what you can handle. It's moving out of that nest, going on to something you don't know what's there yet. But when you get there, that everlasting Father He beat you there. He's with us today. He's with us tomorrow. He's there for all of tomorrow's tomorrow. And he promises that go beyond us. Because his promises aren't dependent on us. Some of his promises, for instance, to our children, carry on after us. They're not dependent on us, it's dependent on Him. And that's our hope for the future. Now, related to that is Matthew 123, another name of God. Another Christmas verse. The virgin will be with child and will give birth to a son, and they will call him Emmanuel. What's it mean? Anyone remember? God with us. God with us. What are the implications of this? God is with us. It certainly is the the God incarnate, in Italian carne means flesh. He's taken on our flesh or our body, our experience in Christ. He's understands our situation. He's been in our needs. He knows our struggles. He knows our shortcomings. He knows our hopes. The incarnation is certainly this. God with us. He's walked our walk. He's been down this path. But God with us also underlines, I believe, the closeness of this walk we have with God. It's not just he's experienced. If you need him, call him. Right, you can call him collect, but call him. No. It means That it means implies that we're not just being sent by God somewhere or being observed by God. Okay, we're protected, and in the end we're going to be evaluated somehow. No, God is here. God is with us. It's in the day-to-day, not just theoretical. He's never distant, and he's never distracted. Now if you're here in the middle hour and there's coffee time and you're talking with someone and someone else comes up, there's always that tr well oh no, oh yeah, I needed to say something to this person. And one or the other you you stop talking to and they're and it can be this feeling like, oh. They're not interested, their attention is taken away. God with us means he's not distracted. His attention isn't drawn to something else. He's in your situation and he's constantly in it. Never distant or distracted. So our prayers are not to wake God up. Oh, excuse me, Father. Oh, I'm still here. No. Our prayers Our struggle to understand, as it says in those verse, know his will, say, yeah, I want that. Right here, CPC. I want that. Right here in Italy. And I believe that you will, and therefore I'm asking for that, because you're the one that can make it happen. That's what prayer is. Understanding God's will and asking for it to happen right here and now. And see how He plans to use us in bringing that about. So we have everlasting Father and God with us, these two different names that we're given. All right, we're being put out of the nest. We're flying into new territory. But along the way, God is there and He's always going to be there. He's right with us. He's there in the immediacy of our needs and our struggles. Right. He didn't say there wouldn't be needs and struggles, but he's there. It's he go it this goes on day by day. It's not a Tuesday, Thursday kind of a schedule or something. Remember how the eagle drops down under the eagle if they're learning to fly and catches them as much as they need it to bring them back up until they go on. They can handle this task. God is there. It's not like, no, only four times, fifth time you're on your own. No. That's not our God. God with us, everlasting Father. We don't go on our own. Think of some examples where we've struggled to try and live this out. University of Bologna 85,000, 90,000 students. In 17 years, I've seen three GBU groups start that last maybe two years disappear like the fog in the morning. For one reason or another, in the end, it was students said, Well it well, it's it's a struggle here to do something. It's just easier to be a a college group in a university church situation, why do we bother to try and be a light on the campus where there isn't any campus anyway? Why do we make all this extra effort? It's too hard. And they give up. Seen it happen three times. Two years ago there was a chance to restart work. It's Italian work among Italian students. So what did God use? Three foreign students. Samuel, a French student, part of the GPU in France, who who had a scholarship and they're very going to be more common to study for a year in Italy. In Bologna. a young who's Taiwanese who learned Italian in Perugia in the international group there, learned about the GPU and I was gonna do university studies in Bologna. So we had a Chinese student, we had a French student, and we had an American, Christine, who was working with us in Florence. Now by God's providence, God's long term planning The year before she had been in France and she had known Samuel in the GBU, because as a she was an old pair and she went to the GBU student group. So there's already some links And she was willing, I said, I'll figure away if you travel to Bologna once a week and try and encourage these others to start something in Bologna. I started not this year, but the year before. There was a struggle. The the find a place you could meet legally. Uh classroom. There were all kinds of problems. There are n more non Christian Italians came at the beginning than Christians, trying to find the base. Then it's gone up and down. Uh As we get towards the end of this year, the question was, just like before, Samuel went back after one year to to France to continue studying. Christine was finishing her time, the short-term mission with us And I love Fang Young. Would something go on? Everlasting Father, God with us You don't have an answer. You just kind of go day by day. What's the solution? Well it seems that the solution was Franco. Now Franco's a student in Bologna He became a Christian about six months ago. Not in Bologna, but through knowing GB students, one he was particularly interested in in Florence. Now one of the weaknesses there have been in the past is that the people who were in these groups, Italians, grew up in churches. where you kind of is uh schizophrenically isolate you can your faith to the church and not other places. Fancal doesn't have this problem because he didn't grow up in a church He's a new Christian. What he sees is a need to share Christ on campus. Franco has committed himself to help the group go forward this next year. Out of the blue. You go through it one day at a time. You don't know the solution. You don't know where you're gonna what's gonna come down the road. But you gotta be faithful and knowing God is there. The eternal Father who's planning things out, he having a history of seeing groups die off three times It would be easy to say, let's invest our time somewhere else. There's something about this city that's that's poisoned. The the the few Protestant churches in our struggle. Maybe we should give up on it And yet it seemed like the right time, but we didn't see the answer. So now it seems like there's an answer. International student work in Florence. Working in English has had an influence on the Italian outreach. It's a group that's gone grown fairly large this last year, more than 30 students. So the three peen people we had leading it It was too much. They are dividing it into three smaller Bible studies and they're all having to pray pre prayer every week. So they said, well, okay, why don't we train the other people to lead the Bible studies? Wonderful idea. Disciple of So by halfway through the year, they weren't leading the Bible studies anymore. They were helping the others to lead the Bible studies. Right now we have three people out of that International Group. We're talking about maybe another year when they finish their degree in the US to come back and work with us for a few years in Italy. Discipling. Well, along the way, besides doing the Bible study, they uh were using a conversation exchange as a way to try and reach Italians. Italians who have no interest in coming to Bible study You wish they did. There's Italian Bible study group going on, but they won't come. But they came to an offer of being able to talk English with native English speakers and they in exchange would speak Italian with people learning Italian. These people out of the Bible study. So the excuse is helping people in language, which is what's going on. But when you're on a basic language level, you ask very basic questions and it doesn't take long before you're asking people, well who are you, why you're here, what are you interested in? And so the Christians are also sharing their faith. Because these and they're learning to share their faith in Italian. So you have different links coming up. Now they're planning a party. So the the international students had a party at Christmas and they joined together with the Italian group. And and uh the party had time where all the internationals could say what Christmas meant in their country and why it was important to 'em. So again, they're sharing w not Christmas as a holiday, but Christmas as a spiritual event, and they're penetrating this group. They started having an extra worship time because their Bible study didn't have enough time for it It just happened that the best time for them was right after this convex conversation exchange. These Italian Italian students, oh, that singing is fun. So they started coming for the worship time too. Now you don't usually go let's do worship time 'cause that'll be good evangelism, but because they'd already become friends and they're interested in 'em, and they'd been to other things, they started coming to worship too. And so we've seen some become Christians, Italians becoming Christians, now linked back into the Italian group. And other things like the long way around. to do it. But the God is taking the gifts there. You gotta what are the opportunities? You try it. What gifts do we have? You invest it. We have used swing dance this year. I don't know, maybe some of you are anti-dance totally. We had one team member who was very good at swing dancing. So we have evenings in this Christian coffee bar that was in town, and you teach swing dancing. And you can invite all kinds of people to come to dance instead of going to the discotheques. They show up, people walking off the street. And then you do a skit in the middle. Through dancing, the skit. Tell the whole story of the Bible. And then someone would get up and explain it. That you know, Adam and Eve and and when sin came in they couldn't dance anymore and And the one there's Jesus, but nobody wanted to dance, you know, and and it was money, dance with money, dance with success, and all this fun. Using swing dance The people who were interested in dancing came in and they also heard the gas. So you can use all kinds of tools to reach people and then you get the message to them. But then it's the friendship level that takes it further. What's gotta watch the time here. One other thing, we've been trying over the years to train national leadership. Besides the legal structures, in the end you have to have people who are going to carry on. Now all the people who there's a GBU association, we find that a legal base to do things, in that there's a a leadership committee, all the people today who are on that committee We're in grade school or at most middle school and we went to Italy. I mean they th d a whole renewal of the people standing behind the work. The president who just personally just came in as president, he's 30, he still has a few courses left to finish his degree. He grew up in grade school with our older son Daniel. I mean, we've known him and his parents for years Huh. There are people in there that Nancy taught in Sunday school and middle school age. Yeah. We have relationships, a kind of network they go to these people go way back. But in that there's there's someone named Marcello who we've talked about before. Marcello who five years ago we thought uh would come, he was my he's still my choice. to eventually replace me in national leadership. Alright. Five years ago it seemed right, but we didn't have any money, so we couldn't make he was ready and we couldn't make any commitments. Three years ago when I was here The GB was ready. We seem we had funding from outside to begin. And he had gotten married and his his young French wife, who's not grown up in a Christian home but was a believer, she had things uh career wise in terms of teaching that we're gonna take her back to France. And I re and and so I remember being asked here in church, well, what does that mean? And all I could say then was it was like putting a knife in my own heart, you know. I don't know. Just start over. It was just day by day, how do you do it? Day by day. Sometimes you don't see headlights don't shine very far down that road. But you gotta keep driving. Well she was studying to take a national exam in France to be qualified as an Italian teacher, which would have meant a year in France to do this. to teach in France to be able to lock in a per s a f future job, she discovered that she didn't like high school teaching So that happens to people, you know, you do all these years of preparation, you find that's not where God's calling you. That's not what you just don't work well with that group of people. But what you work well with on the side were the GBU students. And so God turned that around. Two years ago we thought they were coming. Last that I should say a year ago. We had funds promised from an American Christian foundation. There was also uh Marcello was working as a programmer, and this company was seen that we were starting a sister group in Florence So they can move to Florence and have a job and we had money that'd be coming so we could start making some future promises. In a week in May, a year ago, both things fell through. Brick wall, boom. It seemed like everything was ready. And we were stopped again. They were on our side. The foundation, the last minute, said, no more money for Europe this year. Didn't explain why. But that was you know that was it. The funds were there. The job this company did not start the division for the two passavoys ago were both pulled out from under us. And you start over. I was sharing at the middle hour how in a four-day period this may Things turned around in such an incredible way. Giovanni becoming president, Parcello getting permission to move to Florence, because he's working with a different company now. He does home office work. So he's in turn working for a company, Milan. And they said we don't care if you work in Florence. So we have a possible way to continue working in doing G V work on the side. We also have another foundation that that's ninety nine percent said they would give money to help us have a block of money to start. They found an apartment they could afford. When they didn't even come to Florence looking for an apartment. It's it's uh my best analogy is it's like financial investment You buy your 401ks every month to your employer and you let 'em sit, you know. And but there's certain days in the year When the market just goes crazy, it just shoots up. If you weren't in, you didn't get the benefit. This was four days where the spiritual market in Italy just sh went through the roof in change. I It it takes a lot longer to explain it. I can't ex how incredible it was. That we're just um almost in shock to see what happened happened. That they're moving, they're coming, Anatoly uh is gonna take over as my administrative assistant. I didn't think see that coming. I was gonna have to find a new person. There's a whole series of things that just fill in our lap. God, the Eternal Father God with us day by day, 19 years of investment, four years the market went through the roof, and we've seen things happen that we just dreamed of. You're out of the nest, you're going somewhere else. You don't know where it is. But if you're not invested, you don't get the gain. It's like in a battle. You can't say, well today we fight, tomorrow you won't. No, you've got to keep fighting every day, because certain day there's breakthroughs in that battle and the enemies move back. You can't can't do it on a schedule today, I'm fighting tomorrow or not. You just gotta be there consistent every day Recently I came across I was cleaning my desk finally. The piles have gotten higher now. Before I left for the summer I thought I'd better sort through it. I came across two documents. They're strange things. I'm not a person who journals, who writes lots of things, but occasionally things have happened where I just did nineteen eighty-five, a while back, when we were not the Italian leadership, but we were working with uh uh uh short term volunteers working with us. We we took them on a retreat and in a intervarsity type retreat assignment silence. I sat down and in the end wrote out some things where I thought God may be taking us in Italy, but didn't know. Nineteen eighty seven I was in South America. Columbia South America at an international gathering of G BU movements from around the world. And there was a time to sit through and there I sat down and thought through, I remember Things in terms of the G But. A lot had changed in those two years in terms of direction. What was God how was he going to use us long term in building the G But. Not just kind of survival in Italy now, but building things forward. In a similar way, in this study we did with the GBU staff, in the end I wrote a prayer. I don't usually write prayers. That's I have nothing against it. It just I don't usually do it and I happen to do it. And to me it just kind of expresses this concept, these whole things coming together, the everlasting Father, God with us. For we see our ministry today. And why we're there. And I'll just close with this as a prayer. Father God, When I think each day, both of what you've taken me through and what there still is in front of me, your eternal, everlasting presence with me gives me comfort and strength. That takes on another day, one at a time. I know I can let go of yesterday with the successes and failures there were And wait for tomorrow in its time with whatever you may bring. And so I'm freed up to live in dependence on you for today. Amen.