Thank you, Rick, for leading us and for um pointing us to that wonderful story. The only story that really matters that God the Creator gave Himself in our place. All the good stories take from that greatest story. So we have uh an opportunity now for this uh preaching event to look at that story in some detail from God's Word. Let me ask the question that uh William Shakespeare's um Creation, Romeo Montague and Juliet Capulet asked, What's in a name? What's in a name? And they go through this thing because the Montague's and the Capulets were at war. Isn't a a rose by any other name, doesn't it smell as sweet, right? We ask what's in a name. We think about a name, the significance of a name. When we named our children, each of them had significance, each of those names, the first and the middle. I told my sons I was going to pick on them. When we chose Kevin Harrison's name when he was born, uh, we wanted to reflect the fact that my parents had had a son. who um I never got to meet because he passed away before I was born. And his name was Kevin Flora. And when Kyle came along he was named Kyle Ferguson a strong name because he was going to be our strong uh last child, Ferguson. Uh because my uh mother in law's maiden name was Ferguson. And um we also like the movie Braveheart. There's no truth to the rumor that well, there's some truth to the rumor that Kevin's middle name, Harrison, that I was a huge Raiders of the Lost Ark fan. We think about the significance of names when we name things, and how much more significant are the names that God assigns To himself and particularly to the eternal Son of God, when giving us the name of Christ, when giving us Messiah, when giving us Jesus, when laying before us those names which we would call our Lord by And so today we begin a five-week sermon series, naming Christ, that name which is given to the one who would change the world. And today and next week, Lord willing, we're going to look at the name given Emmanuel. Emmanuel, that Hebrew word for God. Emmanuel. With us, is with us, God with us. And we see this name, this mysterious name given to the one called Jesus. We're going to take a look at some scripture, but specifically I want to look at Hebrews chapter 2 this week and next, beginning in verse 9 this week, 9 through 13, and then next week, Lord willing. Verses 14 to 18 to see a particular lesson of what we can glean from this one called God with us. Emmanuel, God with us. There's a lot of lamenting that we don't do Christmas the way we used to. That it's not what it was. You know, we heard about Black Friday and now there's Cyber Monday and there's Black Friday is gonna start on gray Thursday soon and all the other things that go on because the holiday season is about consumerism and materialism and getting more stuff and having less money and all the other things that And we lament that and I join with the lament, but the lament is not addressed by just going back to the nineteen fifties in America and some Norman Rockwell painting of a table and turkey and presents under a an evergreen tree that was cut down of its life and strung with lights. Christmas must find its meaning in the incarnation of the living God. It must find its true real meaning. the way God describes the meaning of Christmas. And so, yeah, we lament all these things. But let's not go back and stop at the fifties or the forties or uh yes, Virginia, there is a Right. Santa Claus, we've got to go to where God takes us. And so we see The name Emmanuel, the incarnation, this is a central truth to our Christian faith. Without the incarnation, there is no sinless life lived. Without the incarnation, there is no miraculous wonders performed. Without the incarnation, there is no substitutionary, atoning death. Without the incarnation, there is no resurrection from the dead. Without the incarnation, there is no glorious ascension. of the man, Christ Jesus, who is seated at the right hand now of God the Father and interceding for all of us who believe. Without the incarnation, there really is no Christmas story at all. And so we look at that today. Let me read from Hebrews chapter two, beginning in verse nine. God's word for us. But we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels, namely Jesus. Crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. For it was fitting that He, for whom and by whom all things exist, in bringing many sons to glory Should make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. For he who sanctifies and those who are sanctified all have one origin That is why he is not ashamed to call them brothers, saying, I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will sing your praise. And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, behold, I and the children God has given me. God's word for us. Emmanuel, God with us. We see Emmanuel showing up four times in the in the whole of Scripture. In the prophecy of Isaiah in chapter 7, in verses 10 and 14, and then in Isaiah 8, verse 8, and then referenced by the gospel writer Matthew that Rick read this morning. Isaiah's time was um a dark time. You may recall in Isaiah 6 when Isaiah was caught up in the vision in the temple. He saw the glory of the Lord. It was in the year that King Uzziah had died. And Uzziah was a good king, and Isaiah was lamenting his death. saw the vision of the glorious God. But I Uzziah the king had a son, Ahaz, who did not follow in his father's footsteps. In fact quite the opposite. He was outright rebellious. to the things of God. And he reintroduced the sacrifice to Molech. In fact, going as so far as to have his own son burned As a sacrifice to the pagan god Molech. Ahaz was a corrupt king, a pagan king, and the prophet Isaiah came to Ahaz. In a time where Ahaz was looking for some help because the Assyrians were coming down on them. There were two There were two uh evil kings that wanted to take Ahaz's throne, and out of that threat did Ahaz go to the prophet of God, the true and living God? No. He went to the king of Assyria. Went to the king of Assyria and even corrupted the temple, took silver and gold and tried to buy off the king of Assyria. You don't know much about the Assyrians, or maybe you do. Maybe you have your graduate degree in Assyria. But they were known for their cruelty. And Ahaz was looking at a time where the king of Assyria was gonna exact his um measure. It was in this dark time, this time of rebellion, this time where the people of Judah were not uh filling their end of the covenant. That the prophet Isaiah gives the prophecy of the one who would come. You see in Isaiah 7, again the Lord spoke to Ahaz, Ask the sign of the Lord your God, let it be deep as Sheol or high as heaven. But Ahaz said, I will not ask, and I will not put the Lord to the test. And he said, Hear then, O house of David, is it too little for you to weary men that you weary my God also? He's lamenting this. And then he says, Isaiah says, Therefore the Lord Himself, you don't ask of the Lord, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. The Lord Himself will fulfill the covenant. You see, when men fail to do what they're supposed to do, God says, I will take care of the obligation of the covenant. Therefore, the Lord Himself will give you a sign. Behold! The Virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. And we won't go into the rest of the Isaiah passage, but it is delivered at that time when man has failed to do what God has required. And we see another scene, a dark time, a time when uh the people of Israel are in uh captivity and bondage, they live in the Roman under the Roman rule, with um the Jewish reigning in these local prefects, and the time was that the birth of Jesus Christ would take place. And we heard Rick read it already, but in Matthew chapter 1, we see this again. Joseph has delivered this news in a dream. Joseph, son of David, do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for that which is conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. It's a special child. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. And then Matthew says, all this took place to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. This is our only hope That God knows we cannot fulfill his holy law. And yet that law Rest on us. The requirements of that law rest on us. The penalty for breaking that law is due us. The wages of our sin is death. Sure and certain, and it's in this darkness That a light breaks through. When the world lay in sin and error pining, he appeared. He appeared. And the soul felt its worth. So I want to look at Emmanuel, God with us. I want to look at What the writer of the letter to the Hebrews. Matthew wrote to a Jewish audience, and so does the pastor to the Hebrews in Hebrews chapter 2. He wants to bring into focus this one that he's already described in chapter one as the one who is above and beyond all things glorious, the high and exalted God. In diverse ways and in many and in many ways that God spoke through the prophets of old, but now he has spoken through his son. And then in chapter two, the writer of Hebrews gets even more specific, and with a laser focus, he talks about the one Emmanuel. I want to look at four things that Emmanuel means in this passage that our sovereign God took on flesh. That he was a baby born to die. That he is the one who is. Our elder brother, and he is the one from that position as elder brother who is unashamed to call us his own. Let's return to the real meaning of Christmas. So we see this one is the sovereign God who took on flesh. The writer says that he was crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. Almighty God cannot die. And so he was made for a little while a little lower than the angels. He's described as the one made a little lower than the angels. Jesus was placed in subjection to the same angels. That ministered to him without end. In Isaiah 6, you may remember that passage where the the sixth winged seraphs They attend to the throne of the Lord, and with two wings they cover their face because they cannot withstand the glory of Almighty God. With two wings they cover their feet. Because they they show that they are creatures and they they are show that uh creaturliness and with two wings they fly and they attend to the Obedient service of our Lord. This same God then made himself subject a little lower than the angels Let these things sink in. Because this is the beauty of Emmanuel, God with us. It's a sovereign God who took on flesh, the same word that we heard as a call to worship. That word that was in the beginning, that word that was with God, that word that is God, that all things were made through that word. That nothing has been made that has not been made through him. And he sustains all life. This God And John says, That word, that word became flesh. That word took on flesh and lived among us Let that sink in. Sink in deep. So we see the sovereign God who took on flesh. Our confession states it like this. Wake up. Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter eight, paragraph two The Son of God, the second person in the Trinity, being very an eternal God of one substance and equal with the Father, did when the fullness of time was come. Take upon him man's nature, with all the essential properties and the common infirmities thereof. Yet without sin, being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary, of her substance So that two whole, perfect, and distinct natures, the Godhead and the manhood, were inseparably joined together in one person One person without conversion, without composition, or confusion. Which person Is very God and very man, yet one Christ, the only mediator between God and man Now that's a lot of words to say the precious truth, Emmanuel, God with us. But every one of those words is particular and pertinent. God answered our deepest need in Jesus Christ, who, while remaining what he was, eternal God, he became what he was not. manhood, so that he might give himself in our place That needs to be on every Christmas card that we send. That Jesus Christ, who while remaining what he was, eternal God, became what he was not, mankind. in order to accomplish our redemption on the cross. So we see Emmanuel is the sovereign God who took on flesh. Emmanuel is also then this baby. Born to die. That kind of makes us recoil when we think about babies Little chubby, tender, soft, fat fingers, wiggling, ten toes, squirming And yet this baby, born into a humble cattle stall, was born with the express purpose. To give his life as a sacrifice for you, sinner, and for me. That's what the writer of Hebrews says. That this one Jesus has been crowned with glory and honor. Crowned by the only one capable of crowning Jesus, God the Father, that he was crowned with glory and honor because of the suffering of death. So that by God's grace he might taste death for everyone. Do you see that? This baby has been born to die for you. And I'm not sure why we Shy away from a discussion of death at Christmas time. We've just heard already this morning that death is right among us. It's present. And each of us has that same appointment that Lynn and Esther's relative and Wayne's father met this week. That's a sobering thought. It's a terrifying thought when you think about it. And the tension of living with a death sentence is what all of us experience, and yet very few of us acknowledge. And so you'll see your fellow man and my fellow man running after as many things possible to distract And to put off this idea that we are mortal, that we have this death sentence. All manner of things And yet this baby was born to taste death for everyone Those same little hands that reached out to curl around Mary's index finger, more than likely. Were the same hands that were Held fast to a crossbeam and driven through with a spike. The same Chubby feet that wiggled underneath swaddling clothes were the feet that were laid one on top of each other and held fast to a Roman Torture tree. That same little forehead that was so soft that more than likely received a tender mother's caress, held a crown of thorns Those same little ears that heard the mom and singing. Or the ears that heard his creation mock and ridicule. Do you think about that at Christmas time? The writer of Hebrews wants to draw our attention to the fact that this one, Emmanuel, God with us, this one who was made a little bit lower than the angels, sovereign God, who took on flesh. It was a baby who was born to die, so that he might taste death for everyone The agony of the physical death certainly causes us to recoil, but that's nothing in comparison to the spiritual agony. Of this second person of the triune God who was forsaken by God the Father Forsaken, not because of any sin that he had ever committed, but forsaken for your sins and my sins. Those things which we run to and entertain the possibility of. He was forsaken. The father turned his face away while he brought many sons to glory. I remember seeing my youngest son's eyes bug out when I used the illustration of Let's say, Kyle, if you did something that was deserving of a spanking in our house. And you know that you were deserving of a spanking. Let's say you hit one of your sisters. That's a spank-worthy offense And let's say as that spanking was about to be administered, Kevin, your elder brother, stepped in the way. And he said, Not, please, not for Kyle, but for me. Give me the punishment that he deserves I remember seeing Kyle's eyes bug out. Because he couldn't believe it. Why? Why would Kevin do that? First of all, he never hit the sister, and secondly, he wasn't supposed to get the spanking in the first place. And that's the whole point. Our eyes should bug out. We should marvel, and our jaws should be agape with Wonder and awe at the elder brother who stands between us in the wrath of God and says, apply it to me. Apply it to me. That is precisely the good news of Christmas. You remember in John 10 when Jesus said, No one takes my life from me? No one takes my life from me. Nobody's gonna kill me or murder me. I willingly lay it down on my own authority. This is the good news. Because Jesus certainly was affixed to the cross, but he willingly laid down his life for the sinner. He said, No one takes my life from me, I lay it down, and no one and I have the authority also to take it back up again. Why? Because this is sovereign God in the flesh That's why he is unique. That's why he is the God man. That's why we worship Jesus Christ. Tell your friends, tell your neighbors. We worship the unique and paradoxical God man. He is man, truly, very man of man, but he is God. Very God of God. God incarnate. Emmanuel, God with us, God in the flesh. It's too wonderful for words. The death that we deserve, he took on himself. A baby born to die. And so we see also that he's Emmanuel, a sovereign God who took on flesh, Emmanuel, a baby born to die, and Emmanuel, our elder brother. Verse 10 describes the wisdom of God. You see in verse ten it says, For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, that's God the Father, in bringing many sons to glory, that he should make the founder of their salvation, that's Jesus. Perfect through suffering. It was fitting that he do this. That's the wisdom That's the manifold wisdom of God. We marvel at this kind of story, because no one none of us would write it this way. None of us would come up with this, that the Creator of all things, who deserves full and unadulterated worship for ever and ever, would humble himself and place himself in harm's way for his rebellious creature. And yet he did. He's become our elder brother. That phrase there, the author of salvation. It's a Greek word that uh speaks to the fact that he's the first one, that he goes first, that he is out in front. He sets the example. We just heard downstairs in our Sunday school class Colonel Chandler talking about in those military exercises, you look for the point man. The point man's out front. And you you hope that people behind you have got your back, but you follow the point man. He's the one who sets the course. And whatever comes his way, you know is coming your way. But he's got it first. I had the privilege to be a younger brother. Didn't always feel like a privilege. When I was being pummeled in the corner of a kitchen or when my older brother Jeff was practicing the latest scare tactics and uh after a late night Saturday creature feature and he'd cut the lights off and run upstairs and hide somewhere to freak me out from a hidden closet door. Okay, so But I was the younger brother. And it did have its privileges. Because Jeff got his license before me. And so I knew what it was to get a license. Jeff started high school before me, and I knew what it was to start high school. Jeff got married before me, and I knew what it was. Jeff had children before I did, and I could know what it was. The privilege of being the younger brother, the privilege of knowing the elder brother is there. The author of Hebrews says in Another section in chapter five. Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became the source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. In 1 Peter, Peter says, Christ suffered for you, leaving you the example for you to follow in his steps. These verses speak to the elder brother and his role in our life He is the author of our salvation. He's the one that obeys perfectly God's holy law. And he's the one that tastes death, so that when that day comes and our appointment with death is here. We know that we pass from this life to the next. Why? Because he has already suffered the wrath of God on our behalf. That's good news. Jesus says that he is that for us, that elder brother. We see that in this fourth point here, that he is unashamed to call us his brothers. The writer of Hebrews does what he does frequently throughout this letter, and he quotes from the Old Testament. He wants to make sure that his reader knows that Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of these many passages. And it is no small irony. In fact, it's not ironic at all. That the first passage we see in this is from Psalm 22. Psalm 22 and 22. I will tell of your name to my brothers in the midst of the congregation. I will sing your praise. Does anybody know the first verse from Psalm 22? It was uttered by our Lord from the cross. My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And so in that moment of agony, that entire psalm is reflected. And what occurs in that psalm is that God does the work to bring many sons to glory. And the writer of Hebrews draws our attention to that. This is what he was doing. This was the one who was born to taste death for everyone. This is the one who is now the author of our salvation, the elder brother, the one who is unashamedly proclaiming God in the midst of us. I will tell of your name to my brothers. This is Jesus Christ speaking of God the Father to all the brothers and his sisters. This word can easily be applied to siblings of both sexes. In the midst of the congregation, this is Jesus Christ with Prophet Zephaniah. With singing, I will rejoice over you. This is Jesus Christ speaking of the glorious salvation of God, the wisdom of God in view, that God would crush his only Son. Yes, it is tragic and heinous and gruesome and all the things that we've just experienced as you think about a baby who was born. To go to a Roman torture cross and die for sinners, to suffer in the place of those who were guilty when he was completely innocent. That's gruesome. But it is glorious in that God tells us, this is how I bring many sons to glory. And that's what Jesus is rejoicing in, with singing nonetheless. And so without shame. Without shame, Jesus proclaims salvation to us. Without shame He intercedes for his people before the throne. Without shame, he calls us his brothers, his sisters. Unashamedly, because our redemption reveals the wisdom of God, and Jesus Christ glories in what glorifies the Father. Unashamed, because our sanctification brings glory to the Father in heaven. Why do we preach about holiness? Why do we preach about living a holy life? Because it glorifies the one who is holy. So Jesus says that he brings many sons to glory. That's our quest as well. He didn't save us so that we would be rotten, miserable sinners. continuing to sin in all the ways that we did before we came to faith, but that from grace to grace and from glory to glory we would be More and more conformed to the perfect image of our elder brother, the Lord Jesus Christ. And the only way for that to be accomplished Was for God to take on flesh. Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hail the incarnate deity. Pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus, our Emmanuel. Let's pray. Gracious God, I ask that you would use a lesson from your word now in our hearts, that we would see you, Lord Jesus. Help us to see your glory. Help us to see your humility. Help us to see your condescension. To take on flesh, to live as one of us. Help us, Lord, now to see that. The cross was intended for us sinners. The wrath of God due our Our sin. Help us to see that, Lord, and to see your glorious sacrifice on our behalf. Lord, help us to see all this to be drawn to you, to give our lives to you, to gladly with joy rejoice that you are our God, you are our Savior. You are our elder brother. Lord, I pray for each of us now that your spirit would meet us where we need you the most. Lord, for those who are encountering this truth and need to yield their life to you and trust you, I pray that that would be accomplished even in this moment. For those of us who love you and who have followed you to this point, we pray that you would strengthen our faith, even Lord, grow us to see the wonder of the incarnation. So that we might be unashamedly proclaiming you to the world around us. God, please help us. We need your grace. In Christ we pray. Amen.