Nearly fifteen years ago, there were the hippies and the yippies. Have you heard the writings about what is now called the yuppies? You know what a yuppie is? Yepies are young urban professionals. Not protesters or counterculture people, but people who want the best in their careers who are real-go-getters in this society. There's a book on uh the Yuppie Handbook, other things that have been written about them. And in the his uh June nineteen eighty four magazine, there's a cartoon of a fellow praying who reminded me of the classic Christian Yuppie. This fellow is praying by his bed and he prays, Dear Lord, Connect me with a firm of aggressive professionals with proven track records that will let me pursue rapid career growth with a team of professionals involved in state-of-the-art projects and a solid growth company. Now, that strikes me as a A classic statement of a person who probably goes to church, he buys Christian albums and listens to them, probably in a Bible study. But what is the real concern of his heart is the precise same concern Of any yuppie today. Let me get ahead. Let me succeed. Success is my goal. That's precisely what Amos 8 is speaking to. He's speaking to this kind of a mentality. You remember that we've talked about in Amos seven to nine, Amos gives us five pictures of judgment, five visions, and you say Bulletin outline there that uh visions one to three showed us that God's judgment will be individual. It will not be a wholesale destruction of a whole nation by grasshoppers or fire, but it will be a plumb line that destructs Discriminates, that looks at a person's life and individually stands him up against the standard of God's word for judgment. This vision, the one we look at today, vision number four, is the one in which Amos is trying to show us that this judgment will be imminent, that is it's very close at hand, it's about to fall. And then next week we'll look at judgment or picture number five, which in which he'll seek to show us that this judgment is inescapable. But I want for us to notice then Vision number four, Amos chapter eight. Let's hear God's word as he comes to speak to us through his servant Amos. This is what the sovereign Lord showed me. A basket of ripe fruit. What do you see, Amos? He asked. A basket of ripe fruit, I answered. And then the Lord said to me, The time is ripe for my people Israel. I will spare them no longer. In that day, declares the sovereign. Lord, the songs in the temple will turn to wailing. Many, many bodies sprung everywhere. Silence. Hear this, you who trample the needy, and who do away the With the poor of the land, saying, When will the new moon be over that we may sell grain and the Sabbath be ended, that we may market wheat? Skimping the measure, boosting the price, and cheating with dishonest scales, buying the poor with silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals, selling even the sweepings with the wheat. The Lord has sworn by the pride of Jacob, I will never forget anything that they have done. Will not the land tremble for this? And all who live in it mourn? The whole land will rise like the Nile. It will be stirred up and then sink like the river of Egypt. In that day, declares the sovereign Lord. I will make the sun go down at noon and darken the earth in broad daylight. I will turn your religious feasts into mourning and all of your singing into weeping. I will make all of you wear sackless. And shave your heads. I will make that time like mourning for an only son, and the end of it like a bitter day. The days are coming, declares the sovereign Lord, when I will send a famine through the land. Not a famine of food or a thirst for water, but a famine of hearing the words of the Lord. Men will stagger from sea to sea and wander from north to east, searching for the word of the Lord, but they will not find it. In that day, the lovely young women and the strong young men will faint because of thirst. They who swear by the shame of Samaria, or say, As surely as your God lives, O Dan, or as surely as the God of Beershea. evil lives, they will fall never to rise again. Now may God give us understanding as we consider this. And I want us to think about this vision under three heads. We might know Notice three things about it. First of all, to whom this judgment will fall. Secondly, how this judgment will fall. And then thirdly, when this judgment will fall. First of all, notice on whom This judgment will fall. Amos is addressing himself to people who call themselves Christians, but are characterized by a lack of love for other people. You see that in verse 4. Hear this, you who translate. The needy and the poor have nothing to offer to you. They're useless to help you to get ahead. There's something simply to be trampled on, stepping stones towards your own success, a means of your getting what you want. And so Amos says you have no use for them except to trample on them, to step on them, to do away with them. There's no compassion. And that's closely linked to verse five, because he says you do this saying, when will the new moon be over? That we may sell grain and the Sabbath be ended, that we may market wheat. And this refers to a lack of love for God. Because you see the new moon and the Sabbath were festivals of worship. And on those festivals of worship, businesses were closed. All the shops were closed, and everybody closed their business so that they could worship the Lord. And so he's saying, why are you scrupulous about your attendance at these folks? In fact, you've been coming to worship services for years, and you wouldn't miss it. It's part of your subculture, it's part of your training. Nevertheless, he says your heart is that you find it tedious, you find it boring, you find yourself saying, when's the service going to be over? How long is it going to be? The guy always preaches too long. The service is always running over time. And you're like a kid on Christmas who comes to a service and you haven't opened your presence yet. And you say, when's this Going to be over, so I may get back to my work. You're a bunch of workaholics. He says all you want to do is you think about your business and you think about how you can make some more money. And you find your thoughts and your dreams and your daydreams, you're constantly drifting toward how you how you can compete a little harder and how you can develop your business and your career toward a greater degree of success. And so he says you really are coming because you feel guilty about it. It's not very profitable to be here, but if I didn't go I I feel guilty that I wasn't there. But while I'm there, my heart is saying, When's this going to be over? So that I can get back to selling my grain, so I can get back to looking at the market, the stock market for the wheat rising and falling, and so I can Sell and buy and all the rest of it. Because you have no love for God, he says, you have no love for his law, for righteousness, or basic honesty. So he says in the end of verse five, skimping the measure, boosting the price, cheating with dishonest. honest scales. You don't operate out of principle, you simply operate out of pragmatism, out of that which is going to be self-serving. And that leads you on then to full circle verse six, back to a lack of love for people. Buying the poor with silver and the needy for a pair of sandals. Selling even the sweetness with the wheat, referring to the practice of at the end of the day when you had been selling the wheat and some of it fell here and there that you just take a bloom and you sweep it all up with the trash and you throw it back in the bin. And you say, they'll probably never notice. You just throw it in the bin. There's a lot of wheat there. Nobody will ever tell the difference. And somebody says to you, Would you appreciate it if they did it to you and sold you wheat like that? I said, Well that's SOB better or not rip me off or I'll get 'em. But I can operate that way. Because I live by a double standard. Because there's no compassion, he says. The basic issue, there's no love for God or people. And so you're operating as hypocrites. Many would say that what Amos is preaching here is that we should have a social context. I don't know what that phrase does to you, but the phrase social conscience for years made me feel guilty, you know, because I always had this picture of somebody who was out um marching and protesting and lobbying for very various political causes, politically involved in a number of things for which I had relatively little feeling. I just couldn't generate a whole lot of zeal for all these different issues and causes that people were all worked up about. And this was what it meant to have a social Conscience. But then I found that as I got to know a certain person, a a certain individual who was needy, and I saw that that person's life was being affected by certain oppression, certain structures. Certain factors in society that were making it very difficult for me to try and really help that person unless those issues were dealt with, then I gained a little zeal for dealing with that factor, that law, that issue. Because it was a matter of caring for the individual. And what Amos is talking about here is not some abstract social conscience, but a compassion for people. I think this is illustrated for me very well in the life of David Brainerd. I don't know how How much you know about David Brainerd, but he was a missionary to the Indians in this country back in the 1700s. And David Grainard kept a journal of his life, which has become a classic of Christian literature. I read that journal many years ago. And then in 1975, uh Bitter Varsity came out with a book called Journey with David Brainerd. Chapter 31 in this book is a social conscience, showing us that David Brainerd had a social conscience. Well, in all my reading of his journal, I never saw anything about a social conscience. that stood up as some flaming liberal or a fellow that was politically involved in marching this or that and any kind of thing. And I was wondering, what is the social conscience that David Brainerd had that I missed? And so I read the chapter here and I saw that what it's talking about was the fact that when Brainerd would preach to the Indians, Indians had a particular propensity for alcoholism. And so there were many of them who were alcoholics. Alcoholism was rampant among the American tribes back at the uh colonial days. And as these Indians came to Christ, Brainerd, who cared for them and loved them as people saw that there was a problem. Because of their alcoholism, certain white men who were professing Christians were exploiting this weakness. They would get the Indians in their drunkenness to sell them land. They would get them in debt. And then by doing this, they would take advantage of them to take over their lands. They were trampling the needy. They were doing away with the poor of the land. They were buying the poor with silver and the needy for a pair of sandals. And so Brainer began. because he cared for these people, went to others in the among Christians at that time, and he raised a large amount of money to buy back their lands, and then to seek to help those Indians to become self sufficient through the power of the Holy Spirit. To overcome their alcoholism and to be able to become established. Now that's what this book calls a social conscience. But you see, if I tell you you ought to have a social conscience, if you're like me, you just begin to get this vague sense of guilt of what you ought to be doing. Well you see that what Amos is saying is love people, have compassion for those who are weak, and then simply go where that compassion leads you. You in a different direction from me, different particular concerns, as we follow the leading of the Holy Spirit in a particular direction as we are involved in the lives of people who have needs. Then all of a sudden it takes away, you see, this this odorous heavy, this idea that I've got to be involved in everything, running around in all these different causes causes. But that I simply love the Lord my God who has saved me. I love his worship. I love his law and righteousness and honesty. And I care for people, and the people who I care for will have particular needs that God may place me in a position to seek to address and to help. And the problem was that that was not true here. These people were hypocrites. They were religious, they went to all the functions, but they were dishonest and they didn't give a lick for people. People who they couldn't benefit from or profit from. And so, how is this judgment going to fall? The Lord says in verses 7 to 14 how it's going to fall, and it's interesting how he introduces it. Look what he He says, the Lord has sworn by the pride of Jacob. I will never forget anything that they have done. Now in chapter 4, the Lord had sworn by his holiness. In chapter 6, he had sworn by himself in his nature. And when he comes to chapter eight he says, You didn't listen what I swear though by those other things, so now I'm going to swear this judgment by something that'll never change. And what is it? Jacob's pride. Do you see the divine sarcasm in that? God says if there's one thing that's never going to change that I can swear by, it's your pride. And so by that pride I swear this judgment. And the judgment takes on two forms. First of all, it's a judgment that involves creation in verses 8 and 9. You notice there that he describes a judgment that's going to cause the very land to tremble. And like the Nile River at springtime, he says, the very land is going to rise up. It's going to be spurred around and then it's going to sink down again. And then in verse nine, he talks about the sun that's going to go down at noon in darkness upon the earth in world daylight, talking about upheaval within creation. Something in passing that I want us to notice because it's very important in the understanding of prophecy. And it is that Amos is describing something here in prophetic language to talk about an upheaval. But this language is not to be taken. Taken literally. Amos is describing when he talks about the sun going down at noon, in fact, it turns out that there was a total eclipse of the sun on june fifteenth, seven sixty-three BC, and that may have been just after he preached this. He was preaching at about that time. So he may have used that as an illustration, but he's talking about a severe judgment upon God's people. And a total eclipse of the sun is hardly something we consider a severe judgment. Maybe a sign of God's power to bring judgment. But the fact that the land was supposed to rise up like the Nile River and make it start around and sink down again did not literally happen. It's a picture of upheaval, of catastrophe. That's important because a lot of Christians read Matthew 24, which speaks about this. sun not giving its light, about the moon not giving any light, about the stars falling from the heavens, and they look for a literal fulfillment of that at the end times. It's again the same kind of prophetic language to speak about the catastrophe that The upheaval about of the judgment of a righteous and holy God upon sinful people. For we're not to look literally for stars to fall from the sky as a sign of Christ's coming. Just to think about the scientific effects of that would show you the that couldn't be what he's talking about. But you see proof here because this was fulfilled in seven twenty one BC. And we know that what in fact was fulfilled was not the fact that the s that the land somehow jumped up and then stirred around and sat down again. It's upheaval. And it's the kind of a people for which he focuses then on the effects on his people. That's his main concern how it affects the people who are the objects of this judgment. And how does it affect them? We look in verses eleven to verses 10 to 14. And you see that it affects them in two ways. First of all, there will be no more joy. No more joy. Look at verse 10. These people who are just so delighted about these religious festivals. They love them. And he says your feasts are going to be turned in the morning. They love to sing, we saw that in a couple of places in previous chapters, how they love to improvise on the harp and write songs and produce quality music. And he says Says you're singing, it's going to be turned into weeping. They love their styles, and they were people who dressed so fashionably. And he says, the fashion of the day is going to be sacral. And there are people who remember and love their cosmetics. They had their bodies. body firms and all the rest of which they were so proud to be up on every latest style in their cosmetics, their perfumes and the rest. And the Lord says, You're gonna shave your heads. There's not going to be any joy left. In fact he says it's going to be As if you had one son, and that son died in his childhood, and you come through a period of intense weeping and mourning for that only son that you've lost, and you come to the end of that period of mourning, and that itself is a Bitter day. There is no end to the mourning. And one trouble comes upon another trouble until you finally say, I can't bear it anymore. There's no relief to my grief. Then he finishes off with something that, because it's plain, Placed at the end, would it be it would seem to us, Amos is implying, is the worst thing of all, and that is that there will be no truth in those days. Verses eleven to fourteen. Remember then. To understand these verses, that Amos is speaking timeless principles concerning God and his people and his ways. He's not simply talking about something that historically happened here in Israel, but he's giving to his principles. The Holy Spirit placed this in Scripture. If it was something that was only relevant to Israel back in those days, God would not have preserved it for us. But we see here eternal principles that pertain to a people who are in covenant relationship with God, who name his name. But who are careless and compassionless and who preach a cheap grace by which you can say, Jesus is my Savior in some glib fashion without a transformed life. And this is what is going to happen, Enos says, in that kind of a situation. He says there's going to be a famine. That's the first thing. Now notice what kind of a famine it is. It's a famine of the Word of God. Verse eleven. The days are coming, declares the sovereign Lord, when I will send a famine through the land, not a famine of food. Or a thirst for water, but a famine of hearing the words of the Lord. There's not going to be any faithful preaching of absolutes or of the gospel of grace. People are going to look around. On it knowing to say, where's the word of the Lord? Where can we hear the gospel? Where can we hear a sure word of God's absolutes? And he says, I'm going to remove it. You didn't want it, and you won't have it. And so people will look for a faithful preaching of the gospel. Gospels is given in Scripture, and they will not find it. And that will lead to the second thing in verse 12. As a result of that, they'll lose their moons. Picture what is described there in verse 12. Men will stagger from sea to sea. To sea, wander from the north to the east, searching for the word of the Lord, but they will not find it. It's interesting to notice where they go. Do you notice that? Sea to sea means from the Mediterranean to the Sea of Galilee. Galilee. That's east to west. And then he says you'll also go from north to where? South? No. From north to east. Why not north to south? Well, because if you went south, you'd finally wind up in Jerusalem. And that's where you'd hear. Hear the Word of God and have the true worship. And so what he's saying here is you'll go anywhere except where you'll really hear the Word of God to confront you. You'll go from back and forth from one philosophy and one self help book and everything to another, and you'll go from the north Over to the cults of the East in Assyria. But you won't go where you'll hear the word of God. Now this you see is simply a depiction of what we saw portrayed in Schaefer's film, The Great Evangelist The Great Evangelical Disaster. Do you remember on the Phil Donahue show? show and in other places there. Any all of the people who were reacting to the declaration of the gospel would look anywhere. That dispels anything. We can believe anything except what the Bible says. And Amen says that's the characteristic of the days in which a church has not been faithful to my word. That's what's going to happen in that culture. And that is the third thing that he describes will happen as a result. He says it's going to especially affect the young people. Verse 13. In that day the lovely young women and the strong young men will faint because of their thirst. Their hunger and their thirst for absolutes. Their hunger and their for thirst for moorings, for directions, for values, for the gospel of grace in Jesus Christ. Do you have any question about Amos's relevance and contemporaneousness for our own day in nineteen eighty four? Amos is saying, This is a principle of God. This is a principle that you and I are seeing worked out on all hands as people grow up, college students and those in our culture who say I don't have any values except the value of the yuppie. That I'm going to get it while I can get it. This whole planet may be wiped out by a nuclear holocaust, and so I'm just going to do one thing. I'm going to grab everything I can while I have it now. Because I have no other values. I have nothing else that tells me what to do and what I do. What not to do, how to shape my life and what I should value beyond what I can live for day to day. And the young women and the young men are going to die and faint the thirst because of a lack of the Word of God. The relativism. The secular humanism, which robs them of all moving so that they stagger back and forth looking for direction. And because of that void, what is going to move in? Notice it in verse 14. Because of the spiritual. Void of relativism and secular humanism, people will not be content with that. What is going to rush into that void, Amos says, is the cults. Verse 14, he describes three of them. They who swear by the the shame of Samaria, where I say, As surely as your God lives, O Dan. Or as surely as the God of Yesheba lives, they will fall and never rise again. He's describing here the cult of Ashema in Samaria. There was the camp cult of Dan. There was the superstitious cult of the place of Mirsheba that if you went there you gained some spiritual blessing with the act of the pilgrimage. He's describing three popular cults of that day. And he's saying these cults move in because there's a void, a spiritual void of the absolutes in the gospel of grace. And so you and I look at our culture today, and what do we see? The fastest growing church this morning. in North America is the Mormon Church. If you take five cults, Mormonism, Christian Science, Jehovah's Witness, Unity School of Christianity, and Of Herbert Armstrong's Worldwide Church of the Air. Those five cults comprise over ten million people, one out of every twenty Americans. And that's to say nothing of the Burgeon Eastern cults, of the occultic. Of the new religions that are cropping up every day so fast that it's hard to keep track of the different names and their theologies. Why is it that these keep cropping up? Why is it that people are so attracted to them? Why is it that you and I look around at people And he seemed to have no spiritual interest, and yet people can come into some off-the-wall philosophy. Any kind of a culprit has some absolutes and people flock to it. Why is it? And people write books in the analysis of it. And Amos has put it here very succinctly. What we have to look at is Amos chapter eight. He says, Because there's a famine for the Word of God. There's a famine concerning absolutes and the gospel of grace. And Amos says people can't tolerate that famine. And so they'll go to anything. That seems to give them bread, that seems to feed them, and satisfy with some answers concerning the directionless of their lives that causes them to stagger from sea to sea and from the north to the east. And you and I. Talk to our neighbors and the people at work. And we say, Well, you know, I'd really like to live this for Christ, but the people I talk to don't seem to have any spiritual interest. Their lifestyle seems so complacent and they seem so satisfied. But how foolish can we be? Amos is saying that in this kind of situation there's a famine for the Word of God. People are hungry to hear something that will give direction and values. And they may not always be open to the gospel. We saw that last. week. There may be opposition. But the gospel has power. And it will get either opposition or it will get a response in a person coming to Christ. But let's not deceive ourselves to think that there's all these people out there that you and I are going to come contact with this next week and they don't really care. I told you a few weeks ago about a Gaelic poll survey. It said that the average American today says that I am more interested in religious answers to my life than I was five years ago. a famine. And you and I, if we follow Jesus Christ, claim to have you answered. And God says there's a famine out there. Are we going to be lulled into thinking the people don't really care? Or are we going to take advantage? of the fact that there's all of these cults that are seizing that banana in order to capitalize on the spiritual interest that there is for Jesus Christ. The last thing is when is this going to happen? You notice what he says. about when. He describes this whole vision in verse 1 as a basket of ripe fruit. He says, I saw a basket of ripe fruit. The Lord said to me, the time is ripe for my people. Now in the Hebrew there's a pundit, the Hebrew word for ripe fruit. And the answer that the Lord gives is literally the time is at the end for my people. And the word end sounds like the word ripe fruit in the Hebrew. And so the NIV has simply tried to capture that without explaining all about the Hebrew pun by simply saying the time is ripe. And that's really what he's saying. The time is ripe. It's like an apple in the fall, ready to fall off the tree. The time is any time now. And in Amos's day, this was the beginning of a judgment that happened in the next couple of decades as the fabric of Amos society began to unravel in the political coup. And all the rest of the things that happened in the chaos of that day, culminating finally in seven twenty-one BC, with Assyria sweeping in and totally removing those people, burning Samaria to the ground and taking those people and scattering them all over. Into the northeast part of that world. How does the United States have? God says, So my people are like a basket of ripe fruit. And in a situation in which there no compassion? In a situation in which there's no real love for Jesus Christ, he says things cannot continue. Do you see what he has been saying to us here? Part of the judgment of God Is relativism and the influx of the cults. That is part of God's warning us, and it's part of his judgment itself, upon a culture that has called itself Christian and has abandoned Christianity. God is bringing this upon us now. And he says in verse 2, I will spare them no longer. Even in that ominous declaration, I will spare them no longer. There's a glimmer of hope. For the word there to spare is the heap excuse me, the Hebrew word pass over. It's the same word used in chapter 7, verse 8. I will spare them no longer. I will pass over them no longer. It's the word. Word that's used in Exodus 12 concerning the Passover. And how was it that the people in Israel, in Egypt, were spared from the judgment that God was to bring about on Egypt? It was simply because of the blood of the Passover. over land. It was sprinkled on the doorposts. And so as the he as the as the Israelite would hear Amos saying, I'm not going to pass over them any longer, he'd be reminded of the gospel. He'd be reminded that the only way That I can escape this judgment is through the blood on the doorpost. The blood that had nothing to do with anything I did to deserve God's mercy, but the blood that was shed by the Passover Lamb, that was a picture of Jesus Christ. Christ, as he came to shed his blood for you and I who have no compassion, for you and I who have not loved God or his worship. But that the Passover Lamb came, and he sprinkled his blood on The heavenly altar in our place for our sin. And so a few years later, a prophet by the name of Micah picked up one back thief, and he used the same word to Israel just before the fall of Israel just before seven twenty one BC and he picks up that same theme in Micah chapter seven. He uses the same word when he says, Who is a God like you? Who pardons sin? And forgives the transgression of the remnant of his inheritance. And the word there, pardon sin, is the same word as in Aetis 8:2, who passes over sin because of the blood of the Pass over land, who pardons it, and forgives the transgression of the remnant of his inheritance. You don't stay angry forever, Micah says, but you delight to show mercy. In contrast to us who have not been. Time for mercy. You delight to show mercy. You will again have compassion on us who have not had any compassion on those who have needed it about us. And you will tread on our sins. Do you see it? Amos says, You tread on people. Micah says, But God treads on our sins. He treads on those sins of a lack of love and concern for other people. You tread on our sins underfoot and you hurl on our Iniquities into the depths of the sea. You'll be true to Jacob, and you'll show mercy to Abraham as you pledged an oath to our fathers in days long ago. And so Micah. is giving us the gospel. And you and I, if you're convicted this morning, concerning your own attitude toward Jesus Christ and other people, do you see the hope that's in Jesus? That hope I wish God will show mercy to you and to me in taking our sins and placing them on his own Son, so that His blood could be sprinkled over our lives and you and I would be able to go free because of His mercy. In verse 3, he gives us an either order. He says that the songs of the temple in that day will turn to wailing. The songs will be turned to wailing. That judgment, uh, the final judgment in which this judgment of 721 BC was only a faint glimmer, a simple picture of the final judgment of the day of the Lord. Many, many bodies, he says, went everywhere. People crying and screaming and agony, lives being thrown from wall to wall with blood all over the place and bodies flowing everywhere, he says, and then silence. It was silence itself. is more awesome and terrible than the screaming and the crying of the suffering for itself. And if there's just one thing that I want for us to see this morning from an eight, it's the reality. Of that judgment that's going to come. So that you and I might rejoice in the reality of the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ. That you and I are not concerned. Insigned to the silence, the awesome stony silence of being banished from God's presence forever. But we can sing. We can sing Because of the salvation that we have in Jesus Christ, the songs of salvation to our God. Let's pray. Oh Lord, our God. We so often minimize or disregard the reality of judgment, nor to think about what it means for a holy and just God to come in terrible wrath. Wrath and judgment, upon a people who have taken your name and have disregarded it, who have used Jesus as a fire insurance policy, as a cosmic psychiatrist to simply meet our needs, as one of we pray for the people who are not going to be able to do that. to simply to ensure our success and peace. And you think of what you say you will do to such a people who are untransformed, who really don't know your forgiveness and transforming power of your Holy Spirit. Lord, we shudder to think of what that means. Lord, we pray that there would not be one here who would finally know that silence of the banishment from your presence. But that every person here Might build the transforming power of Jesus Christ in their lives. The power of the blood, of the Passover lamb who is slain in our place. For Lord, you truly We are a God who pardons, and a God who delights to show mercy, and a God who forgives the iniquity of your people. Lord, we pray that you would awaken us, that we would not be so foolish as to To see friends and loved ones and relatives who say glibly that they know you. But we know that they have no real love for you, for your love, for your word, for keeping that word, for a radically transformation. Transformed compassion for other people. Father, we pray that you would wake us up to warn them. And that they might not be deceived to think that they don't really want to hear spiritual things. But Lord, that we might pray we might seek for those who are all about us, responding to cults and the famine of the Word of God in our day. That you and I, that you Lord, would work in us, these people in myself. To be eager for the opportunities that you give us. Lord, we wait on you to do that. Because we know it's what you want to do through us. For Jesus' sake.