While uh Tito and Kim were in college, they went on a mission trip to South Africa. And it was there that their desire to work together for Christ in other cultures was really peaked. Tito worked as a social worker in Baltimore for a few years and then went to Reform Theological Seminary. After seminary, he became a pastoral intern here, and in nineteen ninety-two he was ordained a missions minister in the PCA. Through missions to the world, they went to Spain, and for eight years they taught and they preached And they facilitated uh the building of development of new churches Last August, Tito Kim and the children moved to El Paso, Texas, where they're now working with Deam. That's border evangelism and mercy ministries. And their desire, their vision, is to develop multicultural and bilingual churches. In the back on the information desk, there are there's a card with a nice picture of the Padillo family. And Tito, what a pleasure it is to have you here again Preaching God's word to us. The Lord is good. And it's always good to be here with you. As I said in the first service, George is so kind to not mention uh other things in our relationship. You know that one is that When I went on this missions trip to South Africa back in 1984, Kim and I met. Well, we we knew each other before then, and but there that's where we uh became in romantically involved and I asked her to marry me. There on the uh shores of the Indian Ocean And then I had to do it again. Six months later we came back to the States. But but it was great. You know, it was kind of a romantic, you know, occasion. The other thing George didn't say is that I get the last word, George. Thank you. He was when I was here as a actually before I was here as an intern, um we would meet on occasion. He was helping me to a Sunday school class and there was one uh day that I had to meet him for lunch. and I was working in Baltimore City and so I'm rushing out of Baltimore City as much as you can rush out of that city and uh and coming down Interstate ninety five and gonna be late for my appointment with George and you know how he appreciates Latino time. And I get pulled over by the police. Oh, and you know. And on top of that he forgot, I think. You know, that we even had a meeting, so Well God was gracious. I got off. Well, please turn in your Bibles to Acts. Acts chapter 17. Chapter seventeen of Acts, verses twenty four through twenty-eight, we'll consider this morning. Acts seventeen, twenty-four through twenty-eight. They're Areopachus, and he says, the God who made the world and everything in it, being Lord of heaven and earth, does not live in temples made by man. Nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. And he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and the boundaries of the dwelling place that they should seek God. in the hope that they might feel their way toward him and find him. Yet he is actually not far from each one of us, for in him we live and move and have our being, as even some of your own poets have said. for we are indeed his offspring. Let me read something else to you. Familiar words, perhaps Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest tossed to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door. Those words etched on the plaque of the Statue of Liberty, words by the poet Emma Lazarus. reminds us that the United States is a nation of immigrants. You, as you look at your own past, as I look at my own past, we see that we're a nation of immigrants. Let me give you some facts and numbers. In a U. S. government report in 1997, it says in that report that since 1892 and 1892 was when the federal government began to track immigration and control the immigration issue. It says the U. S. has welcomed more than 50 million immigrants. And there are every year over 700,000 immigrants To this nation. And putting it in the Hispanic context, in 1950, fewer than four million residents in the U. S. were from Spanish-speaking countries And now about forty million. You think about The borders and people who cross the borders. Do you know that daily, every day, there are 1. 1 million passengers and pedestrians across the US border daily? And that I think of our situation in El Paso in the US Mexico border There are 11 million undocumented workers or immigrants in the United States, and 6. 3 million of those 11 million are Mexicans. What do you do with the immigrants? What do you think should happen on the US-Mexico border? Complex issues. Some have suggested, well let's put up a wall, and you need this two thousand miles. That's a big and long wall Some have suggested a fence. Some have suggested more Minutemen, the citizen action groups. Some have said, like the governor of Texas, he says, we need undercover surveillance. We need a regional SWAT team. Well, what do you make of this? As a Christian, how do we view the nations at our doorstep? How do we view the immigration? Do we see them as a problem, these immigrants? Are they a necessary evil because of our economy? Are they a burden? Are they a blessing? How do we understand all of this? How are you to understand the nations at your doorstep here in Columbia, quoted in 2000 census? I mean different ethnic groups here. And you have the African Americans, you have you know six and a half thousand, seven thousand uh Asians, you have nearly four thousand Hispanics. What do you do with these foreigners at your doorstep? I'm wrestling with this As I encounter it on the border. And it's not an easy issue to resolve. But what I'd like to do in this morning is from the perspective of Paul's message to the Areopagus. Let's look at some truths about who God is and truths about ourselves to help guide us in our understanding and our action about these immigrants and foreigners. In Acts 17, give us some of the context. Paul is on his second missionary journey. He's in Athens, and while he's in Athens, he does what every tourist does in Athens. He goes sightseeing. And he goes in the marketplace, he goes sees the temples, the theaters, he goes, no doubt, to the Acropolis and sees the great temples on the Acropolis crowned by the Parthenon. If you've been there where you see that the Parthenon is now wrapped around with scaffolding. As he walked around the city, he saw all these idols and gods strewn through the city. One ancient writer says that there were over thirty thousand idols in Athens. And when Paul, the Apostle Paul, sees this, his spirit is provoked within him, and he begins to preach. First he preaches in the synagogue. to the religious people, the Jews and devout persons, and then to the common citizens. And then he encounters the philosophers, the Epicureans, and the Stoics. And they were just intrigued by what Paul had to say because it seemed to them that he was talking about two other new gods, you know, Jesus and the resurrection. And so they take hold of him and bring him to the Areopagus. Now oftentimes you know that's translated Mars Hill. And so it's probably and some people think that's Mars Hill refers to the the Craig, the little rocky area just west of the Acropolis. But perhaps the Areopagus is not so much the place, but rather this court of religious judges in Athens. And so as he's speaking to them, he recognizes they are religious people. And he says, you know, walking around, I see this altar, it has this inscription on it to the unknown God. And Paul uses this to launch into a proclamation about the truth of God. the true God, and also the truth of man, who man is in light of being created by God. And in verse 24 You see, God is the maker. He made the world and everything in it. He's the maker, the creator of all things. So God is not the psychological or social invention of people. Right? This is significant because significant because the Stoics really believe in a sort of pantheism that God was everywhere, world, soul, and he say, No. God is the creator, and then you have all the creatures below. Verse 25, he says God is the sustainer. He doesn't have any need. You know, he gives himself, he pours himself out, he supplies every need. In verse 28, in him we live and move and have our being. And he's speaking against the Epicureans, who thought, well You know, probably God doesn't exist, but if he did, he wouldn't be involved, you know, he wouldn't have any activity in the world. And Paul says, he does. He's sustaining the world and everybody. And then in verse 26, and this is where I like to camp out in verse 26 and 27 He says there, and he made from one man every nation of mankind to live on the face of the earth. He says, the true God, the living God, has made all nations from one man. And the word nations that he uses there in the original language is ethnos, from which we get ethnic. So what he's saying is from one man, most likely he's referring back to Adam, which we know is true. And he says, from one man God created all people groups, all ethnic groups. And so we see that the living God created these nations. And you go back in Genesis and you see that yes. Uh you know, from from Adam comes Eve and their children, and then you have the whole story of the flood, and you have Noah and his children, and then in Genesis 10, the table of nations, how from Noah's children, you have all these other nations that are dispersed. And we can actually trace, you know, some nations and ethnic groups can trace their lineage back to the table of nations. And so we learn that ethnic groups do not come about by random genetic change, not through some evolutionary biological process. Ethnic groups are God's design and God's purpose. Yes, there are differences in features and customs. You know, skin color, but we all originate from one man, Adam, created intentionally by God who loves diversity. And this view struck hard with the Athenians. They were a proud people. You know how they divided the world. You have the Greeks, and then you have everybody else, the barbarians. And and the Athenians had this thought and they they view of themselves as autochthonous, meaning, you know how some people say we can all go back and say, well my ancestors came from from this nation, from that nation, from that country. Well the Athenians said no. You know, they they came not from other ancestors that came into Greece, but rather they sprung up from the soil of Attica. And just boom, they were there And so they were, they had this ethnic pride. They felt themselves superior to other peoples. And so Paul confronts the pride head-on. He says, there is no ethnic group. that is superior or inferior to another ethnic group. And we know what happens when one ethnic group Feels superior to another. We see it in our own nation. Slavery, segregation in South Africa, apartheid. You have the Nazi eugenics movement. And where the Nazis elevated the pure Aryan race and used that as an excuse to murder 12 million Jews? Margaret Thanger. the founder of Planned Parenthood, who spoke of inferior races, and said that non-whites were human weeds. And that the non-Aryan race was a great biological menace to the future of civilization. And God says no. God says no. God created according to design and good pleasure These different ethnic groups. That means there's no fundamental difference between a tribal chief in a jungle, somewhere in some other place, and a corporate lawyer on Wall Street. Or an engineer with a Department of Defense. There is no essential difference. So Paul is speaking to our attitude, to our heart. How do we view other nations at our doorstep around the world? We are all, he says, we're all sons of Adam. And if you're an arny of fan and daughters of Eve. See, you and I cannot claim ethnic superiority by nature, by the fact that God created us. And neither can we claim it by grace, viewed from the perspective of holiness in our own lives. Why? Because as sons of Adam, we've fallen as Adam is. fallen into sin worthy of condemnation under God's wrath and deserving eternal punishment. There is not one person of any ethnic group That can claim that he or she does not need Jesus Christ. Every people group needs a Savior. Every individual And none can boast except in the Lord Jesus, who rescues his people from every tongue, tribe, land, and nation. But I look into my own heart. I'm occasion. I don't really like to do that too much. And I see that sometimes I feel essentially better than other people And sometimes I confuse particular advantages I have. Economic advantages, educational advantages. And somehow confuse all that to thinking that I am essentially, fundamentally better than someone else. And that's not the case. You know, living in El Paso after being in Spain and speaking castellano, proper Spanish, you go to El Paso where they speak Spanglish. And ye, you know, if you were here the uh the middle hour, you saw that billboard, you know, it was Spanish and English combined And they make up words. You say push the door and pujar la puerta would be the Spanish word, but no, they say puchear la puerta. So they make out a push, a Spanish verb, pushear. Or, you know, we're having breakfast one morning with some Mexicans and some Americans and uh and they say, pass me the maple syrup. It would be jarabe de arce. But they say, uh pasame, you know, pass me the sirope de maple. That is just not a word. I am sorry. You know, you will not go and find maple. in a Spanish dictionary. You know. And and and so what that produces and I saw this in my own heart, people asked me, well how are you adapting to Tel Paso? I said, well you know, quite frankly, I think there's a good bit of pride in me. And I'm seeing a window of it through language. You know, because I want to correct them. You know, when someone gave me some very wise counsel, don't correct them. Don't correct it. Don't go there. You know, they hear me speak Spanish and say, ah, eres un español, you're a Spaniard. I said, well no, not not actually. I'm not a Spaniard. I I lived there for a number of years, but I'm a Puerto Rican and a sigh of relief. Because see, even in the Latin world, There are some ethnic groups that are superior to the other, at least from some perspective. And so from a Mexican perspective, it's the Spaniards who are on top, and then the Argentinians and some other Latin people. And then you have the Mexicans and down, way down underneath the dirt are the Puerto Ricans. So, you know, what do they do with me? I've been in Spain, I'm Puerto Rican, but I'm not Puerto Rican, you know, but they feel good. I'm Puerto Rican. But you see what Paul is saying to and what God is saying to us, that there is no ethnic group that's better than another. God doesn't love African Americans more than he loves Europeans. The Asians are just as lost as the Arabs. The Latinos and Native Americans are saved in exactly the same way. And as Peter states in Acts 10, 34, and 35, God has no favorites. And our heart has to adapt to that. And God is so good that He's adjusting our heart. He's conforming us. He's sanctifying us to that truth. He did that with Jean 1984 when we were in South Africa working with youth within the mission and there were Americans on the team, there were South Africans. There were Afrikaners. There were black Africans from different tribes. And there's this one man, Jean, who who grew up, an Afrikaner family, grew up with apartheid. That was in his blood. But yet God was changing him. so that he could fellowship with black Africans. But it was a glorious day when we celebrated the Lord's Supper and he for the first time in his life, took the cup of the covenant and put it to his lips after the black African man had drunk from it And he had learned something of the power of the cross and of grace and of the Father's heart for the nations. And it's not natural for us. It comes from the very grace and the gospel that we have been embraced with. None of us here, or maybe some of you would, admit to being racist. But let me ask it to you this way. When you see people of other people groups, other ethnic groups What do you feel in your heart? What's your reaction? There's some folk you say, hey, great. You know, I just love those Mexicans. In other groups you say, well, they're a little harder. Some years back, this is back in the 70s with the Iranian crisis, I can remember the words from a man who was going by on a bus. He shouts out the window to me, he says, go home, Iranian. You know, I have this wonderful ability to kind of blend in many cultures You know, but oftentimes by our silence and our inactivity We may realize there's more in our hearts that God needs to deal with. Perhaps it's not so much what you say, but it's what you don't say. It's not so much what you do, but what you don't do when you see people of other ethnic groups And people of God, we who have been purchased by the blood of Christ, we who are possessed by a God who loves us profoundly. By God who's invested his life in you and me, who wants and is conforming us the image of Jesus Christ. He wants to transform us by his spirit. And so we want to say, come Lord, I know you love me. And I know you want to use me, so come search my heart, Spirit, and convict me. Because I want to bring pleasure to you, Lord. You who delight in the nations, you made the nations. I want to bring delight and pleasure to you as you delighted to save me. Lord, is there anything in me that needs to be changed? And when we see it, if God by Spirit points that out, you Flee, you run to the cross. You run to Jesus and you behold the work of Jesus Christ at the cross. And you see there at the cross that nailed to our Savior were our sins of ethnic pride. And superiority. That too has been forgiven. That too has been washed away. All our sins. And yet now we're free. Free to love these. Whom God has created. As we look to the cross, look to Jesus, to that immigrant par excellence. To Jesus who left his country of origin. Heavenly glory comes to us To sinners, to redeem us, to forgive us, to empower us, so that we might have his heart and his eyes. And so let's pray. Ask that he by his spirit and his grace would produce the humility of Christ in us. It's not something that's natural to our heart as we look at people who are different. But that he desires to do to shape our attitude more and more to that of Of Lord Jesus Christ, knowing that God is giving to the Son the nations, Psalm 2 says, the nations as his inheritance. And shall we belittle the inheritance of Jesus? No. And so Paul says, and the Lord says, that he has created The ethnic groups, therefore, we have no place for pride and for feeling superior. And also in that verse 26, the second part, it says That he providentially rules history. He rules and controls by sovereign work the affairs of men and of nations and the movements of the peoples in the nations. You see in the f in verse 26b, the second part, he determined a lot in period, some translation or other translations, he determined the seasons or the times of these nations. Now different ways of understanding that, but I understand that as referring to the rise and the fall of empires. God is at work in different nations, political nations and empires He's the one that brings them into being and he humbles them. We see that in Daniel 4 concerning Nebuchadnezzar's humiliation, where Daniel says, In 4. 25, the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he wills. On Job 12, 23. He makes nations great and he destroys them. He enlarges nations and leads them astray. So he's the one that's sovereignly at work to lift up and to humble nations. And then the second part He's also determined the boundaries of their dwelling place. So the NIV reads, the exact places where they should live. So God's sovereignty extends not only to what happens in a particular nation, but also where they live, the geography, the territory that they occupy. And Paul's proclaiming that God is not aloof in the affairs of mankind, but that he rules in human history. And in the lives of people and nations. He determines where people live. So this is not an arbitrary action of God, but according to his planned determination So the ebb and flow of nations are guided by the unseen, sovereign hand of God. The course of history runs along the line that God has prescribed. According to his rule and providence. Boundaries change, do they not? Do you know before 1848 the Texas or the US Mexico boundary was very different. Mexico at that point included what is today Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, California, Nevada, and Utah. Who is in charge of those boundaries? Ultimately. Now, in light of this, if God is sovereign in where people live and the movements of people, As we think about immigration, is God sovereign therefore over immigration, the immigrants that come? Absolutely. Now, I'm not saying that we ought not to have any laws that govern our borders, you know, or that we ought not to have borders. What I'm saying is that That ultimately God is in control of the borders and the boundaries and the people movements. And that this too ought to guide us in our thinking about these nations that come to our doorstep. Right. And throughout history, biblical history and personal history, God has been moving people from one place to another. He did it with Abraham, he takes him out of Ur the Chaldees and his family. brings him to Canaan. We look at the story of Naomi and Ruth moving from Jerusalem to Moab back to Jerusalem and the Jewish diaspora. Our own history as America. Your history. My history. My grandfather's a Spaniard. No. He leaves Spain right before the Spanish Civil War in 1930. And he goes to Puerto Rico. And there are lots of Spaniards who leaving Spain. Some go to Argentina and Cuba. in other places. But my grandfather goes to Puerto Rico. There he marries. This is his third marriage, by the way. He's a sturdy man. And he has eight children, a third marriage. And my father joins the U. S. Air Force, and so I end up being born in San Antonio And as a military kid, I move all around, and finally, right before my dad retires from the Air Force, he ends up in Fort Meade. And I come to hear the gospel here. And not too long after that, I become a member of CPC. God is in charge. He's providentially working In the nations, in the people groups. And sometimes he uses economic needs. Sometimes he uses catastrophes, you know, with Hurricane Wilma, as it affected Mexico and Guatemala. Where are those people going? They have nothing. And you see a whole host of these people from Guatemala and Mexico coming into the United States. And why? We see that in verse 27. So that they may seek God. God has created mankind, all these ethnic groups, all these nations, he's created them and providentially orders the affair of of their lives and of the national lives as well, so that all may seek Him We were made by God to know God, to serve God, to love the Lord, and to worship him. And so we see how God speaking to the prophet Jeremiah says, when you seek me with all your heart, I will be found by you. Was it the prophet Ezekiel in chapter 33, where God says, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked, but that the wicked should turn from his way and live? And so God is working, God is wooing through even general revelation, through creation. Day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals the knowledge of God, the psalmist says in Psalm 19. And he gives common grace to all. The sun shines and the rain falls on all peoples, so that all peoples will see the goodness of God. So God is initiating the drawing of people into himself. so that they might seek him and find him. And so we find Paul is saying that God is not plain hide and seek He has assigned to men and women this task in life to seek him. As one theologian says, men are on the earth set here as upon a theater to behold the works of God. God is not hidden in the corner. He's created the world and his fingerprints and his power and his glory displayed in all the world so that people would seek him. He's not far from each one of us, Paul says. And yet there's a problem. The problem is our ability to see And to perceive and to accept all that God has revealed and all that God is doing in creation and in providence. We see in that verse, it says that they should seek God in the hope that they might feel their way toward Him. And find him. The idea is that NIV says reach out toward him or feel their way toward him. And this behind this word is the idea of groping in darkness. So they're feeling as a blind person, as one who cannot see, groping in their way in the darkness. And perhaps Paul means by this indicates the sinful failure of man to find God. As Paul talks about in Romans chapter 1. They know the truth, but they suppress the truth in unrighteousness. even though God is near. The late James Montgomery Boyce in his commentary says that the Apostle Paul uses the same Greek word here, reach out and feel their way. as the poet Homer did in The Odyssey. Particularly the story of the Cyclops. You remember that or you read that? I think it's a privilege to read the Odyssey, right? The giant one-eyed Cyclops had captured Odysseus and his men. Odysseus had gotten him drunk. Well, that's wine and then blinded him with a sharp stake. You know, you junior, I have been re I've had to read this. Oh, that's gory. Well Odysseus and a man then attempt to sneak out of the cave or the hell, but it's difficult because the blinded Cyclops was groping around, feeling after Odysseus to find him and kill him. So perhaps Paul is expressing the idea that our in our sin we are as the blinded cyclops. Nevertheless, because creation and providence is there, we have an obligation. To seek after God and find Him. But we know that unless God, by His Spirit, opens people's eyes, they will not see. We know that men and women, all of us need the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Spirit to enlighten our minds, grant us a new heart and new eyes. So that we might see the light of the world. You see, the immigrants, the nations at our doorstep, they're not here by chance. They're not here by chance. But ultimately they're here by God's providence so that they would seek him. Yet they do so as blind people groping in the darkness. And so as we're surrounded by these immigrants, these people of different ethnic groups We have a tremendous privilege. You know, they come seeking a better life, seeking prosperity, seeking better homes, better cars, better food. And God says, no, they're meant to seek me. And you know what happens, and I've seen it, the devastation, the family devastation in El Paso where people think they've finally made it. They're at the promised land. They've come pursuing the American dream and their life is a shambles because these things of the world, though they're good, they don't satisfy the deepest longings of the heart. That's not where our identity rests. And so we have this privilege. To take these people who are confused and disoriented, who are groping in spiritual darkness, to take them by the hand and lead them to the light of the world. To Jesus. We have the opportunity in our different spheres of influence in our workplace in our neighborhood to show the kindness and the mercy of God, to speak the good news. You know, I'm convinced that most of us want to do that. But there's fears. There's insecurity. Or plainly sometimes were too busy. Too busy. And the nations wait. And so we have people like Gloria. Gloria came from Mexico. She came across the border at first illegally. Quasi-ille legally because her husband was illegal. She did not come as a Christian. But uh through the years and through very trying circumstances in her family. Two months ago thereabouts, she met with a fellow missionary there in El Paso, poured her heart out, and professed faith in Christ. Do you think that was an accident? That God moved her from Mexico to El Paso? That all these affairs of her life were so orchestrated by the Lord so that she would seek the Lord. And perhaps some of you remember when we were in Spain meeting Pedro. Pedro who came from Romania eight years ago. And he lived and he he got out of Romania, I don't know how, you know, sometimes it's best not to ask how he did it, you know why. But he goes from Romania to France to Portugal, we meet on a street corner. In Málaga, Spain. And he's asking for a job or for money. I say, come down the street and let's talk. And some months later, he comes to faith in Christ. God moving the nations so that they seek Him. See, God wants to use you. You are loved by the Lord. No, he's invested in you and he wants to use you so that you might show that love and that mercy to these nations who come. to you and surround you. He wants you to step into their story, their lives. Yes, it's messy, it's difficult, it's complicated at times. But he gives you the power. He gives you the grace. No one else can. He will change your heart. He will give you the grace to overcome the fear and the insecurity that you and I have. I recognize the challenge But he wants you to step into their story, their lives, so that you can share with them the gospel redemption story of Jesus Christ. And that's an awesome privilege to be able to do that. You see, we learn from this text that God is not a racist. He doesn't have favorites. He's not ethnocentric. But God is Christocentric. His plan of redemption revolves around the person and the work of his son, Jesus Christ. And in Jesus He is making a new people, one holy nation, as the Apostle Peter tells us in 1 Peter 2. One holy nation where there are no aliens, where there are no immigrants, where there are no borders. He who's taken us who were far off, he's brought us near through the blood of Christ. And he's making us one in Christ so that those old distinctions of male, female, Jew Gentile, free, slave, they're all wiped off the face of the earth in God's room because there's one fundamental identity. We who are in Christ. And we who are this one holy nation, we who are people for his possession, we have been called to proclaim the excellencies of Him who called us out of darkness. into his marvelous light. It's wonderful. It's an awesome task to serve our Lord in this way. You know, you know those passages in Revelation chapter 5 and chapter 7. There that vision in chapter 7, verse 9. John has this vision. I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from among every nation. From all tribes and peoples and language standing before the throne and before the Lamb. It's an awesome vision. All these ethnic groups gathered around the Lamb. Around Jesus. And remember John the Baptist's words as Jesus commences his ministry. And he sees Jesus come and he says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the Caucasian race. No. The sin of Germans, of Americans, the sins of the world A people from every tongue, tribe, land, and nation. And so, people of God, would you pray with me, for me, for yourself? That we would live in light of this heavenly reality, that we would see people as our Father sees them. That we would have our father's eyes, we would have harvest eyes, looking for opportunities. To serve these people that God is drawing to seek him. You know, he saved us, we who are strangers to the covenant. Alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, we were far off, but he brought us near to the blood of the Lamb. You know, I long to say to my immigrant friends in El Paso and Ciudad Juarez, Mexico. As they come to the Lord and find their new identity in this one nation, holy nation. I don't want to say to them, hey, give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses. I want to say to them, as Paul writes in Ephesians, you are no longer strangers and aliens. But you are fellow citizens with the saints. And members of the household of God. You have done that for us, Lord, to make us members of your household. And it's your passion. It's your delight to save many, many people. Would you grant us your eyes? And grant us your heart. Do shape our heart. And we know you're doing that. We rejoice that you're doing that, Father, for the work of Jesus. Conforming our heart to your heart, so as we look at the nations about us, that we might love them That we might serve them, that we might be about our Father's business. Thank you for the privilege Of serving you in this way. Oh, to you be the glory. You, Jesus, who draw all nations to yourself. Amen.