Because if they hurt Condemnation. Um that has a couple of fruits. One is since God's not judging me, I can feel free not to judge myself. And I also can then feel free, I don't have any reason to, judge people outside the body of Christ, nor actually even do I need to feel the need to judge those within the body of Christ. My fellow brothers and sisters here at CPC. It was that topic, judging within the body, that brought us to this text in Romans 14 and 15 that we've been working on for some time. So I'm going to read this long text again, but our focus this morning will be in chapter 14, verses 20 down to chapter 15 and verse 4. Let's hear God's word. Starting in chapter Romans 14, starting in verse 1. As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while the work weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day as better than another, while another esteems all days alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God. While the one who abstains abstains in honor of the Lord and gives thanks to God. For none of us lives to himself, none of us dies to himself For if we live, we live to the Lord, and if we die, we die to the Lord. So then whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to this end Christ died and lived again that he might be Lord, both of the dead and the living. Why do you pass judgment on your brother Or you, why do you despise your brother? For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer. But rather decide never to put a stumbling block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself. But it is unclean for anyone who thinks it's unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love By what you eat, do not destroy the one for whom Christ died. So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual upbuilding. Do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good to build him up For Christ did not please himself, but as it is written, the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. For whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction That through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. This is the word of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, what we have been thinking through from your word is a brainful. It's a heartful. It's very challenging It calls us to live in a way that is quite nearly the opposite of the main motivating principle of my own heart Which is to be focused on myself. I expect that some of my friends here, some of those listening online, that They can admit that about themselves as well. It's what you tell us about ourselves here. And yet, following Christ, you call us father to something that is really quite a bit different. than the main way we instinctively live. So Holy Spirit, would you take this word, this disruptive word? Would you show us the privilege that we have, the calling that we have, and would you motivate us by a fresh view of Christ and His coming? for us. We pray his name. Amen. So quick review of where we've been these last couple of sermons, the first four verses of chapter 14. We looked at the fact that I can put off despising and passing judgment because of Christ, because of the mercy that I've received, no matter what the disputable issue is, I can put off despising and passing judgment. Then last week we looked at what I can put on. Chapter 14, verses 5 through 19, I can put on pursuing, running after, chasing what makes for peace. And mutual upbuilding. So not what splits apart, but what makes for peace and the upbuilding of my neighbor in the body. That is, in particular, I can focus what I'm free to in Christ, free for in Christ, is I can focus on you. And what would actually help you experience Christ and his gospel in such a way That the Holy Spirit would enable you to experience, to enjoy the imputed righteousness of Christ so that your joy and peace in the Holy Spirit would grow. And as a result, your own lived righteousness would grow also. Today in chapter 14, verse 20, and to chapter 15, verse 4, we're going to hone in. on this radical other-centeredness and what can motivate us to put off pleasing ourselves that we would be laser focused on pleasing our neighbor in the body for his or her own good As I was thinking about this, I was pondering the fact that this is actually what all of us want. We want the people around us To be concerned about us. Right? Isn't that what we all want? And this is actually what we're called to. So what you want and what you're called to, they fit. They go together. We need the Holy Spirit to enable us to see a fresh view of Christ to walk out this calling. I think this is really actually all of our desire, but it's otherworldly. It's something that only happens when the Holy Spirit pushes the gospel of Christ into us deeply. That's the only thing, the only way. That our hearts can be motivated and moved to this radical other-centeredness. So, to that end, let's first recognize the radical other-centeredness of body life. recognize the radical other-centeredness of body life, of life in the body of Christ. So with me, Romans 14 starting in verse 20. Do not, for the sake of food. So we're back to example one. If you've been following on through these sermons, food is the place that we start, right? So do not, for the sake of food, destroy the work of God. This is the second time that this word destroy is used by Paul in this passage, and so we should recognize that when we when we have a particular attitude about a disputable matter with a brother or sister in the body, That we should imagine that as we are engaging poorly, trying to convert someone to our view, that the way that God looks at that is that we are busy destroying the work that He's done. I realize that's very strong, but it's there. Don't destroy the work of God in someone else by your posture, by your attitude. By your trying to convert them to your view about anything. Paul goes on in verse 20, he says, everything, another interesting strong word, everything is indeed clean. So Paul understood that word clean, of course, is loaded from the Old Testament and the kosher laws and dietary laws and everything he's saying, everything's clean. And idols, nothing. Paul would tell us in another place so food's been sacrificed to an idol, it was sacrificed to nothing. Who cares? And all the food laws are gone. Everything's clean But it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. I would add here, because I think it's it's um clear in what Paul says here in other places, that it's knowingly. So Mark's in the front row, so I can pick up Mark today. So if I know that Mark go back to our stake analogy from last week, if I know that Mark is anti-stake, just it's an example, Mark, okay? It's an example. If you're inside Brussels reps. But if I know that somebody's consciously Against it, against a particular food. And I bring them into my house and I kind of set it in front of them as the only thing that serves and go, do you like some steak? Then we've we've done this. And I think that we we we date each other We bait each other online, we beat each other in person, don't we? It's wrong to make another stumble. It's good. Go on. It is good Not to eat meat or drink wine, so we bring a second example in here. Or do you know something horrendous that causes your brother to stumble? A few things that might cause your brother to stumble. Is that what it says? It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do oh come on you all are verbal try it again or do Anything. Okay, so notice a parallel here, right? Never put a stumbling block or hindrance, not do anything. These are absolutes. The things your counselor says language to never use in marriage. Paul says right here, never in anything. This is a radical other-centeredness. I'm resolved consciously not to do anything that causes my brother or my sister to stumble. The faith that you have going on in verse 22, the faith that you have, keep between yourself and God. This is interesting Speak the gospel, speak the indisputable things. We're going to use the Nicene Creed to confess our faith tonight just before the Lord's Supper, right? So Nicene Creed things, that's that's just it's worth disputing. Right? But most of the stuff that we just viewed is way, way, way below that. Tertiary and below. The faith that you have, the particular outworking that you've got, keep between yourself and God. Speak the gospel to outsiders, but don't feel the need to push everyone else to conform to your views. That's the map way of putting this. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself. For what he approves. So is it it's kind of like um, you know, it's good to have you. Actually, everybody does. It's just what you do with them. It's what you do with them that matters. It's how you speak of them. It's how you hold them. It's good to have humble, humbly held tentative views that you hold gently. Recognizing your limitations as a creature and other people's experiences are different than yours. Verse 23, whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats. Another strong word, condemned if he eats, because the eating is not from faith. See, this is why it's there is an urgency about seek seeking spiritual maturity. You should have well-developed views. So that you feel settled in yourself, convinced in your own mind, right, is what it says earlier in the passage. So you ought to have settled views for yourself, but not feel the need to convert anybody else to them. That's the balance point here, right? So that you you eat or whatever your view is you do from faith because what doesn't proceed from faith is sin. That's strong also. Whatever doesn't proceed from faith is sin. So we'd be walking towards things by faith. Why is this language so strong? Why is this so exercised in its in the words, in the tone? It's because in the body we relate to precious ones God has welcomed. In the body, we relate to precious ones that God has welcomed. And so if God has welcomed people, then people ought to feel our welcome towards them in the body. Outside too. But there's no way we're going to do it with people that are outside if we can't do it in here. That's why God is so exercised. Because in the body we relate to precious ones that God has well. Now in this little miniseries we have looked backwards some, but let's look to the present and the future as well. What makes for a healthy church body that can include all kinds of people easily? It's when this radical other-centeredness prevails. That's what makes for a healthy church body when this radical other centeredness prevails. And that happens when I've stopped thinking about how right I am and how wrong you are. And instead, I'm thinking about how to bless you, not to convert you to my views That is, I'm becoming by God's grace self-forgetful, as Brother Keller puts it in that little sermon. To participate in that kind of life within the body of Christ, as we find it here at CPC, is fairly obvious that we need God's grace to do that. We need the working of Holy Spirit within us. But we also need in that of repentance towards pleasing ourselves because we've caught sight of something more beautiful and wonderful that draws us. So we're going to look first at the repentance and then what can draw us towards it. The repentance then secondly takes the form of putting off pleasing yourself. That's what the repentance looks like, putting off pleasing yourself. Look at chapter 15 and verse 1. What if you believe yourself to be one of the strong? Right, so that you you think that you're um trying to decide whether I want to use a charged phrase or not. I'm gonna use it. And it I'll apologize to whoever wants me to apologize later. What if you think you're on the right side of history? What if you think you're one of the strong? Everyone else, their view's wrong, my view's right, I'm strong, I've got the one front page here, I'm the strong, you're the weak, that's why I'm looking down on you, that's why I'm trying to convert you to my view of things. So what if I'm one of the strong? Look at chapter 15, verse 1. We who are strong. Have an obligation. Now that's a nasty word. The O word. It's related to the D-word, duty. Responsibility. Could I say privilege in the best sense of that word? We have an obligation, a duty, a privilege, to bear with the failings of the weak. Paul would say something similar to Ephesians 4:12 and Colossians 3:13, that we bear with one another. And not in this attitude is kind of like, I'll put up with Mark and his views about Brussels sprouts. Idiot. Right? We don't bad. Remember the first phrase. As for the one who's weak in faith, welcome him. That doesn't feel like welcome. If I'm rolling my eyes and I'm kind of going, that's not welcome. And it's not welcoming to quarrel over opinions. It's not like that either. That's not bearing with. One of the preachers I've been listening to, I like to listen to sermons about what I'm preaching about. They're all usually very, very different than what I do, but I still enjoy it. And one of them said, and this is a memorable phrase that I think I'll keep using, Christians are moving at different speeds. Christians are different places along the journey. And it's God who has them. One of my friends reminded me. when I was pastoring in a local church week by week, different than this, but pastoring week by week, and he's and he would come to me and he'd go, This guy's now a board member. for flourish actually and you go, Matt, you you do know that God has each of those people who frustrate you exactly where he wants them right now, right? It's God in his providence, God in his working by the Holy Spirit that has each person around you, even if they're frustrating. Exactly where he has them right now. For his purposes. Which is why we who might think that we're strong. We have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. This is a fascinating diagnosis, I think, by Pastor Paul here. This is a fascinating diagnosis. So I'll keep picking on Mark since he's sitting there. So I love Russell Sprouts, but I'm a late comer to Russell Sprouts. I got converted to Brussels Sprouts at a restaurant in Florida that one of the other founders of Flourish. We were there and there was a a financial backer at Flourish and we went out to dinner at his favorite restaurant and they took the Brussels sprouts and I put them in half and they put them down on the grill and they were they were bathing and I was converted to Brussels sprouts. Now, I think that when I think about that experience, there were very few Vegetables growing up, none that began with the letter A that I ate. There may have been only broccoli that I ate in the B's. And so I was really late to Brussels sprouts. If I convince Mark to eat Brussels sprouts What is the emotional, psychological, might I even say, spiritual, fruit of that? Well, Mark, if he doesn't eat Brussels sprouts, would eat a a good green and it might be good for his health. But really what's going on there when I'm trying to convert Mark to Brussels routes? I'm looking for something for me. I'm looking for me. Okay, bear honesty, you're used to this. I'm looking to win. Thank you very much. Because if I win, I can feel good about myself. That's the diagnosis of Pastor Paul here. That when we're doing this, we're actually not about somebody else. We're about ourselves, pleasing ourselves, and getting something for ourselves, the self-satisfaction of being. Being right. We who are strong have an obligation to bear with the failings of the weak and not to please ourselves. The inverse then, verse two, let each of us, so this is the perfect place for one of my favorite phrases I learned in South Carolina as a college student. This is an all-y'all. Let each of us, all y'all, please his neighbor. Now this isn't people pleasing Right? This isn't, you know, uh man-pleasing, which the scriptures uh say is a snare, right? It's to please his neighbor for his good to build him up. So going back up to that phrase the uh verse seventeen. Kingdom is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness joining peace and join the Holy Spirit, we're pursuing what makes For peace and mutual upbuilding. We're building people into that, right? So that this presents a question. What is my Fellow congregant need to build them up. That's my orientation. What does my neighbor need? To build them up, to build her up. So what could this look like here at CPC to put off pleasing yourself? I'd like you for just a moment to think of the person in this congregation who must frustrate you. Who most frustrates you? And I realize that for some of you that's me and that's okay, you can use me. I mean that. I'm sure for some of you I'm the one that frustrates you the most. That's okay. It's a somewhat common experience. Alright, so think of the person's body who most frustrates you. Commonly, it's a person who's most different than you, whose views are quite different than your own. It's probably somebody who's not dismissing their mama. Um It's probably also somebody that you likely avoid spending time with. Who most frustrates you? Usually it's the person who's most different than you, whose views are quite different than your own, who you likely avoid spending time with. Alright, so if we're going to put off this self-pleasing, put off pleasing yourself, the first thing for me as I look at this And I look at my own heart when I'm bent this way, is I hit the first thing I have to do is I have to repent of my pride. Of thinking that I'm better. Because I'm not. I'm a sinful creature, they're a sinful creature. Grounds flat the foot of the cross. No one's better So the first thing I did is I've got to repent of my pride, and I've got to repent of thinking about the relationship, or most commonly it's actually a lack thereof relationship. Right? There's no relationship. I have to repent of my pride. I have to repent of thinking about people in a utilitarian way that they're there to please me. That it's an opportunity to please myself. So I'd encourage you to join me in this. That the first move here is that we repent of our pride and thinking about the relationship as an opportunity to please self. The second thing is to think and pray about how you could please that neighbor who must frustrate you for their good. How different would that be? You all know divisions among people, people that have historically not gotten along, people that aren't getting along right now How amazing would that be for CPC if God would work in such a distinctive way that people who have been against each other were to welcome each other? How amazing would that be? How could you please that neighbor for their good? We're going to have um a little bit of fellowship time afterwards milling around because we've got some food that we'd prepared for the congregational meeting that's spoilable, so you'll get snacks if the kids don't be too there first. But perhaps in the fellowship times we mill around as we nosh a little food. What if you were to go to them? after the service or just reach out to them. Or maybe that's too hard. You could reach out with a text or DM. Tell them the Lord brought you to mind. How can I pray for you? Simple. It's not hard, is it? And then get it in your phone or whatever your reminder system is and actually pray for them. And then ask them the next time you see them, how's that going? That would be a way to welcome them. To extend the welcome of God to someone else in the body that's challenging for you. Now I realize that if you're like me, you also might resist that. You might stay pat on pleasing yourself. But recognize that when I do that, when you do that, we stay in this focus on self-state. We choose to stay pat on being superior. Considering this other person who's frustrating, unworthy of time, energy, patience, attention, and prayers And friends, I say that much more strongly to myself than to you. When I stay in that, when you stay in that, that's opposite of the courses laid out here from the Lord. Our focus is to be on what someone else might need from me for their good, that they might experience Christ and his gospel of grace more deeply and apply it more broadly in their life. That's my role to them is to help them experience that. And when I choose to do that, then I'm putting off pleasing myself. And I'm looking to them for their good. And of course that's what we're called to. Instead of focusing on ourselves, we're called to, in light of Christ's self-sacrifice, this is the third point. Please your neighbor. In light of Christ's self-sacrifice, please your neighbor. Look with me at verses 3 and 4 of chapter 15 For Christ, here put out as our model, for Christ did not please himself. But as it is written, the reproaches of those, this is a quote from Psalm 69, 9, very frequent quote in the New Testament about Jesus: the reproaches of those who reproached you fell on me. And of course, Paul says, and that's useful to us. For what it was written in former days was written for our instruction. He says a similar thing in 1 Corinthians 10, 11. Why is it written for our instruction that through endurance, and isn't that what it takes to relate patiently in the body, endurance? And through the encouragement of the scriptures, we might have hope. Pretty late in my preparations, I landed on that word hope. Maybe a different time, different preaching. I might spend more time on it. But let me just give you 20 seconds about why I think that word is there. It is very interesting, uh, maybe more clearly, it's very convicting. for me to trace my views backward to the hope that I find in them. And I would just encourage you, as it's been worthy of my own meditation, that it's worthy of yours also. What's the source of hope? Here we're told that it's through the encouragement of the scriptures that we're to have hope. I think we put our hope in the wrong places sometimes. All right, so main point here. Christ here as our model. This is It it's very obvious on the face of it that Christ comes not to please himself. Uh Wayne uh thankfully picked a good passage there that he didn't come to serve to be served but to serve, right? And give his life as a ransom for many. Paul, very typical form for him, the way that he calls forth our response is to tell us to look to Christ again and what he has done for us and in light of what he has done for us. in light of the welcome, the acceptance that we have because of Christ and how he lived, that we were then to live this way. This is Paul's entire way, the Scripture's entire way of calling us to obedience is in response to grace. So what do we need to do? We need to catch sight anew today. And actually we need to catch sight anew every day. If we are going to live a life that's pleasing to our neighbor for his or her good, we have to catch a fresh sight of Christ. So let's do that for just a couple of minutes. Maybe you've not pondered this question before, and I can't Remember if I've had you ponder it with me, but it's a good question, so we'll ponder it again. Um, why did Jesus come to earth? Why did Jesus come to earth? You know he didn't have to, right? He was under no external obligation. To come to earth. Grace is undeserved. Nothing in us Could possibly make a call upon Jesus to come to earth, as the creed puts for us and for our salvation. So why does Jesus come to earth? Well, theologians say that at some point before creation and before time, so it's hard for us to talk about this, but in the eternal council of the Trinity I imagine the conversation and it's only an imagined, so take it you know gently. Um grain of salt. Um somebody's got to go for us, Father says. Holy Spirit and Jesus look at each other. And Jesus says, I'll go. You sure you know what this is gonna mean? I'll go. And so Jesus comes. He humbles himself. He's born weak Needy, helpless, and poor. Why is he coming? Our need, his love. That's why he's coming. And he doesn't come triumphant at the outset, but weak, helpless, needy, poor from a backwater. Nazareth. Anything good come from Nazareth? That was only one of the ways that Jesus was ridiculed. Reproach is the word here. His whole life. Can you imagine being Jesus' sibling? Goody two shoes. Always, every day, doing the right thing. Imagine how hard that must have been. He's ridiculed his whole life. He's particularly ridiculed for his unique parent. You know Joseph. Not his father, wink wink As Jesus grows up, he humbly learns the word. He learns obedience, we're told in Hebrews, he learns a trade. He works with his hands. He produced what must have been solid and fine woodwork. And then he begins ministry. It's public ministry. And for three years of everyday challenge, everyday challenge. He pours himself out to please his neighbors for their good. Reliant upon the Holy Spirit for the glory of his Father, he lives perfectly. He fulfills all righteousness. He's loving. He's welcoming. He's healing. He's teaching. And what does he get for it? He gets betrayed by one of his own. By one whose feet he washed. Now it's not the only injustice. He faced a life of injustice. He's unjustly tried. He's beaten, he's crucified, not for anything that he had done, because he was the perfect Son of God. But that horrible end of Jesus' life. was because that was the only way our self-pleasing could be forgiven. But he didn't state that, did he? Jesus rises victoriously. He ascends triumphantly, and he sits down. Hebrews tells us, because that portion of his work was done. But some portion of his work continues. Because there he is as our advocate, the right hand of the Father. Praying for you as an individual one of his children that he died for. For you He prays for you and me. That's what Romans 834 tells us. And after Jesus ascends Jesus and his Father, they send the Holy Spirit in fullness so that we might be empowered for this gospel work we're called to, both within the body and out in the world for those neighbors good. And why does Jesus do all this? Our need, his love. For you as an individual, as a messed up, sinful person. I think as you get older One of the things that can happen, it doesn't happen always, but one of the things that can happen is it becomes more and more mysterious to you Why God would want somebody as messed up as me in his family. Because the magnitude of grace can come home more. Because you realize how much of a sinner you are. And so the welcome of God means can if you let it. It can make it, it can melt your heart. If you'll let it For some strange reason, God wanted me and you in his family. That is what we're going to celebrate at the Lord's table tonight. Brief six PM service. Friends, rehearsing this For Christ did not please himself. As a shorthand, rehearsing this is a shorthand for the heart of God towards you. That's what can lead you. That's what can call you. That's what can help you, motivate you to help you see the privilege of living to please your neighbor. Won't you? Let's pray together. Father, we had great need, you had great love. And so you You made this way for us to be welcomed. Jesus, you were willing to become that way. To come in truth to speak truth full of grace and truth. The likes that you have natively, that you give to us. So that we have the life of Christ. And that by your working, Holy Spirit. How we need you. We need you to remind us to rehearse the wonder of this gospel that we believe, the depth and the goodness and the truth. joy in it that we be drawn away from pleasing ourselves and be drawn towards this privilege. Of living other centered, as you did, Jesus, for our sakes. Help us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.