Even though we'll be focusing just on Paul's prayer in verses 14 through 19 this morning. Ephesians 3, reading from verse 14 from the New International Version, let's hear with open and expectant heart to the reading of God's Word. For this reason, I kneel before the Father from whom this whole family in heaven and on earth derives his name. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen. And I pray that you being rooted and established in love, may have power, together with all the saints, to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love. of Christ and to know this love that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. This is the third Now in our August series, praying with Paul. And we come today to a text that many consider to be the most exalted and the most glorious of all Paul's recorded prayers in the New Testament. And I'm inclined to agree. Martin Lloyd Jones considered these few very few verses worthy of some sixteen or seventeen sermons. That's how rich he thought this section of God's word was. And I will uh not try to give you sixteen sermons worth of information this morning so you can read the side relief there. But in any theory such as ours on on looking at false prayers, we'd be very remiss if we didn't So in looking at these verses this morning, I hope we'll be able to answer the question, how can we pray for other Christians? As we've been asking that question of different prayers of Paul as we've been going through these different uh texts. And I got so excited studying this text a little more this week that I decided to make yet another change in what what I'm gonna be preaching on next week. So you'll need to make a correction in your bulletin. And notice that we'll I will not be preaching on Romans fifteen, verse thirteen. I'll say that for some other time. But next week I'll be preaching from verses twenty and twenty one right here. Ephesians 3, finishing up this beautiful section of Ephesians. So make that note if you'd like to prepare for worship next week by meditating in advance on that text. For those of you who are new visitors with it, would we welcome you? And uh perhaps with the amount of visitor you just haven't been able to come for every week this during this series. So I'll encapsulate a little bit of where we've been so we'll know where we're going to today. The first the first time we looked at one of Paul's curves, it was in 2 Thessalonians. And we saw there two underlying dynamics of Paul's prayer life: praying from the already to the not yet, and praying from the inward to the outward. already to the not yet in the inward to the outward. And then last week we notice that Paul prays for two central balances in the Christian life, two very important balances. Balancing love with wisdom and balancing purity with fruit. And we saw that we can pray for other Christians as Paul prays for them in those ways. And now this week we look a bit deeper, you might say, into that inward, outward dynamic that we looked at the very first week. As we come here to Ephesians 3, and we notice what Paul prays for, and we also notice what Paul does not pray for. Paul prayed for Ephesians in a very extensive way that has absolutely Absolutely nothing to do with changing their outward circumstances. Paul prays it in a very deep and prof profound way that has absolutely nothing to do with changing outward circumstances. I think that's significant as we look at this passage this morning. Paul prays for God to inwardly change believers' lives, to change their characters from the inside. And so, how can you and I pray for the Christians? Well we can pray for other believers that they would have inner strength and inner knowledge and inner fullness. Strength, knowledge, and fullness. First first then, strength, inner strength. Paul says, For this reason I knew before the Father from whom this whole family in heaven and on earth derives its name. I pray that out of his glorious riches he may strengthen you. With power through his spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith. This then, even though it doesn't appear in your English Bible as readily as the first of three distinct sections of Paul's prayer. And he prayed for inner strength. Inner strength. The verse strength in here, and you might say, is the opposite of be discouraged in the original. So he's praying for encouragement, but a very special kind of encouragement, an encouragement of strength, an encouragement of power. The word indeed, the word power, if you look down through your English Bible there, you'll see, at least in the NIV, that it occurs three times in just these seven verses. It occurs in verse 15, again in verse 18, and again in verse 20. So Paul is very concerned about power or about strength. He's very concerned to pray for this, for these Christians. And notice The source of this power. If you're following along in your bulletin outline, the source of this power, and it is nothing less than out of God's glorious riches. Out of his glorious riches. Riches, Paul praised, that this strength may come. Romans 9 23 is a place where Paul says, he uses the phrase, the riches of his glory, and he's again here he's seeing the great riches of glory that belong to the world. He's riches indeed have already been mentioned in Ephesians. If you would flip back to chapter 2, verse 4, you'd see there that Paul says, because of his great love for us, God who is rich in mercy, made us alive in Christ even when we were dead in transgression. God who is rich in mercy. So richness is something that Paul is very cognizant of. as far as as the Lord is concerned. And again in chapter two verse seven he p he prays or he mentions riches. He says, in order that in the coming ages he might share the incomparable riches of his grace. Again Riches of God's grace, or of his glorious grace. Paul is consumed by that, and he prays that that out of his glorious riches God would strengthen these Ephesians. And glory, of course, is all already mentioned in Ephesians. That's another one of Paul's favorite concepts. In chapter one, verse six, and again in chapter one, verse seventeen, he prayed to the praise of his glorious grace, which he has freely given us And again in verse seventeen, Paul mentions the glorious Father. I keep asking that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ The glorious Father may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation so that you may know him better. God is indeed a God of glory, as we sang this morning, he's a God of glorious grace, glorious riches. But then notice not just the source. of these riches. Not just the source of this strength, but also the instruments. The instrument of this strength. The channel, you might say, the instrument. And it is nothing less than the Holy Spirit himself. praise that out of his glorious riches God might strengthen the Ephesians with power through his spirit in your inner being. With power through his spirit. That is indeed the instrument. You see, all the members of the Trinity are involved in this prayer. We have the strength of the Holy Spirit mentioned, the indwelling of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the fullness of God the Father, all mentioned here in this passage. And here in this very verse we have the Spirit, the Holy Spirit mentioned, the Spirit of strength. You see, this is the same Spirit that raised Jesus Christ from the dead. Turn back with me to Ephesians 1. And you'll see that Paul mentions the Spirit. And he mentions this great power for us who believe. That power is like the working of his mighty strength which he exerted in Christ. When he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly realms, far above all rule and authority, power and dominion, and every title that can be given, and so on. So that power that is at work in us to believe is the very Same power that raised Jesus from the dead. That is the power, that is the strength that we have. You see, it's not some very higher power that Paul is praying to act upon these believers. There's some great That teaches that all you have to do is rely on a higher power, on the supreme being, to give you strength. But that's not enough. You see, it's a very specific spirit that Paul is mentioning here, is the spirit of Jesus. Jesus Christ. It is the Spirit that raised Jesus from the dead. That is the Spirit that is the instrument of our strength. That is the Spirit that lives in us as believers. And that is the spirit that Paul praised. would empower these things. And notice especially the in not just the instrument, but the location of the Spirit's work. The location of the Spirit's work. It is nothing less than in the inner being or in In the inner man. Paul prays that these ashes would know God's power in the inner being. Now Paul is very fond of this concept. He has to con contrast it with the outer man. to see physically when he says in 1 Corinthians, but the outer man is wasting away. It's just dissolving. It's coming apart as it seems. But the inner man, the inner man is being renewed day by day. That is where the strength comes. Not from the outer man, from that inner man, as the Spirit renews the Christian day by day. You see, again, the heart is the primary thing. We saw that in Castle 8, and again we see it here. It is the location of the Spirit's work in the heart of the believer that Paul points out here. He prays that the Spirit might strengthen these believers in his inner man and the heart of the really governs everything we think. The heart is what's primary. The heart is what Paul is concerned to mention. You see, there's no hint of desiring out of circumstances to change here. Now I have no doubt that Paul probably prayed for Christians from time to time to have uh specific circumstances in their lives change. I have no doubt that he did that. So we don't have any recorded examples of that. Instead, over and over again, and we see it again here in Ephesians three. We see that Paul prayed for more important things. We see that he prayed in intersection for God's Spirit to change Christians from the inside out. He prayed that their inner man would be strengthened. That is what's most important. That's what Paul was to drive home as the key and most important thing. And so he prayed for that here for the Ephesians. And notice also the result of this strength, the result of this power. It is simply this, so that Christ will dwell in your hearts through faith. Paul prays for this strength, so that, with the result that, Christ will dwell in the feeding hearts like faith. Faith. You see the heart is basically the same thing as the inner man. It's the whole of man, it's all that constitutes man as he is. And so Paul prays that Christ will strengthen these ephesians. He prays for inner strength. so that Christ will dwell in their hearts. So that Christ will make his home, you might say, continually in their heart. It's not a once for all thing he's praying for here. He's praying for an ongoing process. Something that's to continue Christ is to continue to make its home in these Christians' hearts as they have faith in him. You see, there is a once for all decision involved in the Christian life. Those of you who are believers know that. When you ask Christ into your hearts, You're justified. You're forgiven. There's a once-for-all transaction that takes place as Christ comes to dwell in your heart by faith. But there's also an ongoing process, what the theologians call sanctification. An ongoing continual process as Christ continues to dwell in your heart as you continually make decisions for Him. Christ dwells in your heart in that way in a continual sense. And so that's what Paul is praying for these believers. for. He's praying for this continual indwelling of Christ in their hearts by faith. He's praying that they would grow in this way. And the real power, you see, the real power comes when Christ indwells a believer in the world. in this way. That's why Paul praised this. So that Christ will glow in their hearts through faith. Because Paul knows that the only way these Ephesians are going to have the power they need is if Christ indwells in them. And so he phrase for that. Now this is so unlike our own natural condition. It's so unlike our own natural weakness, you might say. It contrasts with our own powerlessness on our own. With the without the strength that Paul speaks of, we are powerless in our natural state. I know this powerlessness quite specifically this week. I felt assaulted by Satan in a lot of ways as he tried to to distract me from his word, from God's word. And even physically, yesterday was demanded and ruined. But most importantly, Paul prays for inner spiritual strength. Because he knows that on their own the Ephesians are going to run down. They're going to end up without power eventually if they try and rely on their own strength. I remember the old lost in space TV show of the 60s. Some of you here probably remember it too. It was kind of a corny show, but I must have watched every episode at least three times. I loved it. And one of my favorite characters on the show was actually not a person at all, but a r a robot. He was simply called robots. And those of you who remember the show know how Robot operated. He uh he had this little power pack, it was about this big and it fit in his side like this. And every now and then somebody who was up to no good like Dr. Smith or some of the other villains in the show would pull out that power pack. And you know what would happen to robot then, don't you? Those of you who know the show, know that he just wilted like a huge metallic flower that was out in the scorching sun. He would just go He would just droop. He would just droop without that power pack. And uh then someone would put put it back into him to revive him and uh he'd go from this position of drooping and he'd Snap right up like this. And he'd say something like, Morning, morning, alien lifelong's approaching. Something like that. But you see on our own, we're like robot without a power pack. We're just drooping. Well you're there physically without inner power, without inner strength, without a battery pack, you might say. Sooner or later, if you decide to live your life on your own strength, you're gonna end up drooping. Just like that robot. Just like robot without a power pack, you're going to grow. Your resources are going to run out on your own. And Paul notes that, and that's why he prayed in this way for the Ephesian Christians. Now you know, non-Christians really have no inner sports of power like Paul is speaking of here. Do you know what I mean? Non-Christians, people who do not know Jesus as Lord, they have no inner source of strength. They have no power pack, you might say. They're tyrannized by their circumstances. They're victims continually of the outward of their own circumstances. And they're held control by their circumstances. They're ruled and tyrannized by them. Because they have no inner power. They have no inner man that Paul speaks of here. They're One dimensional, you might say. And if you've trusted, if you've not trusted in Jesus Christ alone, in reality, you have no inner source of strength. You have nothing to rely on. And in the end, you're going to reap the grim benefits, the grim result of that. You're not a spiritual inner man if you're not a Christian. You've lacked the inner resources, the inner strength that Paul speaks of here. And if you are a non-Christian today, you really live a shallow life. You really ultimately have a one-dimensional life, a life that's controlled by outward circumstances. Because you have no inner man, you have no inner life with God. And I would challenge you, if you don't know that power in your life, to look to the one who is able to make you, who is able to equip you with that power. Do you know that power in your life today? If you are a Christian, you need to ask for more of it, as Paul asked for these Christians here. But let me ask you this. How do you usually pray for other Christians? Do you pray for this inner power from Christ's Spirit to indwell you and to indwell other Christians? Or do you find yourself drifting off into praying for mostly circumstantial things, mostly for outward circumstance? I would encourage you this morning to pray for inner strength for yourself and for other believers. Pray for the strength that only Jesus Christ and His Spirit can bring. And don't fall into just praying for outward circumstances. Last week I heard a prayer request from someone in our congregation. It's in fact from Sylvia Bell, and Sylvia doesn't know I was going to mention her this morning. I hope she's not embarrassed. But I really think it was um worth mentioning about Sylvia. And she has a new job that some of you know about. It's a tremendously grueling job. And I won't go into all the details, but she she has to drive down to DC every day to Center City, DC, and lawn commute. She's on her feet twelve hours a day. It's an incredibly gluing job. And yet I heard Sylvia in a prayer group last week. See, I heard it describing her job and I heard her prayer request. after that. And frankly, I wouldn't have been surprised if Sobey had asked for us to pray for another job for her. Or for some circumstance to pray. The change in her current job. I mean the conditions they just sounded so wrenching. They just sounded like pit to me. And I wouldn't have been at all shocked if she'd asked her to change circumstances. But she didn't. She didn't. All she asked for was strength, her spiritual strength and her physical strength. do her job to the glory of God. And I thought to myself, how perceptive. Here's a woman who really knows what it means to walk with the Lord, to trust in his strength alone. To get her through day by day. Here's a woman who really knows what she needs to pray for. Here's a woman who really knows that outward circumstances are not the most important thing. That inner spiritual strength. is what she means. Also, I would encourage you to pray for folks, not just like Sylvia Bell, but for other folks who are especially vulnerable to Satan's attacks. I think especially of those who are in cross-cultural situations, we have a lot of missionaries that we support here at this church. And those of you who have gone into cross-cultural uh circumstances for any period of time, you know what that's like, to be uprooted from your culture. And if you don't have inner spiritual strength, if you're relying on circumstances to give you stability and to get you through, it's not going to cut it. It's not going to cut it. So I would encourage you to pray Or our missionaries, those such as the Sewarts in France and the Balmans in Italy, and even the Ibisons, who will be coming home in just a week. Frank Dan and his family for inner spiritual strength from Christ's Spirit, that they would know his power to work. within there. So we should pray for the inner strength of the Holy Spirit to fill us as Christians and to work in us so that Christ will indwell us. And then we should pray for knowledge. Knowledge. The second of Paul's petitions. Verses 17B through 19A, Paul makes this clear. And I pray that you, being rigid and established in love, may have power to give Together with all the saints to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ, and to know this love that surpasses knowledge. Paul prays in an amazing way for knowledge and not just any knowledge but knowledge of Christ's love. And it's interesting here I notice that he already he uses the already not yet dynamic. That we talked about the other week in this prayer right here. You see, the Christians in this ephesus already are rooted and established in love. There's an already aspect, something that's already been done in their lives, and yet Paul prays that they would know Christ's love. He still petitions God that they that he would give these Christians knowledge of Christ's love. So there's a not yet. There's something that's more that needs to be asked for here. There's an already and a not yet. And interestingly, I found it interesting the way Paul describes the already absect. He uses the botanical metaphor and an architectural one and blends them together. He says, being rooted in love, you christianized. Are rooted in love. You have roots that go down into the soil of love. But you're also established in love. You've got a firm foundation on the solid rock of love. So you're rooted and established in love. That's because already aspects. But then also the not yet. He prays that they may have power to grasp how wide and long and high and deep is the love of Christ and to know that love. Christians already have love. They're already rooted and established in it. But Paul wants them to know or to grasp, to lay hold of more of that love so that they grow in it. Now notice the manner or the manner. method that he prays here. He says, together with all the saints. That's the method through which these Christians are to know Christ's love. Isn't that interesting? Together with all the saints. You see, we're not alone as believers. We're not on our own. There is really no such thing as a lone ranger Christian. Although I often hear folks talk about their Christian life as if that was the case. You see, isolated Christians can learn something Of Christ's love, but they can never know Christ's love in an intimate, in a deep way until they're together with other believers. Because their own experience is a limited experience. They need the experiences of all the things, all Christianity. That's why the body is so important. That's why the church is so important. You see, low-range Christians are always powerless, sad, hopeless Christians. I find that more and more as I meet the post. in my in my day to day um relationship. And I'm grieved when I hear people who profess to have faith in Christ talk as if they can run their race by themselves. As if it really wasn't absolutely critical is getting involved with other believers. That really grieves me. And I pray that that wouldn't be the case. But I hear it so often. And so often I feel like a broken record when I have to tell them over and over again, look, you'll never know what But it really means to be a Christian. And you never know what Christ's love really is like until you're together regularly with God's people. So I must never tire from telling other folks that and You mustn't either. But notice also in Paul's petition for knowledge here, the object of the knowledge. Again, it's it's the huge dimension of Christ's love that he prays that the Ephesians would know. The huge of the dimensions of Christ God. Wide, long, high, deep. All the different dimensions. You see Christ's love is wide enough to reach to the ends of the earth. Christ's love is long enough To reach from eternity to eternity. Christ's love is high enough to raise the Jews and the Gentiles to both heavenly places in Christ Jesus. And Christ's love is deep. Deep enough to rescue people. from the deepest degradation of sin. Deep enough to deliver Christians from the deepest levels of sin, even from Satan himself. That's how deep Jesus is like. And Paul prays that somehow he the seasons would notice. You see, Christ's love is so big, so big, that nothing can separate Christians from us. You know, back in Romans eight, Paul puts it this way. He says, I'm convinced that neither death nor life, neither angels nor demons, neither the present nor the future, nor any powers, neither height nor depth, nor anything else in all creation. Will be able to separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's the object of the Ephesians of knowledge. The hugess of Christ's love. The fact that they can never separated from. And you see there's a mystery involved here, if you think about it. There's a mystery in that Paul prays that the Ephesians would know the unknowable. He prays that somehow they would know what ultimately can't be known. And I pray that you may know this love that surpasses knowledge. It's not a joke, even though it sounds funny. Because amazing as it is, Because Christ is God, his love is ultimately unknowable in a com in a complete sense. He can't be known fully. But Christians can know the love of God fully and deeply. They can know the love Of Christ as it really is. They have they can have grasp on the unknowable. They can actually know the unknowable. One church father put it this way: But even though the love of Christ surpasses human knowledge, Yet you shall know it if you have Christ dwelling in you. That's the marvelous truth. You see, this is so unlike our own natural ignorance and our own natural forgetfulness. of God's love. It's so unlike what the non Christian is left with in his experience. You see, a non Christian has no knowledge, no real knowledge of God's laws, because he's really a God hatred. He really hates and resents the fact that God has a claim on his life. And he doesn't know anything of the love of Jesus Christ for sinners. A non-Christian has no real knowledge of Christ's love. And if you are a non-Christian and you continue to reject God's love, this offer of love in Jesus Christ, someday that love will be withdrawn completely, and you will be left with an eternity without God. So non-Christians don't have a great grasp on this. And yet even Christians find it easy to forget Christ's love. So often we're tempted to forget Christ's love in the midst of difficult circumstances in particular. We always tend to think of ourselves our current situation as the absolute worst case. You know, those of you who watch Prayer Home Companion know that they have these um humorous little skits every now and then called worst case scenarios, and they're just outrageous things. They're they're ludicrous examples of of how something could go so wrong in somebody's life. Well, I think we're often like that when we when we reflect on our own experiences. We tend to think that the situation we're in now is the absolute worst that could possibly be It's gotta be the worst case scenario. It's gotta be the pit. Nothing could be this bad. And I had an example of this just the other day. Uh Dana and I looked at our new apartment the other day. And uh Um after such a long wait, you know, we had fantasized almost about the split and how great it's gonna be to have our own home. And we got in there to inspect the place with our moving in inspection and the deadbolt didn't even go down on the door. and the sink leaked and three of the four burners on the stove didn't work. And on and on and on, you know, we made this huge list of things and we were just we were just distraught so much. We said, How could this possibly be? This is the pick. Any place could be better than this. This has gotta be this is this has gotta be the absolute worst it could be. And I I must admit that I easily forgot God's goodness and God's love to us in that situation. It was real easy for me to forget that God had called the state of Columbia and provided for us this home out of his grace and out of his goodness and because he loved us as his children. And I needed to remind myself of that. And I needed to Remind myself that these really flush conditions that we're enjoying here, and we look out on beautiful trees, and there's so many positive things about it. And God really loves us to give us these kinds of things to enjoy. And incidentally to your information, we got all the major concerns taken care of and things really weren't that bad as they seemed at first. And we'll we're looking things through. But I found it was so easy to forget Christ's love, even just in that instance. Perhaps you or someone you know is suffering from very adverse circumstances, much worse than having an imperfect apartment. Perhaps you or someone you know is suffering from unfairness at a job, or maybe even racial discrimination in a neighborhood. Maybe someone you know has lost her job or is looking for a new one. I know there's a lot of people in our congregation like that. Perhaps it's your own health that's deteriorated. Or family members that you're watching who talk you're watching decline. Perhaps it's a loved one who's died, like the Olson family this week. Or perhaps there's family strife, real discord, real tension in your family. that you're trying to deal with. And you've got these really adverse circumstances. Well remember, my friends, it's okay to pray for those things to change. There's nothing wrong with that. Pray that those circumstances would change. But knowing Christ's deep love is much more important. Pray that other Christians would know the depth and width and height and length of Christ's love. Pray that other believers would know Christ's huge love and they'd cut. circumstances. So pray for inner strength, pray for knowledge of Christ's love, and then currently pray for fullness. Fullness. The very last phrase here is actually a separate petition in Paul's own words. That you may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. What a bold request. That you, you Christians, you humans, may be filled to the measure of all the fullness of God. The NASD. says, filled up, filled up to the fullness of God. This fullness, Paul loves to refer to it. He refers to it in Colossians, he refers to it in Ephesians. And here it has the sense of the fullness that God requires and the fullness That God provides. That's the fulfillment that Paul wants these Christians to experience. The fulfillment that God intends for man is maturity. Maturity that is measured by the full statute. He prays in e in um Ephesians 4, 13. He he looks different gifts that God gives to his people. And he says the reason that God gives those gifts Chapter 4, verse 13, or verse 12, is to prepare God's people for works of servant, so that the n the body of Christ may be built up, until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God, and become mature, attain to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ. That's the maturity that we're to aim for. That's the fullness that we can have by God. spirit. You see, Jesus himself is the fullness of God. Jesus is the fullness of deity dwelling in bodily form. Jesus is the fullness of God himself. He's a full Lord Savior. He lacks nothing good, nothing that's perfect. He is God's fullness. Paul says in Colossians 1, if you flip to Colossians 1 verse 19, he says For God was pleased to have all his fullness dwell in him, that is Jesus. And again, in chapter two, verse nine, he says, For in Christ all the fullness of deity lives in bodily form, and you have been given that fullness in Christ. See in Christ all the fullness dwells, and you have already been given that fullness in Christ. Again, we see the already that Paul looks back on. He looks back on all the God has already done these Christian blinds. And he says, you have already been given fullness in Christ, because he is the fullness of God Himself. Amazing. Amazing. see we're often I think Christians were we're like balloons. I asked um I asked Pat Mitchell to provide me with a balloon and curiously she provided me with a balloon that says welcome home on it quite appropriate books. for us this weekend. But you can say if you blow off if you blow up this balloon part of the way, something like this. It's blown up, and you can say that this balloon is full of air. Right? It's full of air. There's absolutely nothing in it but air. There's no water in it. It's full of air. But this balloon can can be fuller of air. It can have a larger capacity for air if I go like this. Right? It's bigger, it's got a larger capacity. It was full before, and it's full now, but the capacity is much larger now. You see, it can grow in fullness. And we are like this balloon. We have fullness in Christ. But it's only a partial fullness compared to what we will have and compared to what we can have in Jesus. Our fullness Is meant to be full. As Christ, who is the fullness of God, dwells in us by faith, we grow in our fullness, we grow in our knowledge, we grow in our inner strength. Indeed, as Christ lives in us by his power, and we grow in our knowledge of his love, we are filled more and more with the fullness of God. We are filled more and more like a balloon. Our capacity increases as God strength moves in us as we grow in our knowledge of Christ's love and as we and therefore come to more maturity in Him. You see, it's so un this is so unlike our natural hollowness. You see, on our on our own we're naturally empty and hollow. Just like a loop balloon. Someone once said that we're never so empty as when we're all full of ourselves. And I think that's so true. And there's there's no emptier person around than someone who is just looking out for number one, someone who is just captivated with his own concerns, someone who is told himself But you see, the non-Christian is just like this. The non-Christian has no inner strength from God's Holy Spirit, and so has no real knowledge of Christ's love, and therefore, of course, has no fullness. course he has no fullness because Christ is not in him. He does not know the fullness of God. Ultimately unbelievers are very shallow. They're very surfacey people. They're constant they're concerned only with certain with circumstances circumstances, only with what's on the surface in life. The eternal, the physical the eternal is uh of no concern to them because they're concerned primarily with external, with what's physical, with what's visible. You see. And they have no real breath in your lives. And perhaps you are in that position today. And if you are, I challenge you to ask God for the fulfillment that only He can give you in Jesus Christ. Ask Him to fill your life with purpose and meaning. Meaning and real depth and real fullness as His Spirit comes to live within you, as Christ comes into your hearts by faith. But if you've already trusted in Christ, pray for fullness, for completeness, for maturity. For other Christians and even for yourself, not just for the circumstantial. If you're in adversity of some sort now, I would ask you to pray that God would stretch you and grow you. And make you fuller in God's image in Christ so that you'd be a larger balloon than you were before. Pray that God would work in you greater fullness as you dwell in as Christ. Christ dwells in you as you continue to look to Him as the one to meet your needs. Look to Him for your fullness. And pray for other Christians as well, even our congregation as a whole. In the coming year, I think fullness or maturity in the Lord is something we're really going to need to strive for. And Alan and I have talked about this and I think we'll be sharing some when he comes back from vacation a little more about this. But especially we need to wrestle with how to Simulate new members into our congregation, as well as continue to reach out to non-Christians and those who don't know the Lord. That's going to be a challenge. It's going to be more of a challenge as we grow as a congregation. And our body here at CPC needs to mature some in this area. We need to grow in our fullness in this way, in this area. And we need a lot of creativity there, and we need a lot of prayer there. And so I would ask you to pray that God would mature us. And make us a larger balloon than we were before, so that we know would know more of his fullness as Christ dwells in us. Pray that we'd expand in our capacity to serve others. Pray that we'd expand in that fullness. that we have now would increase just like a balloon expands. So don't let your prayer life this month languish into the purely circumstantial, into the purely external. But pray with Paul for yourself and for others. God, that the Spirit of Christ would indwell yourself and others with inner strength and deeper knowledge of Christ's love and greater fullness. Let's pray together. Father, some of us know acutely our own inadequacy. without you. And other of us are not so sure that we really need you for all the details of our lives. But I pray Lord to make that evident to all of us. Help us to say that on our own we'll prove it eventually. That we really don't have the resources on our own. That we need your spirit, that we need the spirit of Christ dwelling in us. And Lord Jesus, we praise you that your spirit brings strength, that your spirit brings us into deeper knowledge of your great love for us. And that you, Lord Jesus, are the very full. We pray for those in difficult circumstances in our congregation and others under unusual pressure around the globe for the gospel's sake. Oh Father, we pray for inner power to fill other Christians. We pray that you would change them, that you would grow in them deeper knowledge of your great love for them in Christ. And ultimately bring them into maturity, into fullness, into the very fullness of the stature of Christ Himself. And we look to you and praise you for we know you can do it. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.