After three week break, now we return resume to our series on forgiveness. I myself did not anticipate how. among this series would go on. I thought that when I originally designed it that it would go to the beginning of summer. It now looks as if it will go till at least the end of summer. And just before vacation, I solicited any suggestion There's points to cover, questions raised, or things that should be addressed before we concluded the series. And I did get some response and feedback. And so this thing will go at least till September. Hopefully we can conclude it in September now. trying to cover these things that I thought were important enough to include. So that uh sometime in September I hope to begin a series on the church as the agent of the gospel. And it's a three part series that we've been going through All the way since last fall. The Lordship of Christ is the foundation of the gospel. Forgiveness and justification is the heart of the gospel. And then the Church of Christ, the agents of the Gospel. Now, today we're going to look at a case study. of forgiveness in the scriptures. We're going to look at Joseph and his brothers. We're going to do this for a couple of reasons this morning. First of all, because we see here an illustration of forgiveness in family conflict. And I know that many of you can identify with that. You see, for many Christians, forgiveness, patience, and forbearance within the family is the hardest of any of the relationships that they have to deal with. We probably pray more for Christians who are visiting parents and in-laws and what God will do in those situations than any other kind of inner relationship. And so this is a good case to look at. You think you have problems in your family? Or you uh think that you have uh conflicts that are irresolvable Do you think that there's tension in your family? Do you think that you've been wronged in your family? Well then consider Joseph And Joseph was hated so much by his brothers they threw him in a pit to die. They wanted to kill him. And then they changed their minds and they sold him as a slave into Egypt. Now how many of you have had that kind of experience in your family? I wonder if we can minimize this and romanticize this story. This is family tension and alienation at its very worst. Put yourself in the place of Joseph and consider what it would be like to have brothers like that. Now the second reason I want to consider this case study of Joseph this morning is because there are a number of insights regarding forgiveness that we can learn about Joseph's forgiveness of his brothers. I'll probably deal with five insights in all. We'll be covering three of them this morning, and probably two more next week These I call the insights of a forgiving heart, actually on your bulletin outlines, that D should be an E rather than a D, we're up to E here, and that should really be part one, insights of the Forgiving Heart, Part One. And I want to consider three of these this morning. The insights of a forgiving heart, which help us to see what forgiveness is from God's perspective. And these insights, I believe, will help us. to forgive when um things uh when we find a relationship particularly difficult And these are very helpful things and valuable things to keep in mind. Basically the three that I'm talking about this morning have been gained from the Gil Gotham's seminar material, adapted from that But I must remind you about these insights, about these matters that we're going to discuss this morning, that while they're extremely helpful and extremely valuable in themselves You must keep in mind that the basic root motivation for forgiveness is always your forgiveness and my forgiveness by and through Jesus Christ. We can never look at simply these insults, insights which deal with the effects that forgiveness produces or the anticipation of what will or will not happen If we forgive or do not forgive a person, as being the basic motivation for forgiving a person. So let's keep in mind what we've talked about before The forgiveness of others is always by the same principle and by the same means with which we were forgiven ourselves, and that is grace. Remember Ephesians chapter 4 and Colossians chapter 3 tell us that we're to forgive one another even as God, for Christ's sake, has forgiven us. That's the measure of it, and that's the reason for it. Remember that Greek word used there. The reason and the measure. And remember we looked at Matthew chapter 18 sometime in the past. Peter told us that the reason that we forgive is because the king, to whom we owe ten million dollars, has freely forgiven us, pay for the debt. And therefore as we go out against the fellows who've owed us a mere thousand dollars in comparison, we can go out and forgive because we have received grace. Now that must be kept in mind as we go through these insights, otherwise these things will be out of balance. And we'll just kind of give you a long notion about why we forgive one another. However, these insights and realizations can be very helpful. And so I want to include them in this matter of uh the nature and the insight of a forgiving heart. Surely Gorphis must have found it very hard to forgive his brothers. They grew up together, all twelve others. What a rollouting household that must have been. Twelve boys. Plus the daughters thrown in there too for good measure. And Joseph happened to be the savior. Now that might have been finally bad, but it certainly didn't endear him to his brothers. Every time they saw that beautiful tunic that his father had made for him because he was so special And they resented it. It enraged them. And they gave place to jealousy when they saw him flaunting it before them. To make matters worse, when he was seventeen years old, And uh the young one in the lot, when he was seventeen, on a particular occasion when the brothers were engaged in some evil mischief, Joseph went back and told his father about it. So you can imagine what first that also added to the relationship and so they hated him even more for that. Because they saw him as one that got them into trouble And they were further alienated. And then to top it all off, Bertha told them about two dreams that he had, which we heard read before. And dreams of their bowing down to him. And so they hated him, we read in the scriptures. They couldn't even speak a kind word to him. We talked about family faces Now there wasn't a nice thing they could say to the chief. They gave them a rough time on every occasion if they had an opportunity. And then one day while they're out in the fields, they see Joseph coming at a distance. And the three tributes produced himself in the world. And if you know they get together and they probably talk about it and feed themselves on it and then talk about what a rotten kid he really is. And it gets worse and worse and worse as they talk about him and they finally decide that this kid doesn't even deserve to live And asked this plot to kill their own brothers. They decided then to thaw them into a pit. And Judah says that uh rather than do that, why not sell him as a slave? And let him be taken to Egypt and we'll get a little cash on the fly. They fell for their own letter. They sell him as a slave and Joseph is taken away. Taken from that field to go down to Egypt, he had a pass close by to his home. And if Joseph going down there, and no doubt he must have prayed. But God provide somebody to see me. If only somebody who knows my father can see me, I can yell. him and they'll come and they'll rescue. Our father will come and take care. And so having had his brothers abandoned, he turns to God. And then nobody sees him. He goes right past his home on down to Egypt, and nobody even notices. But surely Joseph must have been tempted to think not only of my brother's abandonment, but God himself has abandoned me. He doesn't hear me, so I am taken away from my home and I haven't done anything wrong. And one of my look at this situation when I'm in, why am I in this trouble? Why would I get stuck with this family? So Joseph taken down into Egypt. And in Egypt, Joseph is the literature The Egyptians received the spies to Hebrews, and there was an intense racism. Before Joseph has taken there and his soul is a slaves and the spy Hebrew slaves And but God honors him with kind things. And in a matter of a brief time, Joseph rises to prominence in Patipher's house and is made the manager of all that he has, an honored position. But when you remember the stories, a part of his wife wondered what it would be like to make love to one of these Jews. He tries to seduce them, tries to wear him down day after day. The first of things in integrity, refuse to fell officials, refuse to fill against God by joining us. And what did he get for it? She deceived him. She betrays him. She says that he tried to rape her. And so her husband believes her and Jesus is thrown into prison. And there he begins to rot away in prison. And Joseph must wonder again, why this to me? Why that I deserve to be in this situation? For following God, for honoring him, for seeking to obey him. Then you remember the incident where one day the butler and the baby came and they were very troubled because they had dreams that they didn't understand. And Joseph comes to him in kindness and he interprets their leads. He says that the butler will be restored to his former position in three days and the paper will be high. And it comes to pass exactly as he says. But Joseph says to the butler, when you restore Please remember me, prefereo, so that I can give some justice. And the butler and so many others, once he gets back in the position, it was all about his son to remember Joseph Until two years later, Sarah's had a dream. And Sarah says, I have a dream and I can't understand it. And all of a sudden the button ranges, oh, stop. Joseph. Oh I know somebody that can interpret dreams and this guy's really good at it. And so after all the wise men of Egypt try and they fail, the butler goes and they have Joseph brought up and they have to shave him to clean him up a little bit. They present him to Pharaoh. And Joseph says, I can have told you so there's a God who can. And Joseph then interpreted the Jews, telling them about seven years of splenty to be followed by seven years of silence. Because this is God's warning to you. Store up all you can during the seven years of plenty, and then you'll have enough for the seven years of time. And it rings true in Pharaoh's heart, and Pharaoh right on the spot decides to make Joseph the viceroy of Egypt in charge of all his ships. The Secretary of the Interior, Viceroy Underthara of all his possessions. And in one day, Justice moves from being in prison to being the viceroy of Egypt. Now that's that's great. That's a switch in your position. Make your head stick. And Joseph now, the viceroy of Egypt, begins to put away all that he can during his seven years of splendid. In fact, the Bible tells us that he put so much away, he even lost town himself is how much he stored. His books just ran out and he couldn't even keep track. of how much was being stored away. And then the years of famine begin to come. And Joseph was now about 38 years old in the second year of famine. And one day there appears before him ten hungry Hebrews, sent down by their father because they heard that there's grain in Egypt, and they're all out of their provisions at home for the famine containers as well as in Egypt. And these ten men appear before this magnificent, robed Egyptian there sitting on the throne, Joseph, and he sees him and immediately recognizes him. After about twenty years since that incident in the field, these are my brothers. Joseph speaks so into them. He pretends that he doesn't recognize They of course do not recognize him, a man twenty years older, a smooth chosen Egyptian with all the array that was so distinctive to the Egyptian culture. And Joseph speaks harshly to them. You remember the story, how he accused them of being spies. And he said, the only way that you can prove that you're not spies is if you leave one of your brothers here and go back and get your youngest brother whom you've left at home. That one of course is Benjamin. Benjamin was Joseph's only full brother. Benjamin alone shared Rachel with Joseph as their common mother. And so Joseph has a particular heart for Benjamin, his brother, his four brother, and he says, You must bring this younger brother back and bring him to. And they'll have him first. And so they leave Simeon bound in imprisoned in Egypt and they have to go back with their provisions and they return finally the densium. And then remember the story how Joseph revealed himself to them Told them who he was, and there was a great family reunion, gave them all the food that they needed, and sent to his father, and said, Bring all your families down here because there's going to be five more years of this family And he gives them the very best land of Egypt. And they come down there to live for the rest of the family. Then 17 years later, Jacob dies. Take the 17 years in that land, and then the real test comes. And then the brothers say, well, you know, Maybe if he was kind to his while dad was alive or his sister, and now the old man's gone. And now, for thirty-seven years, this kid's had an in point. Now we're going to get it. So we read in Genesis chapter 50 that in their fear, Genesis 50, verse 15, when Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, What if Joseph holds a grudge against And so they sent line to Joseph saying, and they make this up, you see, there's no indication Joseph has a said this But they send this note uh trying to add a little weight to it by saying, uh, here's a note from your father, one of his dying words to it, because now surely you can't ignore the dying words of your dear father, because and Dad said before he passed away, uh he left these instructions. This is what you would say to Joseph. I ask you to forgive your brothers, the sins and the wrongs that they committed in treating you so badly. God, please forgive the sins of the servants of the God of your father. You know say, really, lay it on sick. This is bad God. You know, and you wouldn't want to do anything against dad in the old-time religion. And Dad said this before he died, please forgive those dear brothers of your so you really didn't mean it and please restore the family together once again. Don't let there be any more quarrel on it. And what's Joseph's response? When the message comes to him, Joseph swept. And Joseph, his brothers came in and threw themselves down before them, and they said, We were slaves. But just in case the rescue didn't work out, they prostrate themselves before you say, Joseph, if you really hit a guy when he's laying on his face, we'd be so that we were slaves. We really are sorry about that. We can't tell you how sorry we are about that. And Joseph then says, Don't be afraid. Am I in the place of God? You intended to harm me, but God intended it for good, to accomplish what is now being done, the saving of many lives. So then don't be afraid. I will provide for you and your children. And Joseph reassured them. And he spoke kindly to them. Now that's true forgiveness. It's clear from the scripture account here that Joseph had truly, from his very heart, forgiven his brother. But there's a lot that we can learn about this forgiveness and how he forgives us. And I want to notice at least three things today, and then a couple things next week Three things about forgiveness that will help you to forgive those who have wronged you. The three things that I believe will help you to forgive in God's way. First of all, notice that a forgiving heart realizes that the person has already begun receiving the consequences of their offense. Let me read something from Gil Gotham writes to this point. Because a person's happiness is dependent upon his harmony with the basic principles of life, God's principles. An offense toward us is simply indicates that he's violating one or more of these principles, and these violations will have a deep effect upon his own happiness and success, completely apart from any additional punishment that we may give him. The reproofs of conscience, friends, circumstances, etc. , are sufficient rules of God to emphasize the human offenses. When he recognizes the seriousness of his offense, then he will not give us the privilege of helping him if through our attitudes we have constructed additional barriers around him. In other words, if we've alienated ourselves from him and not really forgiven him, and then when he sees the wrong of his ways to produce the sin against us in the first place, we're not going to have the opportunity To minister to him, to help him in living according to God's principles. But the first thing that we must realize, you see, is that when somebody has truly wronged you or me, Then we do not think that they have gone stop free, it doesn't bother them at all. Rather rather we realize that they're suffering the consequences of their disobedience right now. You see haven't these two imperfect brothers? Those words That I just read, 15 to 18, show that even after all these years, after 37 years since I lay in the field These guys are still plagued by the guilt of what they've done. 37 years later they say, uh oh, maybe it's coming on. The blow hasn't ascended yet, but we've been waiting thirty-seven years to get it. And now maybe is our time. And so they're living under this guilt and under this anticipation, the anxiety of being punished for what they've done. And the guild is rolled up, and it's an unlivable kind of circumstance. Notice how Joseph himself, in realizing this, brought it out. When he's first encounter with him, back in chapter 42. In chapter 42, when Joseph had told them that you must leave one of your brothers here and took sinners. And uh We must leave him here. What was their first response to that command? We read in chapter forty two, verse twenty one. They said to one another, Surely we're being punished because of our brother. Oh how distressed he was when he pleaded with us for his life. But we wouldn't listen. That's why this distress has come upon us. And then He didn't respond in a very typical way that He would say, Ah, see, I told you so. Didn't I tell you that there wasn't sin against the boy? But he wouldn't listen. Of course he didn't read that he told him not to sin. All he did was he tried to construct his own way. But now after all these years he's gotten self-convinced that he really tried to convince his brothers not to do this because his guilt can blame on him too And he says, didn't I tell you not to send your boy? You wouldn't listen to me. Now we're going to be going to account for his position among themselves. Cause it is guilt because one sin has produced a whole destruction of the family Sabbath. And you see this every time a person sins against you or me, that sin works its own way in their life to break down their relationship. With God and other people. So many times I find that people find it hard to forgive because they think that the other person is really not paying for it. They have this attitude that, well, this person has They hurt me, they wronged me. But they're happy with a lot. They're totally insensible to it. And we must remember that that can't be true. God Himself has said that we can't treat people wrongly. We can't use people. We can't be sensitive to them. and really be happy. God's own honor is at stake because he has said that true happiness and joy come in following his way. And if we violate them we'll suffer for them. And when a person violates those ways against human needs, that person is suffering for it. Now very often I think the problem is we're not really sure they have violated it, and so maybe the problem why I've got to uh of punish them is because maybe they're not gonna really be suffering for any wrong. I'm not really sure that they have wrong, that they've sinned in what they've done against me. Well maybe it's just sort of something that hurt me, but it wasn't really a sin. But you see if we believe they war of it, then we also must believe that there is something for it too. I remember a woman who for many years was bitter against her sister. A sister who, like Joseph, was the favorite in the family. And could always get away with things that she could never get away with. And this person used her mother, she used the family. And this woman spent many years being bitter against her. sisters for this could never get along with her and stew over that situation. And I remember watching and knowing that that woman's time was coming, and she was not in this happy, carefree state that this woman always I thought that she was in. And I watched her over the years and I watched her husband leaving. I watched her family leaving. I watched her become a woman abandoned by all her friends and left alone. I watched her life crumble. And as I saw that, I realized that God's word is so true that God's not deceived, He's not mocked. For whatsoever you sow, you shall reap. And if a person has wrongly consumed, they may have already begun to receive the consequences from that, regardless of what you or I do. And if we alienate ourselves from that person, we simply put ourselves in a position of not being able to minister to them when they're ready to realize the wrong that they've done. Forgiveness opens the door to that ministry. Notice the second thing here that we see. And that is number two on the bulletin, that a forgiving heart realizes that bitterness is assuming a right that we do not have. You see that in verse 19 of chapter 15. Joseph's immediate response when they tremble before him for forgiveness is, Don't be afraid. Am I in the place of God? Well what does he mean by that? But of course it's clear what Joseph is saying here is don't be afraid of my country It is not for me to take vengeance on you. But God has said, vengeance is mine, I will repent. And so we read in Romans chapter twelve, for the instruction concerning this, uh building on that passage in Deuteronomy, Romans chapter twelve, verse seventeen. Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everybody. If it is possible as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone. Do not take revenge, my friends But we will for God's wrath, for it is written, it is mine to avenge, I to impend, says the Lord. On the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. If he's thirsty, give him something to drink. In doing this, you'll beat burning coals on his head. Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil by good. You see bitterness and revenge our instinctive response to being hurt. We want to punish the person who's hurt us. We want to take our own revenge. And we may even persuade ourselves as Christians that that's not true. And yet in how many subtle ways do we punish one another? We withdraw and we say, Well, uh I um I just don't have any choice but to withdraw from that person. But we're using our withdrawal from them to punish them, particularly if it's in a husband or wife situation. We withdraw our affection, we withdraw by the tone of our voice, we withdraw by being more critical of this, and we use this to punish the person, even after we've said to them that we forgive them. Joseph said, Am I in the place of God? It's not for me to punish you. That's not my right. A God you see alone has the right to punish and He has delegated that right to parents and to the state. He has never given that right under personal offenses. You and I have no right to punish a person who's wrong. Rebuke is one thing, and as we've seen in past weeks, rebuke is absolutely necessary. But rebuke desires a positive, constructive result. And it's required of it. Punishment is something altogether different. For in punishment, I seek to make the person simply feel bad. I seek to make the person hurt themselves the way they've hurt me. And punishment is forbidden. It's sin. And if you find that you're seeking in your relationship to punish someone, In however subtle ways, by whatever means, confess that before God and ask Him to change your heart in that Thirdly, we see here that a forgiving heart realizes that the offense reveals the need. That you can cooperate with God to heal. The forgiving heart realizes that the offense against you reveals a need in that person who's offended you. And means that you are in a position to cooperate with God to heal. You see, whenever anyone wrongs you and sins against you, that reveals a need in their life. And that need is an opportunity for you to minister, to see that need heal. If you're willing to focus on the need, Rather than the offense for your hurt. So often, what do you and I do? We focus on the offense. We focus on the hurt that came as a result of the need. And so we totally missed the need that's being revealed by that. And in missing that, you miss a precious opportunity to minister to that person, to produce more Christ-likeness in that person Because we haven't really forgiven them. Now what are the needs in the cases of Jesus' brother? There are at least three that I found as I looked through these chapters. Three needs, and you see in each case how Joseph ministered to those needs to produce godly character in his brothers. You see how each need is revealed, and in each case, Joseph ministers to that need, to heal it and to reveal the healing that's taking place. The first need of his brothers you see was that they were merciless They were merciless. Uh this isn't uh my judgment of them, it's the judgment they gave of themselves. Remember in chapter forty two, the verse twenty one and twenty two, they themselves said, Surely we're being punished because of our brother. We saw how distressed he was You see, uh, in chapter 37 that was read, we don't read anything about Joseph's pleading. He's just silent. But this tells us that he wasn't silent. Joseph fled for his life, but they wouldn't listen. There was no mercy. They simply threw him in the pit and then sold him to the Midianites. And they say, we didn't have mercy. That's why this distress is upon us. And this is why his blood is upon us now. Why were they um why were they giving that conclusion? Well it's because you read in verse twenty four that Joseph had taken sinning from them and had bound them before their eyes. He's taken Simeon and he says, uh, I'm going to take one of your brothers. And I'm going to bind him up here now. I'm going to throw him in prison. Because Joseph wants to see, is there any mercy in this crew yet? And he sees because he understands the Hebrew language, of course they don't think he understands what they're saying. And so they start talking to themselves and they're talking about, boy, this is why this is going on and see how awful this is. Joseph's listening to the whole thing. read in verse the beginning of verse twenty four that Joseph turned away from them and began to weep. He understood if we read in verse twenty three what they were saying. But then he turned back to them and spoke again. Joseph wasn't doing this to give back at them. It hurt Joseph to do this. But Joseph wanted to either see or produce in them mercy. Because he knew that that was the root of their offense. They didn't have any mercy. And Joseph's saying, I want to see if God can produce mercy in you by seeing before your own eyes what you've done, what you did to me 20 years ago And so he takes to me. And God has his way. And mercy is produced. There's a real sorrow here that we see develops into mercy. Notice how it develops. The second thing you see, pressing even further to the heart of it. The second need revealed by the sin of his brothers was that they were envious. Again, this is not my judgment. The scripture tells us in chapter 37. We read in verse 4 concerning when Joseph had made them disrupt. richly or when Jacob made him the richly ornamented uh robe and the brothers saw their father loved him more than them, they hated him. They couldn't speak a kind word to him. The verse five, when he uh told the dream to his brothers, they hated him all In verse 11 we read that his brothers were jealous of him, but his father kept these dreams in mind. And so jealousy was wrong. This was a sin that produced the offense against Joseph. It was really a problem, you see, of envy and jealousy against Joseph. And Joseph wants to see that God has been dealing with him. Joseph wants to get to that problem in their lives. And so what does he do? Take a look at chapter 43. When Joseph had them go home and they come back with Benjamin to come back and get more food, what does Joseph do? He's full of surprises because the first time they come they expect to get a cordial greeting because they got two children, they want to buy some wheat. And he speaks sternly to them, he says they're spies and he throws them out. Next time they come back, they've had the silver in their sacks, so they think, probably this guy's gonna think we've tried to rip him off and take their wheat, we keep our silver too, and here we are coming back for some more. So they really come trembling now. I mean they come crawling up to his to his uh chair there. And what do they get? A cordial greeting. Come on, dine with me in my home. Probably gonna take us and put us into prison as soon as he gets us there. That's what he tells them. But the guard has to assure them No, no, no, I guess they go to prison. No, Jill, you're coming to the meal now. Well, the mid meal was the big meal that day, so they're coming to a benchmark. They come to the feast, and what happened? Joseph gives them all a lavish portion. But we read in chapter 43, verse 34, when the portions were serving, notice this chapter 33, a little bit of humor there. When they had been seated before him in the order of their ages, from the firstborn to the oldest. They look at each other and say, hey, boy, this guy's really shrewd. I already know why he's the ruler here. He may have even seen it before. He already knows he's the oldest and who's the youngest. Well down through the ten of us, through the eleven of us here. And they they must look at each other and think, oh, wait, what are they not trying to I don't know how he knows it, but he even knows our agents. And there they all are, right in the lineup as they should be according to Hebrew custom. And then when he gives out the portions, where they all are, the firstborn gets the same portion as everybody else, with one exception. When he comes to Benjamin's portion, he gives them five times as much as everybody else. See a big pile here, big pile. Comes to Benjamin River. A big huge pile of who laying there and everything else is spread out. Now what's Joseph doing? You see part of it is that Benjamin is his only real whole brother. That's involved. But I think there's something else involved here too What Joseph is doing is he wants to see, he wants to see if these guys still have a problem of jealousy in the family. He wants to see how they're going to react to Benjamin being the savor He wants to see, are things still the same as they were twenty years ago in this household? So it just bends you in a big, big portion, and then he watches their attitude. But what do we read? So they feasted and they drank freely with him. The hymn does not refer to Joseph. He's sitting alone. They feasted and drank freely with Benjamin. Joseph says, Praise God. God's going to work in his creature. He's a guy now can receive five praises just means that I say, Oh, praising or adventuring or glory to God. And I don't know why, but let's just keep eating and be thankful for what we have. been at work and Joseph wants to bring that out and so he ministers to them in enabling them to see the jealousy is being conquered. And then we come finally to the heart issues. The one beyond all. And that was the problem of selfishness and pride. But that was here, you see, the rude issue. These guys were proud and they were selfish. That's why they resented Joseph having the dreams, Joseph having the cope. And that's why they resented when Joseph, because of the honor of God being compromised in the land of Canaan, why Joseph went back and said said what they'd been doing wrong, not just a cattle tail. Joseph was concerned because God's army was being compromised among the Canaanites They couldn't stand up. They didn't have any concerns in it. They were a proud and selfish group of God. Joseph says, I see that is the heart of the offense against me. I have forgiven it. I want to minister to it. So what'd you do? Joseph is very creative. Takes a lot of trouble with him. I don't know how long it took him to think this through. But he sure came up with some pretty good schemes. Notice what he did. When he sends them away To go back home. This next time this is okay now, you can all go. He takes and as far as they know, it's to the last time they're going to see him, we still don't know who he is. In reading chapter 44, Joseph gave instructions, verse 1, to fill the men's sack with as much food as they can carry, put each man's silver in the mouth of the sack, and then put my cup, the silver one. Yeah, the one is my favorite. Put that one. in the mouth of the youngest one, Benjamin's sack, along with the silver for his grain. But what's more? Well you see, because then they take off. They're on their way home, thanking the Lord for all this grain that they have. And off in the distance here comes this steward. And he comes and says, You scoundrels, you inmates, my master gave you this wheat and he gave you all these things. What do you do? You go and steal his best silver cup. You meet? Nobody gave all. Oh you take a look at our sacks, you know, nothing to hide here. And so they all open their sacks. You notice it begins with the old no more drama. Oh cutting this out, not getting this all the way down and Benjamin they're just ready to take off and say, ah see we told you so and they look in Benjamin's back and go right in the And everybody's heart just dropped. How'd that get there? And you had babies around our fellows, you know. You know, I know it's going to be hard for you to believe this, but I really didn't take that now. Now what's going to be their attitude? What are they going to do with Benjamin? They don't know anything but his words. And so they bring them back. He says, okay, everybody back to Joseph's palace. And they take them all back. And Joseph says, the one who stole that cup is going to be my slave. Well what's he doing that for? He wants to free. Are you guys still as independent and proud and selfish as you were before? He wants to see whatever's possible. Oh yeah, well you took that guy. I'm glad that's always asking for. Take Benjamin, watch the rest of us or go. We say dark skins See, that's what they would have done 20 years ago. They would have said, go ahead and take this kid. That's what he gets for stealing that cup. Hope you're right here in Egypt. But what do they do? You read there, you see, chapter 44, verse 18. Judah goes up to him and Judah says, please, my lord, can I have a word with you? Let your servants speak a word to my lord. Now don't be angry with your servant. So you're equal to Pharaoh himself. Now Jesus means laying it on a little bit, you know. And he says, I just want to tell you something. I want to give you a little background here Sir Viceroy of Egypt. And so he begins to tell us how much Benjamin means to his father That's he tells them this for a number of paragraphs. This thing goes on all the way to the end of the chapter. But after he's described to us how very precious Benjamin is, what he would do to his poor old father if Benjamin were to not come back, notice what Judas says in chapter forty-four, verse thirty-three. The result of all this, he says, now then please. Let your servant, me, remain here as my Lord's slave in place of the boy And let the boy return with his brothers. How can I go back to my dad if that boy is not with me? No. Never. Don't let me see the misery that would come upon my father. For twenty years ago he could care less about the misery that would come on his father through Joseph. And twenty years ago, all they were interested in was themselves. But what's he saying now? Judah says, making this lane Now why is there a point about the fact that Judah said that? Because if you read back in chapter 37, it was Judah who said, let's sell Joseph as a slave. And twenty years later, it's Judah who now says, Sell me as a slave in place of my brother. God's been at work in their lives. God's been at work in healing that offense. And Joseph, because of his care and ministering to them, brought that out and could see it. But there's a picture here that's even far more profound. For Judah here in this transformed character, Judah this scoundrel A Judah the one who had wronged his daughter-in-law, a Jew to the one who went with a prostitute, a Judah the one who is horrible to portray in gross character. A Judah here becomes a picture of the Lord. The Judah becomes a picture of that one, the greatest son of Judah, who would one day come and would say, Make me a slave to Egypt. The Egypt in the scripture is a picture of the war in the kingdom of Satan. Make me a slave, so that my people can go free. Jesus stood and said as Judah did, let me be the slave. so that you and you and you can go free. Jesus was not only made the slave, but Jesus was punished. was put to death and bore the curse of the sin that was due to you and to me because you took our things And that's the picture that we have presented. This is the picture of the Lord Jesus. And I remind you again, this is the ultimate reason. why you and I forgive. It's because Jesus has forgiven us. Because God for Christ's sake has forgiven you and for me our lifelong offensive. against sin. Notice following this, the creative thought which Joseph Took when carrying out this ministry. And picture the situation again. These brothers come to him after twenty long years, and there they are, the ten of them standing, Joseph certainly must have realized this is the fulfillment of that dream for twenty years. I've been wondering how God would do that. And Joseph said, we could have said another thing. Well certainly he could have said when these ten fellows were standing before him, you guys hang your hand. I'm joking. Boy, just to see the look on their face, wouldn't that have been conscious? Boy, you just watch them stand there and just watch the blood drain from their heads to their toes. Boy, that believes. It was 20 years to wait to see you guys and watch it tremble like leaves before me. Now it's my turn, fellas Don't tell me that that would have been a temptation. I know if I had been standing there, that would have been a temptation. But that was just the truth. Not only does he do that, even though he could have said, even if he hadn't taken his own jokes, he could have said if the ten of them came and they stood before him, Joseph could have stood there and could have said I'm guilty, you brother. And I I say fellas, don't don't panic. I forgive you. Now here's the food. Take all the food that you need and go back and give readings to my dad And um, you know, we you really should get together sometimes. But saying to himself and to his friends, Well, you know, that's the way it is with our family. We really don't have anything in common anymore. We just heard us born our separate ways, I mean here I am now, Viceroy of Egypt and these guys, you know, they really We never were much of brothers anyway. But I forgive them, I really don't hold it against them, but we just don't have anything in common. How many families do you know like that? Is that the way it is with your family? Excusing bitterness and lack of forgiveness by simply saying, oh, you know, we just don't have anything in common as a family. That's not what Joseph did. Saw those men standing there And he was determined to have a reconciliation. But you notice he could have even done it a further way that he didn't do it. He could have said to these ten men standing before him, well, brothers, I really forgive you. I want you to know that I sinned for my heart has forgiven you and I have erased the weapon. That's the forgiveness is remember. I destroyed the weapon. I remember your sins no more against you. It is clear, and we are all reconciled. Now I'm going to forget the past and we're going to ignore it. We're going to start off and scratch right here. And that would have been forgiven. But you see, Jesus was the final step of forgiveness. Now He not only forgives us, but he ministers to them. Joseph wasn't only determined to there be a reconciliation, but Joseph says, I know what a sense is involved in your doing this. If I want God to use you, I want to cooperate with God to minister to you by healing that effect. That's forgiveness. And that's the opportunity that's open to you and to me, with everyone who's wrong, if we're willing to forgive them But if they're willing to see that offense as an opportunity to minister to their needs, I leave it to you to fill out the application on the other side. For those of you who know Jesus Christ, and if you don't know Jesus Christ, if you've never received that forgiveness, that Jesus did uh that Jesus provided you taking your place as Judas, saying that he will take the punishment and be the slave so that you could go free. And then that's the first thing you must do. You must offer yourself to Jesus Christ. Turn into your sin and casting yourself upon him to accept the forgiveness that he offered. But if you've done that And it's disgusted times. But ask yourself these questions. One, is there someone from whom you withhold kindness as a punishment? A husband? A wife? Because you say, I can't not withhold myself from them. And what you really mean is I won't. I re