I'm gonna invite the uh twins to the stage and introduce our guest speaker today. Yeah, I told the first service that actually when Demp you know, I told him that we actually if he preaches he has to wear sweater vests. So um He got the memo, although he's wearing a tie, so I I missed out on that. But um as if you were here in the middle hour, you heard a little bit about Bent's ministry. on staff with campus outreach ministry which has sixteen regions stateside and four international. Actually they're bringing a new region to our area in DC uh this upcoming year, I believe, to partner with Mark Bevers Church in DC. So it's really exciting. Uh campus outreach has had a huge impact in Dean and I's life. We both came to know Christ through Campus Outreach. And actually Christy Dency, Dents' wife, uh discipled Dina in college. So uh not only are we excited to have them here, we're excited to see them again, but the impact they've had in our lives has been pretty tremendous And we're excited about the future partnership that CPC particularly could have with the Brazil and the Brazil Ministry of Campus Outreach. We are sending a team this summer uh to Brazil of merge, uh some of our merge people. So we have anywhere from twelve to fifteen of our folks going down there to labor alongside Bimps and Christie. So with that I bring my twin Bimps. All right. We're thankful to be here with you guys this morning. Let me set up shop here. And you know, it's a great privilege for us to be here. We've known Robbie and Dina. since nineteen ninety-three when we were on staff at West Georgia and they were students there and so we've got some great stories we can share about them if you want to hear uh later Um, be glad to share those with you. You know, I think, you know, I shared some in the middle hour about the vision of our ministry and it really is labors for the harvest. And so it's a great example, you know, for us to be able to be here with you guys and to see l you know, the laborers that left West Georgia College. you know, here in your midst, uh, in Robbie and Dina and how God is using them and um man, that's so exciting. And and how you guys are ministering to them as well. And that's that's just a great privilege for us. And And you know it really is a privilege um for us to be here during this month of emphasis with you guys and uh just encourage you in that. Um so we're so appreciative as missionaries to see a church that is so committed to to thinking about missions and talking about it and just, you know, was looking through all the different stuff. that you had here and you know, it's just hate that you know, we're gonna miss the the especially the international dinner next week and everybody showing up in their international outfit and You know, in Brazil their favorite outfit is their baiting suit and so there's speedoes and so I just sorry that I'm not gonna be able to be here in my Speedo next week and um I'm sure you guys are glad that that's not gonna happen. But um but w you know, it's great for us to be here, will you? We really appreciate it and and at the sake of repeating some things that I you know shared in the middle hour for those maybe who might weren't here in the middle hour just really briefly we live in Belo Rizanche, Brazil. It's the third largest city. in Brazil that no one's heard of. Um after Rio and São Paulo, everybody's heard of Rio and São Paulo, but nobody's heard of Belarusanche. Uh the name means beautiful horizon. We've been there for eleven years. We have three kids. They keep us jumping. Meg is eleven, uh Duncan is nine, and Kate is six. I wear basically two hats. I'm a I'm the director of the campus ministry. uh campus outreach billers unch there, but also I'm an elder in in our church plant and um Horizon Community Church Um Kumanidaj orizanch is the way we would pronounce it. And so I do a lot of teaching there and um help lead the worship and so we uh kind of wear two hats as a campus minister and a church planner. Um we're becoming our ministry is becoming increasingly more Brazilian. That's exciting to us. We that's what we want. We want to see it be a Brazilian ministry. um them kick us out of there and let them take it. But um yeah, we're we're thankful to be with you this morning and I want to share a little bit this morning just about the investment of our lives and what you know what is it that we're giving our lives to? We've talked a lot about investments. uh over the last couple of years especially, you know, it's like everybody's watching their four oh one K, everybody's, you know, watching their stocks go down. Um lamenting that on a daily basis almost. And um so, you know, investments have been at the forefront of our minds a lot. Um but Jesus talked a lot about our investments as well and so wanna just think about that a little bit this morning and you ever you ever ask the question, you ever think do you ever just stop and think, Am I invest what you know, what am I giving my life to? You know, where where is this going? Is this does this matter? You know, a lot of us I think um there are no perfect jobs and almost in every job, you know, there are those days when we go My does my job really matter? Does you know um and I think and I believe uh that the Reformation taught us that all jobs have value and um you know that um that God wants to use everything for his glory and that there is no the you know, I think um the reform the Reformation taught us not to separate the sacred and the secular, you know, that God is God is in it all and he wants to glorify himself regardless of the job. But I think there are those moments where we go, you know, does my am I investing in eternity? And I think that it's worth it for us to examine that and think about that for a little bit. And so I want to take some moments this morning for us to do that together. Let me pray for us, and then we'll read our passage and go forward. Father, we are reminded this morning that we need you. We need your grace more than we need anything else. And so we pray just that you would um by the grace that of your word that you would speak to us. We're reminded that and Remind ourselves that your word is living and active, that it separates soul and spirit, joints and marrow. Judging the thoughts and attitudes of our heart. And so we ask, would you shine by your word into our hearts today? To speak to us, to change us. Praise this in Jesus' name. Amen. So Jesus addressed this issue of investments In many places, but specifically the text we want to take a look at this morning and kind of use as our um As our primary text this morning is in Matthew chapter six, verses nineteen through twenty-one. This is the uh part of the Sermon on the Mount, probably considered one of the greatest discourses ever, if not the greatest discourse. ever given, um just the wisdom um in in the Sermon on the Mount. Um beyond what we can even i in understand. Um but in verses nineteen through twenty one of of chapter six, Jesus says, Do not store up for yourselves treasure on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in. And steal, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where moth and rust do not destroy, and where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is. There your heart will be also. We're going to focus in on that in a minute, that where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. So just quickly I want to or want to walk through four brief principles, investment principles from this text. Uh the first three are pretty straightforward and then I want to dig in a little bit on the last one. But the first one there, there are two kinds of treasure. Really clear from the text that Jesus is saying you have earthly treasure and you have heavenly treasure, or what I would call kingdom treasure. And that's that's it. There are no other options. You know, he doesn't you know, he doesn't leave us that um he he d doesn't leave us that option. He says, This is it. It's this one, you know, or this one. And you're either investing in in this, you know, this earthly treasure or you're investing in the kingdom treasure. That's that's it. So that's that's really simple. The second one, earthly treasure is perishable. It's not safe or lasting. And this is what this is what James was referring to in in chapter four of Of James in verses 13 and 14, he says, he says, my life, your life is what? It's a mist. It's a vapor. It's a fog. He says, now listen, you who say today or tomorrow you'll go into this, you will go to this or that city, spend a year there, carry on business and make money. Why you do not even know what will happen tomorrow. What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little while and then vanishes. You know, it's interesting we had a um per uh a personal opportunity to understand this passage and to experience this passage in maybe a new way. We had planned to go back to Brazil, our tickets were scheduled, you know, we're you know, we were saying, We're gonna go to this city, you know, and we're gonna spend the number of years there. And we know, here we are. And um on December the twenty-seventh We planned to go back our our tickets were actually for January the 27th to go back to Brazil. On December the 27th, we'd gone with our f with my our family up to Nashville. We had uh there was a campus outreach conference up there for students right after Christmas, started on the 27th, and we were going to be up there a few days doing some recruiting uh for for missionaries for our team from among some of the students and and then just kind of ministering to some of the college students up there sharing about our work with them and um and so we'd gone up on Sunday the twenty seventh there I finished Clemson University um and so the um am a slave to the, you know, to the curse of following Clemson athletics, uh, always being disappointed. Some of you may um ha may share in that suffering with me. Um but you know it's my blood runeth runneth orange, so they say. And um So Clemson actually was in a bowl game on that on the night of the 27th up there, and so we had planned to go with my I was going with my parents and taking our son to the bowl game. So we got up there that afternoon and for a few days before that I had kind of been experiencing some uh indigestion. You know, it would kind of come and go and So we walked to the game and really it was really hurting on the way of the game and then and then on the way um on the way back from the game, really felt fine during the game. Um no problems, but on the way back from the game started hurting again. And so I got back to the hotel room and it just would not let up. And I thought, man, what in the world is going on? And so about midnight, I guess, um, you know, woke my wife up and I said, I don't know what's happening, but we gotta go to the hospital. And so we went downstairs, got in the car, punched in hospital on the GPS. Never thought I would have to use that button. Um But glad it was there. And so we drove a mile and a half to the hospital, went in, they ran some tests, and sure enough they said you're having a heart attack. Um shocker. And all of a sudden this verse was a reality. You know. You know, oh you said you're going here, there, you're gonna do this You know, let me let me remind you of who's in control here. And you know, just I mean it was one of those things I told people it's so random, it just couldn't be random. God had to be had to be in it. I mean my dad um, who is twenty five years my senior, he got we have the same name, he got get well cards. Um Because people just, you know, they thought it was him. And uh so I told him that I would have traded the get well cards with him if he would have had the heart attack. Um But anyhow, I'm fine now. Seem to be feeling much better, but our plans have been altered as a result of that and we're now not going back to Brazil for another few months but um but definitely going back and committed to it and but but just the reality of that verse right there. You know, what is your life? Don't say you're gonna go do this or that. You know, because your life It's just a vapor. And as as I looked at this verse, interestingly enough the word there that James uses for vapor or mist or it appears in different ways, different um in different um translations, but it actually could literally be translated aerosol. You know, your life is an aerosol. And so I brought a little visual aid with me this morning. I'm going to show you what my life and your life biblically is, as James describes it. You ready? You ready to see your life? All right, okay. This is your life. That's it. You know, we kinda have to laugh, you know I'll give you another co there you go. I'll give you a I'll give you about three or four lives there. But it's you know, it's it's amazing when we look at that. We laugh, but it's I mean it's just it's it's here and then it's gone. I mean before you know, you you know, you want to grab it, but it's just gone. And that's what the that's what James says. He says your life, it's an aerosol, it's a vapor. We have to we have to live in light of that and understand that. You know, you when you're a kid, you think your life's gonna last forever, you hear Your parents talking about, you know, you're just gonna blink and it's gonna be gone, and you're thinking, hey, I just want to get my driver's license. Um but but it really is true. This is all we get. Just about four of these. You know? And then it's gone. Um So I think every day we can see the examples of that. January 12th, 4 53 P. M. Haiti understood this because it all of a sudden life was altered. And thousands were gone. Every day, you pick up the paper, every day we see the examples of this. Um loved ones are taken away from us. Our bodies are sickly and declining. I know this for a fact. Hair falls out, and other hair begins to appear in other places. You know? But that we're reminded that this this world, this life, is wasting away Moment by moment. And there's nothing we can do about it. Um have a great example of this. Our daughter when she was born somebody Christy I think made her a blanket and you know and she's six now and that blanket is wasting away. It's it it's not fit for public I would say consumption but nobody's consuming it, but something's consuming it. I mean she drags it everywhere with her. She's still, you know, she's like still wants her blanket, but it's like, you know, I mean it started out like this and two sided and now it's, you know, it's like this and I mean it's you know but all of our it's that's what happens to our stuff. You know, that favorite pair of jeans you got? Wear as long as you can because it's not going to last forever. Um this and this this is what Paul said. He said in 2 Corinthians 4, he says, Therefore we do not lose heart. Though outwardly we're wasting away, inwardly we're being renewed day by day. For our light and momentary troubles are achieving for us an eternal glory that far outweighs them all. So we fix our eyes not on what is seen, but on what is unseen. For what is seen is temporary, but what is unseen is eternal. So what we want to invest in is not this seen world, but it's the it's the unseen kingdom of God. And so that's our challenge. So principle three Heavenly treasure is imperishable. It's safe. It's eternal. So Jesus says, where this kind of treasure is perishable, it's passing away, my kingdom You know, the kingdom treasure is eternal. It's not going to pass away. Jesus reminds us of this in Matthew 7, 24 uh one chapter over. Um he tells the parable about two men, the one who built his ha house on the sand, the one who built his house on the rock, and he said he didn't say, you know, if the floods come, you know, maybe they'll show up. He said, No, they're coming. And that's what this life teaches us. That's what I was you know, I didn't plan to have a heart attack. Nobody plans to have a heart attack, I hope. Um but, you know, we don't the people of Haiti didn't plan but that's what happens. It's coming. The floods come. And if we are living in light of circumst the circumstances of our lives, you know, it's gonna get it's gonna get wiped away. The circumstances are the floods are always coming. So it's this life is counting down, it's decaying. You know, that's that's the reality, but Jesus says this life is secure. The kingdom, you know This investment, you know, Bernie Madoff can't touch it, the federal government can't get to it, nobody can get to it. The moth won't eat it, the rust can't destroy it, it's it's here. And so so that's the question. How do we how do we begin to think and and move away from investing in this and Wholeheartedly investing in in this foundation, in this treasure So that's and that's where I want to kind of dig in a little bit for the next few minutes at least in j in our our last principle in number four. Our treasure reveals our heart and our heart reveals our treasure. If that one doesn't sting a little bit then then you might need to peel back the curtain a little bit more and take a look at your heart. Because for me, when I say that and when I read that that last verse there when Jesus says Where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. That kind of stings. Because I look at my heart and I and I see Man, I I I don't I don't completely treasure this. I want to. But when I really look at my heart, I see I see a lot of this in it. And so So how do we, how does that, the fact that our treasure reveals our heart and our heart reveal reveals our treasure, how does that, how should we respond to that, to that truth? Proverbs four twenty-three says, Above all, guard your heart, for it is the wellspring of life. This the heart biblically is is not the physical beating organ. It's the it's the when the Bible refers to the heart, it's talking about the essence of who we are. And so it says, Proverbs is saying there, guard the essence of who you are, for it is the wellspring of life, and and investment wisely in that essence of who you are. And so I want to talk briefly, and I've I think I've Done a lot of study in the last couple of years about this and I think even just, you know, in the last couple of months since my heart attack um have gone back and really tried to understand um and think a lot about anxiety and how much we live with anxiety. And let me say up front that um you know, I I asked in the first service, you know, does anybody here deal with anxiety? Anybody? Yeah. A few people raise their hands and everybody else is lying. And so, you know, I think we live in the most anxious time in history. Um we are uh we have an anxiety epidemic. Um and I think there are a number of reasons for that. Um a lot of it is because we spend so much time in our heads Um, you know, I I think my uh my great grandfather used to get up and work on the farm all day and I just can't imagine him, you know I mean he's trying to you know figure out how he could keep his cows from getting out of the pasture. You know, I mean, you know, I guess he could worry about that, but I think we feel the weight of the world you know, pressing in on us and, you know, multiple cellphones ringing and, you know, it's funny to me some of these businessmen, you know, they have the personal cell phone, they got their business cell phone, they got I don't know what other cell phone they got, but, you know, it's like the It's like a you know, ammo belt of cell phones, you know, and and but it you know, I mean I think all of that contributes to the anxiety to the worry to the you know, getting worked up and we lay down in the bed and feel like we're still plugged in. And um and it and it you know begins to have serious consequences. And and I've personally walked through that um in the last couple of years and then and you know it Talked to my doctor two weeks ago or a month ago after the heart attack and he said, You know, it's gotta change. And so that's driven me back to the scriptures and to say, what does the Bible say? Where does it speak to this issue of worry we that we all are dealing with? And it and it really does. It it addresses it and it has and it relates to what we were talking about this morning in terms of our investments. And so I want to I want to run through really briefly some um what have been a a lot of personal study for me and I'm gonna blast through it really quickly in in just a few minutes. Um but just to give you some of the some of what I think are the nuggets of how this idea of anxiety relates to uh to our investments and to our heart and to our treasure. So the the New Testament addresses the issue of worry or anxiety in a number of places. As I went back, I'm not going to share the full extent of the of the passages that we got into, but just a few of the most familiar maybe. But as I began to look back into the Greek and uh and I went back to the Greek word for worry, um The the first one there is Marimnal. Uh that's the it's the verb th um for warrior Greek. or an w I'm sorry, the verb for worry or anxiety in the Greek it it means to be anxious or to care for. A couple of passages that you probably are familiar with where this is where we find this word merim now. is Philippians chapter four, verses six verse six. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and petition with thanksgiving present your request to God r request to God. So don't Don't marry him now about anything, um but present your request to God. Also Matthew 6, 25 and 28. Therefore I tell you, do do not worry, do not merim now about your life, what you will eat or drink. or about your body or what you'll wear. So Jesus is saying, don't don't merim now. So there's there we you know we we see that the verb merim now. The noun uh for worry is marimna You can see that's h you know very connected to the to the verb. It means to care it means care or anxiety. Peter in 1 Peter five seven, cast all your anxieties or worries or marimna on him. For he cares for you. Luke eight fourteen Jesus in the parable of the sower, he says that the seed he talks about the seed that's choked out by the marimna of this life, by the worries. of this life. Uh Luke 21, 34, Jesus again talks about our hearts being weighed down by the anxieties. or the marimna of this life. So here we are in the middle of of, you know, all of this merim now and marimna. You know, we're just covered up with it. The w you know, it's choking out our lives. And so then as I began to study and I went back and to look at the root of these words of Marimnao and Marimda, and the root is a word called Marizo. And it is a verb, and and it means to divide, to separate, or to separate into pieces. To divide or to separate into parts or to cut into pieces. And I thought, that's strange. How does that relate to my anxiety? And then I looked at uh at Matthew chapter 12, verses 20, verse 25, and Jesus uses this word merizzo. And he says, every kingdom divided against itself will be ruined Interesting. Because what is he saying there? He's saying this anxiety that you're living It's just revealing what's already true about your heart. When you feel anxiety When you know, when you're worrying, when you're about as locked up as you can get, it's just revealing something. It's just symptomatic. It's symptomatic of a state of your heart. And what Jesus is telling us here is that the state of your heart is divided. It's what Paul it's what James in in um verse eight of chapter one of James and ver and chapter four, in both instances in verse eight, he says he it's what he calls the double-minded man. Literally that could be translated the two-souled man. It's the man who's, you know, we're you know, we can't let go of this, but we want to, you know, we want to be over here, but you know, but uh you know, and it's just it's literally it's ripping us apart. And that's what is the state of our heart. And when we look at that, we're seeing it's revealing our treasure. And our treasure is being revealed. And that yeah, that our treasure is divided Um I had to go out to my car, but I remembered a a quotation that I read recently that I thought captured this. I wanted to read it. It's J. Oswald Sanders and he says, paradoxically While faith inspires the most intense activity and induces the most complete rest, there can be no rest when two wills are in conflict. Fate is not the rest of an action, but of harmony and position. Wow And that's exactly what we're saying. It's harmony of position. You know, when we are solidly entrenched in this position, we will rest. And it's not about how much you know, it's not about being on a beach somewhere sitting in a sitting in a you know, a swing. Sipping a little umbrella drink. It's not about inactivity, it's about wholeness. That's where the true rest comes from. And so I want to end with that, just that idea that you know Jesus is reminding us of what our investments are and asking us to examine our hearts. So a wise man told me one time that if he took a look at my checkbook and my calendar or my schedule and talked to my spouse for my wife for five minutes. um that he could tell me what I was giving my life to. Um how many of us want to walk up here this morning and throw our and open up our checkbook and and by the way nobody's talking to my wife for five minutes afterwards because But you know that's that's convicting when we think about that. What are we giving our lives to? In um let me close with this. In nineteen fifty six, Jim Elliott, who was a missionary to the Aoka Indians in the jungles of Ecuador, he was brutally murdered trying to just make contact with the with the group of Indians that he had spent years preparing to go to um hit their wives actually the wives of the four missionaries actually continued the work and saw the the Indians come to know Christ and But in he died in 1956. In 1948, he wrote this in his journal. He is no fool who gives up what he can't keep to gain that which he cannot lose. He is no fool who gives up what he can't keep to gain that which he cannot lose. He's he's saying what Jesus already said. Jesus said, the man who loves his life will lose it. The man who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. And what good is it for a man to gain the whole world and yet lose his soul? What good is it? What what what does it matter what we experience over here if it if it's n if if it can't last And that's the challenge this morning as we think about it. Are we willing to give up what we can't keep to gain the only thing that can last? On April 26, 2003, a a young man by the name of Aaron Ralston. He was an avid hiker and climber and Um and so he s had done a lot of it, um, had planned and had a day off and thought, uh, you know I'm gonna go to into Blue John Canyon. uh in Utah and and hike and climb and so didn't tell anybody where he was going, just kinda took his stuff for the day and went in and so as he was hiking and c kinda doing some climbing he was climbing over some boulders and he He kind of wedged his hand in to get a grip and to climb up, and as he did, he the his weight shifted on the boulder. An eight hundred pound boulder that he was kind of moving on kind of shifted onto his hand and trapped his hand in in between two boulders and basically crushed his hand. And so for five days he he s was there trying to Pull his hand out, he's you know, spent a long time the first day just trying to see if he and he just wouldn't move, it was crushed. And so for five days a finally after five days he was dehydrated, uh, at the verge of death and um actually filmed the last will and testament he had a camera, filmed the last will and testament, uh said goodbye to his family, had decided that his life was over. And then all of a sudden he he began to he a thought came to his mind and he and he um pulled out uh a little tool, a little leather man u utility tool, and he And he severed his arm. And so he took his arm off and to save his life. And so he had he chosen to keep that arm, he would have lost his life. And that's what that's I think what Jesus is calling out, he's saying today. You know, are you willing to forfeit the only life that you can really have? For this vapor. You know? Or are you going to use this vapor that I've given you to invest in the only life that you really can have? I'm going to just close with this poem or little text about the only one who's ever invested in what was truly wise. And was willing to be foolish to do that. He was born in an obscure village, the child of a peasant. He grew up in another village where he worked in a carpenter shop until he was thirty. Then for three years he was an itinerant preacher. He never wrote a book. He never held an office. He never had a family or owned a home. He didn't go to college. He never lived in a big city. He never traveled two hundred miles from the place where he was born. He did none of those things that usually accompany greatness. He had no credentials but himself. He was only 33 when the tide of public opinion turned against him. His friends ran away. One of them denied him. He was turned over to his enemies and went through the mockery of a trial. He was nailed to a cross between two thieves. While he was dying his executioners gambled for his garments, the only property he had on earth. When he was dead he was laid in a borrowed grave through the pity of a friend. Twenty centuries have come and gone and today he is the central figure of the human race. I am well within the mark when I say that the arm that all the armies that ever marched All the navies that ever sailed, all the parliaments that ever sat, all the kings that ever reigned, put together, have not affected the life of man on this earth as much as that one solitary life. Let's pray. Lord Jesus, we thank you That you came to live what would have to be considered a foolish life in the eyes of the world. But that for the joy that was set before you, you gave your life to eternity. And for that reason, we are here today. We thank you for that example. And we pray that today we could look at our hearts, that we would not forfeit our souls. That you would help us to examine our hearts and see where we what the investment of our lives and that our lives would be given to not that which is passing away but to that which Will remain forever. Help us to be to not be foolish, to to give our lives to that which can can and will endure. We want to live invested fully in your kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.