This uh gray-haired gentleman standing next to me back in nineteen sixty-eight when he was a sophomore at the University of Maryland, and I was his university staff worker That was my first year on staff, and I know that most of you are out there saying, I wasn't even born in 1968, you know, but uh That's the way it was. I noticed Dave, kind of, because um not only was he a 4-0 at University in Maryland in his spare time, he taught himself Hebrew. And I thought, now there's a guy that really wants to know God's word He finished and I invited him, come on staff with me to join our staff team of one, me and him for the state of Maryland. Dave was the only guy that lived in College Park that had an airplane in his garage. It was one he was building. And Larry Claremont can testify to that being the truth. Then uh eventually, here he is, uh eventually God led Dave and Kendra uh out to California. Where eventually Dave became the executive director of Global Opportunities, a very creative mission organization that mobilizes God's people to be tent makers in all kinds of countries in the world. Dave is a guy who is a very stimulating thinker, and I was delighted to see that when we got together last night after having not seen each other for a number of years. That he still has that infectious laugh that when he laughed at something we said drove our cat in panic out of the ba out of the kitchen, all the way up the stairs He is a delight to me and I commend him to you as a man of God. Listen up to this guy. Go Dave. Right. Um yes, our and uh uh Alan didn't say the other interesting thing is He invited me on staff and we were the only two staff. And the next year I was the only staff. He left for New York. Left me all alone with twelve campuses and pulling my hair out. You see how much less hair I have, you right? That's uh it's damaging me forever. Okay. It is great to be with you. I want to turn your attention now to What I think is one of the most powerful and poignant passages in the New Testament. And it's in John 15. Section that we read. In this section, we have Jesus' upper room discourse. Which is the last words, the last extended talk that Jesus has with his disciples, in which he begins to expose and pour out his heart. And pull all together every uh everything that they have been learning and to then call them to share in what's on his heart. He took some great risks, by the way. He really believed in them beyond where they were, because it's interesting, after he shares all this wonderful stuff, they start talking about who's going to be the greatest in the kingdom, you know. So they still don't have it, but he still believes in them and opens his heart. And I want to look at uh one pivotal verse, John 15, 15 He says, No longer do I call you servants, for the servant does not know what his master is doing, but I've called you friends. For all that I've heard from my Father, I have made known to you. Jesus is here inviting his disciples into a a whole new level with him as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. He's inviting them into friendship and he's saying I call you friends because I have been sharing with you all that the Father has revealed to me and all that is on our agenda and our purposes. Now, please understand, this is not Jesus merely inviting us to have wonderful close warmth. And to be kind of, he's going to be our celestial buddy. He is going to be the person who's just always there to comfort us. Though there's truth in that? That to talk about that that way is just to reduce this and to almost trivialize it. And in fact, I would say it's nearly blasphemous Because understand that what Jesus is doing is he in no way changes his role as master or his role as king because he says about this friendship that a servant does not know what who is doing. What is masters doing? Jesus is not changing his role as Lord and Master. And notice the preceding verse. You are my friends if you what? What does it say? If you do what I command you. You see, Jesus is inherently Lord of Lords and King of Kings. He cannot demote himself from being the Lord of the universe. He cannot Change his role. Nobody has a vote on it. He is Lord of Lords and King of Kings. And to come into friendship with him is an incredible thing then, that he would invite us to say, I want you to actually share in what drives me and what is on my heart and what I'm trying to do in history. I want you to be part of it. But that's exactly what he's doing. The picture to me that helps to capture this is the Knights of the Round Table and King Arthur, where for the first time in history, at least according to this story, we have a king. who invites his servants, his mites, who are really totally under his authority, but he invites them to come and become collaborators and co-workers with him. in developing the kingdom that he is going to share his heart and they are going to make decisions together. Now it's still clear that he is the king, but he invites them into this role, and that's the picture I think in this passage. And this invitation is no mere king author. This is the Lord of Lords and King of Kings who invites you and who invites me, if we will, into this kind of friendship with Him. Now, what is in his heart? What are the things that he has been revealing to the disciples? Let's look at two key passages, the feeding of the five thousand. and the feeding of the 4,000. They are particularly pivotal in the text. So we're going to go over to Mark, chapter 6. And to give you some background, what has happened early in the book of Mark, the leaders of Israel reject Jesus. As Messiah and as king. And they go out and plot to kill him. You know what Jesus does as soon as they do that? Very interesting. Immediately after that in the text. And by the way, it's at a point at which the crowds are responding more and more to him. The crowds are just reaching a huge swelling and a climax in the Gospel of Mark at the very time when the leaders reject him. And at that point, when the leaders reject him. He simply goes out and replaces them with a new twelve. Now see, we Gentiles, we don't, most of us don't get that. But how could you be so bald-faced as to appoint twelve to be with you and to have authority? Not ten, not fifteen, but twelve, because what's the other name for Israel? The twelve what? Tribes. Every Jew knows that. And Jesus points twelve. And it wasn't lost on people. And that's why you next have an official delegation coming from Jerusalem because they are really upset At the arrogance and hubris of this man in their perception. And they send up an official delegation to discredit him. And that's where the accusation comes that he does his works by the power of Beelzebub. Because they cannot let this go forward. But I want you to understand that Jesus has really given the leaders a chance over and over. But these leaders fail him and fail the people, and he just replaces them. Now, in chapter six and verse seven, he called them to him. He's continued to work with them and to train them But finally at this point he comes to the point where he calls them and sends them out two by two and gave them authority of the unclean spirits and he explains how they're to go about it. And they go out and preaching to all these towns and villages where Jesus has not yet had a chance to come. They have tremendous impact. The people really respond. And so it says in verse 30 they return to Jesus and told him all they'd done and taught. And he said to them, Come away by yourselves to a lonely place and rest awhile, because many were coming and going, and they had no leisure even to eat. Now, that moves very fast, but pay attention to what Mark is telling you, because in in the New Testament you have what is called condensed narrative And within the space of a few phrases, you often have packed the whole scene that you're supposed to catch on to and visualize. What this is saying is they came back And when they come back, the people are falling behind them. All these people, and and Jesus, they're reporting to Jesus, but all these crowds are gathering. So they can't even get a chance to eat. The point is not that this is a great concern in that day that you might miss a meal. I don't think people were sweating that. The point is the crowds are so great. And so Jesus says, let's go off alone by ourselves, so we can debrief this thing. It is exciting, it is wonderful, and of course some of the other gospels give us a little more. So they go away. And they hop in a boat. You'd think that'd be a pretty good way to get away from people. But here's what it says. Now many saw them going and they knew them. Notice it doesn't say they knew Jesus because they a lot of these people have not met Jesus, but they recognize the disciples and they know if they stick with the disciples, they'll get to Jesus, and they want to get to Jesus So they beat him there. And he lands at the beach, and here's this throng of people, thousands. It says five thousand men, besides the women and children. It may have been 10,000 people, who knows? And here's this throng there. And they're trying to get away and to and to rework what's happened. And what does Jesus say, and how does he respond? I love this passage. He went ashore, and he saw a great throng, and he had compassion on them. Because they were like sheep without a shepherd. When Jesus landed on the beach, What he saw is thousands of sheep who had no shepherd, hungry, needy, broken, oppressed Now, that expression, sheep without a shepherd, where does it come from? It comes from Ezekiel and Jeremiah. And the disciples knowing later that Jesus saw the people this way and they record the story for us They realize that Jesus is thinking about all that's stated in those two passages. This is what's going through his mind. Let's read what's what it means. This allusion to the Old Testament and in fact to Ezekiel 34. Listen to this. This is what's in Jesus' mind, I believe, at that time. The word of the Lord came to me, to Ezekiel, Son of Man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy and say to them, even to the shepherds, Thus says the Lord God, Ho shepherds of Israel, who have been feeding yourselves, shouldn't shepherds feed the sheep? You eat the fat, you close yourselves with a wool, you slaughter the fatlings, but you do not feed the sheep. The weak you've not strengthened, the sick you've not healed, the crippled you've not bound up, the stray you've not brought back, the lost you've not sought. And with force and harshness you've rule them. And what has Jesus done? And all those categories? Has he not healed them? Has he not sought the loss? Has he not bound up? You get it? Jesus has been seeing already Israel and all the lost sheep. But he he's thinking of this passage and all its power, and he says, um, so they were scattered. Because there was no shepherd, and they became food for all the wild beasts. My sheep were scattered, they wandered over all the mountains and on every high hill, and my sheep were scattered over all the face of the earth with none to seek or search for them. Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the Lord. As I live, says the Lord God, because my sheep had become a prey, and my sheep had become food for all the wild beasts, since there was no shepherd. And because my shepherds have not searched for my sheep, but the shepherds have fed themselves, and have not fed my sheep. Therefore, you shepherds hear the word of the Lord, thus says the Lord God, Behold, I am against the shepherds. And I will require my sheep at their hand and put a stop to their feeding the sheep. No longer shall the shepherds feed themselves. I will rescue my sheep from their mouths, that they may not be food for them. And Jesus has done that. He has replaced. The shepherds that have failed Israel. Because he loves the sheep. And Jesus realizes all that he's doing. And of course you realize that this would mean Jesus was an it was absolutely insane, megalomaniac, if it were not true that he really was who he said and he was really doing what he said. But he is the shepherd, he is the God become human that he might seek the lost sheep. Jesus is realizing all this. For thus says the Lord God, behold, I, listen to this, this is great, I, I myself will search for my sheep and will seek them out. Isn't that great stuff? Jesus at that moment in history was the shepherd, the ultimate shepherd who'd come to seek the lost sheep. God himself had come in Jesus. Nothing like it in history. Incredible And you and I are those sheep, by the way, too, right? Now Jesus could only do it once in history, but understand that He in those people He saw you and me, alright? In fact I'll prove that even more in a minute. And the shepherd seeks out his flock when some of his sheep have been scattered abroad, so I will seek out my sheep and I'll rescue them from all the places where they've been scattered on a day of clouds and thick darkness. And I'll bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries and bring them in their own land, and I'll feed them on the mountains of Israel. I will feed them with good pasture. Upon the mountain heights of the Israel shall be their pasture, and they shall lie down in good grazing land, and on fat pasture they will feed on the mountains of Israel. I myself will be the shepherd of my sheep and make them lie down, says the Lord God I'll seek the lost, I'll bring back the strayed, I will bind up the crippled, and I will strengthen the weak and the fat and their strong. I will watch over, I will feed them injustice. Jesus lands on the beach and he sees these thousands. And he sees them. As the lost sheep without a shepherd. He has finally provided new shepherds who've gone out and gathered them, and they've come now, hungry. And what does he do? He feeds them all day long. These sheep without a shepherd. It says, That when he saw them, he began to teach them many things. He's feeding these sheep. And then what he does next He feeds them physically. He does physically what he has just done spiritually. And what he does physically, it becomes an enacted parable of what Jesus is really doing in history. As he's come to earth. So that hours late, and he says to him uh this is a lonely place, and hours late, uh the disciples say, Send them away to go into the country and villages. uh about and buy themselves something to eat. But he answered, you give them something to eat. You feed them. And uh I I think maybe Jesus hoped they would do more than they did. But they're not ready to feed the sheep. They say, Well, how are we going to do that? I mean, even two hundred dollars worth of bread isn't going to do anything with this people, you know, and uh Jesus said, What do you have? And they said, well, we've got these five loaves and two fish. And he says, Okay, you have uh bring those. And he says, then uh he commands the crowd to sit down by companies upon the green grass. And by the way, Mark takes the time to note that it was green grass. Because where's the shepherd feeding them in Ezekiel? Fat pastures, right? Good grazing land and good pasture. And what Jesus does physically images what he's doing spiritually. And so they all sit down and he feed them and then they're they're done and they take it up and there are twelve baskets left over and they're totally satisfied. Now we go over to the feeding of the 4,000 in chapter 8. And it says, when again a great crowd had gathered. What's he trying to remind you of? He's trying to make you think of that other great crowd that had gathered earlier, right? The five thousand men and all the other people with them, right? When again a great crowd had gathered And they had nothing to eat. He called his disciples to them and said to them, I have compassion on the crowd. Now what is that signaling us? I have compassion on the crowd. What are you supposed to remember when you're reading Mark? I have compassion on them because they are like Sheep without a shepherd. This is part of the way narrative is done, New Testament. You're supposed to realize Jesus is seeing them as more sheep without a shepherd. But this crowd has not been with him one day. How long have they been with him? What's the text say? Anyone looking at the text You guys fixated on me. Am I that good looking? Hmm. That's why my wife married me. Uh anyway, um how long? Three days. So this crowd is so hungry For spiritual nurture that they had been within three days. And Jesus has compassion on them. Same thing, because they're like sheep without a shepherd. But who are these sheep? That's what's really interesting. Where are these people? In the text. Let's look back. Then he returned from the region of Tyre and Sidon, also And went through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee through the region of Decapolis. So he's working through the region of the Decapolis, which means the ten cities, and this is basically a Gentile part. Has Jesus been there before? So he's working in a Gentile area, and these are primarily Gentiles. Where did we meet this area before? Ah, back with the Garrison demoniac. After the stealing of the storm, Jesus landed in Gareth or Gadera, there's a couple of versions we're not totally sure, but it's over in the region of the Decapolis. And he delivers this man that's super demonized, who has polydemons, you know, thousands of demons in him, right? And there's this terrifying revelation of the power in those demons as um two thousand pigs, hogs are destroyed. By the uh anger and frustration of these demons. And when the townspeople come and see that that's really true, how do they respond? It says they are terrified. And it says they begged Jesus to leave. Could you see them being scared after seeing that kind of power? Think about it, if you'd been there and you'd seen a man who nobody had been able to control, you knew he was powerfully demonized, and yet this man comes and merely by command, all these demons, and you didn't realize why he was so demonized. But there's multiple demons so many that 2,000 pigs are destroyed. Would that be scary? Oh, it would be scary. Absolutely. And they beg Jesus because they don't know they're they don't understand and they're scared. But one person begs to stay, the demoniac. He says, let me go with you. And Jesus says, No, I want you to stay, and I want you to reinterpret what's happened. And I want you to tell them, tell these people, tell your people, your friends, your relatives, what great things the Lord has done for you. How he has had mercy on you. All they could see at that point was the power, and Jesus sends him back to reinterpret so that they would understand that Jesus has acted in mercy and compassion. So that man then begins sharing his story throughout the whole area of the Decapolis. And apparently he has been very successful. Because when we uh arrive now over in verse 31 of chapter seven. And he he lands in the area of the decapitus. And he's going there deliberately. He went there deliberately in the first place But when he lands now in the region of the capitalist, a huge crowd begins to gather. And he says, and they, talking about the people that are coming, which turns, we've seen in a minute that it's crowds of people They brought to him a man who was deaf and had an impediment in his speech, and they besought him to lay his hand upon him. And taking him aside from the multitude privately put his fingers into his ears and spat and touched his tongue. Why does he do that? So that the man understands because he can't hear. So how does Jesus communicate with him? He communicates with touch and sight. He touches his eyes. He and he uh spits and spits is not considered something horrible in that culture. It's considered to be a healing kind of thing. And so he's communicating to the man what he's about to do Now he didn't need to do that. He could have just commanded it or willed it and he would have been healed. We know that. But see it's part of his compassion for this man as well. It's just one thing to note. But then when he does it, and I want you to notice How Mark comments again in this very condensed narrative, it says Jesus looks up to heaven and sighed. Something was really weighty and heavy about this moment. And said to him, Efata. What in the world is that? Well, that is her air make. This is the only the second time in all of Mark that Mark bothers to record The actual Aramaic. You see, everything was going on in Aramaic, but it's all been written in Greek for us. For now translated, of course. But Mark wrote it in Greek. But two times and only two times It is so momentous and so significant what is happening at that moment that he uses the air mate to call our attention to it. The other time is the raising of the girl who died Who was twelve years old? That was also very momentous. If you want to ask me about it afterwards, you can do so. Don't have time to talk about it. But here at this moment This is such a significant thing, and this is why Jesus sighs and looks to heaven and opens the man's ears and Mark records the Ifatha because of what? Because of whose ears he's opening. This is a Gentile. And Jesus realizes that what he is doing physically is also an image of what he is doing spiritually. Here are these people who've been deaf to the news of God because they're Gentiles. They haven't had the revelation. The Jews were supposed to be. a a missionary people. They're supposed to be uh sharing it. And they had done some, but they had not done that well. And Jesus realizes at this moment in history that just as he's opening this man's ears, After all these years, he is opening the gospel to the Gentiles And that's why this immediately precedes the feeding of the 4,000, because then we have Jesus again, what does he do? Here are all these lost sheep who have been gathered and have the how they've been gathered, largely apparently through the witness of this demoniac, from best we can tell. He's essentially filled the role of the twelve among the Jews. And he's done that in the i this area among the Gentiles. And so Jesus then feeds them for three days with uh spiritual food. And then he does again, just as with the 5,000, he does in a physical way, something that is an illustration and an image of what he has been doing spiritually. And he feeds them. Notice an interesting contrast here by the way, just some little things. Is there any green grass here? You notice he's feeding them where? In the desert. Even the area they're in, and Martin takes the time to note it, is a picture of the tremendous Spiritual desert that the Gentiles have experienced for century after century. And Jesus realizes that he's opening the gospel and he's feeding and gathering the lost sheep. And you go back then to Ezekiel. And you you realize the power of this whole thing even further, uh, because he's gathering those for whom there was no shepherd, and I, I myself will seek out the sheep. And I will bring them from out from the peoples and gather them from the countries. And Jesus is gathering the peoples, not only Jews, but actually the people from the countries and from all nations to be part of his sheep. And uh the language of John, John puts it this way, Other sheep I have that are not of this fold, right? And Jesus realizes at this moment, this moment history that finally in a dramatic and very significant way, he's bringing, introducing, and opening up the gospel to all the nations and to all the peoples. This is Jesus' heart. Jesus invites us into this heart. If you're really going to be, and you and I and I am going to be The friend of Jesus, then we must embrace this way of looking at people and this vision and this task as our own. And that is what Jesus calls us to. You see, Jesus can't help caring for other people outside the circle of people that are already part of the sheep. He won he cares for all humans. He cares for all lost sheep and sees them all as lost sheep. It is hard for us, isn't it, to think about people outside our group. But that's what Jesus couldn't stop doing. And he can't stop doing it until the end of history. And Revelation then gives us a window, tells us how it all ends, and it tells us that Jesus is successful and that he wins and that There will be some there from every kindred and tongue and tribe and people, right? So that's where everything is going. And so in one sense you can say There's going to be a big party. You want to be a part of the party. We're all invited to the party. Not just those who are missionaries or not just those who are pastors And but God invites all his people to be a part of this thing. And so coming back then, um, Jesus invites us then to To share in his heart. To embrace what he embraces and to live our lives all out for that. Every one of us. We come back to the Great Commission then And how do we read the Great Commission? I think oftentimes the way it plays out at Urbana is that you come to commitment night and there's a real openness by students God, if you're speaking to me and you're saying I should go overseas or something, then I'm really open to that. And if people sense that God is saying that to them, they rejoice and and of course not all of them make it, but there's a real movement and responsiveness to God and even joy. But then on the other hand, those that don't feel called, I think oftentimes there's a sense of breathing a sigh of relief and saying, yes, we'll pray and send money But I want to say to you that that is unbiblical. That's not what the Great Commission is saying. The Great Commission calls us all. You don't need to pray about whether you're called to care about the nations. You just have to read it and obey it. You want to be the friend of the king, you're your friend if you what? Obey his commands. And the Great Commission says, All authority and power has been given unto me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. By the way, why does he say go therefore? And tell us first that all authority and power has been given to him. I think the implication is that the task that he's given us is impossible. Humanly impossible. There'd be no hope because of the the sinfulness and re rev re uh r the revolt of humans. Except that he has all authority in heaven and on earth. And that's why our mission is successful. That's why there will be people there from every kindred and tongue and people. It's his power that's working. And he says, go therefore and make disciples. Yes, you're going into the impossible, but I have all authority. And then he ends it. You know, teaching observe everything I've commanded you, and he ends it this way. He says, and lo, I am with you always. Always in what? As you're going. This is not a general promise of Jesus' comforting presence. It is a specific and you might say conditional promise of his empowering presence as we are engaged in reaching the peoples of the world. Therefore, we do not have the right to claim this promise. Although all Christians want to. You have no right to claim that promise unless you're engaged and you're out there doing some of that impossible stuff. God really has given every one of us power. He really intends to use us, and God wants us to to to really uh embrace what he's called us to. So all of us are to play a part in that. Um now let me um just talk about some who have. Um oh uh two things. One Happiness never comes by the pursuit of happiness. It only drives it away. It's one thing that C. S. Lewis great some great insight. Happiness and even more importantly, joy is a byproduct of living for something greater than ourselves. All of us long for something worth living for that's pure and right and the ultimate good. Secondly, we all long for a relationship in which we can be totally devoted because that person never betrays us and is worthy of our total devotion. And in Jesus we have both. In the Lord of Lords and King of Kings, who is our King, who invites us into his mission. We have those two things. That which can can make our life uh totally worth living. But how do we translate it down? I want to talk about that in a minute. Let me just mention uh the the witness over and over of those who have done this. is that this is true. And so Jim Elliott writes toward the end of his life, just not long before he's killed. Um he says, in in spite of all the ups and downs and the if-onlies and all the stuff of life, he says, My life has been full. I have had all that a young man could have, I am ready to meet Jesus. Livingston. And speaking and people talking about the sacrifices he made. And he said, sacrifice? What sacrifice? Out with the world sacrifice. Word sacrifice. I never made a sacrifice. It was all joy That he mean he really didn't make sacrifices, it wasn't hard. Well yes it was, but there's so much joy and fulfillment in living for Christ that it was that way Uh and um so it's the witness of person after person. I just you know, I wish you could tell you, like uh we have had a couple of tent makers go recently to China and uh uh some have only been there Four months, the other one's been there like two and a half months, and already people are coming to them, asking them about their faith, and they're uh getting into discussions, they're doing counseling, and people are coming to Christ, and they're just having a blast. When we're letting God and they're all working in secular jobs. And this is just happening with the people they're working with. They're integrating work and witness. They're sanctifying the workplace to let God use it. And that's one of the first things I think that what God wants to call us to is to re-sanctify that our workplaces to God, to let Him use it. Even though many things tell us that's impossible. But what we're saying is that God is the God of the impossible. God is the God of supernatural power. And God can lead us step by step. Might not be all at once, but God can lead us to take new ground in doing that. I I've heard of a church recently that's gone into just a needy area of a major city and they just began working and trying to live out the gospel and care for people. And that church is now ministering to about 10,000 people, really involved in our lives. And the church is 3,000. It's 20 groups of about 75 house churches. It's just exploded again because everybody is involved and they're using their gifts and letting God empower them and work in this very, very needy, broken part of the world. That's in the United States. It doesn't just happen overseas God can turn us loose if we will let him. But again, that doesn't mean this will be a short instant thing. And so I want to invite you to come to the round table. Jesus invites us into that partnership. You can't reduce his heart. You can merely enter into it. Begin to think his thoughts after him and have the compassion that he has. I want to suggest two things. One That you commit yourself to truly praying the Lord's Prayer. What is the Lord's Prayer? It's really the disciples' prayer. The Lord's Prayer is consumed by desire for Jesus' glory and reign in the earth. The first three petitions, Lord, I long for your name to be hallowed. Because is Jesus' names hallowed and exalted in the earth? No, it isn't. Are you zealous for his glory, longing that more people, and like uh David uh Brainerd. No. Jimelli. Jimelli said this. How long before that glory is yours which has so long awaited you? Do we have uh moments that that's in our heart? Pray that. Secondly. Lord, I long for your kingdom to come. What does that mean, Lord, bring your kingdom? You know, judge all this mess and take me to heaven and get me out of it. I don't think that's what it's saying. I think it's saying, Lord, I long for your reign to be extended, for more people to come under your authority and to surrender to your love and your compassion as the shepherd king. And for pe and those who have surrendered to surrender more fully to him. Because it's the source of all our goodness. And I long for that for the welfare of the people, but I also long for it that you may receive what you deserve. And thirdly, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And see, is that a call, pray for God to do what he's ordained? No. How is God's will done in heaven? His bidding is always done in heaven. There is no violation of him in heaven And what we're praying is, Lord, I long that there would be the full doing and obedience to your will on earth as it is in heaven. Your pleasure to be done on earth. Because that is always ultimate good. And so I I um I invite you in this way of focusing. Jesus called to friendship. To pray the Lord's Prayer in a really meaningful way. In other words, be a a world Christian. Begin to pray for other people groups, for the outsiders. You think about the Muslim world. Oh, I want to tell you that there is a 1. 1 billion, about one-fifth of the world's population, which is enslaved. In a system of deception and oppression. Islam is inherently coercive The name, even the word Islam means submission, and there's really no jump from submission to subjugation. Islam divides the world into two worlds, the world of Islam of submission, and the world of what? Do you know the other? Any of you know? The world of war. All those who have not submitted to Allah and His prophet are ultimately enemies and at war. And when you c and if you become it so it doesn't really matter in one sense how you get a person to submit. If you s have you have them submit by subjugation and oppression That's okay. That is why. Have you ever asked why of all the 55 Muslim nations there's not one single one that's even close to being a true democracy? Not even close That of the I think 35 to 37, I hope I'm remembering this about correctly, wars in the world, major conflicts, I think all but one. are instigated by the Muslims. And we could go on and talk about other things. Why is that so? Because of some of the ideology that is there within Islam. And I want you I don't say this so you hate Muslims. No, no, no. Do you see how Jesus would see them? How does he see them? He sees them as sheep without a shepherd, who are in bondage, oppressed by the way Islam is all set up, so they can't even ask questions. Real questioning and real pursuit of answers has been so suppressed in Islam that this is the reason the Muslim world has fallen behind scientifically and so on. Because it's taken a deeper and deeper impact into the society so that people aren't generally problem solvers and this kind of thing. I could give you more illustration. But here's where everyday working Christians can go in and work side by side with Muslims and have impact on them. I just want to tell you that uh one of the slides I didn't get to earlier last session. um from my colleague Ari Rakh and he's been in and out of North Africa and he's in Morocco and he and one person that he led to the Lord, a Moroccan Muslim, after he understood the gospel So how wonderful it was. You know what he said? Why has no one ever told us this? All these years, how long have you had this gospel? Why haven't you come and told us? I think Jesus would ask some of us this. Because you can't go as a religious worker, but you can go as an engineer, you can go as an English teacher, you can go as a uh a scientist, you can go in almost all levels of education, all kinds of ways. And and and you can get into all different areas of society, all kinds of different networks of people, and you live out the gospel and show a life that's just supernatural, that demands an explanation And you uh just naturally share with words uh witness to Jesus and God will work. And so that's my last and point in give your work. I want to invite you here, now in the United States To sanctify your workplace. Most of us spend the biggest part of our waking hours around whatever work we do, right? And this is something God intended, because we're made like him to be workers And I know that our c our s culture tells us impossible to share the gospel because of political correctness and so on, and it tells us uh and because of what I call the intolerance of tolerance, also tells us uh and partly the church has aided and embedded this that there's this divide between the secular and sacred. So many of you wrestle, I know, with going tomorrow to work. And feeling like what how does this really connect? And I'm sure Al has really helped you with this, probably more than many churches in the coun in the country. You should be profoundly thankful. But I want to invite you to See that every day you can go to work, no matter how hard it is, and if you will do this, if you will adopt a heart of servanthood, which is totally contrary to our culture, which talks about self-fulfillment and about rights, right? But if you will have a heart of servanthood, first of all to serve your boss as if they're the Lord himself. Now do you think a lot of bosses in this country would get really impressed if all Christians were serving them as if they were the Lord himself? This is scripture here, folks. To what is legitimate and what they're trying to do. Not the stuff that's wrong, but whatever's legitimate to make them successful. Secondly, that we serve our co-workers I love the story of a man who a Christian. This is the kind of supernatural stuff we want to see. One day he met his coworker at the water fountain in a break and this person said, Oh, did you see this new job was posted on the bulletin board? I'd love to get this job, but I've never been able to write a resume. And the Christian said, Well I'll help you write your resume, I'll help you polish it. And then in the weeks ahead he helped him work on that resume and really polish it, make it stronger. And you know what that non-Christian found out? This Christian was applying for the very same job That's the supernatural stuff that Jesus can do in our lives that has real impact on people. Sanctify your work, loving your workers, co workers making it a workplace an easier place in the work, your clients, your customer to deliver really good product, honest product, product. Loving and serving also those who are suppliers, also loving them beyond that level. And then speaking for Jesus. Listen, a lot of our peers are very open-mouthed about what they think. Let us also be open, but learn to do it in an appropriate way. And if we will do that, we will make Steady progress, and there will be breakthroughs, and we'll see God working. I absolutely believe it because God believes that there's more power in Him than the evil one in the world. And that he can do the things that are supernatural. We've been shut down, but don't believe it. It's greatly overrated. God's power is greater. And God calls us to be people who share his heart.