Can trace their origin to Noah and to his three sons. If you take out your bulletin outline, you'll see them diagram there. The first son was Shem. And Shem eventually had a son, Abraham, who was the father of Israel. Who were called the Semitic peoples, or the Shemites, the Shemitic peoples, or the Semitics, out of which our Lord Jesus Christ came. The second son was Canaan. Excuse me, the second son was Ham, and Ham had two sons, or had a number of sons, but two were particularly notable Canaan and Cush, who you see there. Canaan, of course, was the father of the Canaanites, who dwelt in the land of Canaan and were lifelong enemies of the Israelites, from his brother Shem. Another brother was Cush, grandson of Noah. Cush had a son by the name of Nimrod, and Nimrod was a mighty warrior and hunter, and he built a number of cities, among which were Nineveh. And Babylon. Now Babylon has its name associated with a major building project recorded in Genesis chapter 11 It was constructed by the Donald Trump of his day. This project, uh, which was a tower to heaven to make a name for the developers was a project that got started but was never finished because God majestically, not with a bolt of lightning or an earthquake or any such thing But in a quiet, majestic way, he interrupted the project. And he did it, you may recall, from Genesis 11, by inventing languages. By inventing diversity of languages so that the builders couldn't understand each other and they didn't know what it meant to hand a hammer because they couldn't understand the fellow next to them. And so the whole project was aborted Now it so happens that the Hebrew name for confusion, the Hebrew word for confusion, sounds like the Chaldean word Babel. And so to the Hebrews from ever after, Babel or Babylon meant confusion. And that's the first blank that you see down there. Babel Babylon means In the Bible from Genesis 11:9, confusion. And throughout Scripture, from then on, Babel or Babylon has come to symbolize man's pride. And his arrogance and destruction. And those are the next three blanks. Babylon was through Scripture the symbol of man's pride, of his arrogance against God. And uh that pride leading to confusion, that's the second blank, is pride leading to confusion, and then the third blank leading to destruction apart from Jesus. The Babel or Babylon is the symbol of anti-God in the Bible. The prophets, especially Isaiah and Jeremiah, speak of Babylon's fall as specifically the judgment of God. Upon that nation for its evil and its arrogance. Even the book of Revelation, in Revelation 18, speaks of the fall of Babylon as a symbol of the fall of the whole spirit and kingdom of Antichrist. And so, why do I speak of that? Where is Babel or Babylon? Well, Babylon, the city. Is 51 miles south of Baghdad, Iraq. And so the whole country of Babylonia is modern-day Iraq Now let me say something absolutely clearly, and I don't want you to miss this. It's important for our understanding of what God is doing in our time and to not misunderstand it. I do not believe that Iraq or Baghdad are the spiritual successors of Babylon and Babylonia. Babylon has fallen. It has been judged. I do not believe that modern-day Iraq is any more the epitome of evil and arrogance against God than any other unbelieving nation. So we need not to make that spiritual connection between Baghdad and Babylon. That would be a wrong connection. Babylon has fallen Iraq is not Babylon. Nevertheless, the geographical area and the people The geographical area is the same, basically, as Babylonia, and the people are the successors of the Chaldeans, the Babylonians, lifelong eternal enemies of Israel. Now, having said that, there is a book in the Bible which deals with the problem of war with Iraq at that time called Babylonia. As such a major problem that the whole book is taken up with that subject. And so I want us to take a look at what that book is, and if you haven't guessed it by now, it's The book that's there on the bulletin outline, Habakkuk. Not Habakkuk, but Habakkuk. Now where is Habakkuk? Well If you have an NIV study Bible, it's page 1386, okay? If you don't have an NIV study Bible, it's the fifth book from the end of the Old Testament. It goes Micah, Nahum, Habakkuk, and then comes Zephaniah, Haggaiah, Zechariah, and then Malachi. So it's a fifth book from the end. Just start at the end and work your way back. It won't be very long before you'll get there. Now, Habakkuk was a man Who lived in Judah around the year 600 BC. About 20 years before Israel was invaded by Iraq. Or Babylon, Babylonia. And I'll refer to Babylonia as Iraq so that you understand the connection and at least are able to identify it with contemporary events It was invaded by that army just about 20 years after Habakkuk lived and prophesied in this book. His days were much similar to today in the West. There was a lot in common with the people of Habakkuk's day, with what we have in the United States today. The people were very religious, they called themselves Bible believers, and yet they played at their religion. They didn't take God seriously. Their religion was a very self-centered, eclectic, and need-oriented religion. A religion designed, custom-made by them to meet their needs for peace and security and comfort. But while they claimed to be serving the living God, in fact their ethics and their morals were crumbling in decay. They were playing at religion in the same way that much of modern America plays at Christianity, a kind of a pocket-sized God to give them comfort in times of difficulty. But without any real understanding of what the living holy God is truly like, and what the Bible teaches that it means to be his followers. It was in this situation That Israel is threatened with war from Iraq. It's in this situation that Hamaket prophesies And you see that the book is divided there into two main sections. You see that on your bulletin outline. Chapters 1 and 2 deal with, and here's the little blank up there at the top, the problem of faith. Chapters 1 and 2 deal with the problem of faith. Chapter 3 then deals with the prayer of faith. Actually, there's two problems of faith in this book, and you see them in the subsets down there. Two problems that Habakkuk has on this eve of war with Iraq in his day. The first problem is that Habakkuk has been having a number of concerts of prayer just like we're doing. He's perhaps been part of a coalition for spiritual renewal like we're part of in the Howard County Coalition for Spiritual Renewal. We don't know how long he's been praying he with his friends, but we do know that he opens the book by saying it isn't working. He starts by saying in Habakkuk 1-2, How long, O Lord, must I call for help, but you don't listen? We've been praying for a few years now. We're saying, God, we're not seeing the answers. We expect to see you do something. And what do we get? Economic recession, more crime in the streets, an AIDS plague, and now war. Find answer to our prayers And so he cries out, I cry out to you, violence, but you don't save. Habakkuk even had his own ACLU and the likes of his own day. Look down at verse 4. It says, Therefore the law is paralyzed. Justice never prevails. The wicked hem in the righteous so that justice is perverted. God, we're crying out to you. How long are we going to cry out to you, and you're not going to do anything? Do you ever think that? Have you been feeling that perhaps in events in your own life recently? Or as you look at events in our nation? Or as you look at events in the world? And cry out to God. And he doesn't seem to listen. Things go from bad to worse. And then you look at what God's answer is to Habakkuk. Answer one, in verses five to eleven. God says to Habakkuk, Habakkuk, I'm going to do something, says in verse five That even if you were told it, you wouldn't believe it. It's going to stagger you to see what I'm going to do. I am going to raise up the godless Iraqi army and I am going to destroy Israel. Can you imagine Habakkuk's response? God, it was better when you weren't answering. What are you doing? What in the world are you going to do for this? God says that the Iraqi army is going to sweep through verse 11 like a wind, and you're not going to be able to do a thing to stop it. It's going to prevail and it is going to take you captive. So you see now Habakkuk has a real problem. Sometimes we would have less problems if God didn't answer, wouldn't we? It's sometimes the way he answers when we pray that gives us the real problem. We say, God, as long as nothing happened, things were a little better, but I've been praying and things have gone from bad to worse. And now, Lord, I've got a real problem because if the first problem for Habakkuk is, Lord, why no answer? The second problem is, how can there be that answer? And that's a problem that you and I face, isn't it? Lord, I've prayed for months or for years for this matter. And the problem just seems to be getting worse. I don't understand you. But now notice what Habakkuk does with that response. He doesn't just leave himself in vague doubts and confusion. And here we have something. You notice on the back side it says lessons from all this Those are for you to put down, but I'm going to be throwing them out as we go through this, and I want you to put down the ones that are meaningful to you. But let me suggest that one of the first in this whole thing is the way that Habakkuk dealt with his crisis of faith. He didn't leave it in vague confusion. He does two things, and notice exactly what they are there in verse in chapter 1. The first thing that he does is that he states what he knows about God. He gives himself a little theological review there in verse 12 and 13. He says, Lord, aren't you from everlasting? In other words, you're beyond history. I have to remember that. You are not Enveloped in this historical situation that we're in now, of war with Iraq or anything else. You are beyond that. Secondly, he says you are the holy one in verse 12 You can't compromise with evil. I know that by your very nature. It goes on in verse 13 to say your eyes are too pure to even look on evil. You can't tolerate wrong. You're the holy one That's sure. That's what you're like. Whatever the answer to this is, it can't compromise that. Third thing that he says is that he's in covenant relationship with this God. You notice verse 12, he says, My God, my holy one, we will not die. Israel will not be eradicated. You've made a covenant with your people. Use this God's covenant name there. O Lord, Yahweh, the God of the covenant. And so he says, you are my God. You are in a relationship with me. That can't be compromised by what's going on here. And then the fourth thing that he says is that God is sovereign over history. Notice what he says in verse 12. Look at that. God You have appointed them to execute judgment. You have ordained them to punish. You know what that means? I mean let's make this very practical. It means God has appointed Saddam Hussein at this time. You believe that? Saddam Hussein is not acting in a universe of chance with simply political power as the way to get ahead. God appointed Babylonia, in that day, God appoints the leaders of the nations. See what he says in verse 6? God says, I am raising up the Babylonians. It's not just that they're doing it and well, you know, I might as well can't beat them, join them. God says He has appointed them, verse 12. He, the rock, has ordained them to accomplish his purpose. Of the chastening of his people, God has raised up Saddam Hussein. I believe that it's very important for us as Christians And that's why I took the opportunity to speak on this. Because I got your attention now to see. I preach on this some other time and you say, yeah, what's that mean? I'm thinking about my bank book or something, you know. But right now we're thinking about this. We are zeroed in on history. All you gotta do is turn on the radio and the TV, and all you're thinking about is current events of global consequence And it's important that as we say those things as Christians, that we understand that God is doing something in history. And if you want to understand history, you've got to see it in terms of the progress of the kingdom of God. Not simply political events. Earlier this century, God raised up communism. He raised that up with a spirit of Antichrist to accomplish his purpose to chasten the Western world, I believe And through that time and these last generations, what has God been doing? In the Eastern European countries, God has been purging the church of Jesus Christ. Through persecution, through various means, God was working in that church, strengthening it, building its faith, renewing it. So that finally in the last few years there has burst forth a spiritual revolution that overthrew communism. Now, if you only see it in terms of economics and politics, you've missed the point. This was a spiritual revolution. All you have to do is see what's going on there now. R. C. Sprouls just came back from a conference with 80-some pastors of Eastern Europe He says he believes that if revival is going to break out in the world, the very place it might be given birth is in Eastern Europe. God is doing amazing things there Now, isn't it interesting that less than one year after the world has breathed a collective sigh of relief in saying, communism is no longer a world threat, we have peace, a new world order, we enter into World War III. And don't miss the lesson again. This is a spiritual war. The Arab nations see this as a holy war against the materialistic infidels of the West. All you have to do is talk to people who understand what is going on in the hearts of the Arabs. That's why so many people uh are against this. They they say we're missing the spiritual dimensions of it. Don't miss it. Now take for a moment your imagination and construct this scenario. Let's suppose that after a long and bloody war, the United States does in fact win this war decisively. And then we go in and we show mercy to the Muslims, to the Arab people, to Iraq in particular. What would be the response? You know, many mystiologists say that they see cracks in Islam in our day, that it's on the verge of a whole new openness to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Could it possibly be that God is using this war to get the attention of arrogant United States of America, but at the same time to use this? For the threshold of a whole new breakthrough of the gospel into the Arab world? Is that possible? You see, what I'm getting at is we need to pray for this war And we need to pray for what God is doing with the eyes of faith to see the kingdom of God advancing in this and not just our own interests. We've got to get beyond that and see something bigger. Now the second thing that Habakkuk does is not only that he looks at this whole thing from the perspective of who God is and his kingdom But the second thing is that he clarifies his doubt. He doesn't leave his doubt in vague confusion. Satan loves to do that to us, you know. He loves to get us stewing over some problem in which our experience or something we read or think about doesn't fit what the Bible says. And then just to leave that in some vague confusion and doubt that somehow keeps us from praying and really trusting God, but never really clarifying the problem so we can get an answer to it. And so we walk around with a vague spiritual depression. Now Habakkuk could have done exactly that. But you notice what he does to deal with this problem. He precisely deals with a question. He takes that question, all the vagueness of it, and he clarifies it to a crystal clear question that he needs to have answered. That's right there in verse 13. Chapter 1, verse 13. He says, God, your eyes are too pure to look on evil. You cannot tolerate wrong. Why then do you tolerate the treacherous? Why are you silent when the wicked swallow up those more righteous than themselves? Habakkuk says you're going to use a nation that is more evil than we are to judge us How can you, a holy God, use something so evil to accomplish your purpose? It doesn't make sense. And I suggest to you, that may be a very real question for us in the months ahead. We may be seeing the United States and its allies go through some very real suffering. And we may be asking ourselves, at times as Christians, God, how can you let them do that? I mean the United States is bad. We know that. But these people are utterly godless. Not that there's no church in Iraq. There is, a small church, but there are God's people there. But nevertheless, that whole nation stands for that which is against the gospel of Christ. How can you use them, the godless Iraqi army, to wreak such suffering on your people? Many Christians that are over there on the front lines of Saudi Arabia moving into Kuwait now. How then can you use what is more evil against that which is bad, but at least not as evil as the tool that you've raised up. Or maybe after the march from life for life this Tuesday You asked yourself as I did more, why does the pro-life movement not seem to be prevailing? Why is the crowd smaller Why are you allowing the National Organization of Women in its militant abortion stand, the National Abortion Rights Action League, to prevail at this time? Don't you care? About the pre-born babies that are being killed? God, why is it that you use those things and you don't seem to intervene? How can you be like that Does that question bother you? I mean, you see, that's what Habakkuk is all about. That question ought to stir us. We ought to wrestle with that. How can you use what is more evil? To bring pain and suffering to that which is in fact more righteous. How can you, who are over history, allow such things to happen? What's God's answer? His answer is in chapter 2. And his answer summed up is basically this: God is saying, Babylonia or Iraq's turn is coming. Their victory is only a very temporary victory, but the cup of wrath is soon going to turn against them. Look what he says in verse 16. The cup from the Lord's right hand is coming around to you, Iraq, Babylonia, and disgrace will cover your glory. Now when's that going to be? Notice what he says in verse 3, chapter 2. God says he has an appointed time that is certain to come. Don't miss that. Look what he says. The revelation waits an appointed time. It speaks of the end, and it will not prove false. Though it linger, wait for it. It will certainly come and will not delay. God is sovereign over history. Saddam Hussein will not be in power one day longer than God determines. Back in Genesis 15, God told Abraham that he was going to take his children, those who had come from him in that nation, and he said, They're going to serve another nation for 430 years, and then I'm going to bring them out. The book of Exodus tells us. That the children of Israel walked out of the bondage of Egypt through the Red Sea four hundred and thirty years later to the day. Because it was God's appointed time. God has an appointed time for what he does in history. There's an appointed time for the affairs that are going on now. And he says to Habakkuk, It speaks of the end, it will not prove false. Though it linger, wait for it. It will certainly come. It is sure to come. And so Babylonia rose in power from a third-rate power to a first-rate world power in that time. And in 586 BC it attacked Jerusalem, sacked it, burned it, destroyed it, took the ark and all the holy articles of God back to the god Marduk in Babylon as trophies. Boasting that they had defeated Yahweh and his people, that Babylonia was the conqueror. And God says to Jeremiah, it's going to be 70 years. And then And so ten, twenty, thirty, forty years, fifty years go by. God raises up Cyrus of the growing Neto-Persian army. Babylon was constructed on the river Euphrates. Baghdad is 50 miles north on the Tigris. But the Euphrates River goes through, went through Babylonia, Babylon. And Cyrus diverted the waters of the Euphrates River and his soldiers marched right in. Remember Daniel wrote on the wall and interpreted the writing of God on the wall? But the time has come that very night. In one night, the kingdom of Babylon fell. The Medo-Persian Empire took it over in one vast blitzkrieg that utterly reduced Babylon to its ease. Over the succeeding generations, Babylon rebelled again and again, was attacked and destroyed. Alexander the Great tried to rebuild it, never succeeded, and by the year 200 A. D. it was utterly abandoned. A howling waste that has never been rebuilt upon to this very day. A pile of rubble. This, that once boasted one of the great seven wonders of the world, the hanging gardens of Babylon, is to this very day a howling wilderness along the river Euphrates. For God's time had come. The appointed time of the God of history had come, and nothing could stop it. God said, wait for it. Wait for my time. The victory of the enemy is such a temporary victory. And in the midst of this statement, God gives a couple of gems He says in chapter 2 verse 4, he gives a contrast to those who don't believe this in their arrogance and those who do, and he says uh about those who are puffed up and desires are not right, he contrasts that with the one who he says the righteous. will live by his faith. A statement that is so significant that two whole New Testament books are devoted to unfolding that one simple statement. Romans 1:17, Paul says, this is the thesis of this book, and he quotes Habakkuk 2. 4. The just, the righteous, will live by his faith. Galatians 3. 11, Paul quotes the same verse from Habakkuk 2. 4 as the thesis of the book of Galatians, because that is the basic watershed of all history And you stand on one side of that this morning. Either you stand on the side of works and your own record and self-effort, your own walking by your experience, or you stand on the side of faith. What is faith? It's taking the bare word of God as utterly trustworthy and basing your life upon it. What God says and the record of Jesus Christ, the fact that he lived and fulfilled the law and died for sinners and arose again and walked out of the tomb is utterly trustworthy, and I base my life upon that. This morning, every one of you here is basing your life either on your own experience, record, efforts, or you're basing it on Jesus Christ and God's word alone. Who among us here would be so foolish as to continue to bank on the world, our own efforts, our own abilities, when we see how hopeless we are? At doing anything of ourselves. Trust in the God of history through Jesus Christ. For he goes on to say in chapter 2, verse 14: the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea. God will triumph. Jesus Christ's kingdom will come. And so he ends it at the end of chapter 2, verse 20. But the Lord is in his holy temple Let all the earth be silent before him. And so, as a result of that, Habakkuk moves in response to that statement, to his prayer of faith. And that statement is said, humble yourself before me, I am in my temple, let all the earth before me be silent. And so chapter 3, verse 1, the prayer of Habakkuk, the prophet, when Shiggyana. Now I think that that's uh telling us That our prayers and worship should be created. Shidiannath is a musical term. And it's saying this prayer was put to music. Our response to God in our worship should be creative. That's another whole sermon. We can't get into that one now. But notice what he says. He responds to God in his temple with humility. Lord, I've heard of your fame. I stand in awe of your deeds. That's the basis of that song we sang just before the message. I stand in awe of you. Habakkuk 3. 1 And then you see what Habakkuk does. In that awe now, he is no longer saying, God, I have a problem. Why are you like this? Why are you doing this? How can you be that way? Because he's been humbled by the Holy God. And so now notice how his prayer changes. He says, God, I stand in awe of your deeds. Renew them in our day. In our time, make them known. God Take away all of this destruction. No, he doesn't say that. God, we don't deserve to have this happen to us. No, he doesn't say that. He says, God, in wrath, remember mercy. And if there's a message of the Book of Habakkuk to the United States and to the church in it today, it is That message. You and I will not understand the war with Iraq until we see that God is using this to get our attention in our arrogance, that we might humble ourselves before. Him and simply pray, God, in wrath, remember mercy. And when we come before that The righteous living by his faith in the bare word of God, he will triumph. Then you and I can have comfort in Jesus Christ. You see, Habakkuk goes on to think of the terror of this, and it's an awesome terror. He says in verse 16, when I heard about this, when I understood what it meant for the Iraqi army to come in to devastate Israel. And this was before Scud missiles and anything else. He says, when I heard about this, look what his response was. He says, I heard and my heart pounded. My pulse was throbbing in my temples. My lips quivered at the sound. I was ready to cry like a baby from terror. Decay crept into my bones and my legs trembled. We'd say today, my knees turned to water. Habakki said, I lost any confidence. I thought of this and I thought, oh, how horrible. What is going to happen to us? And you need to read verse 16 before you read verses 17 and 18, you see. Because if you just read verse 17 and 18, it can sound glimp. But if you understand the struggle and the emotional turmoil of verse 16, then it takes on a whole new meaning because it's then that he says. The end of verse 16, yet I will wait patiently for the day of calamity to come on the nation invading us. Why? Because God is in control. He is accomplishing his purpose on us who deserve. to have his punishment and his chastisement for our arrogance as a nation. And so he says in verse 17, though the fig tree does not bud. And though there's no grapes on the vines, and though the olive crop fails, and the fields even produce no food, though there's no sheep in the pen and no cattle in the stalls, yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will be joyful in God my Savior. How can you say this? If you read verse 16, you understand it's not because of any internal resources. He's not simply taking himself in hand and saying, Buck up, be a man, and face this thing. Habakkuk is saying, My heart failed. I can't face this thing. So what is the answer? Why was he able to say verses 17 and 18? Because of the prayer he prays in verses 3 to 15. Go home and read that prayer, and you'll see that what that prayer does is that it recounts God's saving power in history to redeem his people. He talks about God coming in splendor in verse 4 against Egypt. About how God shook the whole earth with his judgments to redeem his people in verse 6. About how when God redeemed his people from the enemy in order to execute that enemy in verse 11, he even made the Son to stand still in the day of Joshua. That God to save his anointed in verse 13 crushed the leader of the enemy. And all of a sudden you see that Habakkuk points to a much deeper problem. And the problem is told to us in the New Testament that God crushed his anointing to save you and me. And how can God crush righteous Jesus to save unrighteous you and me? And the answer is because he made Jesus to be sin and to bear our sin. And so God crushed him, that he might show in his appointed time of three days that Jesus would walk out of that tomb of victor. So Habakkuk ends in verse 19: the sovereign Lord is my strength. He makes my feet like the feet of a deer and enables me to go on the heights. And God is to this very day humbling us to show us that Jesus will reign, and to show us that the history of the nations is the history of the kingdom of God. Do you realize that since last August, I have heard, verified, that there had been over 10,000 professions of faith in Jesus Christ in the United States Army? God is humbling us. And he's showing us with the terrors before us that He is the God and His kingdom will progress. Just Christmas Day, there were over 300 baptisms. Read Habakkuk and understand who our God is. Humble yourself before Him. Deal with your doubts the way Habakkuk did. And stand in awe of Jesus, who will triumph on his appointed time. Let's pray. Lord divert deliver us from the kind of vision that sees this war as only that which is inconvenient and terror to us. And to those that we love and know, that we might see the events of our day in the larger picture of the kingdom of God. And of the God who says he sits in his holy temple, let all the earth be silent before him. Lord, how we thank you for a man who shared the same feelings as we do, Habakkuk, the fears. the struggles with his faith, that we might learn from him what kind of a God you are. and be encouraged and know how to pray. Even if we're a breakthrough in the Islamic world through the events of this war. That you would bring it to a swift conclusion, but that you would even more importantly accomplish your purpose in us as a church, in our nation, and in the world. For your honor. Help us, Lord, in personal struggles too, to learn from this that we might know how to deal with our own confusion and doubts. Minister to us that we might be a people who live by faith in the bare word of God in Jesus' name. Amen.