Last week I presented an argument based on Proverbs twenty-four, ten through twelve. That went as follows. If you look in your bulletin outline, you will see the three steps of that argument presented. Last week's argument went as follows. Number one We must rescue humans led away to unjust death. Number two, aborted fetuses are humans led away to unjust deaths. Number three, therefore, we must Act to abolish abortion on demand. Now it seems to me that the logic involved there is reasonably sound with one possible objection You see, I assumed in point two that fetuses are human. Number one is clearly based on scripture. We must rescue humans who are being led away to unjust death, because Proverbs 24, verse eleven tells us exactly that. Quote, rescue those being led away to death. Hold back those staggering toward the slaughter. Number two, My point number two, it is clear that these unborn children are being led away to death without any rights, but the question is, are they fully human beings? It seems to me that on this question really hangs the judgment of whether abortion is murder, or as it's often called today, simply TOP, termination of pregnancy. And I think we dare not underestimate the use and the power of language at this point. You see, it's a big difference for a doctor to say that uh I'm going to go do a TOP. And uh imply in that kind of language that it's some sort of a therapeutic operation like removing a cyst or whether he says, I'm going to go kill a baby. Both of these describe what he's going to do, but the language in either case makes quite a difference in its impact. I'll give you an example of how this is used in some of the psychological writings of these days from a book of a good friend of mine, Richard Gantz, called Thou Shalt Not Kill. He quotes from some psychologists. And has this to say. It is doubtful that you will find explicitly stated anywhere in any recent psychological study on abortion that the investigator believes that the fetus is not a human being. This belief is presupposed. I do not intend to present here the manifold evidence attesting to the fact that the unborn child is a human being. I certainly merely wish to expose the fact that the psychological investigators do have a bias in this area. Although their presupposition is never actually stated, one nonetheless catches countless glimmers of it below the surface. A small example. Why when a woman who has undergone an abortion speaks of the loss of her baby, do the investigators put quotation marks around the word baby But themselves write of the protoplasmic mass of the fetus, unencumbered by these small but significant type markings. It is because they assume that the aborted fetus is not a human being They wish to impose their beliefs subtly upon the readers. Such an assumption is not not only affects the interpretation of the data collected, but it affects the actual data. For example, a woman's response to the question, How do you feel about the recent therapeutic removal of the protoplasmic mass from your uterus? You'll get quite a different response. Then the question, how do you feel about the recent murder of your unborn child? Which question is objective depends upon which is true to the facts If abortion is indeed the killing of human beings, then the phrase to phrase the question any differently than the second alternative would be dissembling. So the question then comes to us: is abortion murder? And that relies upon the question, is the fetus a human being? What then does the scripture say about this? If it is, then we're compelled, on the basis of Proverbs 24, to hold back those who are going to the slaughter in this country. Now let me share with you as I speak on this and open up the scriptures and what I believe they're teaching on this to emphasize once again that abortion is not my thing. Pro-life anti-abortion crusade is not my thing. I do not choose to preach upon this. I would rather not preach on this. I wish I could avoid this, to tell you the truth. But in the last weeks, as I have begun to read both secular material as well as that from a Christian perspective I've had to confess that this has been an area in my own discipleship of Jesus Christ that I have sorely neglected. I would rather have not had to deal with this kind of matter. I don't want to have to raise the questions and deal with the questions, the tough questions, that have to come and be raised and the action possibly required by having to deal with this in my own life. I'd rather ignore it. I want to tell you so that you don't think that I'm just laying a heavy on you as a congregation who come from your problems in the week. To be uplifted by the word of God and hear you say, I'm just going to lay another heavy on you. I want to tell you that I myself have done nothing. to prevent abortion in this country. I'm not speaking from the point of view of one who is looking down or saying, This is where you have sinned I'm speaking as one who comes to the Word of God with you, struggles with its requirements and its provisions for our life. Because we all live as Christians under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And so I'm sharing with you honestly that I'm preaching to myself in this foremost as I declare God's word to you. If I didn't do this, I wouldn't be an honest teacher of the scriptures. I would be like that soldier that Martin Luther described, where he said, If any soldier is faithful in all the battle Except where the battle is raging the hottest, and is unfaithful at that one point, he's an unfaithful soldier. And if, in fact, revival is to come by the Spirit of God in this country, and one of the main things that's involved in the work of the Spirit of God in the sin of this country Is the murder of millions of innocent victims. It is unfaithful for us to overlook that and for me to pretend that the Word of God doesn't speak to it. With that in mind, let's then see. What does the scripture say about the unborn child? Is it fully human or isn't it? Notice in your outline then how I come at this. First of all, the first point is that the scripture refers To fetuses as persons. Fetuses throughout the scripture are referred to as persons. You see this first of all by the use of personal pronouns to refer to the unborn Now the first example that I listed there was Jeremiah 1:5. Since having listed that and studying it further, I've changed my mind. I don't think Jeremiah 15 supports that argument, so I'm honestly going to withdraw it. I think Jeremiah 15 really is speaking about God's foreknowledge of Jeremiah, not about Jeremiah in the womb. So you can cross that one off as far as I'm concerned. But the other two I think are in direct support of this argument. In Psalm fifty-one, verse five, we see David referring to himself before birth. He says there, surely I have been a sinner from birth, sinful from the time my mother conceived me Notice first of all that David refers to himself as me using a personal pronoun before he was born. There's a continuity of us identity there, even of his sinful nature, which certainly then implies a spirit or a soul. that he had from before birth, even from conception, the point being named. Psalm 139 that we talked that we uh read both to ourselves and then in worship to God earlier. It says in verses thirteen to sixteen, For you created my inmost being. You knit me personal pronoun, together in my mother's womb. I praise you because I And fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful, I know that full well. My frame was not hidden from you when I was made in the secret place. When I was woven together in the depths of the earth, your eyes saw my unformed body. All the days ordained for me were written in your book. Before one of them came to be. David referring to that continuity of his existence when God was forming him in the womb of his mother. But I think probably the clearest example of the Scriptures referring to pre-born babies as humans is found in Luke chapter one. Referring to John the Baptist. You remember the case where Mary had been told that she was going to conceive the Messiah. And after hearing that we read in Luke chapter one and verse thirty nine that at that time Mary got ready and hurried to attend the In the hill country of Judah, where she entered Zachariah's home and greeted Elizabeth. And when Elizabeth heard Mary's greeting, the babe leaped in her womb And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Spirit. And then she praises God. And then notice she says in verse 44: As soon as the sound of your greeting reached my ears, the baby in my womb leaped for joy. Clearly, these are the activities of a person that are being described here, not a massive protoplasm. Even though we'll acknowledge that what was going on here was supernatural, was an unusual Nevertheless, it seems to me that it presumes that this was God's working in a fully human person To produce that supernatural response of worship at the appearance of Jesus Christ, who himself was in the womb. To leap a joy at the presence of God is to worship God And Scripture is clear that only people can worship God. But there's an objection that's usually raised at this point. If a person has looked at the Scripture with great care, they'll know that Exodus 21, verses 22 to 25, is the one passage that explains. explicitly teaches certain legislation requiring fet pertaining to fetuses, pregnant women, the unborn children. Let's take a look then at the scripture this morning from Exodus chapter 21. Exodus 21, and to put the thing in context, let's begin at verse 12 and read down to verse 25. Exodus 21, 12 to 25, let's hear God's word. Anyone who strikes a man and kills him shall surely be put to death. However, if he does not do it intentionally, but God lets it happen, he is to flee to a place that I will designate. But if a man schemes and kills another man deliberately, take him away from my altar and put him to death. Anyone who attacks his father or his mother must be put to death. Anyone who kidnaps another and either sells him or still has him when he is caught must be put to death. Anyone who curses his father or mother must be put to death. If men quarrel and one hits the other with a stone or with his fist, and he does not die but is confined to bed, the one who struck the blow will not be held responsible if the other gets up and walks around outside with his staff. However, he must pay the injured man for the loss of his time and see that he is completely healed. If a man beats his male or female slave with a rod, and the slave dies as a direct result, he must be punished But he is not to be punished if the slave gets up after a day or two since the slave is his property. If men are who are fighting, hit a pregnant woman And she gives birth prematurely, but there is no serious injury, the offender must be fined whatever the woman's husband demands and the court allows. But if there is serious injury, you are to take life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise. This is the only passage that's ever been used, as far as I know, to show that the fetus is less than human. And the way this passage is used to show that is based on the distinction of the penalties that are laid upon the offenders The argument is pretty much clearly presented in the kind of translation done by the New American Standard. Notice how the New American Standard translates this If men struggle with each other and strike a woman with child so that she has a miscarriage, yet there is no further injury, he shall surely be fined as the woman's husband may demand of him, and he shall pay as the judge decide. But if there's any further injury, then you'll appoint as a penalty life for life, etc. The argument basically goes that there's been a miscarriage, but there's no injury to the mother, and therefore there's only a fine levied. But if in fact the mother has been injured, that's a much severer offense, and therefore even to the death penalty There is the punishment laid on those who did the injury. Therefore, you see, the fetus is of less value. If the fetus is killed, it's only a fine. If the mother is killed, a life is taken That's a popular understanding of that passage. It was crucial to a right understanding of the value of the unborn at this point, and so I want us to rightly understand what God is in fact teaching in these verses. And I'll do that by five brief points. Follow along as I make them. First of all, notice that even if this were true That this fetus had less value than the mother. The scripture is still quite here, clear in saying that it is wrong, that is, it is sin, even when it's accidental. How much more then if it's a deliberate abortion would it be sin in the sight of God for reasons of convenience or preference of the mother? If it's wrong when it's accidental, How much more so if it's intentional? And whatever interpretation you use, this passage says that that destruction of the unborn was wrong. But I think we can go much further. Listen carefully as I read for you a literal translation, painstakingly literal. a woodenly literal translation of the Hebrew at this point. The literal translation of verse 22 would read, And when men fight and they strike a pregnant woman And her children goes forth or goes out, and there is no injury or harm, he shall be fined, etcetera, etc. Notice four things about this. First of all, notice that word child. Literally, you see, it's the word children here. or child. It's used children plural because probably of indefiniteness. However many children she has in her womb. But that word child is a significant word. I quote concerning the study of that word from a report concerning the matter of abortion that was issued to our church in 1971, two years before the Supreme Court ruling. Concerning this word child in Exodus twenty one, twenty two to twenty five, the author has and in fact it's a team of authors who did this study, a very exhaustive study, uh a study, by the way, of which we've ordered seventy five copies, so they'll be available. For anyone who would like to buy this study, an excellent study. But they have this to say concerning this word child in the Hebrew in verse 22 of Exodus 21. In the first place, this term, the term in the Hebrew is Yeled, this term Yeled in verse twenty-two never refers elsewhere in the Bible to a child lacking recognizable human form or to one incapable of existing outside the womb. The possibility of such a usage here, as the interpretation in question requires, is still further reduced by the fact that if the writer had wanted to speak of an undeveloped embryo or a fetus, there may have been other terminology available to him. There the term is golem. It's the word that was used in Psalm 139, 16. For me in my mother's womb. For me is the fetus in my mother's womb. Which means an embryo or a fetus. But in cases of the death of an unborn child, Scripture regularly designates him not by the word Yelet or even by the word Golem but by the word nephel and there's a number of um citations there where that word is used, which literally means one untimely born. So this word is referring to a live child who is fully human. And that's what it's referring to here in this case. Secondly, you notice the word there goes out That word goes out in verse 22 is one of two possible words that could have been used to describe that activity of birth. The two words that could be used, one is the word Yatzah, which almost is always used of a normal live birth. For instance, in Genesis 25-26, where you read of Jacob and Esau, and one is one goes out, Jacob goes out. He goes out, he's born and grabs his heel, the heel of his brother. That's this word Yatzah. He was born. He went out and grabbed his brother's heel. The other word is the word shakol. Which is a word that's used for miscarriage and spontaneous abortion. For instance, in Exodus twenty three, just a couple chapters ahead here. In Exodus twenty three, in verse twenty five and twenty-six God says, Worship the Lord your God, and his blessing will be on your food and your water, and I will take away sickness from among you, and none will miscarry or be barren in your land. That's the word shakol. The word that's used here in Exodus twenty-one is the word Yatsa, a word that refers in every case except one in the Old Testament to a live birth, in which a child who is viable lives. Notice thirdly the word harm here. The word harm in verse 22 is not restricted to the mother. Listen again as I read the literal translation. What is your natural understanding of it? If two men and one men fight and they strike a pregnant woman and her children goes forth and there is no harm, there shall be a fine. Now, what is your understanding on that reading of what that word harm or injury refers to? There is no reason on any exegetical basis to apply the harm or the injury only to the mother. In fact, the clause immediately follows the birth of the child. And so we see that the word here, harm, is referring to both the mother and the child. If you'll notice in the New American Standard, where it says, and there is no further increase. The word further is an italics. It does not appear in the original. They also acknowledge by a footnote that it does not necessarily mean that she had a miscarriage, but rather that the children come out. There's no reason to interpret it as something that refers only to the mother. The harm refers either to the child or to the mother. Rather, this verse is teaching that even if there is an accidental death or injury, then the person who does this is responsible, even to the point of their death. Finally then, what's the significance? What's the significance of the distinction of the penalties? Well, again, notice in the bulletin, this could be a possible compensation for damages to the woman's reputation or expenses or danger to a premature delivery. There's only two finds in the whole Old Testament law. One of them is here, the other one is in Deuteronomy 22, 19. We have a woman who has been compromised by being raped, and there is the damage is paid for her reputation. There in that case. So the fine, perhaps in this case, refers to a woman who has a premature birth, which there's indication of in that culture that was a shame to her That was something that was uh that would uh in some way mar her reputation. Besides, of course, the inconvenience, the dangers that would be involved in such a dangerous birth Also, you can see that this would be certainly a deterrent for special protection of pregnant women I mean if you're going to fight, you're not going to do it around a pregnant woman if these are the kind of consequences that can be laid on you. So you're going to make special care to make sure that that woman is not going to be harmed or injured. And so there is that special circle of protection that God draws around the pregnant women so that they do not then uh so they will not be exposed to injury. Thirdly, I would suggest that the Scripture treats those who are unborn as humans because there is an inability to demarcate any pre-human or human point beyond conception. Clearly, the scripture does not indicate that this should be something done only at birth. John the Baptist is a clear instance of this, one who was clearly human before he was born. And yet, as C. Every Coop has said, what about five minutes before that? Or five minutes before that? At what point are you going to say that that mass of protoplasm passed from simply a mask to a human being. There is no single point in which there is a radical change beyond conception. Particularly with earlier and earlier viability according to technology today, you can't even say it's when that big Because there is no single point that you can define that. It depends on the circumstances of birth and what technology is available. The only radical point then, the only radical transition is when the sperm and the egg come together and those forty-six chromosomes exist in one fetus, one zygot. One cell that is then able without interruption to form a human life, able to reproduce itself. And this, of course, has been the understanding of the Christian Church since its very beginning. Schaefer and Koop document this in quoting from early Christian literature. The Didiche, or the teaching of the Twelve Apostles, an early Christian document from the second century, or maybe even the late first century, clearly prohibits abortion. Tertullian, one of the famous early Bible scholars, in his Apologeticus written AD one hundred and ninety seven, writes For us, murder is once for all forbidden. So even the child in the womb, while yet the mother's blood is still being drawn on to form the human being, it is not lawful for us to destroy. To forbid birth is a Only quicker murder. It makes no difference. This was of course Roman practice, abortion in this way. It makes no difference whether one takes the life once born or destroys it as it comes to birth. He is a man who is to be a man. The fruit is always present in the seed. And this is the historic position of the church. There's no reason in technology today to change that position, but only rather to affirm it. Now lastly, I want to show before specific application in this, but Exodus twenty one, twenty two to twenty. Shows that man is precious. And this is done by showing, first of all, the protection given to man, even before birth. Notice that there's a special protection in these verses to that mother bearing a child who's carrying a child. A protection that's not even given to a woman whose life is not carrying a child. And so God is drawing a circle of special protection to show that that little unborn infant is precious to him, and therefore man is precious to God. Secondly, we see this through the punishment. The severity of the punishment is an indication of man's value to God. Because there's even life taken for life, we see that the man is very precious to God. The maximum penalty is levied. But finally, what's most important for us to realize is that Exodus twenty-one, twenty-two-twenty-five teaches that the only hope for mankind is in pardon versus justice. You see, Exodus 21, 22 to 25 is a strong statement of responsibility and justice. The baby is not just a massive protoplasm to be destroyed at will. He's precious. But this is also a strong statement of God's justice. It's a strong statement telling us that God is a God of justice. Now picture yourself as a man It's the one contemplating that fight. And here it is, you've gotten into this situation, this fella has irritated you and aggravated you no end, and so you draw your sword. And the two of you are going to go at it, hammer and tongue. You start sword, you start Stories are hitting back and forth there, and there's this pregnant woman standing beside. And as you do this, you lop off her hand by accident You're being careless. You're a moment of passion and rage and you're going at this fella. And she, perhaps, you see, because knowing there was that special protection afforded her, risks herself in standing before you because she knows that you dare not hit her. But you do anyway. You're so mad, and you lock off her hand. They bring you before the judges, and they say your hand will be locked off. As they take your hand and lay it down and cut that hand off of your body, there's nothing more evident to you than that God is a God of justice. A hand for a hand, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Woe is me, for God is just. And then you and I begin to peruse the rest of the law. And we begin to see at this point I've broken the law. And at that point I've broken the law. And at every point I'm reminded along with that that God is a God of justice A hand for a hand, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. And as we look at this and we find that we've offended him, the Holy God, at every point. What hope is there possibly for us who are sinners? And yet we see even in this glimpses of God's compassion. Coming through. In Exodus 34, we read that God who will by no means clear the guilty but will punish them is also a God who is compassionate. A God who is gracious and slow to anger, abounding in love, who will forgive wickedness, rebellion, and sin. And then we find that along comes a man Jesus. And Jesus, in teaching what the Father is like, quotes these verses in Matthew 5, verse 38 to 42. And Jesus says, Now you've heard it said to you, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth, which is exactly what Exodus twenty-one is saying. But I tell you, do not resist an evil person. If someone strikes you on the right cheek, turn to them the other also. If someone wants to sue you and take your tunic, let them have your cloak as well. If someone forces you to go one mile, go with them two miles. Give to the one who asks of you, and do not turn away from the one who wants to borrow from you. And Jesus is coming, he's saying in this A God who is a God of justice, a justice that can never be compromised, is also a God of mercy, a God of pardon. And that grace as well as that truth has come to full expression in the person of Jesus. Jesus, who is the one reflecting justice, is also now saying that he reflects mercy and compassion. So Jesus teaches compassion. And Jesus lives compassion and mercy and pardon. And then Jesus dies compassion and pardon. How is God going to extend a pardoning mercy to you and to me, who have broken his law at every point, if he is a God of justice. And Jesus comes to show us that he's done it in the person of his own son. You and I, you see, are the ones that stand there before the judges. And we're the ones who have been guilty. We're the ones who have harmed and marred that pregnant woman. And here's the picture. We stand before the judge. And the judge says, You knocked out her tooth. And so your tooth must be knocked out, and they come to knock it out. And Jesus comes and he stands and he says, No. Knock out my tooth instead, and justice will be satisfied. And they knock out Jesus' tooth. And we knocked out our eye, and the judge says, your eye must be knocked out. Justice demands it. And so they come to poke out your eye, and Jesus comes and he stands in your place and he says, No. Poke out my eye instead, and that will satisfy justice. And they poke out his eye. And then we come before God's bar and all of the law is displayed before us. And God says, You've offended me at every point. Your life is required. And I say, There's no hope. And Jesus comes in my place, and he says, take my life instead. And they take his life Well, I don't you see that Exodus 21 is a beautiful picture of what Jesus Christ did for us. His life was taken for your life. So that God's pardon could be extended to you and me in his behalf And so before we apply anything else in terms of our response to this in society, the first thing we must do is look in our own hearts. We must praise God for the pardon that we've received in Jesus because his life was given in place of ours We must see that while God is a God of justice displayed so clearly in passages like this, He's a God also of pardon. Because the justice was executed upon Jesus, the pardon is offered to you. Have you ever received that pardon? Have you ever received that through Jesus Christ and known that the justice which God must execute? Is either has come upon Jesus or it will come upon you. If you haven't, receive it. And if we have, let's praise Him for it, His life, for our life. Then secondly we must value human life. All human life is image-bearers of God. We must, as the bulletin says here, we must examine ourselves to see do we think in terms of there being a life not worthy to be lived Or to be kind to. If we do, we're reflecting the same kind of mentality that we're so deploring. Let's not dare to have a pharisaic attitude here while in our own minds and hearts we measure value of Of those that we find it worth being kind to and those who are not. For God works in us according to his grace to value life. as he die is in. Then finally, thirdly, we must act to protect the lives of the unborn First of all, come to the film series. Come and invite your friends and bring them. Make sure that you come also to the three Sunday school classes on March 2, 9, and 16, in which we seek to implement this. And talk about what this means for our own lives. Where can the film be used? Christian schools, other organizations. Perhaps you would like to talk about how the film could be used in some other context for greater exposure. Secondly, we need to educate ourselves further concerning the matter of abortion, the practices and the issues, to read, to sign up on a sheet for the Right to Life newsletter, for instance, to notice in the news of the paper, magazines. The issues that are being raised before us. Thirdly, we need to influence others toward a biblical view of man. We need to talk to friends about this, to write into the flyer, as our friends talk about having an abortion, to seek to shape Share with them what the Bible says about man's worthwhile. And again, not in an attitude of condescension, but of compassion. And then fourthly, we need to support pro-life legislation. We need to, in our Undershephered groups, as we see these things come up through the leaders who will be receiving this information, know what it is that we can act on, and then act as Christian individuals, as citizens, the responsible disciples of Jesus. Jesus Christ. But in all of this, to do it under the motivation of those who serve Jesus, whose life was given for our life. Because God counted us precious to himself, precious enough that he gave his own son To execute justice upon him, so that we would receive the pardon. Let's pray At your word here and see that justice is something that we often want to demand, except one is toward ourselves. We see, Father, that you are a God of absolute justice. You don't play favorites. You not just word one and then overlook the sins of another. We all stand open and naked before you. As we want justice, Father, so we shall get justice. But oh Lord our God, how we give you thanks that Jesus Christ has come so that the justice The stroke of justice was laid upon him so that the pardon could be given to us, that his life was substituted for our life. His eye, his tooth, his body was bruised. He was the one upon whom the stripes were laid, so that we could go free. We give you thanks and praise and worship for this. And ask Father that you would help us each to have that view of human beings that you have, to value them, because they're made in your image. To treat them as such, and to respond, Father, even to the situation around us in which people are increasingly devalued to know what you want us to do as your people. In this area. Help us, Father, as individuals, as a church, to be obedient to you, to be obedient to you in working these things through and acting upon them. to honor you and to turn around this nation to the value of life, to the revival that we believe that you alone can bring to it. For the sake of Christ. Amen. Psalm eight.