A word about where we are. We've been considering the biblical doctrine of forgiveness since last January. And we've been considering within that The doctrine of forgiving one another since last night. The last time together here we considered the matter of restitution. I want to remind you. about uh a couple of things that I was trying to communicate in that message on restitution The things that I was communicating in that message I believe were totally consistent with everything that I had to say about justification last April and everything that we considered about the Lordship of Jesus Christ the previous fall. What I'm saying is that In that message, I was trying to communicate that restitution uh does not contradict at all the fact that forgiveness is entirely by grace Our forgiveness is 100% by grace. Forgiveness is always by grace, and never more than when it's the forgiveness of a holy God for sinners. We can never earn in the slightest degree God's forgiveness of us if we just be able to restore the entire world Forgiveness always must come by atonement, the pain and the taking away of sin. by the sacrifice and the blood of Jesus Christ, crucified and risen. You see, we have to be careful to not confuse restitution with penance. Restitution is not penance. Penance is paying for sin in order to earn forgiveness. Restitution is not that. Restitution is simply saying that while forgiveness is always by grace, nevertheless, repentance always bears fruit. And in the case of where the sin was taking something from someone or distraughting someone or cheating someone then the fruit of repentance in that case would be the desire to restore what was taken, a simple obedience to Jesus Christ. He doesn't earn my forgiveness from God. He simply seeks to make right what was wrong. Forgiveness is always by grace But repentance always bears fruit. Now today I want to take up this matter of capital punishment, and then that will conclude part four. There will be simply two more messages from a part five on wrapping this whole thing up with two parables of forgiveness, one from the Old Testament, one from the New Testament. And then Lord willing, that will conclude the entire series on forgiveness. However, I must say that those two weeks probably will be interrupted by one week when we will be uh hosting during that time having our third child and I will be taking off a week and we will be hearing from either Fit Cake or Ray Logson depending on what week that would uh that event will fall. Uh but there will be just those two more messages in part five and then we conclude this matter of forgiveness. So why then do I decide to take this matter of capital punishment up to conclude this whole subject of forgiving one another? Well, there are two reasons for this. Number one is the theological reason, because it fits naturally in this topic. If you see forgiveness is as complete as you've been talking about, Then the question would seem naturally to rise, should society forgive a murderer? Should we rather, or should we practice forgiveness toward a person who's taking another's life? The second reason why I bring this up is not only that it fits naturally into the subject matter, but it also fits because of certain recent developments in our state and in our country. On May twenty-fifth of this year, Franknik was executed in the Florida Electric Chair. Well, that was the first capital execution in the United States in twelve years. And it has resurfaced the entire debate over capital punishment. There are at the present time approximately five hundred prisoners in death row in 24 states in this country awaiting the outcome of the debate that is going on now. Just been deciding to consider this topic, I have found in three magazines discussing on this issue of capital punishment. First magazine, Christian magazine, Evangelical Christian magazine In one case, there was no position set forth definitively as a biblical position on capital punishment. And in the other magazine, there was the entire magazine practically devoted to an attack upon capital punishment as being unbiblical. Uh that issue was the July issue of Stage Owners magazine which spent most of its magazine uh during that issue saying that the capital punishment violated the teaching of Christ, the gospel, and the whole concept of forgiveness So a generation or two ago, capital punishment was generally accepted in the United States as being something which was right, morally right. There was a gradual shift away from that in the fifties and in the sixties, so that by the mid sixties Only thirty percent of the United States population favored capital punishment. The last execution was in nineteen sixty seven before this year, and at that time people thought that we had passed an era an era of retribution and barbarism in our society. No longer would society seek to take the life of another person and justify that on moral grounds There was a shift during that time, the whole notion of how to deal with criminals. A notion that shifted from retribution to correction from the idea that criminals have something to pay in to restore justice to the idea that a criminal is someone to be rehabilitated There has been a reverse in this of public opinion in just the last few years. It is generally attributed to the increase in crime in our country as well as to the economic considerations, where people have come to realize it has cost approximately twenty-four thousand dollars a year per criminal kept in prison Because that means if you take one man and give him a twenty-five year sentence, it cost the taxpayer six hundred thousand dollars to keep him in prison. Virtually very little for society And it's questionable how much it's feeling for that person. Before because of these and other considerations, there has been a complete reversal in our society Recent polls have indicated that now 70% of Americans favor capital punishment, whereas just ten years ago, 70% were against it. And yet right now religious groups and religious leaders are in the forefront of opposition against capital punishment. Leaders in practically all the major denominations in the United States have come out clearly against capital punishment. Evangelicals are divided over this. I suggest, whatever your background, that this is not a simple open and shut kind of case. And I felt compelled took a week to consider this as Christians as to what the Bible has to say about this. For us as citizens in the state of Maryland, this is particularly relevant Because the state of Maryland recently rewrote its law so that capital punishment can be enforced in this state according to the uh new 1976 Supreme Court ruling. Which allows states who have certain kinds of laws to carry out capital punishment. Maryland now fits that category. There has not to this state been a single execution since those laws have been changed. Governor Hees has indicated that he has certain moral reservations about enforcing capital punishment. And so how this debate goes in these next few years will probably determine the course for many years to come. particularly in this case. Where then do we as Christians stand on this issue? I want to deal with this by covering four p points That you see there in the bulletin. You move through all those sheets in there and come up under the one there that uh is the bulletin the uh message outline And you see there are four points that I want to deal with. First of all, clarifying the issues, secondly, the biblical data. Thirdly, objections to this, and then fourthly, the capital crime and punishment. You know what this teaches us about Jesus Christ. I like to consider this by looking at two scriptures from Genesis and from Romans. So let us take a look at the scripture now from Genesis chapter nine and Romans chapter thirteen. First of all, Genesis chapter nine, verses one to seven. Then God blessed Noah and his son say unto them, Be fruitful and increase in number and fear the earth. The fear of dread of you will fall upon all the beasts of the earth and all the birds of the air, upon every creature that moves along the ground, and upon all the fish of the sea. They are givigolating their hands. Everything that milk and means will be feed for you. Just as I gave you the green plants, they I now give you everything. But we left naughty me that has its life blood still in it. And for your lifeblood, I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting from every animal, and from each man too. I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. Whoever shed the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. For the image of God Has God laid man. As to you be fruitful and increase the number, multiply of the earth, and increase upon it. Then from Romans chapter 13. The first five verses. Everyone must submit himself to the government authorities, for there is no authority except that which God has established. The authorities that exist have been established by God. Consequently, he who rebels against the authority is rebelling against what God has instituted. And those who do so will bring judgment on themselves. For willers hold no power to those who do right, but to those who do wrong. You rather be free from fear of the wall and authority, then do what is right. And he will commend you. So he is God's servant to do you good. But if you do wrong, Be afraid. For he does not bear the sword to nothing. He is God's servant, and he can at last to bring punishment on the wrongdoer. Therefore it is necessary to submit to the authorities Not only because of possible punishment, but also because of conscience. So far now, the Word of God, let's give attention to it First of all, I want to deal with the issues. Clarifying the issues. It's very important in this case, as in any complex moral case We have to clarify what the issues really are, because such issues are usually surrounded by a great deal of emotional rhetoric The question you see before us now is not, first of all, what are the practical considerations, but rather what does the Bible say Now I'm going to assume in this whole discussion this morning that you will accept what the Bible says. I'm not going to persuade you from my opinions From my experience, from the things that I have read, I am not going to take a look at any of those questions. We could go on for hours considering that. Primarily, what we are going to try to do in order to deal with this question is to find out what are the issues that the scripture speaks to. F And then what does the scripture have to say concerning those issues. I suggest that once we have boiled all of the discussion down, that in the time that we can deal with this morning, we could deal with a lot of other things, but in the time that we have to deal with this this morning, there are three main issues. The first issue is the issue of retribution or correction. Which way does the scripture deal with criminals? Does it deal with criminals in terms of retribution or in terms of correction? By retribution, I mean the rendering of a punishment equivalent to the crime. so that justice is restored. The rendering of a punishment which is equivalent to the crime committed So the justice is restored. Correction, on the other hand, says that the object of the state uh posture toward the uh colonel is to recondition that person so that he can function effectively in society. To recondition the person So that you'll be a productive member in society. That means not holding him responsible. for what he did wrong, but rather saying that society as a whole is responsible for this and society as a whole must therefore bear the cost And the function of seeking to restore this person. The second issue that we have to deal with is the question: does New Testament grace displace Old Testament justice? Under that first note, you notice I have incidentally there in parenthesis a statement that there is no place for restitution. What I mean by that is simply that We cannot bring restitution into this because in a case where you've taken a person's life, obviously there's no way you can restore it. It is the one crime that is irremedial And so it is a question of restribution rather than restitution. Now in the second case I'm asking the question, does he personally displace all personally justice? You hear this as an argument from a number of people. The Old Testament taught an eye for an eye and a teeth for a teeth. The New Testament teaches this rather to turn the other cheek. Therefore capital punishment is dis is displaced by the New Testament ethics of nonviolence, of a lack of of vengeance. A capital punishment is seen as to be something which is basically social vengeance and therefore this violates the concept of grace So then this capital punishment at its uh use really violates the gospel of the New Testament. The question here basically is, does the New Testament grace displace Old Testament justice? It's quite clear that capital punishment was uh required in the Old Testament teachings. This disguise displaced The third question to deal with is the question of the sanctity of life. Both advocates and opponents of capital punishment will appeal to the sanctity of life as one of their main arguments. The question here then is does the sanctity of life forbid or demand capital punishment? Those who say it forbids capital punishment argue that the sanctity of life That teaches us that uh when a person's life has been taken, that no further life should be taken. Two wrongs don't make a right, as it were And therefore you should not take another life because that life is precious, even if it's the life of a murderer. Those who argue that the sanctity of life requires capital punishment argue essentially like this that because life is so sacred, therefore the ultimate penalty is required for the person who takes that life. Justice and deterrence require the ultimate penalty for someone who has taken a life. Now which is true. Let's then look at the scripture and see what it teaches us. Again, my proportion is that if I can demonstrate to what the scripture teaches However, we feel about that, whatever that does to our background, our teaching, whatever it does to our inclinations, we must wrestle with what God's Word says. And I invite any of your response after this message to talk to me at the end. Maybe I'll be corralled at the door and there'll be a big discussion going on or any other time. But you must talk to me from the scriptures, not that just doesn't seem right or it doesn't seem reasonable or this or that kind of thing. Those things may I have sympathy with them. I don't think we can ignore how we feel about things, but it doesn't argue the point. And what the scripture says? First of all then, I want to take a look at Genesis 9. Genesis 9, verses 5 and 6. In Genesis 9, 5 and 6, remember we read these words, and for your lifeblood I will surely demand an accounting. I will demand an accounting from every animal and from every man too. I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man Whoever sheds the blood of man by a man shall his blood be shed. For in the image of God has God made man. I suggest there are two parts To this teaching? First of all, the requirement and then the reason. Now that's not what you see in the boat, and I'll deal with that in a minute. What this teaching is, first of all, is the requirement that God lays on man. We see that in verse five, in the beginning of verse six. From each man too I will demand an accounting for the life of his fellow man. Whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed. A literal Hebrew rendering, you just take the words, word for word, into Hebrew at the end of verse 5, we read like this, at the hand of man At the hand of man's brother will I require the life of man. At the hand of man, at the hand of man's brother, will I require the life of man? The context of this discussion would be if the evil heart. of man. It's the evil heart of man and the preciousness of man. Remember this comes right after the flood And after the flood is a holy society. Nobody's left but Noah's family. And now God who has wiped out the rest of the human race is beginning again Now, with God in this face though, well now we've got a whole new race here. Things are going to be different. Things are really looking up now. Because Noah's a good guy and on him there will be a fruitful, productive society. So I really have confidence in my man Noah. Not at all. You read in chapter 8, verse 21. God says, the Lord smelled the pleasing aroma of Lola's sacrifice to him And said in his heart, Never again will I curse the ground because of man. Man's precious. What's the reason? And what's the consideration? Even though every inclination of his heart, the evil from his childhood. And never again will I destroy all living creatures as I have done. What God's saying there is, I'm not going to destroy them again. Because I would have to destroy the entire human race to eradicate evil. Every thought of his heart is evil from his mutts. No better ultimately in his heart than those that I destroyed. The only hope you see is grace. Now God is saying in the context of that that there needs to be certain restrictions so that the human race isn't wiped out. So evil is man. And one of those he places is here in chapter 9. He says, Therefore, I am going to require Retribution for the person you would dare to take the life of man. The ultimate deterrence The faith says, I will demand, I will require at the hand of man a life of a man who took the life of another man. A man who took a life His life is required. His life is required to be taken by another man. Now, having made that requirement You see that he designed to spell out another scriptures as to who does that and how it's done. He has a reason for it. We see that in verse six The reason for this is that whoever sheds the blood of man, by man shall his blood be shed, for, because the reason, in the image of God has God made Man. The reason you see is that you and I are made in God's image. That's the last time we stopped to consider the worthiness of that simple statement. And all of your weakness, your frailty, those things that you don't like about yourself, those things that you and I have trouble with, you and I are made in the image of the eternal God. We bear his image He bare his stamp of his likeness. And therefore God says that because man Bears God's own image. To take the life of a man is an assault upon the life of God Himself. If you take the life of a man, You have assaulted God's own image. There is nothing more closely that you can do to assault God himself than to destroy one who bears his image. And God says because of that, the life of the murderer is required. So I would suggest to you that this is still in force. This is not simply for LSA, it is not simply for the Old Testament, for two reasons, and I have two reasons to stay in the bulletins. First of all, because of the time of the institution. Of this mandate. The term you see is before the giving of the law of Moses. This is not part of the Mosaic Law This is something that is given universally to mankind. Noah and his family are the entire human race at this point. And this command is given to the entire human race, not for a particular time or dispensation. God is saying here, this is not part of the theocracy. This is universal. And as universal as its reason. And the reason is the second consideration. But I would argue for it still being enforced. You see, man still is made in God's image. Fallen sinful, perverted and distorted, nevertheless, you and I still bear God's image. And because of that, murder is still an assault upon the life of God. Because of that reason, then, life is so precious that the ultimate punishment is required To be brought to bear on the one who destroys that life. The objection that the sanctity of life forbids us taking another life, I believe, is without force. Is it a higher view of life? To say that we will recondition the murderer or perhaps put him on parole, as opposed to taking seriously that person's responsibility. Treating him as one who is not simply the product of his circumstances and his society, but realizing that that is a person who is a free agent One who is in God's image and therefore responsible for his actions, mitigating circumstances, though they may be. This is really the biblical and high view of man. A society with such perverted values as to without second thought murder tens of thousands and millions of unborn babies and to protest But to take the life of a murderer is barbaric is a society that truly has not submitted its taken. for the biblical values. For the second scripture in this consideration, Numbers chapter thirty five to Uh I will not only not read, but I can't even really consider that. I simply put it in there so that you have it to check yourself I'm simply making two points from that scripture and I think they need to be at least stated. And that is that number thirty-five, which talks about All the mosaic legislation, most of it at least, concerning murder and its punishment, makes a sharp distinction between manslaughter and murder. Therefore, you can't argue that well what what about a person who has done this without uh really uh it's not a first-degree murder, it's not really an intention, what is this good to have to say? Well there's a sharp distinction. If that person's life is not required, read Numbers 35 to see about the cities of refugees and all that were required in that. You see again, the whole point is in God's word throughout, from beginning to end, is the motive of the person. That's the primary consideration. Not simply the action, but it's the motive. That's why we're talking about murder, not killing. Premeditated first degree murder is what we're discussing. Numbers makes that clear. The second thing to make clear is also the fact that numbers teaches based only on the testimony of two or more witnesses. That such a punishment can be carried out. The scripture is very concerned that justice is universally applied, that there are no loopholes for the rich But there are no extra considerations so that all are equal under the law, but some are more equal than others. And the scripture is quite clear that this is to be applied to the king as well as to the poorest alien. This is something, of course, dismodlied today. But numbers teach us that the justice was to be universally Totally equitably applied in this case. I think of a case of a man in Maryland a few years ago who raped, murdered, mutilated, and tortured a 13-year-old girl. And that man was brought to trial, and the sentence was greatly reduced because his lawyer found a comma missing in the statute to pertain to his face. It's called the comma case of man. And because of that listening comma, now that man was not given a capital sentence. And this is simply legal uh games that are played by the rich, technicalities that release people. I am not in any way defending such inequities and talking about the principles. First consideration is from Romans chapter 13. In Romans chapter 13, we have here the consideration from the New Testament point of view. I want to read just one verse in this because it's what I'll be considering. Romans 13, 4. Talking about the state, the magistrate, he says there, Paul says, For he is God's servant to do you good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword For nothing. He's God's servants, an agent of wrath, to bring punishment on the wrongdoers. Now the question you see here is that in the Old Testament, capital punishment was enforced, carried out by the relative of the person who was murdered. That was in a theocracy What about a case now where you have a separation of church and state? Who's going to carry this out? I I don't think anybody would want to argue for the fact that uh if uh a relative of yours is murdered that uh you're the person who can take that vengeance in your own hands. Rather, Paul here is bringing in the fact that clearly the state Is given that responsibility. So I want to make two points in this verse. First of all, you see in the bulletin, the sword is given to the state To punish evil. That is, this the state has the authority for capital punishment. So notice in chapter 12 in verse 17 And Paul has addressed himself to this personal vengeance argument. He says there 1217, do not repay anyone evil for evil. Verse 19 Do not take revenge, my friends, but leave room for God's wrath. For it's written, It's mine to avenge, and I will repay. And then verse 21: Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good. And so Paul here is right in this context speaking about the wrongness of personal vengeance. He is saying that is not the attitude of the Christians. How then is God going to avenge a murderer? How is God going to carry out what is required in Genesis chapter 9? How is God going to then enforce this vengeance that He Himself has required? And he goes on in chapter 13, verse 4 to say it's through the state. That God has given the authority to the magistrate, to the state, to be the agent of wrath. You see there, verse 4. He is the agent of wrath. He bears the sword. The sword, of course, is an instrument of death. Certainly, this includes in Paul's argument here punishment for everything from traffic violations up to capital punishment. It includes much lesser punishment. But to argue that it includes lesser violations, but not the ultimate one, is to rob the whole symbol of sword from all of its force. The sword, you see, is an instrument of death. And then secondly, murder is the clearest case But that is to say, we we uh see from the authority given to the state here That whatever else is required to punish, certainly murder is included in this. I think that's most clearly uh stated In this book by John Murray, Principles of Conduct, I want to quote just one paragraph from him on this. He's talking about this ver verse, Romans 13, 4, and he says there that this verse Distinctly implies that to the civil magistrate is given not only the power, but as the minister of God the right, the authority to use the sword for the infliction of death As the penalty for crimes which merit this retribution. If we were to attempt to draw up a catalog of such crimes, we would encounter difficulties What about adultery? What about uh many other crimes in the Old Testament that were punishable by death? What does that teach us about the New Testament? There's room for a lot of discussion and further thought on this But one thing is plain. In terms of biblical teaching, the one crime that is placed beyond all questions is falling into this category is Sabbath murder. The right of the sword implies at least one crime for which death may be inflicted. And that one crime, if there would be only one, is certainly the crime of murder. That above all others is clear from the scripture. Finally, then to conclude with regard to the issues that we spoke to, we see that the scripture teaches us That number one, retribution is required for all civil offenses In the scripture. Retribution, not simple correction. I'm not arguing against correction. I'm simply saying the correction without any consideration for justice by way of retribution is not a biblical concept. It's not a biblical view of man. It doesn't take man seriously enough. It treats man as a nothing rather than as one who bears God's image. So retribution is required. Secondly, grace does not displace justice in the biblical teaching. Grace does not displace justice in the execution of civil law. Romans 13 clearly shows us that. In fact, Paul even on one occasion said himself, if I am worthy of death, then execute me. Paul himself acknowledged that possibility. And then thirdly, the sanctity of life therefore requires or demands the payment of the life of the murderer to restore justice. I don't want to take a minute or two to deal with the objections to this. First of all, there are three kinds of objections generally set forth to this. The first one is the exegetical. That's the weightiest kind of objection. It's really ultimately the only one, though I do want to just speak to the other two briefly. But you see, first of all, the uh the exegetical objection, that is the interpretation of these passages Well, first of all, the only one I've really been able to find in all the discussions I see on this concerning Genesis 9. 6 is an argument that goes like this. It says that in Genesis 9:6 we have there uh that um the statement that um man shall be whoever sheds man's the blood of man by man shall his blood be shed And uh one person writes that uh that word by would really better be translated for, so that you read, whoever sheds the blood of man for man shall his blood be shed And what God really is doing there is simply saying that it's ultimately my responsibility, God's responsibility to execute that justice. But God Himself is saying if somebody sheds man's blood, then I will take the vengeance on that person, and not man And Well, uh I checked two Hebrew grammars and lexicons, and in anything that I was able to find, the word 4 is not even a possible translation for that prefix and construction into Hebrew. I don't even know where this person dug up that argument. They give no subscription Substantiation for it, they simply state it as a dogmatic fact. I see no substantiation anywhere in Hebrew. I know of no other place that that has ever been translated by the word for It is simply the word by, has a couple other prepositional translations, but not in any case for. A second uh objection or an objection concerning Romans 13, 4 Here sometimes set forth is that the sword was not a means of capital punishment for the Romans. The sword is simply a symbol of authority It was not the means that the Romans used to execute criminals. Well that again strikes me as a rather curious objection because if you read in Acts 12. 2, you read that James was executed by the sword And so you read throughout the scripture the sword always referred to as an instrument of death. Again, an objection that seems to me to hold no force. The second kind of objection, second group of them, is the fact that uh it's argued that capital punishment is not a deterrent. Much has been written on this And even if part of the Supreme Court's decree in 1972 when they tried to abolish capital punishment, it reminds me of H. L. Mencken's response to a foreign visitor who once questioned him about the effectiveness of capital punishment in the United States and he answered, I don't know, we've never tried it. And you see the point is simply that uh I'll agree with you that anything That's enforced consistently will have greater deterrent value for something no matter how severe, that's never enforced with any kind of predictable consistency Uh you're all familiar with uh riding along the Maryland roads and you see the sign out there that says, uh, do not litter, $250 fine, you see Now, how much of a deterrent is that to you to throw a scrap of paper out the window? Have you in all of your days ever seen one Marylander ever picked up and fined $250 for throwing trash out his window? I never had. Who's going to find a guy $250 for throwing a cigarette butt out the window? Or even his whole trash can? He'd just never see it. So it doesn't have any deterrent value Because nobody takes it seriously. So it seems to me that the argument that there really isn't any deterrent value is something that's never really been tested. We just don't know. That word here got printed as undermined. Uh that's n not what I intended. I um intended the word undetermined. Now whether that's a Freudian SMP or whether it's something that uh you see as associated, the point is I intend that to say it's just undetermined. You can't really argue from that. The second, the third thing, the third objection is this question of the inequities of application. Again, much has been written on this To show that capital punishment is the unique privilege of blacks and the poor. Since nineteen thirty, fifty-four percent Of those executed in the United States, 3,850 people have been executed, and 54% of those were black. Very few whites who have ever killed a black person have ever been executed. Very, very few. I don't have the exact statistics, but it's very, very few. I have some evidence on that And very few people, except poor people, are ever executed in this country. You'll rarely ever see a middle class or an executive person ever considered to have a threat of capital punishment imposed on them. It says the Supreme Court in 1972 said because it is so inequitably applied, we'll abolish it. Well, that to me strikes me as an argument like saying if I have five kids And I'm always picking on Johnny and always spanking Johnny and always punishing Johnny and always letting him have it. And somebody brings this to my attention and says, You are not being fair in the punishment of your kids. You're always picking on Johnny. And I say, You're right. So I'll abolish punishing any of the kids. I won't thank anybody. Say, hey, terrific. That's the solution. What's that going to accomplish for the family? Johnny will be quite happy, but I I would suggest the whole thing's gonna go to the pot after a while. It'll be chaos. You see the solution to inequitable application of a law is not to abolish the law, it's to begin to apply it equitably. And therefore, though to me this has the greatest force of any of the practical considerations. We need to remind ourselves that Numbers tells us that there is no bribe for a just for a judge, that that is an abomination to God. That there must be at least two witnesses in such a case, and many safeguards that the scripture uses here to make sure that this is equitably applied to everyone to the aliens as well as to the Israelite, to everyone, which you're for, and whether uh whatever um ethnic background they come from, this is equitably to be applied. Finally then, what does this teach us about Jesus Christ? In seeing this, so that this is not simply seen as something on a humanistic level, a picture for us, as all of the scripture is, in any of its laws, a picture of our redemption. Because we see here a picture of the capital punishment, crime and punishment, which Jesus suffered for our putting him to death. You see, taking a life is clearly taught by the scripture as the ultimate of crimes of of man against God It's an assault upon the very life of God Himself. How much more then was the taking of the life of Jesus Christ, God's own Son? And yet, why did he die? Jesus Christ died as he took upon himself the penalty That you and I deserved in our assault upon him. You and I were in part Responsible for the death of Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ took the punishment of that on himself. He's the one who stands before the bar of God's eternal justice and says, I will substitute my life for this murderer. This one who is murdered by his hatred, murdered by his arrogance, murdered by taking his life from you, Father, running it his own way. Taking life by hatred and by arrogance, and Jesus Christ suffered the penalty for that So that his life was forfeit, so that your life and my life would be set free. Jesus Christ bore the ultimate punishment For the ultimate crime. No matter what you have committed in your sin against Jesus Christ, if it's murder or anything less That is forgiving in Jesus Christ before the bar of God's justice. Because Jesus was the substitute. Jesus took the penalty for that. And because Jesus took the penalty for that, we see that God's grace does not bypass, or God's grace does not bypass justice. His mercy does not overlook the demands of justice. But God is a God of justice. God is a God who demands that we also work for a just society. And God has taken upon himself the demands of his own justice In the death of Jesus Christ. Only then in the application of this. Have you ever considered yourself Faced the gravity of your offense toward God. And that your offense toward God required capital punishment. And that that sentence was carried out on the person of Jesus Christ, who suffered as a murderer. And Jesus Christ suffered for every murderer who has come to him. He has suffered for your sin and mine, if we place that on him by coming to him. And clothing ourselves with his righteousness, casting ourselves on him by faith. Have you considered the wonders of that kind of mercy? It passes through justice and not around it. Secondly, we need as Christians to support alternatives to incarceration. I've said this before, I'll say it again. Putting people in jail and in prisons is not a biblical concept. The closest when you come to it in the Old Testament are the cities of refuge, and those are a long way. from the relatively dehumanizing effects of simply throwing people in jail. He needs to work for all kinds of other alternatives of restitution and retribution, even to capital punishment, for our society. Find out what kinds of things are possible. Um one issue in the reform journal was brought to my attention that deals with some of this. There are other things that we need to pursue. I'm not aware of them all myself The third thing we need to do is we need to be sensitive to elect men, judges particularly and governors, who will support capital punishment. If we believe it's biblical, we need to enforce it, and we need to enforce it to our representatives. The judges who are reluctant or who are even dead set against enforcing capital punishment should not be returned to office if we believe as Christians this is right. It's the same way with governance Find out more about what Hughes has to say. He simply said he has reservations. How far will those reservations go? Can we encourage him? Uh when uh Spellin Spelling I never get that man's name quite correct because I always read it and I've never heard it. But when he was executed in Florida Uh there was a terrific surge of mail that came to the governor at that point when that whole thing was pending. And the mail was running mostly in terms of those who were protesting the capital punishment. Why? Well because you see, even though in Florida it's been shown that many most of the people favored it, most people weren't giving any support If we believe it's right, we need to voice this when the issues are at hand. First fourthly, we need to be concerned also. But not that we simply stand as those who say yes, there needs to be capital punishment, and then not be concerned on how this is distributed If we find in fact that this is being distributed in Maryland in a way that ignores justice for the poor as well as for the rich. Does any mean?