First Corinthians thirteen If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am only a resounding doll. A clanging symbol. If I have the gift of prophecy and can fathom all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have a faith that can move mountains but have not love, I am nothing. And if I give all that I possess to the poor and surrender my body to the flaming, but have not love, I gain nothing. Love is patience. Love is kind. It does not envy. It does not boast. It does not proud. It is not rude. It is not self-seeking. It is not easily angered. He keeps no record of laws. Love does not delight in evil, but rejoices with the truth. It always protects, always trusts. Always hopes, always perseveres. Love never fails. Where there are prophecies, they will cease Where there are tongues, they will be still. Where there is knowledge, it will pass away. For we know in part, and we prophesy in part, that when perfection comes, the imperfect disappears. When I was a child, I talked like a child. I thought like a child. I reasoned like a child. But when I became a man, I put childish ways behind me. Now we see but a poor reflection. Then we shall see face to face. Now I know in part. Then I shall know fully, even as I am fully known. Now these three remain faith, hope, and love. The greatest of these is love. Now we focus on the eighth description this morning of love. The eighth description, which is found in verse five, the third phrase there In the NIV it reads, it is not easily angered. Wealth is not easily angered. I have a slight problem with the translation here, found in the New International Version, because the word easily does not appear in the original text. There is no Greek word easily here. Actually, all it simply says literally is love is not anger. Or love is not provoked to anger. Uh the word, the Greek word means to stir up something or to provoke, uh, such as getting your beeper come on, just when you're uh sitting there ready to settle down, you know It's to stir up, especially to anger. It could be translated that love is not touchy, or love is not irritable, or love doesn't lose its temper. Love isn't roused to resentment or love uh in more contemporary language isn't ticked off or some people would say love isn't torqued off But basically, what it simply is saying is love isn't provoked to anger. Simple as that. That's what the text says. And that raises a very serious question for a Christian. The question is simply this. Is anger then always wrong for the Christian? Is it always wrong to be angry? Now some people would answer yes. It's always wrong for a Christian to be angry. Quote from a Christian psychologist Quote, the Bible makes it clear that anger is sin and should always be resolved. There's no place for anger in the Christian's life, according to this kind of thinking. A Christian should always be placid. Or joyful, but never angry. Anger is sin and you have died to sin, and therefore you have died to anger. Others would answer on the contrary. No, it's not always wrong to be angry. In fact, some Christians would say we need to express our emotions more vigorously, more spontaneously. One of the big problems is that uh our emotions are seen as wrong. And uh such people say that no emotions are evil in themselves. Emotions are neutral And if a person feels angry, uh that's not necessarily wrong. What's wrong is to stifle it and to hold it in because that'll produce some very bad consequences Uh I know of a pastor who counsels and uh this isn't Ten Williams, but this fella keeps uh uh a supply of bats in his office and uh he uh when people uh get really angry he'll give them one of these cotton bats and they go beat against the wall or a couch or something. You know get out some of that hostility because that's very necessary Or other uh people, other counselors use pillows, you know, and you say, uh, take that, Mom, you know, and you beat the pillow to a pulp, you know, or a mother-in-law or something, you know, and get all that anger and hostility out. That's that's the uh good thing to do needs to be uh more healthy spontaneous expression of emotions. Some people resort to primal screaming, a kind of a blood curdling yell, you know, to get everything out of your system. And so when you feel anger coming up within you, as a Christian, you must ask yourself, is that wrong or is it right? Should I confess it? Should I stifle it? Should I express it and examine it? Uh should I simply express the anger and then decide whether the occasion was right or not, or whether I expressed it uh righteously? Or is it always wrong, in every case? I know that in many cases in my own life, I I uh I find a number of uh things that will make me very angry. It's a problem that all of us have to deal with. In fact, I challenge anyone that doesn't have this problem of anger to just get up and go out for the rest of the service because you don't need to hear this. We all struggle with temper, with anger. One thing that makes me especially angry, for instance, is uh to feel like I'm being taken advantage of by someone who's acting irresponsibly. Uh I know that uh in one place we lived we had some neighbors who would uh criticize us at various times because they said we took such uh uh such uh compulsive care of the things that we had and you know and they were a lot freer, didn't have to do that. But I knew that every time it got cold, especially cold I was gonna get a call to go over and jump their truck because they didn't bother tuning up. They barely changed the oil in the thing. But it was always me who was called on to go over and jump the truck because they knew my car would start and I'd be able to help them out and see. And that made me angry. that they then criticize me for taking care of my car, but then they just depend on it for transportation. Or, you know, another thing that I think can often make us very angry as Christians If you ever in a situation where you try to anticipate something and make provision for it, and then precisely what you are trying to avoid occurs anyway. I remember one time I was up in Syracuse and I had my car parked in a driveway there and there was a fellow who was about to mow the lawn and he wasn't the brightest fellow in the world, but he was a nice guy and so I came out and I It's always about to do and a bunch of rocks in the lawn there, so I said that George, when you mow the lawn along here, would you make sure that you take the shoot of the lawn mower and have it facing away from the car Uh because you know it helps on the paint and I appreciate that if you do that. And uh so I went inside, went to work and said fine, yeah, no problem. Uh five minutes I was in there working I heard ping you know walk right out the door, just like a bullet, this thing had come right through into the door of the car, you know. That was exactly what I told him to please avoid doing. That makes me angry. Now when that comes on and I feel that, should I should I repress that? How should I handle that as a Christian? Should I say, well I shouldn't feel that way? Just go out and smile and say, Praise the Lord, you know, it's his car. How do I handle those feelings, you know? Uh you're you're at home working all day and you hear the kids bickering over trivia, you know, and they're going at it over things that don't matter a hill of beans, and you get angry at the kids for the bickering Is that wrong to get angry for them at them about that? Or is that something that is uh justified? Uh how do you handle that when you're wrongly accused? When you get angry, is that wrong When you see somebody at work getting shafted, being very unjustly, cruelly treated, is it wrong or is it right to get angry at that? That's the question we have to deal with here And I think that one of the great difficulties with Christians dealing with anger is that I find that anger is one of the most easily rationalized of our sins. You know, as a counselor, I find a lot of people come to me struggling over great guilt for their lust, struggling over guilt for how they've treated another person They'll struggle with guilt about the fact that they have missed their quiet times. They've overeaten. They smoke. treat their body wrong in one way or another. They're feeling very guilty about protecting their rights or all kinds of things. But not too often do I have somebody coming to me saying, I really feel rotten about my anger. You know, w we look at our anger and we justify it. You go, well yeah, sure, you know, that ticked off, but I I was irritable in that situation, but I was tired And somehow we think that excuses. You know, or or my father had a rotten temper, and that's why I've got a bad temper. See, that's just the way I am You know a fellow in Syracuse that used to blow up at the slightest provocation? Terrible temper. You ask him, he'd tell you, yeah, I got a rotten temper Walked with the Lord for twenty years, still had a rotten temper. One time I asked him, you know, what do you ever plan to do about that rotten temper of yours? You know, you think that that's something should be done with well that's just the way I am, you know All other areas of my life, I can wrong grace. That area, that's going to stay the way it is till I die, because that's just the way I am. Very often I think that we find that anger because we can find many reasons for it, lots of excuses for it. We don't really look at it as sin. But what's the Bible say? 1 Corinthians 13, the third phrase here says, love is not provoked to anger. Doesn't say easily, doesn't say most of the time, doesn't say without undue cause, it simply says love's not provoked anger. There's a lot of the Bible that speaks to the question of anger. Proverbs has many, many verses that speak of the destructiveness of anger and of its sin. So I want to take a look at this this week. Be able to understand a little bit as Christians the place of anger in our lives. And as I looked at this and began to look at it more and more this week, I realized that there was too much here to even be able to really handle. in one message. And so uh I'm going to afraid that uh of the three points that we're going to cover on this, you're only going to get two today, and the third one you'll have to wait till next week. I want to take a look therefore as today is the first point that anger can be right or wrong. The second point, that anger is wrong under two circumstances. And then the third point, how to respond to anger, we're going to put off until next week, so that we'll have some time for worship other than just listening to the word here before we leave. So these three points I want to consider. And the first one is that anger can be right or wrong. The first point under that, and I want to simply follow through these points so you can see the progression of thought. First point, first premise. All emotions have potential for good or evil. All emotions, including anger. God made our emotions, and therefore they're all potentially constructive. He did not leave out anger when he made us. He made us with a capacity to be angry, and that's part of our creation. In fact, if there's any doubt in your mind whether you can be angry without sinning, Paul lays aside all such doubts when he says in Ephesians 4:26, be angry and don't sin. Paul there is clearly distinguishing between sinful anger and righteous anger. He says you can be angry and not sin. But it also is implying there that you can be angry and sin and that anger has a particular potential for evil. So that anger can be evil, but not necessarily. In fact, anger, at its basis, at its root, is simply the body gearing up to attack something. It's the emotional capacity that we have to gear up in our adrenaline, in in the uh orientation of our body to be able to attack something. And if you need to attack something, it's good to get angry. It helps you to attack it, you see. That's how God has made us. And he gives us a number of examples of that in the scripture. Moses has spent forty days praising the Lord and receiving his word on the top of Mount Sinai. And Moses has lived so closely to the Lord that his face shines with God's very presence He comes down off the mountain and here the people, just those short forty days, have gone away from the Lord and they've created a golden calf that they're worshiping. And Moses comes down and he says, Praise the Lord, fellas, I got something to say about that. No, he comes down, he ashes those tables to the ground, and he burns with anger. And that burning with anger is necessary for him to communicate. How God looks at that situation. So he grinds that calf into powder and he causes the people to eat that. And a great plague comes on them. Now, that angry see is part of the communication. It's part of that attack upon sin that Moses comes down the mountain with. It's good. Saul in 1 Samuel chapter 11 has just been anointed as king of God's people. And the Ammonites come against the people in Jabez Gilead and they threaten them and they say we're going to take into captivity. And people of Jabesh Gilead appeal to this brand new king, an untried fella, out there as a farmer, ploughing his field. And the Bible says in 1 Samuel 11:6 that when Saul heard about that attack, that the Spirit of God came upon him, and what was the result of the Spirit of God coming upon him? 1 Samuel 11:6 tells us that he burned with anger. As a result of his burning with anger, he called together 3,000 troops of Israel and he went out and he defeated the Ammonites. The anger was God's preparation in his constitution to attack those people. So the anger you see is good in that situation. It comes directly, we're told in that verse, from the Spirit of God. Jesus, on two occasions, as we were familiar with, went up into the temple. And he cleansed the temple from the money changers And he cleansed that temple in anger. The anger enabled him to do what he would not normally do in a placid state of mind, to drive them out with a whip of cords. So anger prepares us for attack, and yet the Bible tells us in many cases that anger is very potentially destructive. Proverbs tells us this again and again. In Proverbs chapter 29, verse 11, we read that a fool gives full vent to his anger, but a wise man keeps himself under control. Proverbs 29-22. We're told that an angry man stirs up dissension, and a hot-tempered one commits many sins. Almost saying there that it's inevitable that you'll sin if you're a hot-tempered man. Well you see, uh we see this in Saul's case too. Saul, who was moved to anger by the Spirit of God, later on is moved to anger by his own jealousy, and it becomes a destructive force, destructive in the kingdom, and finally destroying Saul. We see this again and again in the uh case of Israel. And Luke tells us uh as he uses the same word, interestingly enough, that is used here in 1 Corinthians 13:5. Love is not provoked to anger. Luke uses that same word twice in the book of Acts to describe Paul in two cases where he's angry, one good and one bad. In Acts 1716 we read that Paul went to Athens and he saw the city arrayed with idols. And as a result of seeing that, we read that Paul was stirred to anger. It's the same word that's used here in chapter 16. In 1 Corinthians 13. And that being provoked, that stirred to anger, caused Paul to be motivated to do something, to stand up boldly and to preach the gospel. Because he was stirred to anger that his God was being ignored. Now then Luke, interestingly enough, uses that same word just two chapters earlier in Acts 15. 39 to describe Paul who is angry at Barnabas. Barnabas was angry at Paul. You remember that situation where there was a disagreement, whether to take John Mark on their second missionary journey after he had failed so miserably in the first time. And the Bible tells us that there was such sharp provocation that the two of them had to separate Very sad situation. It's the same word that's used here, you see. In the one case, in impelling Paul to preach the gospel, the anger was constructed In the sense that it divided him from Barnabas and caused hurt and difficulty in the church, it was destructive. The anger has the capacity for either one So anger has great potential for evil, but not necessarily evil. That's the first point. Second point then is that we're told in this verse, love is not provoked to anger. I just told you it could be good or bad. But the Bible says here, love is not provoked to anger. Furthermore, it doesn't simply say that here. You have that emphasized again and again and again in the New Testament. For instance, in Galatians chapter 5, in verse 20, we're told that the lusts of the flesh, the acts of the sinful nature, are idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, discord, jealousy, fits of rage. And selfish ambition, dissensions, infections. Fits of rage are part of the working of our sinful nature. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 31, just a few verses after Paul has said, be angry and don't sin, he then goes on to say, get rid of all bitterness. Rage and anger. See, brawling, slander, along with every form of malice Get rid of all anger, bitterness, rage. In Colossians chapter 3, verse 8, Paul said there You must rid yourselves of all such things as these. Anger, rage, malice. So the Bible's clear there, those places, telling us that anger is sin. We're to be rid of it. James 1, 19 and 20 tells us that we're to be Low to anger because the anger of man does not work the righteousness of God. And now to confuse you just a little bit further, the third point is that God is angry. You see, well we're told to be angry is sin. But the Bible then says God is angry with sinners. Now when I first started studying this, I thought, well, of course, that the clue to that, the solution will be that Really, there's two words for anger. What Paul's saying here in 1 Corinthians 13 is that love's not irritated. It's not provoked. It's not touchy. It's not hypersensitive. And that's a different kind of anger from God's righteous, steady, burning wrath. Well, unfortunately, that's not true. It's the same word that's used. If you look in Deuteronomy chapter 9, for instance, you have precisely the same word in the Greek translation of the Old Testament used there that you have in 1 Corinthians 13, 5. For instance, when uh when Moses writes of God in Deuteronomy chapter nine, uh verse seven He says there that remember this and never forget how you provoked the Lord your God to anger in the desert. Same word. Verse 8. And Horeb you aroused the Lord's wrath, so he was angry enough to destroy you. At verse 9, when I went up to the mountain to receive the tables of stone, the tables of the covenant the Lord had made with you I stayed on the mountain satan and ate uh new bread or or drank or water. And then uh where is it now? I checked my own bulletin here. Uh verse nineteen He says, I feared the anger and the wrath of the Lord, for he was angry enough with you to destroy you. Again, it's the same word in the Greek translation that you have in 1 Corinthians 13. And then he says in verse 22, you also made the Lord angry at Tabarath, Masa, Kibbra. Well, you see, uh, God there then is described himself as being angry. In fact, Psalm 711 tells us that God is angry with sinners all day long. Romans 1 tells us that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against the unrighteousness of men. In fact, there are three Greek words that are prominently used for anger. And all three words are used for sinful anger in man, and all three words describe the righteous anger of God. There's no distinction, you see. Now, how can what is sinful in us be righteous in God? We need to understand, you see, something about the cause of the wrath of God And you see that displayed again and again in the prophets? You see it even in the life of Jesus. Jesus went up into the temple, you remember, and he drove out the money changers. Why? Because he said, You've made my father's house, which is to be a house of prayer, into a house of merchandise. There's a grievous wrong being committed against the Lord here And I can't placidly look at that. Jesus was stirred to wrath because of that. In fact, it's interesting to note that The same word that we find here in 1 Corinthians 13:5 is used of Jesus in Mark 3. 5. In Mark 3. 5, you remember this is the incident of the man with a shriveled hand on the Sabbath. And Jesus comes to have compassion on that man and to heal him. But as he looks around, he sees all the Pharisees are looking and watching to accuse him. To see if he's going to break the traditions that they have and heal on the Sabbath. And in Mark 3. 5, we read that Jesus looked around at them in anger. Deeply distressed at their stubborn hearts, he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. That's the same word Paul says raised here. Love isn't provoked to anger. Mark 35 reads, Jesus was provoked to anger. How do you reconcile that? We need to understand what we mean when we talk about the wrath of God against sin. That God's wrath against sin is a just and holy wrath against sin. That when God looks at us who have broken his laws, who have violated his righteousness, who have assaulted his majesty with our insolence to run our lives our own ways with no regard. To the rules and the laws that he has set up. His only appropriate response to that is wrath, is indignation is a holy, fixed detestation of all evil. And consider what the wrath of God means. We think of thunder as it comes in a summer thunderstorm. And a clap of thunder almost hits the house, and we're shaken two feet into the air. And we think, what does it mean? Come under the wrath of a God who can create thunder and lightning. We hear of an avalanche. It rips down the side of a mountain. And a whole town is buried in the mud and the snow and the rock. And we think, what is it to stand under that mountain and watch it come tumbling down? What would it be to stand under the wrath of the God who is able to control that avalanche? We think of a volcano or something. We think of Mount St. Helens just a few years ago and then just recently a little burp again. And we think of the vast amount of power that belches forth from the bowels of the earth as the whole mountain blows up. And the acres and miles of land are covered with ash and smoke and destruction. And we read that in history that was just the smallest blip compared to some of the volcanic eruptions that there have been. We say, what is it to stand under the wrath of a holy and righteous God like that? We read of tsunamis, tsunamis uh often called tidal waves, uh, that are the effects of volcanic eruptions in the sea. Uh, when there is a great upheaval so that some huge wave of fifty, sixty, or eighty feet high Comes rolling in at 400 or 500 miles an hour to a piece of land. You think what would it be like to stand before that great wave coming dashing into the coast? To do such violent and total destruction. You say to yourself, what would it be like to stand under the wrath of a God who can create a title? And even those upheavals on our earth are minor compared to the explosion of a star And other of the universal catastrophes that are under the control of this God. This God that we read is restrained in his anger, but that we read again and again in the scripture. Will unleash that anger righteously against all sin and rebellion and arrogance that is portrayed against him And say, who can stand before the mighty, righteous wrath of God? Not an irritation, not a petulant flare-up of temper. But a fixed rage and holy detestation of all unrighteousness. Then we see, fourth point, that God poured out that wrath. On his own son, Jesus. We read in the Bible, Galatians chapter 3, verse 13, that Jesus became a curse for us. And he bore the curse of God. And 1 John 4:10 tells us that by this we know the love of God, not that we loved him. But that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sin. You know what a propitiation is? A propitiation is a sacrifice to appease wrath. A propitiation makes no sense apart from wrath that is fixed against the one making the offering. And that verse is telling us that Jesus suffered the full wrath of God. On our account, on your account, on your behalf, and on my behalf, so that that wrath would not literate me. Jesus for the full wrath of God. Do you remember a few weeks ago we looked at Mark 14, 33? We saw that when Jesus first encountered the full wrath of God, that it amazed even him, that it cast and hurled him to the ground by the sheer weight of it upon him. Jesus. Bore the weight of the wrath of a God who is the god of thunder and avalanche and volcanoes and tsunamis and exploding stars and supernovae. Jesus bore that wrath so that you and I would not bear it at all. And if this morning you have never come to Jesus Christ I plead with you in the name of Christ, don't continue to stand under the wrath of God. For that wrath is a consuming wrath. And that wrath must by God's very nature be expressed finally against all sin and unrighteousness. So that the world will be purged from sin and made what it should be. But for us Who have come to Jesus Christ and confessed that we have nothing to offer to him but the sacrifice of Jesus on our behalf. That wrath has been fully spent. So you come to the fifth point. Therefore, there is only his love for us who are in Christ. There is only his love for us. There is no wrath for you, because Jesus bore all that anger in that wrath. You see, God is not like us. We get irritated and angry at those that we love. God is consistent. Either He has a fixed, righteous rage against Sin or there is only unbounded love for his children. He doesn't oscillate back and forth between wrath and love You either are under his wrath or you are under his love. If you are under his wrath, there is only restraint until that wrath is unleashed upon you. If you are under his love, there is no wrath to come upon you. It's all gone. There is nothing but consistent love. Now there's chastisement, and that will hurt. But he's never mad at you. He's never angry at you. If you are in Jesus Christ this morning, you never have to fear God's wrath. He never is angry at you. All of his dealings with you are out of his boundless love in Jesus Christ, for all his wrath has come upon Jesus. And there is nothing left of wrath for him. Praise the Lord. Sit there and you say, yeah, you realize what I'm saying? No wrath for the Christians. But God's love ceaselessly displayed toward us for the wrath of God. It's been spent upon his son, Jesus, for us. Now you see, if that's true, do you really understand what that means? Then it begins to make sense what Paul's saying here Therefore, F, we likewise are to put away all of our anger toward one another and forgive. They begin to understand how God can be angry, but we're not to be angry toward one another. You see, Ephesians 4 tells us, after it says, be angry and don't sin, put away all wrath and anger and malice. He finishes up in verse 31 Get rid of all bitterness, rage, anger, brawling, slander, along with every form of malice. Verse 32, but be kind, compassionate to one another, forgiving each other Just as in Christ God forgave you. You see, his forgiveness there is stated in contrast to anger He's no longer angry with you, he's forgiven you. Therefore, Paul says, What right do you have to be angry with one another? You've received only his forgiveness. Therefore, likewise, put away your wrath. And forgive. Put away your anger and put on love. Remember a few weeks ago we talked about agape. The nature of God saving love. And that's why you see only one who is born of God can love. Because only one who is born of God has experienced being under wrath and having that wrath totally removed. So that you and I can love as those who no longer are under the wrath of God. We have seen a wrath that we deserve, taken away and borne by another. How can you and I then be mad at each other as fellow sinners? You see the connection? Therefore, the Bible tells us that sin, that love, is not provoked to anger. Because love, that is love that has experienced the love of Calvary, is love that has experienced God's forgiveness. And therefore, it is a love that doesn't get angry toward a fellow sinner. And therefore, the final point is that our anger then is to be directed. Again, and remember, I remind you Anger is not necessarily evil. Now, therefore, what do we direct our anger at? And the Bible tells us we are to direct our anger at two things: at sin and at Satan. Our anger then is to be very vigorously directed against our sin and the sin that we see destroying our brothers and sisters. Psalm ninety-seven ten tells us you who love the Lord hate evil. There's a lot of us that profess to love the Lord, but I don't think we have nearly the same amount of feelings for evil. We as Christians today are so tolerant of evil. We profess to love the Lord. But we don't generate a great deal of emotion about evil. And the Bible says if you understand the wrath of God and what you've been delivered from, And what that sin is against his holy and righteous nature, you'll hate evil because of what it does in its contradiction of God's nature and how it destroys the life of your brother and sister. And secondly, we're called to hate Satan. Psalm 139, David finishes up that psalm of God's great omniscience, and that psalm of his great creation of God of man in his image. David finishes up by saying, I hate your enemies with a very perfect hatred. The enemies we're told in the New Testament are culminated in the person of the great enemy, Satan, the adversary, the one who is our enemy because he's God's enemy. And the Bible calls us to hate Satan as our enemy. So often I think we get so confused here. We go around hating ourselves and hating one another because we don't hate Satan. And I think we have a great loss here as Christians because Satan is not so real to us, we're not so aware of his presence and of his enmity and of his destruction. So we displace our anger. God intends that anger to be directed toward the sin that destroys and toward the enemy, the adversary, who is set against this. And because we don't have enough hatred for Satan and not enough hatred for sin, we direct and misdirect that anger toward one another destructively. And sometimes toward ourselves. And the Bible says, hate the sin. Attack the problem, not the person. Hate Satan, the enemy, and direct your anger at him with a holy hatred. That should motivate you and need to attack. Attack the problems and attack the enemy. And so finally, just to finish up reminding you of point two, we're going to pick up more on point two next week. Anger therefore is wrong when it is either sinfully expressed or sinfully motivated. And those two things go together. When anger is sinfully expressed to tear someone down either by blowing up or by clamming up By blowing up and a flare up of quick temper. Look at those verses. You'll be taking a look at them in your area fellowship group tonight. The verses that speak of the effects of a quick temper directed toward one another. Or an anger that's simply touchy and irritable. Take a look at Proverbs 19:11. Or, on the other hand, some of us express our anger by clamming up a quiet resentment and bitterness. That boils and seeds until it directs its way out in more subtle but perhaps more vicious ways. This is sin. And it's sin because it's sinfully motivated. You see, This phrase comes in a list of things Paul is saying. Love is not provoked to anger because love is not proud. Love isn't defending itself. It's not crude. It's not self-seeking. It's not focused in on its own reputation. And when love is self-centered Love is anger. Anger toward one another. But one one love is delivered from itself and its rights. And its inflated view of itself, then love is angry at sin and at Satan. Because love is free from itself. Love therefore is not provoked anger against people, because God, who is an angry God against sin, and justly angry for us, has poured out all of that righteous anger. Upon a Son Jesus. Therefore, there's no anger for us who are in Christ. Therefore, there should be no anger in our hearts toward one another. But only against sin and against Satan, our enemy. What changes does that mean for you and for me? In how we express and direct our aim. Let's grab Lord our God, we confess that so often in our lives we've just gotten things backwards. We rationalize our anger at other people, and we don't get too upset about sin, or direct very much anger against our great enemy Satan. We forget about him. The anger that you intend that we would direct toward him and his subtleties and devices and the the evil that he uh perpetuates We direct toward one another because we don't see behind them the spiritual warfare that we're engaged in. Forgive us, Lord. Forgive us for seeing only the natural. And not looking with spiritual eyes to those things that provoke us and irritate us, those things that either attack our self-image and our rights, or even justly rouse us to anger. But an anger which then becomes so easily misdirected. Help us, Lord, to be a people who are more angry at sin, And more angry against our enemy, but a people who are quick to forgive one another. Because we've been forgiven by you when you poured out your wrath. Upon your son Jesus. Hallelujah. Amen.