Good morning. Good to hear your voices. It's kinda hard to see you guys with all the lights on, so I need to hear you periodically to make sure that you're still there. Alan mentioned as we began the service this morning that today we mark Sanctity of Kingdom Life Sunday. It's the anniversary Sunday each year that we celebrate. A rebellion toward Roe vs. White. This week there is the march in Washington to try and show support for the fact that not all of America is is in favor of that decision. And each year this time we attempt to have a sermon that shows what the Bible has to say about the whole issue of being pro-life. And this morning, it may not seem like John 3:16 through 18 immediately leaps out at you as a passage that speaks of being pro-life. But I think in reflecting In looking at the whole issue, in seeing where the issue is moving, that it really becomes one of perspective And I think that there is a serious danger on both sides of the issue to lose perspective You see, we're not simply anti-abortion, we're not simply anti-euthanasia, we're not simply anti-eugenics, the practice of trying to perfect the human race by culling out the defectives. We are pro-life. And this passage certainly speaks of that this morning We're pro-life in spite of the difficulties and the suffering that we face. And each of you here, if I were to give an opportunity, could spend the next three days listening as each tells their testimony the sufferings that we undergo. We're in danger of losing perspective ourselves because we simply become a one-issue group. We look at the negatives and it's very easy to focus on what we shouldn't do and on what they do. But on the other side, those in the pro-choice movement have certainly lost perspective. Because you see they see themselves as their last hope. They are the solution to their problems. And because of that, and because of another factor where they see themselves as offering an escape to the issues, the suffering, and the pain that they face. They see that they can come up with solutions on their own. They see that life is up to them. Death is up to them. And there's nothing beyond. There is nothing beyond this life. And so they are content to deal with the symptoms because they don't see the root problems. An example of this on both sides. I don't know if any of you happened to look at the um papers last week, but there was a movie that was presented Sunday evening called Last Wish. There's a book that's come out by Betty Rollins, who is a correspondent in the news, a famous woman, who Helped her mother to commit suicide in the mid-80s. Her mother was dying of ovarian cancer, and her wish was to simply escape the pain. It's a very very popular book. It was a movie that was presented last Sunday and even in People Magazine this week as I was checking out at the grocery store yesterday. I saw the main cover was Betty Rollins talking about her book, the movie, and her response to the entire issue The issue in their minds is one of choice. As a matter of fact, Betty Rollins' husband, speaking of his mother-in-law's death, said the issue is choice. She says she wants to die, and at the very least she means she wants to be able to die. She wants to have the choice, and I think we should see to it that she gets it Betty Rollins speaks of her mother herself and says she wouldn't take no for an answer. And that was entirely in character. She wanted to be in control to call the shots. That is the basic issue. Who is in charge? There's nobody beyond us, therefore we must be in charge. Freddie Rollins speaks and says, I never had a bad moment about it. It's because I really love my mother, and I think she knew that. And our relationship was good. I don't think will I feel bad? It seems so absolutely right. And she was so determined. There's nowhere there any concept of an afterlife. There's nowhere there a concept of a supreme being who judges It's simply a matter of choice. It's a matter of can I take my life in my hands and control it. But the reality is as pro-choice begins to gain more power, it won't be can I control my life. And in the issue of abortion, it's not can I control my life. It's an issue of can I control others' lives. And quality of life becomes a thing where it slips quickly into there is someone else who can control decisions. Regarding the life and death of others. On the other side, in Job chapter 2, we see someone who is very faithful to God. As a matter of fact, it's his faithfulness to God that gets him in trouble. Because Job becomes the object of a contest between God and Satan. God points out Job and says, Satan, have you seen my servant Job, a man who is faithful? And Satan says, Well yeah, because he's got so much. God says, Okay, you may take from him all that he is, don't touch his life. And so in the first round, Job loses his children, his sons and his daughters, he loses his camels, he loses his sheep, he loses everything he possesses Then he says, Naked I came from the moon, naked I returned. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Satan is rather miffed about this, and so he goes to God and says, Okay, well So that wasn't enough. Give me another chance. And so God says, you can do anything you want. Don't take his life. And so now Job not only has lost all that he's owned All that he has had, all that he's worked towards, now he's losing his health. And he sits in the clay, scraping himself with pot pieces, pieces of pottery, because He is in so much misery from his itching that he'd rather have the pain. His wife comes to him and says And I have to quote this. Are you still holding on to your integrity? Curse God and die. Take it in your own hands. Make a choice. Get rid of the suffering. Job's response, you're talking like a foolish woman. Shall we accept good from God and not trouble? And God's commentary on Job is in all this, Job did not sin in what he said. Job knew there was a supreme being, and he knew that the choice was not his, but God's. This morning, John 3. 16 has a number of important things to tell us about this whole issue of suffering and choice. And I think we who are pro-life need to hear that. Because we need to maintain that larger perspective on the reality of suffering. We need to maintain that larger perspective that we are pro-life and not anti-anything The focus has to be light, and its wonder moves us so that we protect it. Let me read John 316 through 18. For God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but to save the world through him. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe stands condemned already. Because he has not believed in the name of God's one and only sung. This morning, as we look at this passage, one thing we have to understand is that suffering is indeed a reality. That's the first blank. Suffering is a reality Now I don't think we have to point that out to ourselves. I'm sure that each of us, as I said earlier, is well aware of our own suffering. But oftentimes it can become an issue where we're not aware of the suffering of others. If you're like me in my lesser moments, nobody knows the suffering I've seen. I can sing that song as a solo, and it's true in my own mind. Nobody knows the troubles I've seen. But the point of the fact is, somebody does. And another fact is everybody has suffering. Everybody suffers this morning as you're here. Nobody can escape it. You see, we've all been isolated from God. And the fact is here in this passage it says, by implication, that we're perishing. In John chapter 3, verse 3, Jesus points out that no one can see the kingdom of God unless he's born again. We're isolated from God. We have been cut off We have been separated. And not only have we been isolated from God, but we have been given curse And that curse involves suffering, and that curse involves separation from God, and that curse involves living in a corrupted creation. That curse involves death It comes from Genesis chapter three. I'd like to read briefly Well, for sake of time, I'll simply point him out. But in Genesis chapter three, man has fallen into sin. He has eaten the tree that was forbidden, the fruit from the tree of of the knowledge of good and evil. He has made a choice and he's rebelled against God. As a result, God curses the serpent. Then God curses the woman and he promises her pain. I will greatly increase your pains in childbearing. With pain will you give birth to your children? He curses Adam and says, Cursed is the ground because of you. The very creation now has been cursed. Through painful toil you will eat of it all the days of your life. It will produce thorns and thistles for you. You will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your food. Until you return to the ground, since from it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you will return. At the fall, at the entry of sin, there also entered pain, toil, A corruption of creation and a loss of relationship with God. For at the end of the curse, God says to his Counsel to those in heaven with him, let us send men out that he might not eat of the tree of eternal life and be forever judged. So there is an isolation, there is a break, there is an introduction of suffering. And from that time on man has suffered. Man has been in the state of perishing. Today we experienced this in physical, emotional, and spiritual areas. All of us here have been ill Some we know have faced terminal illness. There are several in this congregation that constantly face chronic serious pain For whom it's a difficulty to to sleep, much less to get up. We all know of people who experience tremendous poverty Because corruption has touched even creation, we have hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, devastation that we can't understand. And as we look at the suffering that we go through, there's a question that constantly plagues us. Plagues mankind, more especially those who don't know God than those who do. But that question is, how can God allow suffering? How can God allow me to go through the things that I I have to go through? Many people who think that they have the whole picture, especially those who think there is no God. Believe that suffering is proof that God cannot exist. Or if he does exist, that he's powerless. Or if he's not powerless, that he's abandoned us. We have to ask the question, today, now, has God abandoned us because we suffer? That's the third blank. Has God abandoned us? Depending upon how we respond to that, we'll do different things. There are many who say yes and they respond with hopelessness. I suffer, there's nothing beyond me, therefore all I can look forward to is suffering To those, and I don't know if you've met any and you've had conversations with them, but I have, to those people, death is an escape. Death is an escape. They hurt so much that they can't conceive of a greater pain. They can't conceive of any hope. And so their only hope becomes escape There are others who respond with anger because life is unfair. Life has robbed them of what they deserve. Their problems are simply undeserved. And they become bitter They become angry. They become explosive. There are others who decide that this is really all there is. And they decide that they will take the conditions into their own hands. And they'll eliminate the suffering by eliminating the symptoms. Now as I look at how they deal with life, I really have to reflect back. I'm drawn to reflect back to my early days as a mechanic. I'm not a mechanic, I'm a pastor. That's because of my early days as a mechanic. My first car was a 1973 Dodge Colt that had some symptoms that I felt I should solve. And as I began to work on the symptoms, I gradually came to realize I no longer had a car. I literally got to the point where I refused to sit in it, much less turn the key. We sold it. But the point is that those people who try to take the solution into their own hands deal with symptoms only. They argue for euthanasia on the basis of an old an escape from suffering. They argue for abortion on the basis of quality of life. This is not something that's going to go away Dr. Kavorkian, so-called Dr. Death from Michigan, who is now facing two homicide indictments, because he has created a suicide machine. Where he has written the manual and given the information as to how to put this machine together so that if you don't feel like you want to continue, you don't have to So much of this viewpoint has permeated our society that in this last election, Washington State had an initiative number 119. Which was to give legal rights to people to terminate their life. Because the suffering was too great. And the quality of life was too low. And frankly, I'm terrified as our country moves that direction. Because who is to judge quality of life The decision in the debate is no longer over whether life exists and whether it's human. The debate now centers on whether it is quality. And that's a very shifting standard. Who determines the quality? And who makes the decision? For those who do not know that there is more than what we see There is no confidence in that decision because they make the standard. And they not only make it for themselves, but soon they will be making it for others If that doesn't frighten you, you need to think about it. I think back to some friends of ours in California who had a test in pregnancy to determine whether their baby was okay and it wasn't. It was Anincephala, and I've talked about this family before. And they faced such tremendous pressure from the time that test result came back to the point that they were being cruel to their child to carry it to turn. That it was not only not the best option, it was wrong for the mother and for the child. And incredible pressure was put on them to terminate that pregnancy, to kill that child. If you see that firsthand, you cannot but be terrified of the power of our society to lead us in our decisions. But the truth is that we're not alone. God has not abandoned us. That's the next point. He has not abandoned us. And this passage points it out tremendously. For God so loved the world, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son. You see, he's aware of our plight. He knows the suffering that you faced this morning. He knows the suffering that faces each creature, much less each human. He knows the results and he knows where suffering entered. And he tells us that he knows that. He tells us in this passage. He makes it clear to us that he wants us to know that he knows. God speaks. But not only does God speak, and not only does he know, God cares. He cares deeply. He is deeply concerned about what we suffer. Not only does he know, he lovingly knows. He knows the difficulties you face this morning. He knows the pain. He knows the financial crises. He knows the emotional disturbances. He knows the depression. He knows the illness. He knows all. And not only does he know, he loves. You see, he tells us of that love because he comes. An analogy would be: many of us would love to have a card from a friend saying, I heard you're in pain. I know of your struggles, and I care. It might even be better if it were a phone call where you can speak voice to voice. But Jesus doesn't settle for a letter. And he doesn't give us a phone call. He hops the next flight. He comes. He is with us. He is here. And he says, I care. I love you. He joins us and he identifies with us. He has become man. He has become human. God who feels no pain becomes man who now feels hunger. Who now feels discomfort, who now suffers the corruption of creation. And he didn't do it for a time. Jesus didn't become man and at the resurrection separate himself from that limitation. He is today seated at the right hand of God in a human body. Because he is man and God and is our intercessor. He is working for you this morning. If you know Him as your Savior, He is working for you this morning to intercede between you and God, to deal with you, to help you through the struggles that you face. He not only suffers with us, he not only is capable of knowing the suffering we face, but he has taken our suffering upon himself. Ultimately, he suffered beyond what we could possibly suffer because he has taken our sin. Not only does he suffer with us, he makes life worth living. That's the last blank. God makes life worth living. Because he gives eternal life. The contradiction of perishing is eternal life. God takes away our suffering and our death through sin by giving us life God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Romans 5. 8 1 Peter 2, 24. He himself bore our sins in his body on the cross, that we might die to sin. And live to righteousness. For by his wounds you were healed. He has identified with our suffering. He has taken it upon himself. You see, God not only Has not abandoned us. He has dealt with the problem. He deals with the root of our suffering. He deals with the sin that's given suffering an entrance into creation. He has removed And on top of that, he rescues those who are perishing, who trust him. You see This morning, as you come, if you have that personal relationship with Jesus on the basis of his coming, of his teaching of himself, of his burying your sins in his own body, of his dealing with your guilt. Then you can know this morning that you are not going to perish. He's given you life Our ultimate suffering, that of judgment and hell, has been removed. It is gone. Those who decide on choice because there is nothing else will face eternal suffering. You escape from the frying pan only to suffer in the incinerator. But we know this morning that we have been rescued and redeemed. We will never face that judgment. We will never face that suffering that awaits. Because God has taken that suffering upon Himself on the cross. And he gives to us salvation. He gives to us eternal life. He gives to us blessed relief. And for us this morning, death is not Suffering. You see, the the irony of it is that those who choose to escape suffering here and now end up in a suffering they cannot comprehend. While we who trust God through the suffering we live, find death is indeed an escape because it promises to us not suffering. But blessed union with God. We go not from here to judgment. We go from here to face God, face to face, to be received as his children and brought into his household. I can't see you. Are you still there? That's inc that's it's mind boggling. It should give us a smile and a hope. But God doesn't only free us from ultimate suffering, God works through our suffering now. To make it survivable, to make life worth living. Because as Job faced his suffering, he had no sense in why. He had no sense of why And after a period of time where the suffering became oppressive and burdensome, he began to rebel. And he said, Okay, God, you really must not know what's going on, or you wouldn't let me do this. You wouldn't let me hurt like this. And as God came down, Job realized who God is and who he is and said, I have been wrong. Whatever you do is righteous. But God doesn't leave us in our suffering. You see, God has not abandoned us. God has identified and come and saved us And he not only saves us then, he saves us now. Eternal life doesn't begin when you die. It's now. And as you face the suffering you face, you have resources that you need to know about. And you have a hope that you need to experience. He unites with us in our suffering and he makes it possible for us to face that suffering. He doesn't eliminate it because it's important. He loves us so much he will let us suffer to make us the people we need to be. But he doesn't let us suffer alone. Ezra chapter 9 verse 9 says the Hebrews were in slavery. They had been taken from their home because of their sin. And Ezra says, For we are slaves. Yet in our bondage our God has not forsaken us, but has extended loving kindness to us in the sight of the kings of Persia. He hadn't freed them yet, but he had extended loving-kindness. They knew he was there. They knew they had resources. They had the tap. 2 Corinthians 4, verses 7 through 10. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That the surpassing greatness of the power may be of God and not from ourselves. For we are afflicted in every way, but not crushed. Perplexed but not despairing, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, always carrying about in the body the dying of Jesus. That the life of Jesus may also be manifested in mortal flesh. 1 Peter 2, verse 21. To this you were called. Because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should follow in his footsteps. 2 Corinthians 12, verses 9 through 11. My grace is sufficient for you, for power is made perfect in weakness. Therefore, I will boast all the more gladly about my weaknesses, so that Christ's power may rest on me. That is why, for Christ's sake, I delight in weaknesses, in insults, in hardships, in persecutions, and difficulties. For when I am weak, then I am strong. Do you delight in weaknesses? Do you delight in insults, in hardships, and persecutions, and difficulties? Those who do not know that God is there and those who do not know that hell exists do not. And they seek escape. The unfortunate, the very sad truth is that they seek escape in a place they cannot find it They don't seek escape in the one place it can be found. This morning I challenge you that life is indeed worth living. It is worth living because God says that He loves us and God gives relief And it's worth living for those single mothers who have no idea how they're going to deal with that pregnancy, who have no resources. And it's worth living for those who face tremendous pain. Only when they know Jesus. And only for you as you know Jesus, and as you know the escape that He can give you from being a perishing individual. And this morning, the first thing you have to do is you have to ask yourself, do you have that relationship with Jesus? Has He given you eternal life? If he has, then the suffering you face is indeed worth living through. And if he has, then you need to ask yourself further, who do you know that is suffering, that needs the hope that only Jesus can give? This morning we need to be pro-life. But we need to be pro-life in a broad perspective, not simply on issues. It's like being pro-God because He makes life easier. You can't be pro-God because He makes life easier. You're pro-God because God is God. And that has to be the tone to everything you do. And as we look at the issues this week, if we march in Washington, If we take action and write our senators, our congressmen, our state representatives, if as the state legislature begins to meet and decide important issues on life, We act only on the basis of issues. We've lost perspective. We act on the basis of the fact that God has made life worth living. But only for his children. Because only for his children is there a hope, and only for his children is there resources beyond themselves. Do you know somebody this week who is weak, who is hopeless, who is suffering? Be like God And offer that hope. Don't give a card or a phone call. Go Don't let them continue in their suffering without some promise. Because God has given that promise, and that promise is those who believe in Him that whoever believes in Him should not perish. But have eternal life. Let's be pro-life. Father, thank you that you have not abandoned us, that you know our suffering and you have provided solutions, and that we might know your love and your presence. Be with us this morning and this week, that we might be able to serve you, that we might be able to experience the pleasure of knowing that you're with us, and that we might know your power as we face the sufferings that we undergo. In Jesus name, Amen